DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U.S.

June 1, 1965.

nity, and that her right to be at the park is protected by
federal law, she was asked to leave, solely because of her
race. She refused and, upon being handcuffed, displayed
some reluctance (though no active resistance) to being
pulled through an actively hostile mob. For this she was
convicted of "acting in a disorderly manner, to the disturbance of the public peace." Today.the Court. declines
to review her conviction, and the convictions of her three
companions. I cannot join.
TRAVIA ET AL. v. LOMENZO, SECRETARY OF
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 1218.

Decided June 1, 1965.

Motion to accelerrate appeal and aLpication for a stay denied.

Simon H. Rifkind and Edward N. Costikyan for
appellants.
Louis J. Lejkowitz, Attorney General of New York,
Daniel M. Cohen and George D. Zuckerman, Assistant
Attorneys General, Donald Zimmerman, Special Assistant
Attorney General, and Orrin G. Judd for Lomenzo et al.;
and Leonard B. Sand and Max Gross for WMCA, Inc.,
et al., appellees.
PER CURIAM.

The motion to accelerate the appeal is denied. The
application for a stay, addressed to MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
as Circuit Justice and referred by him to the Court for
consideration under Rule 50 (6), is denied.
dissenting.
An application has been made to me. as Circuit Justice,
for a stay pending appeal from an order of a three-judge
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
June 1,1965.

381 U.S.

District Court, dated May 24, 1965, ordering New York to
hold a special legislative election on November 2, 1965,
under the electoral scheme embodied in reapportionment
"Plan A" 1passed by the New York Legislature, signed by
the Governor, and held unconstitutional under the State
Constitution by the New York Court of Appeals. The
stay application was accompanied by a motion, addressed
to the Court, asking for an acceleration and immediate
hearing of the appeal, to which the relief sought from me
is incident. Because the stay and acceleration questions
were in my opinion inextricably related and involved
issues of far-reaching importance, I referred the stay application to the full Court for determination (see Sup. Ct.
Rule 50 (6)) in conjunction with the motion to accelerate
the appeal. The Court now denies both the stay and
motion to accelerate, and I respectfully dissent.
"Plan A" was one of four alternative reapportionment
plans passed by the New York Legislature under the impact of an order of the District Court, dated July 27, 1964,
entered pursuant to this Court's decision in WMCA, Inc.
v. Lomenzo, 377 U. S.633, which held New York's thenexisting method of legislative apportionment violative of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The District Court order
provided by way of interim relief that (1) the November
1964 legislative elections could proceed under the invalidated apportionment system, but the legislators would be
permitted to serve for only a one-year period, instead of
the two-year term provided in the State Constitution;
(2) a special November 1965 election must be held under
a constitutionally valid apportionment plan to be enacted
by the New York Legislature and submitted to the Dis-.

I New

York Laws 1964, c. 976. At the same time the Legislature
passed three successive amendments to c. 976: New York Laws 1964,
cc. 977-978 (Plan "B"), c. 979 (Plan "C"), and c. 981 (Plan "D").
These four acts have been referred to throughout the proceedings as

Plans A, B,C, and D.

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U. S.

June 1, 1965.

trict Court for approval not later than April 1, 1965 (later
extended to May 5, 1965), the legislators so elected again
to serve for only one year; and (3) the regularly scheduled
November 1966 election, for a normal two-year term,
would be held under the same or some other courtapproved reapportionment plan. This Court summarily
affirmed the District Court's order. Hughes v. WMCA,
Inc., 379 U. S. 694. Two dissenting Justices would have
set the case for plenary consideration, and two concurring
Justices expressly noted that the Court's action did not
foreclose the District Court from modifying its interim
order in light of subsequent developments.
In December 1964 the 1964 Legislature, meeting in special session, passed and the Governor signed four alternative reipportionment plans, one of which, "Plan A," is
involved in the matter now before us. On January 26,
1965, the three-judge District Court found that "Plan A"
satisfied federal constitutional requirements, but that
each of the other plans did not. 238 F. Supp. 916. On
April 14, 1965, the New York Court of Appeals held all
four plans invalid under the State Constitution, in that
each provided for an Assembly of more than 150 members, thus exceeding the membership limit prescribed by
the New York Constitution, Art. 3, ยง 2. In re Orans,
15 N. Y. 2d 339, 206 N. E. 2d 854.
Ignoring the New York Court of Appeals' holding that
Plan A violated the State Constitution, a majority of the
District Court, on May 18, 1965, ordered the November
1965 state legislative election to proceed under that plan.
One judge dissented, considering that a more appropriate,
though admittedly not wholly satisfactory, "interim" solution would be to permit the November 1965 election to
go forward under the old reapportionment formula, with
the legislators thus elected being accorded "weighted
votes" in the legislature based on population.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
June 1, 1965.

381 U. S.

On May 24, 1965, the State Legislature passed three
bills, the substantial effects of which were (1) to adopt
the dissenting district judge's weighted voting formula for
the 1966 legislative session, without holding an election
this fall; 2 (2) to create a bi-partisan commfiission to devise
a new reapportionment formula for the 1966 election,
meeting both federal and state constitutional requirements; - and (3) to issue a call for a constitutional convention to promulgate a permanent reapportionment plan to
govern the 1968 and subsequent elections." The Speaker
of the Assembly and the President pro tern of the State
Senate (the intervenors-appellants here) thereupon sought
leave to intervene in the district court proceedings and to
persuade the court to modify the interim relief in accordance with these legislative proposals. Their application
for leave to intervene was granted, but the District Court
refused to modify its earlier order. These applications
for a stay and accelerated appeal followed immediately.
These matters bristle with difficult and important questions that touch the nerve centers of the sound operation
of our federal and state judicial and political systems.
They involve, among other things, the right of a federal
court to order that one house of a state legislature shall
temporarily be of greater size than is permitted by the
State Constitution. Surely such questions are deserving
of plenary consideration and reasoned explication. By
denying a stay and refusing to accelerate this appeal, the
Court, instead, has in effect decided them not only summarily but also sub silentio. For while the denial of a
stay does not technically moot the appeal, it is manifest
that such is the practical effect of the Court's action, since
" New York
ernor on May
3 New York
ernor on May
1 New York

Assembly Intro. 6051, Print. 7067, vetoed by the Gov27, 1965.
Assembly Intro. 6050, Print. 7066, vetoed by the Gov27, 1965.
Assembly Intro. 5695, Print. 5988.

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U. S.

June 1, 1965.

in normal course the appeal will not even be heard until
after the presently ordered November election has taken
place.
Without prejudging the question, the propriety of a federal court's ordering a state election to proceed under a
plan which the highest court of the State has found to violate the State Constitution in respects not claimed to be
violative of the Federal Constitution, when a number of
alternatives are available, raises what I consider to be very
serious federal questions which this Court should at least
hear. All parties have shown themselves willing to argue
the case promptly. I would set the case for immediate
argument, and would have the Court render its decision
on the stay promptly thereafter, with opinions on the
merits of the controversy to follow in due course. Compare Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U. S. 1.1
I am wholly at a loss to understand the Court's casual
way of disposing of this matter and I can find no considerations of any kind which justify it. The Court should
be willing to face up articulately to these difficult problems which have followed as a not unnatural aftermath of
its reapportionment decisions of last Term.

The necessity for a prompt disposition is evidenced by the fact
that the State's primary machinery must bc set in motion today if
,in election next November is to take place.

