FTC v. TEXACO.

739

Per Curiam.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. TEXACO,
INC., ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 635. Decided June 7, 1965.
The Court of Appeals set aside a Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
cease-and-desist order on the grounds that the FTC Chairman was
disqualified for prejudging the case and the order was not supported by substantial evidence and remanded it to the FTC with
instructions to dismiss in view' of the long delays. No review of
the Chairman's disqualification was sought. The judgment is remanded with instructions to remand immediately to the FTC for
further proceedings, without participation of the Chairman, in light
of Atlantic Refining Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, ante, p.

357.
Certiorari granted; 118 U. S. App. D. C. 366, 336 F. 2d 754, vacated
and remanded.

Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General
Orrick, Lionel Kestenbaum, James McI. Henderson,
Alvin L. Berman and Louis R. Harding for petitioner.

Milton Handler and Frederick W. P. Lorenzen for
Texaco, Inc., and Edgar E. Barton and Macdonald Flinn
for B. F. Goodrich Co., respondents.
PER CURIAM.

In this case the Federal Trade Commission entered a
cease-and-desist order prohibiting Texaco, Inc., and the
B. F. Goodrich Company from participating in any salescommission program for the distribution of tires, batteries
and accessories. The Court of Appeals set the order aside
and remanded to the Commission with instructions to dismiss the complaint. The court held, first, that Chairman
Dixon was disqualified from participating in the decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
Per Curiam.

381 U. S.

because he had indicated in a speech made while the case
was pending that he had prejudged it. The majority of
the court held, further, that the Commission's order was
not supported by substantial evidence on the record as a
whole. Although it recognized that under these circumstances a remand would ordinarily be called for, the court
concluded that because of the delays that had existed
throughout the litigation the complaint should be
dismissed.
The United States does not seek review of the ruling
that Chairman Dixon was disqualified from participating
in this case. We therefore venture no opinion as to the
correctness of that conclusion. The petition for writ of
certiorari is granted. The judgment of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is
vacated and the case is remanded with instructions to
remand it immediately to the Federal Trade Commission
for further proceedings, without the participation of
Chairman Dixon, in light of Atlantic Refining Co. v.
Federal Trade Comm'n, ante, p. 357. The judgment
shall issue forthwith.
Vacated and remanded.
MR.' JUSTICE GOLDBERG would vacate the judgment of
the Court of Appeals and remand the case for reconsideration by the Federal Trade Commission, without the participation of Chairman Dixon, in accordance with the
views expressed in MR. JUSTICE GOLDBERG'S dissenting
opinion in Atlantic Refining Co. v. Federal Trade
Comm'n, ante, at 382.
would
affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the reasons stated in MR. JUSTICE STEWART'S dissenting opinion
in Atlantic Refining Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, ante,
at 377
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE STEWART

