LEDERER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
12

Syllabus.

contract the United States was to furnish the canvas
within thirty days, that is, on November 25. It did not
do so. Two weeks before that date. the Armistice had
been signed. On December 3, the Corporation requested
that the canvas be supplied. On December 6 it received
from the Navy notice that the mats would probably not
be nbeded. Neither these facts, nor any other found,
render inequitable a delayed exercise of the right to cancel.
It is also urged that the Navy did not tender to the
Corporation 75 per cent. of the amount which it offered in
settlement. The right to cancel conferred by the Act of
June 15, 1917, is not made dependent upon such tender.
The Corporation made no demand for that amount.
Moreover, for aught that appears, it has actually received
a larger percentage. With the amount awarded by the
lower court, it will receive full compensation.
Affirmed.'

EPHRAIM LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF THE
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, v.FIDELITY TRUST
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 184. Argued January 15, 16, 1925.-Decided January 26, 1925.
1. Railroad equipment certificates issued by a trust company as
security for money advanced by a syndicate to purchase equipment leased by the trust company to a railroad" under contract
for periodical payments, as rentals, and ultimate acquisition of title
by the latter, and which are payable with interest to-bearer or registered holder from the rentals thus to be paid by the railroad,held subject to stamp tax, under Title XI, ยง1100 and schedule
A (1) of the Act of February. 24, 1919, c. 18, as in the category
of "instruments . . . issued by any corporation . . . known generally as corporate securities." P. 20.
289 Fed. 1009, reversed.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent.

267 U. S.

CERORnmI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
in favor of the petitioner, in an action brought by the
respondent to recover the amount of a stamp tax paid
under protest.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. H. Gordon McCough, with whom Mr. James
McMullan was on the brief, for respondent.
For a proper consideration of this subject it is essential
that a clear understanding be had of the nature of the certificates in question.
A railroad company, needing additional rolling stock,
goes to its banker, who undertakes to arrange for the
building of the cars needed according to specifications
furnished and the hiring of the same to the railroad company under a form of bailment, by which, on payment
of all rental reserved, the railroad company is given the
option to purchase the equipment for one dollar. The
operation is financed by the banker arranging with a trust
company to receive subscriptions for the purchase of the
desired rolling stock, to contract with the car builders
for the purchase of the same, and as agent for the owners
to lease theequipment to the railroad company at rentals
agreed upon, and to issue to the subscribers certificates
evidencing their equitable ownership and certifying that
out of the rentals to be received by the trustee fhe holders
will be entitled to the amount of such certificates with
dividends as stated.
It is to be observed that the certificate is not a certificate of indebtedness; that there is no debtor; that it is
merely the declaration of the trustee, as agent of the
holder of the certificate, that it will collect for his benefit
and that of other owners the rentals expressed in the

LEDERER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
17

Argument for Respondent.

lease and distribute the same pro rata. If not paid at
maturity no action of debt would lie upon such certificate.
Equipment certificates are frequently referred to by
-writers on economics and finance as bonds or notes or
corporate securities. Such description is quite proper
where the certificates referred to are the direct obligationof the railroad company lessee, but not where the certificates are in the form of those taxed in the case at bar.
The Government's argument that -the form of the agreement is for practical purposes immaterial is directly at
variance with the decision of this Court in United States v.
Isham, 17 Wall. 496, that the liability of an instrument
to stamp duty is determined by the form and face of the
instrument.
The words of the statute are definite, precise, grammatically expressed and free from ambiguity. The tax
is imposed on "all instruments (however termed) issued
by any corporation (with interest coupons or in registered
form) known generally as corporate securities."
The equipment certificate here taxed is not a certificate
of indebtedness or a corporate security. It is not the
obligation of a corporation to pay money owing by it,
nor does it evidence an indebtedness secured on the property of a corporation. It is a mere declaration of trust
and defines the holder's ownership of the equipment leased
to the railroad company and the extent of his interest in
the moneys to be received as rental therefor. Neither
the railroad company nor the trust company is indebted
to the certificate holders. The'railroad company is
obligated to pay rental for the use of certain equipment,
and the trustee, to which such rental is paid, has to turn
over to each certificate holder his proportionate share
when and as received.
The certificate is merely the evidence of the holder"s
equitable ownership of an undivided interest in the equipment leased to the railroac company and the rentals pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

able therefor. How, then, can such muniments of title
be termed." corporate securities "? See Edwardsv. Chie
Copper Co. 273 Fed. 452. "In the interpretation of
statutes levying taxes it is the established rule not to extend their provisions, by implication, beyond the clear
import of the language used. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S.
151; United States v. Merriam,263 U. S.179.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit by the Fidelity Trust Company to recover
$450 and interest, paid by it under protest for internal
revenue stamps which the Collector, Lederer, required it
to attach to railroad equipment certificates drawn in a
form set forth. The parties agree that the only question
is whether these certificates are subject to a stamp tax
under the Act of February 24, 1919, c.18, Title XI,
ยง 1100, and Schedule A (1); 40 Stat. 1057, 1133, 1135.
The section imposes a tax according to the schedule and
the material part of the schedule is as follows: "1. Bonds
of indebtedness: On all bonds, debentures, or certificates
of indebtedness issued by any person, and all instruments
however termed, issued by any corporation with interest
coupon or in registered form, known generally as corporate securities, on each $100 of face value or fraction
thereof, 5 cents." The question more narrowly stated is
whether the certificates are instruments issued &c.known
generally as corporate securities. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing the judgment of the District Court
held that they were not within the schedule, that "no
indebtedness is involved or obligation incurred by the
trustee to the holder, but it is simply a certificate of the
holder's right to proportionate participation in a-rental
when paid." 289 Fed. 1009, 1012. A writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court.
Using a familiar device the Fidelity Trust Company
agreed to furnish and let to the Interstate Railroad Coin-

LEDERER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
17

Opinion of the Court.

pany 500 specified cars and the lessee agreed to pay
$90,000, being one-tenth of the cost of the cars, annually
at certain dates, and three per cent. half yearly on the
part then unpaid. When the whole amount should be
paid the trustee agreed to sell the cars to the railroad
company for one dollar. As part of the same transaction
by an instrument reciting that subscriptions had been
secured through certain -bankers to a fund, to be known
as Interstate Railroad Equipment Trust, Series " C," for
the payment of the price of the railroad equipment described in the lease, and that the trustee proposed "to
secure to the parties subscribing" to the fund the payment thereof in ten annual instalments with interest at
six per cent., the trustee covenanted with the railroad
on receipt of the money subscribed to issue to the bankers
the certificates. in question here. The essential features
are that the bearer or registered holder is entitled to one
share of $1,000 in Interstate Railroad Equipment Trust,
Series "C ," in accordance with the above agreement, referred to; that the principal shall be payable at the dates
of the payments by the railroad, one-tenth of the certificates, identified by number, each year, and in the meantime dividends will be payable as evidenced .by dividend
warrants attached, principal and interest payable in gold
&c., "but only from and out of the deferred rentals when
paid as provided in" the lease referred to.
The petitioner asks us to look through the form of the
arrangement and give it a somewhat different meaning.
The respondent on the other hand says in the language
of United States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496, " whatever upon
its face [the instrument] purports to be, that it is for the
purpose of ascertaining the stamp duty." We are content to adopt the respondent's rule for this case, as upon
any rule the result seems to us clear.
As a matter of common speech, to which the statute
refers, -wehave no doubt that these instruments would be

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267"U. S.

as corporate securities. They would be called so
more accurately than some other documents which we
believe also would be known generally by that name.
Their purpose, as stated in the agreement of the trustee
with the railroad, is to secure payment to the"holder with
interest. They do-nothing else. We do not regard the
precise limits of the Trust Company's undertaking as important. If it were only to collect and pay money. received by the Company under the secured contract -of
the Railroad it would be a security for money payment.
But the counsel for the Company seemed not prepared
to argue that the Company could not put the money
received from the Railroad into its general account without a breach of trust, and give the certificate holder cash
or a check for his interest or principal. But be the undertaking greater or less, the security better or worse, we
cannot regard these certificates as anything but corporate
securities by general understanding and in fact:
Judgment reversed.

-known

DIRECTION DER DISCONTO-GESELLSCBAFT v.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, PUBLIC TRUSTEE, EGREMONT JOHN MILLS, ET
AL.
BANK FUR HANDEL UND INDUSTRIE v. UNITED
STATES STEEL CORPORATION, PUBLIC-TRUSTEE, ENGLISH ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN
BOND AND SHAREHOLDERS. LTD., RT AL
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF r TEY UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

os. 676 and 677. Argued January 9, 1925.-Decided January 26,
1925.
1. Certificates of shares, in,a New Jersey -corporation,: endorsed in
blank and owned, and,. held by German corporations; were seized

