OKLAHOMA. v. TEXAS.
1

Syllabus.

U. S. 491, it recognizes the inadequacy of the remedy at
law and is an attempt to give to purchasers of bonds the
assurance of adequate relief against shortcomings that
experience has taught the business world to apprehend.
We see no reason why it should not succeed,. CampbellsmiTe Lumber Co. v. Hubbert, 112 Fed. 718. Stansell v.
Levee Board, 13 Fed. 846. Supervisor&v. Rogers, 7
Wall. 175.
The respondent attempted to open the general merits
of the case. If there is anything in the effort, which we
do not imply, we shall leave that for further consideration
below. The Circuit Court of Appeals regarded the case'
as stopped at the outset by Want of jurisdiction. In that
we think it erred.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IT EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Orders entered January 19, 1925.

Receivership Orders: 1 and 2. For payments to Kirby Petroleum
Company by way of reimbursement for expense of drilling certain

wells prior to receivership.
3. Requiring one Testerman to accept within 40 days moneys here-_
inbefore allowed him (265 U. S. 516, Par. 11) *in discharge of
claim; otherwise claim to be deemed abandoned and moneys paid
to Secretary of Interior for United States.
4. Requiring contesting claimants as to expense o±illing of Burke-

Senator well prior to receivership to adjust differences and accept
reimbursement (265 U. S. 516, Par. 13) or show cause why claims
should not be denied and moneys paid to Secretary of Interior for
United States.
5 and 6. Pursuant to stipulations, moneys derived from certain wells
to be paid to persons named as trustees, to hold. pending deter-

mination of rights of rival claimants through litigation in Tecs
courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Orders.

267 U. S.

7. Motion of Texas for leave to file claim of interest in part of
impounded funds denied because claimnot presented within time
hereinbefore limited (265 U. S. 518, Par. 18,) and of inequitable
results were it now entertained.
8. Conflicting claims to funds derived from various wells referred to
a special master to take evidence and report it with findings of
fact, conclusions of law and recommendations; special directions
as to time limits of proceedings, exceptions, authority to subpcena
witnesses, use of existing evidence, allowances and expenses of
master.
9. Disputed funds referred to in par. 8, may be paid over by
receiver in accordance with stipulations of claimants effecting settlement or providing for further settlement by media other than
this Court, provided such stipulations be filed before time fixed for
taking of evidence by special master.

On consideration of the thirteenth report of the receiver
herein the court makes the following orders: '
1. The receiver is instrutted to pay the net proceeds
derived from well '155 amounting to $4,514.47,. to the
Kirby Petroleum Company by way of partly reimbursing
it for- expense incurred by it or its predecessor in drilling
that well prior to the-receivership-such payment to be
in full discharge of all possible claims against the receivership by reason of that work and expense.
2. -The -receiver is instructed to pay a balance of
$1,097.76 out of the net proceeds of well 156 to the Kirby
Petroleum Company. on its claim for expense incurred by
it or its predecessor in drilling that well prior to the
receivership-such payment to be in full discharge of all
possible claims against he receivership by reason of that
work and expense.
3. Unless within forty days from this date Tom Testerman. shall accept the moneys directed to be paid to him
by paragraph 11 of the order of June 9, 1924, in discharge
of the claim therein described, he shall be deemed to have
abandoned that claim and the moneys reserved to cover
the same shall be paid over by. the receiver to the Secretary of the Interior, as the representative of the United

OKLAHOMA v.- TEXAS.
7

-

Orders.

States, as a part of the net impounded funds derived from
the receiver's operations within the river-bed area. The
receiver is instructed, to 'deliver or transmit forthwith to
Tom Testerman a copy of this order.
4. Unless within forty days from this date the operators
who presented claims for reimbursement out of the proceeds of' well 139 (known as the Burke-Senator well)
for the cost of drilling that well prior to the receivership
shall adjust the differences between them and accept reimbursement as contemplated in paragraph 13 of the
order of June 9, 1924, they are directed to show cause,
within five days after the expiration of that period, why
those claims should not be denied and why the moneys
reserved to cover them should not be paid over to the
Secretary of the Interior, as the representative of the
United States, as part of the net impounded funds derived from river-bed wells. The receiver is instructed to
deliver or transmit forthwith to such claimants copies of
this order.
5. Pursuant to a stipulation made and presented by the
conflicting claimants thereto, the receiver is instructed to
pay the balance of the net royalty interest in the proceeds
of wells 97, 98,-99, 100, 102, 109, and 119 to A. H. Carrigan, as the joint agent and trustee of such claimants, to
the end that he, tccording to such stipulation, may deposit
such moneys in the First National Bank of Wichita Falls,
Texas, there'to be held to await thb outcome of litigation
now pending in the courts of Texas to determine the rights
of such claimants in such royalty interest.
6. Pursuant to a stipulation made and presented by the
conflicting claimants thereto, the receiver is instructed to
pay to Rhea S. Nixon, Receiver of the Southwest Petroleum Company and trustee of certain claimants, 27/96
of the net balance of the operating interest in-the proceeds
of well 180 (after deducting the overriding royalty belonging to C. J. Ferguson), and also to pay to the Security

10

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Orders.

267 U. S

National Bank of Wichita Falls, Texas, 1/6 of the said
balance-the 27/96 to be held by Rhea S. Nixon, as receiver and trustee, to await the outcome of litigation now
pending in the courts of Texas to determine the rights of
those who are claiming interests therein, and the 1/6 to
be held by the Security, National Bank to await the outcome of litigation now pending in those courts to determine the rights of those who'are claiming interests therein.
7. The motion of the State of Texas presented January
16, 1925, for leave to file a claim for a royalty or owner's
interest in a part of the impounded funds in the receiver's
custody,is denied,-because, as appears from the receiver's
thirteenth report before mentioned, no claim thereto was
presented by that State within the period prescribed by
paragraph 18 of the order of June 9, 1924, because that
period has long since expired, and because to permit such
a claim by the State to be presented and entertained at
this time would unreasonably prolong the receivership
and would be inequitable to other claimants whose claims
were seasonably presented.
8. The several conflicting claims to impounded funds
derived from Wells 152, 153, 154, 157, 159, 160,162,165,169,
170 and 172 presented to the receiver under paragraph 18
of the order of June 9, 1924, and reported in his thirteenth
report before mentioned, are referred .to Joseph M. Hill,
Esquire, of Fort Smith, Arkansas, as a special master,
with directions that such special master take the evidence
bearing on such claims and report the same to the court,
together with his findings of 'fact, conclusions of law and
recommendations in- the premises, for the ultimate consideration and action of the court. The evidence shall
be taken at Wichita Falls, Texas, and the taking thereof
shall begin February 16, 1925, and shall proceed with
reasonable expedition and be concluded not later than
March 7, 1925. The report of the special masier shall be

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
7

Orders.

filed with the clerk within thirty days after the evidence
is taken, and shall be printed by the clerk. Claimants
shall have fifteen days after the filing of the report within
which to prepare, print and file exceptions to it accompanied by supporting briefs. The special master shall
have authority to issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses, and also authority to employ competent
stenographic and clerical assistance. Claimants shall be
permitted to introduce and use in evidence any documents
or other instruments appearing in the printed records in
this cause without procuring new exemplifications thereof
or presenting other proof of their authenticity or identification. The special master shall receive an allowance
covering his actual expenses and a reasonable compensation for his service. This allowance, together with the
cost of his stenographic and clerical assistance and the
cost of-printing his report, shall be charged against and
be borne by the several claimants in such proportions and
in such manner as the court hereafter may direct. Each
claimant, however, shall make. to the clerk an advance
payment of fifty dollars towards such costs within twenty
days from this date; and in default thereof the claimant
shall be deemed to have abandoned his claim.
9" If, before the time fixed for taking evidence under
the last paragraph, the several conflicting claimants to
any particular fund make and present to the receiver a
stipulation adjusting their differences and settling their
rights to such fund, or providing that the fund shall be
paid over to a trustee of their selectiomi to await an adjustment or adjudication of their claims through some
medium other than this court, the receiver shall be authorized to give effect to such stipulation and to pay over the
fund as therein provided, and -the stipulation shall operate to withdraw the claims covered by it from the
reference to the special master.

