MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
338

Syllabus.

any basis. Nor does it set forth facts from which such
a contract will be implied. The pleader may have intended to sue for money had and received. But no facts
are alleged which afford any basis for a claim that the
repayment made by the Mills was exacted by the Government for the benefit of the plaintiff. The Tucker Act
does not give a right of action against the United States
in those cases where, if the transaction were between private parties, recovery could be had upon a contract implied in law. Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121;
Sutton v. United States, 256 U. S. 575, 581. For aught
that appears repayment was compelled solely for the
benefit of the Government, under the proviso in § 1 of the
Dent Act, which authorizes recovery of money paid under
a settlement, if it has been defrauded.
The practice of the Court of Claims, while liberal, does
not allow'a general statement of claim in analogy to the
common counts. It requires a plain, concise statement of
the facts relied upon. See Rule 15, Court of Claims. The
petition may not be so gqneral as to leave the defendant
in doubt as to what must be met. Schierling v. United
States, 23 Ct. Clms. 361; The Atlantic Works v. United
States, 46 Ct. Clms. 57, 61; New Jersey Foundry & Machine 'Co. v. United States, 49 Ct. Clms. 235; United
States v. Stratton, 88 Fed. 54, 59.
Affirmed.
MITCHELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 176.

Argued January 15, 1925.-Decided March .2, 1925.

1. The Act of October 6, 1917, c. 79, 40 Stat. 345, to increase facilities for testing ordnance materials, appropriated money to pay for
buildings, land, etc., "and damages and losses to persons" .
resulting from the'procurement of the.land," and provided that, if
land and improvements could not be procured.by purchase, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

President was authorized to iake them over, with all appurtenant
rights, and the United States should make just compensation
therefor, to be determined by the President; and that if the
amount so determined were unsatisfactory to the person entitled,
he should be paid 75% of it and be entitled to sue the United States
under Jud. Code, §§ 24 and 145, to recover such further sum as
added to the 7b5% would make up just compensation. Held:That persons whose land was taken and who accepted the compensation fixed by the President, were not thereby precluded from
claiming additional compensation under the Fifth Amendment, as
for a taking of their business, or from claiming damages under
the Act itself for the loss of the business. P. 344.
2. It is a settled rule that damages resulting from a loss or destruction of business incidental to a taking of land are not recoverable
as part of the compensa6n for the land taken. Id.
3. By its reference to "losses

.

.

. resulting from, procurement

of land" the above At doubtless authorized the Secretary of
War to consider losses resulting from destruction of business when
procuring land by agreement, but it is not to be construed as a
departure from the settled policy of Congress to limit compensation for a taking of land to interests in the land taken. P. 345.
58 Ct. Clms. 443; affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting, after full hearing, a claim for compensation for
destruction of appellants' business resulting from the taking of their land and other land in the vicinity.
Mr. Horace S. Whitman and Mr. William L. Marbury,
with whom Mr. Robert H. Archer and Mr. Robert H.
Archer Jr. were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Randolph S. Collins were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Pursuant to the Act of October 6, 1917, c. 79, 40 Stat.
345, 352, the President declared that the large tract of

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
341

Opinion of the Court.

land in Maryland now known as the Aberdeen Proving
Ground was needed for that military purpose. Proclamations, October 16, 1917 and December 14, 1917, 40 Stat.
1707, 1731. The land was thereafter acquired under that
Act from the several owners either by purchase or by
eminent domain. Among the parcels acquired by eminent domain was one of 440 acres belonging to the plaintiffs and used by them in the business of growing and
canning corn of a special grade and quality. The establishment of the proving ground resulted in withdrawing
from such use the -available lands especially adapted to
the growing of this particular quality of corn. Plaintiffs
were consequently unable to restablish themselves elsewhere in their former business. For their land, appurtenances and improvements, the President fixed $76,000 as
-just compensation. For the business, he made no allowance. The sum awarded was accepted without protest.
In 1921 this suit was brought to recover $100,000 as compensation for the loss of their business. The Court of
Claims, after a hearing upon the evidence, entered judgment for the defendant. 58 Ct. Clms. 443. The case
is here on appeal under § 242 of the Judicial Code.
The Act appropriated $7,000,000 for "increasing facilities for the proof and test of ordnance material, including
necessary buildings, construction, equipment, land, and
damages and losses to persons, firms, and corporations,
resulting from the procurement of the land for this purpose." It then provided that, if the land, appurtenances
and improvements could not be procured by purchase, the
President was authorized to take over the immediate
possession and title for the United States; that'just compensation to be determined by the President should be
made therefor; and that if the compensation so determined should prove unsatisfactory to the person entitled
to receive it, he was to be paid seventy-five per cent. of
that amount and was to be entitled to sue for whatever

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

further sum was required for just compensation. Plaintiffs make two contentions. The first is that, because the
business was destroyed, they can recover, under the Fifth
Amendment, as for a taking of the business upon a
promise implied in fact, under the doctrine of United
States v. Gre&t Falls Manufacturing Co., 112 U. S. 645.
The second contention is that, under the terms of the Act,
they can recover damages for loss of the business although
it may not have been taken. In support of each contention, they rely, among other'things, upon the findings of
fact that, before the passage of the Act, a representative
of the War Department had given assurance publicly
that compensation would be paid not only for the land
taken by the Government but also for all injuries and
losses sustained by any person as a result of the establishment of the proving ground; and that, both before and
shortly after the passage of the Act, the Secretary of War
had given somewhat similar assurances.
The mere fact that compensation foi the taking of the
land was fixed by the President and was accepted does
not bar recovery on the present claim, whether the suit
be deemed to be upon 'a promise implied in fact for a
taking or for the recovery of statutory damages. The
claim now asserted is on account of property other than
that for which the Act provided that compensation should
be made upon the President's determination. Acceptance
of the award did not operate, under the doctrine of
United States v. Childs & Co., 12 Wall. 232, as a voluntary
settlement of this claim. There are, however, other obstacles to a recovery. The Act authorized the taking only
of "land -and appurtenances and improvements attached
thereto." And it did not declare that compensation should
be made for losses resulting from the establishment of the
proving ground.
The special value of land due to its adaptability for use
in a particular business is an element which the owner

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
341

Opinion of the Court.

of land is entitled, under the Fifth Amendment, to have
considered in determining the amount to be paid as the
just compensation upon a taking by eminent domain.
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 40 , 408; New York v.
Sage, 239 U. S. 57, 61. Doubtless such special value of
the plaintiffs' land was duly considered by the President
in fixing the amount to be paid therefor. The settled rules
of law, however, precluded his considering in that deterruination consequential damages for losses to their business, or for its destruction. Joslin Manufacturing Co. v.
Providence, 262 U. S. 668, 675. Compare Sharp v. United
States, 191 U. S. 341; Campbell v. United States, 266
U. S. 368. No recovery therefor can be had now as for
a taking of the business. There is no finding as a fact
that the Government took the business, or that what it
did was intended as a taking. If the business was destroyed, the destruction was an unintended incident of
the taking of land. There can be no recovery under the
Tucker Act if the intention to take is lacking. Tempel v.
United States, 248 U. S. 121. Moreover, the Act did not
confer authority to take a business. In the absence of
authority, even an intentional taking cannot support an
action for compensation under the Tucker Act. United
States v. North American Co.. 253 U. S. 330.
By including in the appropriation clause the words
losses to persons, firms, and corporations, resulting from
the pr.curement of the land for this purpose," Congress
doubtless authorized the Secretary of War to take into
consideration losses due to the destruction of the business, where he purchased land upon agreement with'the
owners. But it does not follow that, in the absence of an
agreement, the plaintiffs can compel payment for such
losses. To recover, they must show some statutory right
conferred. States have not infrequently directed the payment of compensation insimilar situations. The constitutions of some require that compensation be made for con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

sequential damages to private property resulting from
public improvements.. Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161;
Richards v. Washington Terminal Co., 233 U. S. 546, 554.
Others have, in authorizing specific public improvements,
conferred the right to such compensation.' Ettor v.
Tacoma, 228 U. S. 148; Joslin Manufacturing Co. v.
Providence, 262 U. S. 668.. Congress had, of course, the
power to make like provision here. Compare United
States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427. But the mere reference in the appropriation clause to losses "resulting from
the procurement of the land for this purpose" does not
confer such a right. The settled policy of Congress, in
authorizing the taking of land and appurtenances, has
been to limit the right to compensation to interests in the
land taken. The only act called to our attention in which
was conferred a right to compensation for injury to property other than an interest in the land taken is the statute
involved in United States v. Alexander, 148 U. S. 186,
which wag passed more than forty years ago, and in which
the injury provided for was a direct result of the taking.
We need not consider other objections to a recovery.
Affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, KENNETT & SOUTHEASTERN RAILROAD CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 229.

Argued January 23, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. A railroad company in a contract with the Director General of
Railroads expressly accepted the covenants and obligations of the
latter and the rights arising thereunder "in full adjustment, settlement, satisfaction, and discharge of any and all claims and rights
'See, for example, Earlev. Commonwealth, 180 Mass. 579; Allen v.
Commonwealth, 188 Mass. 59; Mass. Acts and Resolves, 1895, e. 488,
§ 14; 1896, c. 450; 1898, c.551; Matter of Board of Water Supply,
211 N. Y. 174.

