CHICAGO: G. W. R. R. v. SC

.ENDEL. 287

Argument for Petitioner.

CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCHENDEL, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
ESTATE OF RING, DECEASED.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MIN-

NESOTA.
No. 422. Argued January 6, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Where a freight car with defective automatic coupler was moved
with the train from the main line to a siding to be cut out and left
there, held that the use, movement or hauling of the car, within
the meaning of the Safety Appliance Act, had not ended when a
brakeman went between it and the next car to detach the chain
and was injured by the movement of the car by gravity as the
engine was cut off; that he was within the protection of that
statute; and, under the Employer's Liability Act, his assumption
of the risk, or contributory negligence in going between the cars
with. knowledge of the danger and without notice to the engineer
did not bar his right of action. P. 291.
59 Minn. 166, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Minnesota which affirmed a judgment for damages recovered against the railroad company for personal injuries of
'a brakeman resulting in death.
Mr. Asa G. Brig'gs, with whom Mr. Charles H. Weyl,
Mr. Allan Briggs and Mr. Allen V. Junkin were on the
briefs, for petitioner.
The facts do not bring the case within the Safety Appliance Act. The car had come to rest on the sidetrack
and had ceased to be "used" as contemplated by the act.
The association of the word "used" with the words
"hauled or permitted to be hauled on its line" clearly
indicates that the use must be associated with or related
to the transportation or hauling of a crippled car, either
in trdnspbrtation from place, to place or of the car from
the place where found to be defective or insecure to t

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

267 U. S.

place of repair. It does not mean such use of the car
elsewhere or in other relation than such hauling or movement. -McCalmont v. Penn. R. Co., 273 Fed. 231; s. c.
283 Fed. 736.
Let us examine the immediate facts of the case. The
draw-bar had pulled out on the main line. The car was
then chained up andhauled onto the sidetrack, to be cut
*out of the train. During this movement nothing occurred. The car was safely hauled to a place on the
siding where it was to remain. Having so been placed
on this sidetrack, it ceased to be "used" by the carrier.
From this time on, then, the Safety Appliance Act did not
govern the case.
If intending to permit a car to stand still constituted a
violation of the act, the company could have no alternative but to violate. If they hauled the car they violated the act, and if they did not haul the car they violated the act. See Boldt v. Penm. R. Co., 245 U. S. 441.
The defective draw-bar did not proximately contribute
to the injury in this case. Gilman v. Central Vermont
Ry., 107 Atl. 122; McCalmont v. Penn. R. Co., supra;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444; Rittenhouse v. St. L. etc. Ry. Co., 252 S. W. 945; Davis v.
Hand, 290 Fed. 73; Phillipsv. Penn. R. Co., 283 Fed. 381.
The deceased would not have been in the position he
was except for the defect in the coupler. Beyond this
'there is no connection between the defective coupler and
his injuries. Douglas v. Washington Terminal Co., 298
Fed. 199.
The probability that an injury would be caused by the
alleged violation of the Safety Appliance Act was so
unlikely, under all the circumstances, that it could not
reasonably be foreseen. Lang v. New York Cent., 255
U. S; 455. Otos Case, 239 U. S. 42, distinguished.

CHICAGO G. W. R. R. v. SCHENDEL.
287

289

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Tom Davis, with whom Mr. Ernest A. Michel was
on the brief, for respondent.
Mn. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS deli ,ered the opinion of the
Court.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota affirmed a judgment
in favor of respondent for damages resulting from the
death of his intestate, Ring, fatally injured while in petitioner's service and while both were engaging in interstate
commerce. The original action was based upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, 66, and
the Safety Appliance Act of 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, as
amended in 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298, 299.
While the freight train upon which Ring served as
brakeman was upon the main line at Budd, Iowa, a drawbar pulled out of a car. Thereupon the crew chained this
car to the one immediately ahead. The engine pulled the
whole train onto, the adjacent siding, which lies on a gentle grade, and stopped. The intention was to detach the
damaged car and leave it there. The plan was to cut off
the engine, bring it around back of the'train, remove the
rear portion, couple this to the forward portion and move
on. Acting under the conductor's direction, Ring asked
the head brakeman to tell the engineer to proceed; and
then, without the knowledge of either of the others, he and
the conductor went between the crippled car and the next
one, in order to disengage the connecting chain. While
they were working there the engineer cut off the engine,
the car ran slowly down the grade, and Ring, caught by
the chain, suffered fatal injuries.
A rule of the company provided that employees should
advise the engineer when they were going between or
under cars and must know that he understood their purpose before they put themselves in any dangerous position. Ring gave no such warning, although familiar with
the rule and with the grade upon which the train stood.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Petitioner insists: (1) The facts do not bring the case
within the Safety Appliance Act since the car had come
to rest on the side-track and had ceased to be "used,"
within the meaning of the statute. (2) The defective
draw-bar did not proximately contribute to the injury.
(3) The violation of the rule by Ring constituted negligence subsequent to and independent of the question of
a defective safety appliance and was a nroximate cause
of the injury.
It is provided by the original Safety Appliance Act"Sec. 2. That on and after the first day of January,
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful
for any such common carrier to haul or permit to be
hauled or used on its line any car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without
the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars."
The amendment'of 1910 directs"Sec. 4. That any common carrier subject to this Act
using, hauling, or permitting to be used or hauled on its
line,'any car subject to the requirements of this Act not
equipped as provided in this Act, shall be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars for each and every such violation . . . Provided, That where any car shall have
been properly equipped, as provided in this Act and the
other Acts mentioned herein, and such equipment shall
have become defective or insecure while such car was
being used by such carrier upon its line of railroad, such
car may be hauled from the place where such equipment
was first discovered to be defective or insecure to the
nearest available point where such car can be repaired,
witout liability for the penalties imposed by Section four
bf this Act, or Section six of the Act of March second,
eighteen hundred and ninety-three, as amended by the
Act of April first, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, if
such movement is necessary to make such .repairs and

CHICAGO G. W. R. R. v. SCHENDEL.
287

291

Opinion of the Court.

such repairs cannot be made except at such repair point;
and such movement or hauling of such car shall be at the
sole risk of the carrier, and nothing in this Section shall
be construed to relieve such carrier from liability in any
remedial action for the death or injury of any railroad
employee caused to such employee by reason of or in
connection with the movement or hauling of such car
with equipmentwhich is defective or insecure or which
is not maintained in accordance with the requirements of
this Act and the other Acts herein referred to. . ."
The Employers' Liability Act provides 'that in an action
under it for injury or death of an employee, "such employee shall not be held to. have assumed the risks of his
employment [or to have been guilty of contributory
negligence] in any case where the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of
employees contributed to the injury or death of such
employee."
Former opinions have adequately explained the purpose
of these enactments. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southem Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. United States; 220 U. S. 559;
St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. V.Conarty, 238 U. S.
243; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33;
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Gotschall, 244 U. S.
66; Lang v. New York Central R. R. Co., 255 U. S.455;'
Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617, must be understood
as in entire harmony with the doctrine announced in
St. Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co. v. Conarty, and not
as intended to modify or overrule anything which we
there said.
Under the circumstances disclosed, we think it clear
that the use, movement or hauling of the defective car,
within the meaning of the statute, had not ended at the
time of the accident. To cut this car out of the train so

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

that the latter might proceed to destination was the thing
in view, an essential part of the undertaking in connection
with which the injuries arose.
The things shown to have been done by the deceased
certainly amount to no more than contributory negligence
or assumption of the risk, and both of these are removed
from consideration by the Liability Act. When injured
he was "within the class of persons for whose benefit the
Safety Appliance Acts required that the car be equipped
with automatic couplers and draw-bars of standard height.
. . . His injury was within the evil against which the
provisions for such appliances are directed." St. Louis &
San FranciscoR. R. Co.v. Conarty,supra. He went into
the dangerous place because the equipment of the car
which it was necessary to detach did not meet the statutory requirements especially intended to protect men in
his position.
We find no material error in the judgment below,, and
itis
Affirmed.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC., OPERATING PHILADELPHIA & READING
RAILWAY, v. NEWTON COAL COMPANY.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC., OPERATING PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD,
v. NEWTON COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 709 and 710. Argued January 12, 1925.-Decided March 2,
1925.

1. While coal which plaintiff had purchased thiough contracts with
producers was in course of transportation over rilroads then under
Federal Control, it was commandeered by the Director General of

