260

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

AUSTIN NICHOLS & COMPANY v. STEAMSHIP
"ISLA DE PANAY," HER ENGINES, ETC.,
ET AL.
SANCHEZ ET AL., COPARTNERS, TRADING AS E.
SANCHEZ & COMPANY, v. STEAMSHIP "ISLA
DE PANAY," HER ENGINES, ETC., ET AL.
E. TOLIBIA & COMPANY v. STEAMSHIP "ISLA DE
PANAY," HER ENGINES, ETC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 199, 200, 201. Argued January 19, 1925.-Decided March 2,
1925.

In proceedingi in rem brought by consignees against a vessel to recover for damage to shipments of olives consigned in casks from
Seville to New York, it appeared: that the damage was due to the
weakness of the casks in which they were shipped and hot to the
ship's negligence; that this weakness was known to the ship's
agent; before he accepted the shipment from the consignors at
Seville and issued bills of lading, and to her captain when the
casks were transferred from another vessel to the libeled ship at
Cadiz; that the agent had accepted the shipment and issued the
bills of lading "clean," without noting thereon the state of the
casks, upon condition that the consignors give the shipowner a
letter of guarantee relieving it from responsikility therefor, which
was done; that the bills of lading expressly exeinipted the ship from
responsibility for damage resulting from fragile con'tiners; that the
consignees had directed their Seville bankers to pay the agreed purchase price for the olives upon presentation of clean bills of lading, and that the consignors thus obtained payment upon the bills
in question, though there was nothing to show that the ship or its
owner knew of this arragement between buyer and seller or that the
bank, in accepting the bills, lacked information of the circumstances
attending their issue. The petition did not allege fraud or any peculiar trade usage at.'Seville-Held:
(a) That the evidence was insufficient to establish fraud. P. 272.

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

Argument for Petitioners.

(b) That the evidence, including testimony by the ship's captain,
was insufficient to establish a trade usage that bills of lading without notations impliedly acknowledged receipt of merchandise in
apparent good order and condition. P. 272.
(c) According to the long established rule, bills of lading, like those
in question, do not affirmatively represent good order and condition; and the Harter Act, (c. 105, 27 Stat. 445,) does not require
that they be given a different effect, either by construction or by
estoppel. P. 273.
292 Fed. 723, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming decrees of the District Court, which dismissed
three libels in rem for damages to gbods.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr..James W. Ryan
was on fhe briefs, for petitioners.
The decision of the lower courts that although the
petitioners were defrauded there can be no estoppel unless there is an express representation by a recital in the
bill of lading, is directly contrary to the decisions of this
Court and of the Circuit Courts of Appeals of othercircuits that an estoppel need consist only of a concealment
of a material fact by a person under a duty to disclose it
resulting in prejudice to the person from whom the information has been withheld. Morgan v. Railroad Company,
96 U. S. 716; Leather Manufacturers' Bank v. Morgan,
117 U. S. 96; Dickersonv. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578; United
States Bank v. Lee, 13 Pet. 107; Stewart v. Wyoming
Ranch Co., 128 U. S. 383; Turner v. Green (1895) 2 Ch.
205.
In the present, case'there was not merely negligence
or silehce of the Isla de Panay'sagent, but deliberate and
intentional concealment. Her agent did not merely stand
by when the bills of lading were issued, but conspired
with the shippers to defraud purchasers of the goods
shipped. He declined to issue clean bills of lading until
the shippers would indemnify him against what he knew
would be a result of his fraudulent act.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioners.

267 U. S.

The decisions of the courts below are contrary to the
decisions of Circuit Courts of Appeals of other circuits.
H. Scherer & Co. v. Everest, 168 Fed. 822; The Tampico,
270 Fed. 537.
The elements of an estoppel in pais are stated by Pitney J., in CentralRailroad Co. v. MacCartney, 68 N. J.
L. 165. See Hggins v. Anglo-Algerian S. S. Co., 248 Fed.
386; M1Iartineaus v. Royal Mail Steam Packet Co., 12
Asp. M. C. 190; Bradstreet v. Heran, 3 Fed. Cas. 1183;
Crawford & Law v. Allan Line S. S. Co., (1912), A. C.
130; National'Bank v. Kershaw 07 Mil, 202 Fed. 90;
Nelson v. Woodruff, 1 Black 156.
If the Isla de Panay's agent were entirely innocent of
misrepresentation or fraud, the Isla de Panay should,
nevertheless, be held liable under the rule that, where
one of two innocent parties must suffer, he must bear the
loss whose act put it 'in the power of the third party to
commit the wrong. Peoples Bank v. NationalBank, 101
U. S. 181; Butler v. United States, 21 Wall. 272; Pompton v. Cooper Union, 101 U. S. 196; Hem v. Nichols, 1
Salkeld 289; Briggs v. Jones, 10 Eq. 92; Smith v. Armour
Packing Co., 158 Fed. 86; H. Scherer & Co. v. Everest,
168 Fed. 822.
The carrier was under a duty to disclose to the consignee
the fact that the casks were apparently in bad external
condition and unfit for carriage. Rodocanachiv. Milburn
(1886), 18 Q. B. D. 67; Hinrichs v. Bank, 279 Fed. 382.
The Isla de Panay,being a general cargo ship, had the
same right as any other coinmon carrier to refuse to accept
goods packed in defective containers. HannibalR. R. Co.
v.Swift, 12Wall. 262; The David & Caroline,5 Blatch. 266.
An implication arises that the goods covered by the bill
of lading are normally fit to withstand ordinary handling
during the carriage and discharge, unless the shipmaster
makes notations to the contrary. This implication also
arises as a corollary of the principle recognized as to all

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

Argument for Pet~ionem.

kinds. of contracts that it is the duty- of a contracting
party who has exclusive knowledge of material facts to
disclose those facts to the other party. Strong v. Repide,
213 U. S. 419; Motyneux v. Hawtrey,L. R. (1903) 2 K. B.
487; Carlishv. Salt, L. R. (1906) 1 Ch. 335; Phillips v.
Homfray,.L. R. 6 Ch.'770; Williston on Sales (2nd Ed.)
§§ 234 and 265; Cesar v. Karutz, 60 N. Y. 229; Harp v.
Choctaw 0. & G. B. Co., 125 Fed. 445.
The liability of a common carrier of goods does not primarily, at least, rest on the contract to carry, but is implied by law, having its foundation in the policy of the
law, and it is by reason of this legal obligation that a carrier is charged with the loss of, or injury to, property intrusted to it for carriage. RailroadCo. v. Swift, 12 Wall.
262; The Georg Dumois, 88 Fed. 537; Klauber v. American Express Co., 21 Wis. 21; Atlantic Coast Line'R. Co.
v. Rice, 169 Ala. 265; The Delaware,14 Wall. 579.
*
A duty to disclose also arose from the trade usage
which was testified to by the respondent's witnesses. This
usage required that if casks were offered for shipment in
apparent bad external condition, the bills. of lading should
contain notations showing that fact.
A duty to disclose also arose from the issuance by the
Ila de Panay of commercial documents intended for
sale to innocent buyers. Admiralty courts have always
held the issuers of bills of lading to a high standard of
fairness. This tends to encourage commerce. If there is
no duty of the issuer of a bill of lading intended for sale
to an innocent consignee to disclose, at least in a general
way, facts obviously impairing the value of the bill of lading, ships' agents will be encouraged to issue confused and
ambiguous bills of lading and to tamper with the centuries-old recitals which have made bills of lading a trustworthy and marketable symbol of the goods described
and thus permitted the expansion and developmenc of
international commerce. Pollard v. Reardon, 65 Fed.
848; Watts v. Cargo of Lumber, 161 Fed. 104.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent.

267 U. S.

A duty to disclose also arose from § 4 of the Harter Act
of February 13th, 1893. Knott v. Botany Mills, 179 U. S.
69; The Delaware, 161 U. S. 459; Hansen v. American
Trading Co., 208 Fed. 884.
The court below incorrectly decided as matter of law
that "the burden of proof rested upon the libelants to
establish negligence on the part of the claimant, and this
burden we have no' hesitation in saying was not sustained."
Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian S. S. Co., 248 Fed. 386; s. c.
242 Fed. 568; Bank of Batavia v. New York etc., R. Co.,
106 N. Y. 200.
Mr. John W. Crandall for respondent.
The Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held that the petitioners were not entitled io a recovery against the steamship Isla de Panay,because the damage to the merchandise
came within the exemptions of the bills of lading issued
for the goods and the petitioners totally failed to prove
negligence on the part of the ship or the claimant-respondent.
The cargo owners assume the burden of proving negligence when the damage falls within a valid bill of lading
exemption. Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272; The Henry
B. Hyde, 90 Fed. 114; The Patria,132 Fed. 971; The
Lennox,90 Fed. 308; The J. L. Luckenbach, 209 Fed. 142;
The Arpillao, 270 Fed. 426.
The petitioners' casks were of insufficient strength for
the carriage -of olives. The Isla de Panay is therefore exempt from liability both under the Harter Act and the
exceptions of the bills of lading.
The case of Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian S. S. Co., 248 Fed.
386, which has been practically the sole reliance of the
petitioners, is unsound. Williams v. Providence Washington Ins. Co., 56 Fed. 159; The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20;
Pollardv. Vinton, 105 U. S. 7; Atchison, Etc., Rji. Co. v.
Harold,241 U. S. 371; St. Louis, Etc., Ry. Co. v. Knight,
122 U. S. 79.

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

265

Opinion of the Court.

Neither the Isla de Panay nor her owner is estopped
from showing the insufficiency of the petitioners' casks.
The Eli Whitney (1848), Fed. Cas. 4345.
A carrier issuing a bill of lading which is silent as to the
condition of the goods, is not thereby penalized by being
deprived of the defenses ordinarily available under the
Harter Act. The Isola.di Procida, 124 Fed. 942.
Mm.JUsTIcE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are proceedings in rem against the Isla de Panay
to recover for damage to merchandise brought by her from
Cadiz, Spain. They present the same issues and were
heard on the same proof. It will suffice to refer to the
facts disclosed in number 199.
December 21, 1917, in the United States District Court,
Southern District of New York, Austin Nichols & Company, a corporation, filed a libel and complaint against
the'respondent steamship.
. It alleged: Ownership of the damaged merchandise.
Presence of the vessel within the dourt's jurisdiction.
That "On October 27, 1917, Rowlett y Pyman shipped
and placed on board the steamship Isla de Panay, then
lying at the port of Cadiz, Spain, two hundred and
twenty-seven (227) packages of olives in good order and
condition, to be carried by the said steamship Isla de
Panay as a common carrier from the port of Cadiz to the
port of New York and there to be delivered in like good
order and condition as when shipped to your libellant,
in accordance with the terms of bills of lading then and
there issued for the said shipment and in *consideration"
of an agreed freight. Thereafter the said steamship
Isla de Panay sailed from the port of Cadiz and arrived
at the port of New York in the month of N6vember, 1917,
and there discharged her cargo, not in like good order
and condition as when shipped; but badly. damaged."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Consequent damages amounting to about eleven thousand

dollars.
It prayed: For process according to the course and
practice in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
to issue against the steamship, her engines, boilers, etc.
That a decree be granted for the damage sustained and
the steamer condemned and sold to satisfy the same.
The Compafiia Trasatlantica claimed the vessel as sole
owner, obtained her release and answered, denying liability. It admitted receipt of the goods and alleged their
carriage and delivery as required by the bills of lading.
It specifically admitted and alleged: " That on or about
the 6th day of November, 1917, there were shipped on
board the steamship Isla de Panay, then at the port of
Cadiz, Spain, and bound for the port of New York, 227
casks said to contain olives, the weight and contents of
said casks and their quality, however, being stated to be
unknown to the claimant, which expressly declined to be
responsible therefor. . . . That it was agreed that
the merchandise should be transported for a stipulated
freight to the port of New York and there be delivered to
the order of the libellant, subject to the conditions and
exceptions from liability contained in the bills of lading
issued for said merchandise at Seville, Spain, from which
port said merchandise was shipped in the first instance.
. .
That thereafter the steamship Isla de Panay
sailed from the port of Cadiz, Spain, and arrived in due
course at the port of New York in the month of November, 1917, and that it thereafter delivered at the port of
New York all of the above mentioned merchandise which
it received on board the ship at Cadiz in pursuance of and
in compliance with the terms and conditions of the bills
of lading hereinabove referred to." That the bills of
lading expressly exempted the vessel from responsibility
for damage resulting from breakage of the articles and
fragile containers; the ship was in all respects seaworthy,

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

Opion of the Court.

properly manned, equipped and supplied for the voyage;
if the merchandise suffered loss or damage the ship was
relieved from liability by the bills of lading, particularly
that clause concerning breakage and fragile containers,
also by the Harter Act, approved February 13, 1893, c.
105, 27 Stat. 445, 446.
Upon the indicated issues evidence was taken and the
cause went to hearing.
The agent of the owner of the Isla de Panay stationed
at Seville, Spain, there accepted the casks of olives (each
of them weighed 1500 pounds or more) and delivered to
the consignors bills of lading. These recited: "M. Rowlett and Pyman has shipped on board the Spanish steamer
Isla de Panay, its captain M-, with destination to New
York and consigned to Austin Nichols, the effects declared
on back on the following conditions. . . . ignoring
weight and contents." They said nothing concerning
order or condition of the merchandise and contained exemption clauses as stated in the answer.
The casks were carried down the River Guadalquivir
seventy-five miles to Cadiz, on a small steamer belonging
to the owner of the Isla de Panay, and were there delivered to her. They were loaded, stored, transported and
landed at New York without negligence or default by the
vessel; but the casks broke and the olives were damaged.
That the casks were old, weak and quite liable to break
was observed by the owner's agent at Seville, and because
of -thishe declined to accept them until the shippers gave
the following agreement to secure against loss-"Sevilla, November 5, 1917.
Compaiia Trasatlantica, Sevilla.
My dear Sirs: With reference to the shipment of 227
casks of olives that we are making by the steamer Isla de
Panay to New York, we understand that that company
considers the containers insufficient and that it does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

accept responsibility for the damages that they suffer as
natural consequences of the voyage.- And as guarantee
of that company we sign the present, as you have delivered us clean bills of lading. Yours very truly, Rowlett & Pyman."
The captain of the Isla de Panay did not see the bills,
nor did he know of the letter of guaranty until after the
voyage had been completed. He observed the bad condition of the casks before accepting them at Cadiz, and their
imperfection was noted on the accompanying shipping
orders.
It appears that Austin Nichols & Company had directed
their bankers at Seville to pay the agreed purchase price
for the olives upon presentation of clean bills of lading.
The bankers accepted the bills presently under consideration and paid the stipulated price to the consignors.
There is nothing to show that the ship or her owner knew
of the particular arrangement between buyer and seller.
Libellants now insist that a trade usage prevailed at
Seville under which bills without notation were regarded
as receipts for merchandise in apparent good order and
condition, and to establish this usage they rely upon an
answer in the testimon# of the vessel's captain. When
asked by respondents' counsel, "Why are these lettersg of
guarantee given in Seville? " he replied"If the bills of lading are issued with a note on them
the insurance companies or the bankers in Spain will not
accept-that bill of lading on account of the condition in
which the goods are, but if they have no clause on it they
will pass it to a banking house and the insurance company
that they have been shipped by the shipper in apparent
good order and condition, although they have issued a
letter of guarantee relieving the company of any responsibility whatsoever for the condition of the packages."
Eduardo Benjumea, the owner's agent at Seville who
issued the bills, testified-

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

269

Opinion of the Court.

"In view of the above and as was usually done in such
cases, according to custom and at the request of the shippers in order that their goods might not be prejudiced
more than was necessary, and at the same time to relieve
the company which I represent from responsibility, I
ordered the acceptance of the letters of guarantee . . .
The custom of demanding letters of guarantee by steamship companies from shippers to protect themselves from
possible claims for the *arrival in bad condition of the
shippers' goods at the port of destination, is old and well
established and based on the following: (1) The decided
opposition on the part of the shippers to notations being
placed on the bills of lading which unnecessarily prejudices their goods and leaves everything to the good faith
of the receivers. (2) Due td the general character that
would necessarily have had to be given to the notations
on the bills of lading and it being practically impossible
to examine carefully all the casks one by one both on
account of economy and fixed dates on which the mail
boats of the Compania Trasatlantica had to depart from
Cadiz for the States; we could make, with such notations,
greater damage than would be justifiable, which considering the honorable practices of the Compania Trasatlantica, we naturally tried to avoid. (3) Although letters
of guarantee were always requested for the above stated
-reasons, an exceptional use of these letters was made during the European war, as a consequence of the general
bad quality of the packing which, during that time, was
presented for shipment. This bad quality of the packing
was due to the lack of containers in good condition and.
an enormous demand for containers of this class which
it was impossible to meet. What took place was the use
of all available containers notwithstanding their sometimes inferior quality; that is, chestnut wood was accepted in place of oak'in spite of the fact that old oak
containers are stronger than new ones of chestnut. I

OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

have been sixteen years in the shipping business as shipping agent, and have had a great experience in matters
thereto pertaining, derived from the years so spent."
The District Court dismissed the libel. It said"The great weight of evidence is to the effect that the
chestnut casks containing the olives were old and insufficient at the time the merchandise left Seville for transshipment to claimant's vessel at Cadiz .
.
The libelants
paid drafts accompanying the bills of lading without
knowledge that the containers were old and insufficient.
If there is any liability here for damages it is upon the
theory that by failing to note in the bills of lading any insufficiency in the containers, the steamship misled the libelants to their injury and is now estopped under the doctrine of Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian Steamship Co., 248
Fed. 386, to claim that the containers were insufficient
In that case, however, there was in the bill of lading an
express representation that the merchandise itself was in
appaiefit good order and condition, when it was known
to be injured by rain water. Here the parties believed
doubtless that the olives would go through, but the ship's
agents were not willing to take the risk of any liability
which might arise from old casks. No case has gone so
far as to hold that a bill of lading containing no words
representing the condition of the containers would give
rise to an estoppel. The Harter Act expressly provides
that the vessel shall not be liable for any' insufficiency of
package.'"
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of dismissal. Having pointed out that the proceedings were
in rem against the vessel and not in personacm against the
owner; that the libel alleged the merchandise was placed
on board "in good order and condition," and was not discharged "in like good order and condition "; that the bills
were not signed by the captain; that the containers were
weak when received, etc.; that court expressed inability

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

Opinion of the Court.

to discover any grouid upon which the libel could be
sustained. It found"In the instant cases the damage to the merchandise
came within the exceptions of the bill of lading which declared that the shipownergwere not responsible for breakage. That many of the casks were broken is undisputed.
The burden of proof rested upon the libelants to establish
negligence on the part of the claimant and this burden we
have no hesitation in saying was not sustained. On the
contrary it has been established by the overwhelming
weight of evidence that whatever damage the merchandise suffered in the cases now before the court was due not
to the negligence of the ship but to the old and insufficient
containers in which the goods were shipped."
And it held that the ship was not estopped to set up the
bad condition of the casks by anything done at Seville or
under the Harter Act; and that Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian
S. S. Co., 248 Fed. 386, was not controlling.
Counsel for petitioners maintain: That with corrupt
purpose and as part of a scheme to defraud petitioners,
the ship issued bills of lading designed to conceal the bad
condition of the casks, knowing that the shippers intended'
to obtain money upon them according to the local usage.
That under the Seville usage bills of lading without nota:tions impliedly acknowledged receipt of the merchandise
in apparent good order and condition, and the ship could
not repudiate this representation. That, considering this
local trade usage, it was the positive duty of the ship to
disclose the bad condition of the casks. Failure therein
made the fraud upon petitioners possible, and " Where one
of two innocent parties must suffer he must bear the loss
whose act put it into the power of the third party to commit the wrong." That Section 4 of the Harter Act imposed the positive duty to disclose the containers' bad
condition. And, finally, that the doctrine approved in
Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian S. S. C(o., is applicable and
controlling.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Evidently the libels were drafted with the expectation
of showing that the merchandise suffered damage from
bad handling. Petitioners' witnesses testified that the
casks reached New York in good condition but were negligently unloaded. The manager for Austin Nichols &
Company said: "The casks were satisfactory containers."
"I do not claim that the casks were bad." "Our claim
is that these casks were handled in a bad way, by bad
methods." "I do not make any claim about the casks,
but we are making a claim about the manner in which
they were handled."
The courts below, correctly we think, have found that
the overwhelming weight of evidence shows the casks were
in bad condition when received at Cadiz but were loaded,
carried and discharged without negligence or fault.
Petitioners did not allege fraud or any peculiar trade
usage at Seville, and there is no sufficient evidence to establish either of these things. The mere statement by
'the ship's captain referred to above is not enough to show
a peculiar trade usage at Seville, there commonly known
and acted upon; and it does not apear that the bank which
accepted the bills of lading lacked full information concerning the circumstances attending their issue. The
argument of counsel proceeds mostly upon assumption not
supported by the record. Bowling v. Harrison, 6 How.
248, 259; Adams v. Otterback, 15 How. 539, 545, 546;
Oericks v. Ford,23 How. .49, 61, 62. And see Carver on
Carriage of Goods by Sea, 6th Ed., Sec. 181 et seq.
The Harter Act provides"Sec. 4. It shall be the duty of the owner or owners,
masters, or agent of any vessel transporting merchandise
or property from or between ports of the United States
and foreign ports to issue to shippers of any lawful merchandise a bill of lading, or shipping document, stating,
among other things, the marks necessaryjor identification, number of packages, or quantity, stating whether

ISLA DE PANAY.
260 SUTHERLAND, J., TAF, C. J., and

VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

it be carrier's or shipper's weight, and apparent order or
condition of such merchandise or property delivered to and
received by the owner, master, or agent of the vessel
for transportation, and such document-shall be prima facie
evidence of the receipt of the merchandise therein described.
"Sec. 5. For a violation of any of the provisions of this
act the agent, owner, -r master of the vessel guilty of such
violation, and who refuses to issue on demand the bill
of lading herein provided for, shall be liable to a fine not
"
exceeding two thousand dollars.
In the present case the bills of lading were issued as
agreed by the parties--no demand was made for bills with
different reditals. According to the long established rule,
bills like those before us do not affirmatively represent
good order and condition (Atchison, Topeka & .F.Ry.
v. Harold, 241 U. S.. 371), and we find nothing in the
Harter Act which requires that they be given a different
effect, either through construction or by estoppeL
Higgins v. Anglo-Algerian S. S. Co.' supra, is essentially
different from the present causE. There the bill of lading
expressly recited that the merchandise had been received
in good order and condition; and the ship was seeking to
escape liability by setting up its own wrongful action.
The decrees below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the opinion just delivered.
It seems to be conceded, but in any event I think it
must be conceded, that if the bills of lading had contained
a recital that the merchandise was received in good condition the ship would have been estopped from asserting
that in fact it was in bad condition. Higgins v. AngloAlgerian S. S. CO., 248 Fed. 386. Here, I think, the circumstances are such as to make the omission of a recital

OCTOBER TERM; 1924.
SurHERLAND, J.,

TAFrC.J., and VAN DEvANTERJ., dissenting. 267 U. S.

upon the subject the equivalent of a statement of good
condition.
The shipment was accepted and the bills of ladingissued by the ship's agent' who testified that he was
aware of the bad condition of the merchandise and that
the letters of guarantee were taken with the understanding that no notation to that effect would be made on
the bills. They were what are known as CCclean bills,"
which meant, in this case at least, according to the e-idence, bills which "a banker will accept and attach, to a
draft and on which he Will make payment against a letter
of credit, and which indicates that the merchandise was
in good condition when' it was received from [by] the
steamship company." Without going into detail, I think
it is fairly to be.deduced from the evidence that the usages
of the trade required a notation, and the evidence is clear
that a notation'of bad condition would have been made
except for the letters of guarantee. The master of the
Panay testified:i" If a letter of guarantee is given me
relieving me or the ship of all responsibility, as was done
1

Section 4 of the Harter Act makeM it the duty of the owner,

master o-r agent of the vessel to issue a bill of lading. The bills of
lading recite that the merchandise in question has been-shipped on
"the Spanish steamer Isla de Panay" and purport to be issued by
the "Agent of the Steamer." Theagent at Seville who issued, the
bills, in one place calls himself an agent of the company and in
'another place speaks of "this agency for the S. S. Isla de Panay."
The fact is that the question of agency was'not seriously in issue in
the trial court, and the statements in the evidence relating,*J1reto
were more or less casual, but enough appears to make it lsar to
my mind that the relation of agent to the ship was fairly established., A point is made of the fact that the bills of lading were
delivered at Seville while the merchandise was delivered to the
Panay at Cadiz. But delivery of the merchandise at Seville to
the small steamer belonging to the same owner, for the sole purpose
of transshipment, was in effect a delivery to the Panay. Buldey v.
Naumkeag Steam Cotton Co., 24 How. 386; The City of Alexandria,
28 Fed. 202, 205-206.

ISLA DE PANAY.
260

SUTHERLAND,

J., TAFT, C. J., and VAN DEVANTFR, J., dissenting.

in this case, no notation will be put on the bill of lading,
but if there is no letter of guarantee given, then a notation will be put on the bill of lading."
Consignees had instructed their bankers in Spain to pay
the purchase price of the goods only upon presentation 6f
clean bills of lading, and there is evidence to the effect that
if bills are issued with a notation of bad condition they
will not be accepted by insurance companies or bankers
in Spain, but if such note be omitted they will pass, upon
the assumption that the goods have been shipped in apparent good order and condition. Upon this assumption,
the bills were passed and payment made. Under these
circumstances, the omission of the notation in respect of
the condition of the goods was nothing short of a suppression of the truth in order to further the fraudulent
designs of the shippers. Upon every principle of fair
dealing it-should be regarded as the equiyalent of a false
notation of good condition which the ship is estopped to
deny as against the claims of the consignees who relied
upon it. To hold otherwise is to permit the wrongdoer
to take advantage of his own misconduct, which a court
of admiralty cannot allow with due regard for those equitable principles by which it is governed.

I am authorized to say that, the CHiEF JUsTICE and
MmR JusTICE V.i DEVANTER concur in this dissent.

