132

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

question of fact under the proceedings which were instituted by execution and what followed. The state
courts have found it to exist and it is not for us to
question their findings.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
CARROLL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 15. Argued December 4, 1923; restored to docket for reargument January 28, 1924; reargued March 14, 1924.-Decided March
2, 1925.
1. Th*& legislative history of § 6 of the act supplemental to the
National Prohibition Act, November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 223,
which makes it a misdemeanor for any officer of the United States
to search a private dwelling without a search warrant or to search
any other building or property without a search warrant, maliciously and without reasonable cause, shows clearly the intent
of Congress to make a distinction as to the necessity for a search
oarat in the searching of private dwellings and in the searching
of automobiles or other road vehicles, in the enforcement of the
Prohibition Act. P. 144.
2. The Fourth Amendment denounces only such searches or seizures
as are unreasonable, and it is to be construed in the light of what
was deemed an unreasonable" search and seizure when it was
adopted, and in a manner which will conserve public interests as
well as the interests and rights of individual citizens. P. 147.
3. Search without a warrant of an automobile, and seizure therein
of liquor subject to seizure and destruction under the Prohibition
Act, do not violate the Amendment, if made upon probable cause,
i. e., upon a belief, reasonably arising out of circumstances known
to the officer, that the vehicle contains such contraband liquor.
P. 149.
4. Various acts of Congress are cited'to show that, practically since
the beginning of the Government, the Fourth Amendment'has
been construed as recognizing a .necessary difference between a
search for contraband. in a store, dwelling-house, or other struc-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

133

Syllabus.

ture for the search of which a Warrant may readily be obtained,
and a search of a ship, wagon, automobile, or other vehicle which
may be quickly moved out of the locality or jurisdiction in which.
the warrant must be sought. P. 150.
5. Section 26, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, provides
that when an officer "shall discoler any person in the act" of
transporting intoxicating liquor in ahy automobile, or other vehicle, in violation of law, it shall be his duty to seize the liquor
and thereupon to take possession of the vehicle and arrest the
person in-charge of it, and that, upon conviction of such person,
the court shall order the liquor destroyed, and, except for good
cause shown, shall order a public sale, etc. of the other property
seized. Held:
(a) That the primary purpose is the seizure and destruction of -the
contraband liquor, and the provisions for forfeiture of the vehicle
and arrest of the transporter are merely incidental. 'P. 153.
(b) Hence the right to search an automobile for illicit liquor and
to seize the liquor, if found, and thereupon to seize the vehicle
also and to arrest the offender, does not depend upon the right to
arrest the offender in the first instance, and therefore it is not
determined by the degree of his offence,-whether a misdemeanor
under § 29, Title II of the Act, because of being his first or second
offence, or a felony because it is his third; and the rule allowing
arrest without warrant for misdemeanor only when the offence is
committed in the officer's presence, but for a felony when the
officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person arrested
.ha committed a felony, is not the test of the validity, of such
search and seizure. Pp. 155, 156.
(c) The seizure is legal if the officer, in stopping and searching the
vehicle, has reasonable or probable cause for believing that contraband liquor is being illegally transported in it. P. 155.
(d) The language of § 26,--when an officer shall "discover " any
person in the act of transporting, etc.,--Ldoes not limit him to
what he learns of the contents of a passing automobile by the use
of his senses kt the time. P. 158.
(e) The section thus construed is consistent with the Folirth Amendment. P. 159.
6. Probable cause held to exist where prohibition officers, while patrolling a highway much used in illegal trantportation of liquor,
stopped and searched an automobile upon the faith of information
previously obtained by thenf that tho car and its occupants, identified by the officets, were engaged in the illegal business of "bootlegging." P. 159.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

7. When contraband liquor, seized from an automobile and used
in the conviction of those in charge of the transportation, -was
shown at the trial to have been taken in a search justified by
probable cause, Held that the court's refusal to return the liquor
on defendants' motion before trial, even if erroneous because probable cause was not then proven, was not a substantial -reason for
reversing the conviction. P. 162.
8. The Court notices judicially that Grand Rapids is about 152 miles
from Detroit, and that Detroit, and its neighborhood along the
Detroit River, which is the international boundary, is one of the
most active centers for introducing illegally into this country spirituous liquors for distribution into the interior. P. 160.
Affirmed.

This is a writ of error to the District Court under
Section 238 of the Judicial Code. The plaintiffs in error,
hereafter to be called the defendants, George Carroll and
John Kiro, were indicted and convicted for transporting
in an automobile intoxicating spirituous liqubr, to wit:
68 quarts of so-called bonded whiskey and gin, in violation
of the National Prohibition Act. The ground on which
they assail the conviction is that the trial court admitted
in evidence two of the 68 bottles, one of whiskey and
one of gin, found by searching the automobile. It is contended that the search and seizure were in violation of
the Fourth Amendment, and therefore that use of the
liquor as evidence was not proper. Before the trial a
motion was made by the defendants that all the liquor
sMlz2ea be returned to the defendant Carroll, who owned
the automobile. This motion was denied.
The search and seizure were made by Cronenwett,
Scully and Thayer, federal prohibition agents, and one
Peterson, a state officer, in December, 1921, as the car
was .going westward on the highway between Detroit and
Grand Rapids at a point 16 miles outside of Grand Rapids. The facts leading to the search and seizure were as
follows: On September 29th, Cronenwett and Scully were
in an apartment in Grand Rapids. Three men came to
that apartment, a man named Kruska and the two de-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

13 5

Statement of the Case.

fendants, Carroll and Kiro. Cronenwett was introduced'
to them as one Stafford, working in the Michigan Chair
Company in Grand Rapids, who wished to buy three cases
of whiskey. The price was fixed at $130 a case. The
three men said they had to go to the east end of Grand
Rapids to get the liquor and that they would be back in
half or three-quarters of an hodr. They went away and
in a short time Kruska came back and said they could not
get it that night, that the man who had it was not in,
but that they would deliver it the next day. They had
come to the apartment in an automobile known as an
Oldsmobile Roadster, the number of which Cronenwett
then identified, as did Scully. The proposed vendors did
not return the next day and the evidence disclosed no
explanation of their failure to do so. One may surmise
that it was suspicion of the real character of the proposed
purchaser, whom Carroll subsequently called by his first
name when arrested in December following. Cronenwett
and his subordinates were engaged in patrolling the road
leading from Detroit to Grand Rapids, looking for violations of the Prohibition Act. This seems to have been
their regular tour of duty. On the 6th of October, Carroll and Kiro, going eastward from Grand Rapids in the
same Oldsmobile Roadster, passed Cronenwett and Scully
some distance out from Grand Rapids. Cronenwett called
to Scully, who was taking lunch, that the Carroll boys
had passed them going toward Detroit and sought with
Scully to catch up with them to see where they were
going. The officers followed as far as East Lansing, half
way to Detroit, but there lost trace of them. On the 15th
of December, some two months later, Scully and Cronenwett, on their regular tour of duty, with Peterson, the
state officer, were going fro~m Grand Rapids to Ionia., on
the road to Detroit, when Kiro and Carroll met and passed
them in the same automobile, coming from the direction of
Detroit to Grand Rapids. The government agents turned

136'

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

267 U. S.

their car and followed the. defendants to a point some
sixteen miles east of Grand Rapids, where. they stopped
them and searched the car. They found behind the upholstering of the seats, the filling of which had been removed,. 68 bottles. These had labels on them, part purporting to be certificates of English chemists that the contents were blended Scotch whiskeys, and the rest that the
contents were Gordon gin made in London. When an
expert witness was called to prove the contents, defendants admitted the nature of them to be whiskey and gin.
When the defendants were arrested, Carroll said tb Cronenwett, "Take- the liquor and. give us, olae more chance
and I will make it right with you," ad he ptdled out a
.roll of bills, of which one was for $10. Peterson and another took the -two defendants 'and the liquor and the car
to Grand Rapids, .while Cronenwett, Thayer and Scully
remained on the road looking for other cars, of whose
coming they had information. The pfficers were not anticipating that the defendants would be coming through
on the highway at that particular time, but when they
met them there they believed they were carrying liquor;
and hence the search, seizure and arrest.
Mr. Thomas E. Atkinson and'Mr: Clare J. IWl, for
plaintiffs in error, submitted. Mr. James N. Lombard
was also on the brief.'
There was nothing about the appearance of the car' to
indicate that it carried liquor. The liquor was only Tound
after a thorough search and destruction of, the cushion.
Two of the officers testified that they had seen the car
twice before, but there was no evidence 'that it had ever
transported liquor before. The officers had never purchased liquor from plaintiffs in error although they testi'At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Thomas E.
Atkinson. Messrs. Clare J. Hall and James A. Lombard were also
on the brief.

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Argument for Plaintifs in'Error.

fled that they had tried and had not been successful.
They admit that they had no information that this car
was coming through at this particular time and that they
were merely patrolling the road.
When an arrest is made without a warrant, the burden
is on the officers to show legality of the arrest. At common law a distinction was made between arrest without
warrant in the case of felony and in the case of misdemeanor. While an officer might arrest one upon reasonable grounds of suspicion that he had committed a felony,
he could not arrest for a misdemeanor unless the offence
was committed in his presence. The true rule is that
unless -the offence is discoverable 'without a search, it is
not, in legal contemplation, committed in the presence of
the officer. From their own admission the officers had
no ieason to believe that the plaintiffs in error were committing a felony or a misdemeanor. The search must
'therefore have been based upon a mere capricious venture.
No misdemeanor was committed in the officers' presence
and hence they could not legally arrest without a warrant.
Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487; John Bad Elk v. United
States, 177 U. S. 529; Drennan v. People, 10 Mich. 169;
Sarah Way's Case, 41 Mich. 299; State v. Lutz, 85 W. Va.
330'; State v. Wills, 91 W. Va. 659; Snyder v. United
States, 285 Fed. 1; Pickett v. State, 99 Ga. 12; Roberson v.
State, 43 Fla. 156, 52 L. R. A. 751.
Not only does a misdemeanor have to be committed
in the presence of the officer, but in addition, it must be a
breach of the peace. State v. Lutz, supra.
No federal statute sets forth the circumstances under
which an officer may arrest without a warrant. Under
§ 28 of the National Prohibition Act, taken in conjunction
with § 788 of the Rev. Stats., a prohibition agent would
have the same authority to arrest without a warrant, as
a state -officer This offence was committed in the State
of Michigan, consequently we look to the'law of that

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

267 U. S.

State. There appears to be no statute in Michigan upon
the subject. Sarah Way's Case, supra. The offence here
was not .a felony. Moreover there were no grounds for
belief that a felony had been committed. The facts
show that neither of the elements necessary, for an
arrest without a warrant for a misdemeanor exists in the
cause.

The search and seizure were in violation of the Constitution. We do not question the well established principle recognized by way of dictum in Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383, that an officer may search a person
legally arrested to discover and seize the fruits or evidences
of the crime. But this principle has no application here
for two reasons, viz., first, the search preceded the arrest
and, second, the arrest, being illegal, gave no more right
to search than if there had been no arrest at all. Pickett
v. State, supra; Youman, v. State, 189 Ky.. 152; State v.
Wills, supra; People v. Margelis, 217 Mich. 423; United
States v. Myers, 287 Fed. 260.
There are a few examples of visitorial power of officials
to search. They are exceptions and are reasonable only
because of the peculiar circumstances under which they
are permitted. General executive or judicial warrants to
search are void at common law, as seen by the Wilkes
Cases, and are expressly forbidden by the Constitution.
General warrants of authority to search granted by the
legislature would be even worse, because their nature
would necessarily be more sweeping than executive or
judicial warrants and hence more capable of abuse on the
part of numerous petty officials.
In two instances officers are granted visitorial powers.
Customs officers are granted power by Congress to search
persons and property for dutiable goods (Rev. Stats.
§ 3059). This is a device necessary for the collection of
customs and may be said to be a right which the Government exercises over individuals in exchange for the privi-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

lege of entering the territory of the United States. Moreover, it is not readily capable of abuse, for the searches
are ordinarily made only at points of entry and under the
supervision of responsible superiors. It is true also that
by § 3061 persons and vehicles may be searched by customs officers outside the customs house. This is for the
obvious purpose of reaching dutiable goods which have
escaped the payment of duty by evasion. No case has
determined its constitutionality. It is extremely doubtful
if evidence thus obtained by customs officers could be lawfully used in a criminal prosecution. Moreover, customs
officers were limited in number. The power was never
given to internal revenue officers, who had, however, a
right to inspect distillers etc. without a warrant (Rev.
Stats. § 3177). Federal prohibition agents were not
granted the right of customs officers but of internal revenue officers only (41 Stat. 316). This indicates a clear
legislative intent to deny to prohibition agents the right
without a warrant to search persons and vehicles traveling
on the highway.
Nor have prohibition agents the right to search all
vehicles in order to discover violations under the provisions of § 26 of the National Prohibition Law, which
says that when any officer "shall discover" a persop in
the act of transporting liquor, he shall seize the liquor and
arrest the person in charge. State v. One Hudson Automobile, 190 N. Y. Supp. 481. Reaching the same conclusion is an article entitled: "A New Discovery," by
George L. Hunt, 9 A. B. A. Journal, 321.
The history of the Fourth Amendment has been admirably set forth in Boyd v. United States, 116 U..S. 616.
The Amendment mentions four things which are protected, viz, persons, houses, papers and effects. The
decisions of this Court, however, have largely been confined to cases in which the houses of accused persons have
been searched without a warrant and papers of an evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

267 U. S.

dential nature obtained as a result of the search. But
the maxim that "a man's home is his castle" does not
include the full scope of the Fourth Amendment. It
likewise protects the persons, -and effects, wherever they
may~be, against unreasonable searches and seizures. This
is illustrated by the recent case of Gouled v. United
States, 255 U. S. 298, in which this Court held that a
seizure by stealth in an office, without a search warrant,
was in violation of the Fourth Amendment. The Court
attached no significance to the fact that papers, as distinguished from other property, were taken. Moreover, in
the case of Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, whisky
seized by federal officers in a search of accused's, home
without a warrant, was held to be within the protection
of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The state courts
have held, in well considered cases, that a search of personal property not contained in a house or building, without a search warrant, violates the section of the state
Bill of Rights corresponding to the Fourth Amendment.
People v. Margelis, 217 Mich. 423; People v. Foreman,
218 Mich. 591; Blacksburg v. Beam, 104 S. C. 146; Tillman v. State, 81 Fa. 558; Pckett v. State, 99 Ga. 12;
Hoyer v. State (Wise.) , 193 N. W. 89; Butler v. State,
129 Miss. 778; State v. Wills, 91 W. Va. 659.
Well considered cases indicate that an officer has no
right to search a vehicle traveling on te public highway.
Butler v,. State, supra; Taylor v. State, 129 Miss. 815;
State v. Pluth (Minn.),, 195 N. W. 789; Hoyer v. State
supra; State v. One Hudson Automobile, supra; Staite v.
Gibbons, 118 Wash. "171.
Citation of similar cases might be multiplied. -The
cases illustrate the principle that a seizure without a
search warrant is unreasonable when an arrest would not
be justified with'out a warrant. The proposition that the
evidence which is found justifica the arrest or the seizure
is a specious argument and has no support except in one

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

or two ill-considered district court cases. To use a homely
phrase, it is an attempt to pull one's self up by his own
bootstraps.
The mere fact that general searches of vehicles may
help to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment does not make
those searches reasonable.
Conceivably it might b. permissible for an officer to
search a vehicle before an arrest in cases where the arrest
of the occupahts might be justified without a knowledge
of the facts learned througlT the search. This would
be placing the cart before the horse, however, and we
urge that this Court disalp'rove of such a.- practice.
If the officer clearly knows facts sufficient to justify
an arrest, he should make the arrest first- and the search

afterward.
If the" principle of finding justifying the search be a
valid one, it means simply that an officer may stop and
search every vehicle or foot passenger othe highway
and if liquor is discovered the search will be legal.
Such practice would, in the words-of Mr. Justice Bradley
in Boyd v. Uniited States, "suit the purpose of :despotic
power, but it cannot abide the puro atmosphere of political liberty and personal freedom."
Not only this, but according to the argument, searches
of homes without search warrants would be legalized in
case liquor were found. This is exactly contrary to the,
Amos Case decided by this Court. United States- v.
Slusser, 270 Fed. 818.
If the words " shall discover" in § 26 of the Prohibition
Law refer to a discovery by lawful means, the statute adds
nothing to the commofi law power of the enforcing officers.
If, on the other hand, it be so interpreted as to give theofficers the right to sear*l any and all vehicles-passing on
the highway, it is cleafy in violation of the Fourth
Amendment. .If it be so tonstrued, it is a general warrant
athousand times more sweeping than'those issued against
-

-

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

267 U. S.

Wilkes and his associates by Halifax. In the warrants
issued by Lord Halifax, the parties were sometimes expressly mentioned by name and always designated as the
publishers of certain matter. Entick v. Carrington, 19
How. St. Tr. 1029; Leach v. Money, 19 How. St. Tr. 1001;
Wilkes v. Wood, 19 How. St. Tr. 1153.
The word "discover" may mean "finding out," "ascertaining" or "detecting." It is submitted that this is its
natural meaning, and not to "examine," "explore," or
some other mere action which may or may not result in
disclosure. If the latter definition is accepted we have an
act 6f Congress which is in effect a legislative general warrant addressed to all officers to search all vehicles.
Where property or evidence has been obtained through
unconstitutional search and seizure, failure to return the
same and to suppress the evidence learned thereby constitutes reversible error. Boyd v. United States, 116 U.
S. 616; Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385;
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298: Amos v. United
States, 255 U. S.313.
In addition, the doctrine of the Boyd and Weeks Cases
has found support in many well considered recent cases in
the state courts under the provisions of the Bills of Rights
in the state constitutions. The following cases in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals hold that, in prosecutions for
violation of the National Prohibition Act, evidence of
liquor obtained by unlawful searches and seizures is inadmissible: Snyder v. United States, 285 Fed. 1; Murphy
v. United States, 285 Fed. 801. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the second circuit has announced the same
doctrine with reference to the possession of narcotics in
violation of national law. Ganci v. United States, 287
Fed. 60.
The plaintiffs in error are entitled to a reversal of the
conviction and return of the car and liquor seized.

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Geo. Ross
Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the brief, for the United States.2
Mn. CHIEF JUSTIcE T~r, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
The constitutional and statutory provisions involved
in this case include the Fourth Amendment and the National Prohibition Act.
The Fourth Amendment is in part as follows:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the person, or things to be seized."
Section 25, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act,
c. 85, 41 Stat. 305, 315, passed to enforce the Eighteenth
Amendment, makes it unlawful to have or possess any
liquor intended for use in violating the Act, or which has
been so used, and provides that no property rights shall
exist in such liquor. A search warrant may issue and
such liquor, with the containers thereof, may be seized
under the warrant and be ultimately destroyed. The
section further provides:
"No search warrant shall issue to search any private
dwelling occupied as stich unless it is being used for the
unlawful sale of intoxicating liquor, or unless it is in part
used for some business purpose such as a store, shop,
saloon, restaurant, hotel, or boarding house. The term
'private dwelling' shall be construed to include the room
or rooms used and occupied not transiently but solely as
2

At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Assistant Attorney General Grim. Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry

Susman were also on the brief.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

a residence in an apartment house, hotel, or boarding
house."
Section 26, Title II, under which the seizure herein was
made, provides in part as follows:
"When the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or
any officer of the law shall discover any person in the act
of transporting in violation of the law, intoxicating liquors
in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or air craft, or
other vehicle, if-shall be his duty to seize any and all
intoxicating liquors found therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors transported
or possessed illegally shall be seized by an officer he shall
take possession of the vehicle and team or automobile,
boat, air or water craft, or any other conveyance, and
shall arrest any person in charge thereof."
The section then provides that the court upon conviction of the person so arrested shall order the liquor destroyed, and except for good cause shown shall order a
sale by public auction of the other property seized, and
that the proceeds shall be paid into the Treasury of the
United States.
By Section 6 of an Act supplemental to the National
Prohibition Act, c. 134; 42 Stat. 222, 223, it is provided
that if any officer or agent or employee of the United
States engaged in the enforcement of the Prohibition Act
or this Amendment, "shall search any pivate dwelling,"
as defined in that Act, "without a warrant directing such
search," or "shall without a search warrant maliciously
and without reasonable cause search any other building
or property," he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to fine or imprisonment or both.
In the passage of the supplemental Act through the
Senate, Amendment No. 32, known as the Stailey Amendment, was adopted, the relevant part of which was as
follows.
"Section 6. That any officer, agent or employee of the
United States engaged in the enforcement of this Act or

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

the National Prohibition Act, or any other law of the
United States, who shall search or attempt to search the
property or premises of any person without previously
securing a search warrant, as provided by law, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not to exceed'$1000, or imprisoned not to
exceed one year, or both so fined and imprisoned in the
discretion of the Court."
This Amendment was objected to in the Rouse, and the
Judiciary Committee, to whom it was referred, reported
to the House of Representatives the following as a substitute.
"Sec. 6. That no officer, agent or employee of the
United States, while engaged in the enforcement of this
Act, the National Prohibition Act, or any law in reference to the manufacture or taxation of, or traffic in, intoxicating liquor, shall search any private dwelling without a warrant directing such search, and no such warrant
shall issue unless there is reason to believe such dwelling
is used as a place in whichliquor is manufactured for sale
or sold. The term 'private dwelling' shall be construed
to include the room or rooms occupied not triansiently,
but solely as a residence in an apartment house, hotel, or
boarding house. Any violation of any provision of this
paragraph shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$1000 or imprisonment not to exceed one year, or both'
such fine- and imprisonment, in the discretion of the
court."

In its report the Committee spoke in part as follows:
"It appeared to the committee that the effect of the
Senate amendment No. 32, if agreed to by the House,
would greatly cripple the enforcement of the national
prohibition act and would otherwise seriously interfere
with the Government in the enforcement of many other
laws, as its scope is not limited to the prohibition law

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

but applies equally to all laws where prompt action is
necessary. There are on the statute books of the United
States a number of laws authorizing search without a
search warrant. Under the common law and agreeably
to the Constitution search may in many cases be legally
maqde without a warrant! The Constitution does not
forbid search, as some parties contend, but it does forbid
unreasonable search. This provision in regard to search
is as a rule contained in the various State constitutions,
but notwithstanding that fact search without a warrant
is permitted in many cases, and especially is that true in
the enforcement of liquor legislation.
"The Senate amendment prohibits all search or
attempt to search any property or premises without a
search warrant. The effect of that would necessarily be
to prohibit all search, as no search can take place if it
is not on some property or premises.
"Not only does this amendment prohibit search of any
lands but it prohibits the searclh of all property. It will
prevent the search of the common bootlegger and his
stock in trade though caught and arrested in the act of
violating the law. But what is perhaps more serious, it
will make it imp~sible to stop the rum running automobiles engaged infike illegal traffic. It would take from
the officers the power that they-absolutely must have to
be of any service, for if they can not search for liquor
without a warrant they might as well be discharged.
It is impossible to get a warrant to stop an automobile.
Before a warrant could be secured the automobile would
be beyond the reach of the officer with its load of illegal
liquor disposed of."The conference report resulted, so far as the difference
between the two Houses was concerned, in providing for
the punishment of any officer, agent or employee of the
Government who searches a "private dwelling" without
a warrant, and for the. punishment of any such officer,

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

etc., who searches any "other building or property"
where, and only where, he makes the search without a
warrant "maliciously and without probable cause." In
other words, it left the way open for searching an automobile, or vehicle of transportation, without a warrant,
if the search was not malicious or without probable cause.
The intent of Congress to make a distinction between
the necessity for a search warrant in the searching of
private dwellings 'and in that of automobiles and other
road vehicles is the enforcement of the Prohibition Act
is thus clearly established by the legislative history of
the Stanley Amendment. Is such a distinction consistent
with the Fourth Amendment? We think that it is. The
Fourth Amendment does not denounce all searches or
seizures, but only such as are unreasonable.
The leading case on the subject of search and seizure
is Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. An Act of Congress of June 22, 1874, authorized a court of the United
States, in revenue cases, on motion of the government
attorney, to require the ,defendant to produce in court
his private books, invoices and'papers on pain in case of
refusal of having the allegations of the attorney in his
motion taken as confessed. This was held to, be unconstitutional and void as applied to suits for penalties or
to establish a forfeiture of goods, on the ground that under
the Fourth Amendment the compulsory production of
invoices to furnish evidence for forfeiture of goods constituted an unreasonable search even where made upon
a search warrant, and that it was also a violation of the
Fifth Amendment, in that it compelled the defendant
in a criminal case to produce evidence against himself
or be in the attitude of confessing his guilt.
In Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, it was held
that a court in a criminal -prosecution could not retain
letters of the accused seized in his house, in his absence
and without his authority, by a United States marshal

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

holding no warrant for his arrest and none for the search
of his premises, to be used as evidence against him, the
accused having made timely application to the court for
an order for the return of the letters.
In SilverthorneLumber Company v. United States, 251
U. S. 385, a writ of error was brought to reverse a judgment of contempt of the District Court, fining the company and imprisoning one Silverthorne, its president,
until he should purge himself of contempt in not producing books and documents of the company before the
grand jury to prove violation of the statutes of the United
States by the company and Silverthorne. Silverthorne
had been arrested and while under arrest the marshal had
gone to the office of the company without a warrant and
made a clean sweep of all books, papers and documents
found there and had taken copies and photographs of the
papers. The District Court ordered the return of the
originals, but impounded the photographs and copies.
This was held to be an unreasonable search of the property and possessions of the corporation and a violation of
the Fourth Amendment and the judgment for contempt
was reversed.
In Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, the obtaining
through stealth by a representative of the Government,
from the office of one suspected of defrauding the Government, of a paper which had no pecuniary value in itself
but was only to be used as evidence against its owner, was
held to be a violation of the Fourth Amendment. It was
further held that when the paper was offered in evidence
and duly objected to it must be ruled inadmissible because
obtained through an unreasonable search and seizure, and
also in violation of the Fifth Amendment because working
compulsory incrimination.
In Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, it was held
that where concealed liquor was found by government
officers without. a search warrant in the home of the de-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

'149

Opinion of the Court.,

fendant, in his absence, and after a demand made upon
his wife, it was inadmissible as evidence against the defendant, because acquired by an unreasonable seizure.
In none of the cases cited is there any ruling as to the
validity under the Fourth Amendment of a seizure without a warrant of contraband goods in the course of transportation and subject to forfeiture or destruction.
On reason and authority the true rule is that if the
search and seizure without a warrant are made upon probable cause, that is, upon a belief, reasonably arising out of
circumstances known to the seizing officer, that an automobile or other vehicle contains that which by law is
subject to seizure and destruction, the search and seizure
are valid. The Fourth Amendment is to be construed in
the light of what was deemed an unreasonable search and
seizure when it 'was adopted, and in a manner which will
conserve public interests as well as the interests and rights
of individual citizens.
In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, as already
said, the decision -did not turn on whether a reasonable
search might be made without a warrant; but for the
purpose of showing the principle on which the Fourth
Amendment proceeds, and to avoid any misapprehension
of what was decided, the Court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Bradley, used language which is of particular significance and applicability here. It was there said (page
623):
"The search for and seizure of stolen or forfeited goods,
or goods liable to duties and concealed to avoid the. payment thereof, are totally different things from a search
for and *seizure of a man's private books and papers for
the purpose of obtaining information therein contained, or
of using them as evidence against him. The two things
differ toto coelo. In the one case, the government is entitled to the possession of the property; in theother it is
not. The seizure of stolen goods is authorized by the

150

OCTOBER TE RM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

common law; and.the seizure of goods forfeited for a
breach of the revenue laws, or concealed to avoid the
duties payable on them, has been authorized by English
statutes for at least two centuries past; and the like
seizures have been authorized by our own revenue acts
from the commencement of the government. The first
statute passed by Congress to regulate the collection of
duties, the act of July 31, 1789, 1 Stat. 29, 43, contains
provisions to this effect. As this act was passed by the
same Congress which proposed for adoption the original
amendments to the Constitution, it is clear that the members of that body did not regard searches and seizures of
this kind as 'unreasonable,' and they are not embraced
within the prohibition of the amendment. So, also, the
supervision authorized to be exercised by officers of the
revenue over the manufacture or custody of excisable
articles, and the entries thereof in books required by law
to be kept for their inspection, are necessarily exceptedout of the category of unreasonable searches and seizures.
So, also, the laws which provide for the search arid
seizure of articles and things which it is .unlawful for a
person to have in his possession for the purpose of issue
or disposition, such as counterfeit coin. lottery tickets,
implements of gambling, &c., are not within this category.
Commonwealth -v. Dana, 2 Met. (Mass.)-329. Many
other things of this character might be enumerated."
It is noteworthy that the twenty-fourth section of the
Act of 1789 to which the Court there refers provides:
"That every collector, naval officer and surveyor, or
other person speci-.ly appointed by either of them for
that purpose, shall have full power and authority, to enter
any ship or vessel, in which they shall have reason to suspect any goods, wares or merchandise subject to duty shall
be concealed; and therein to search for, seize, and secure
any such goods, wares or merchandise; and if they shall
have cause to suspect a concealment thereof, in any

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Couit.

pa ticular dwelling-house, store, building, or other place,
they or either of them shall, upon application on oath or
-affirmation to any justice of the peace, be entitled to a
warrant to enter such house, store, or other place (in the
day time only) and there to search for such goods, and if
any shall be found, to seize and secure the same for trial;
and all such goods, wares, and merchandise, on which the
duties shall not have been paid or secured,. shall be
forfeited."
Like provisions were contained in the Act of August 4,
1790, c. 35, Sections 48-51, 1 Stat. 145, 170; in Section 27
of the Act of February 18, 1793, c. 8, 1 Stat. 305, 315, and
in Sections 68-71 of the Act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, 1
Stat. 627, 677, 678.
Thus contemporaneously with the adoption of the
Fourth Amendment we find in the first Congress, and in
the following Second and Fourth Congresses, a difference
made as to the necessity for a search warrant between
goods subject to forfeiture, when concealed in a dwelling
house or similar place, and like goods in course of transportation and concealed in a movable vessel where they
readily could be put out of reach of a search warrant.
Compare Hesterv. United States, 265 U. $. 57.
Again, by the. second section of the Act of March 3,
1815, 3 Stat. 231, 232, it was made lawful for customs
officers not only to board and search vessels within their
own and adjoining districts, but also to stop, search and
examine any vehicle, beast or person on which or whom
they should suspect there was merchandise which was
subject to duty or had been introduced into the United
States in any manner contrary to law, whether by the
person in charge of the vehicle or beast or otherwise, and
if they should find any goods, wares or merchandise
thereon, which they had probable cause to believe had
been so unlawfully brought into the country, to seize and
secure the same, and the vehicle or beast as well, for trial

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

and forfeiture... This Act was renewed April 27, 1816,3 Stat. 315, for a year and expired. The Act of February
28, 1865, revived Section 2 of the Act of 1815, above described, e. 67, 13 Stat. 441. The substance of this section
was reenacted in the third section of the Act of july 18,
1866, c. 201, 14 Stat. 178, and was thereafter embodied
in the Revised Statutes as Section 3061. Neither Section
3061 nor any of its earlier counterparts has ever been,
attacked as unconstitutional. Indeed that section was
referred to and treated as operative by this Court in
Cotzhausen v. Nazro, 107 U. S.215, 219. See also United
States v. One Black Horse, 129 Fed. 167.
Again by Section 2140 of the Revised Statutes any Indian agent, sub-agent or commander of a militarj post in
the Indian Country, having reason to suspect or being
informed that any white person or Indian is about to
introduce, or has introduced, any spirituous liquor or wine
into the Indian Country, in violation of law, may cause
the boats, storeS, packages, wagons, sleds and places of
deposit of such person to be searched, and ifany liquor is
found therein, then it, together with the vehicles, shall
be seized and proceeded against by libel in the proper
court and forfeited. Section 2140 was the outgrowth of
the Act of May 6, 1822, c. 58, 3 Stat. 682, authorizing
Indian agents to cause the goods of traders in the Indian
Country to be searched upon suspicion or information that
ardent spirits were being introduced into the Indian Country, to be seized and forfeited if found; and of the Act
of June 30, 1834, Section 20, c. 161, 4 Stat. 729, 732,
enabling an Indian agent having reason to suspect any
person of having introduced or being about to introduce
liquors into the Indian Country to cause the boats, storesor places of deposit of such person to be searched and the
liquor found forfeited. This Court recognized the statute
of 1822 as justifying such a search and seizure in American Fur Co. v. United States, 2 Pet. 358. By the Indian

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

153

Opinion of the Court.

Appropriation Act of March 2, 1917, c. 146, .39 Stat. 969,
970, automobiles used in introducing or attempting to
introduce intoxicants into the Indian Territory may be
seized, libeled and forfeited as provided in the Revised
Statutes, Section 2140.
And again, in Alaska, by Section 174 of the Act of
March 3, 1899, c. 429, 30 Stat.- 1253, 1280, it is provided
that collectors and deputy collectors, or any person authorized by them in writing, shall be given power to arrest
persons and seize vessels and merchandise in Alaska liable
to fine, penalties or forfeiture under the Act and to keep
and deliver the same; and the Attorney General, in construing the Act, advised the Government: "If your agents
reasonably suspect that a violation of law has occurred,
in my opinion they have power to search any vessel within
the 3-mile limit according to the practice of customs
officers when acting under Section 3059 of the Revised
Statutes, and to seize such vessels." 26 Opinions Attorneys General 243.
We have made a somewhat extended reference to these
statutes to show that the guaranty of freedom from unreasonable searches and seizures by the Fourth Amendment has been construed, practically since the beginning
of the Government, as recognizing a necessary difference
between a search of a store, dwelling house or other structure in respect of which a proper official'warrant readily
may be obtained, and a search of a ship, motor boat,
wagon or automobile, for contraband goods, where it is
not prapticable to secure a warrant because the vehicle
can be quickly moved out of the locality or jurisdiction
in which the warrant must be sought.
Having thus established that contraband goods concealed and illegally transported in an automobile or other
vehicle may be searched for without a warrant, we come
now to consider under what circumstances such search
may be made. It would be intolerable and unreasonable

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

if a prohibition agent were authorized to stop every automobile on the chance of finding liquor and thus subject
all persons lawfully using the highways to the inconvenience and indignity of such a search. Travellers may
be so stopped in crossing an international boundary because of national self protection reasonably requiring one
entering the country to identify himself as entitled to
come in, and his belongings as effebts which may be lawfully brought in. But those lawfully within the country,
entitled to use the public highways, have a right to free
passage without interruption or search unless there is
known to a competent official authorized'to search, probable cause for believing that their vehicles are carrying
contraband or illegal merchandise. " Section 26, Title II,
of the National Prohibition Act, like the second section
of *the Act of 1789, for the searching of vessels, like the
provisions of the Act of 1815, and Section 3061, Revised
Statutes, for searching vehicles for smuggled goods, and
like the Act of 1822, and that of 1834 and Section 2140,
R. S., and the Act of 1917 for the search of vehicles and
automobiles for liquor smuggled into the Indian Country,
was enacted primarily to -accomplish the seizure and destruiction of contraband goods; secondly, the automobile
was to be forfeited; and thirdly, the driver was to be
arrested. Under Section 29, Title II, of the Act the latter
might be punished by not more than $500 fine for the
first offense, not more than $1,000 fine or 90 days' imprisonment for the second offense, and by a fine of $500
or more and by not more than 2 years' imprisonment for
the third offense. Thus he is to be arrested for a misdemeanor for his first and second offenses and for a felony
if he offends the third time. The main purpose of the
Act obviously was to deal with the liquor and its transportation and to destroy it. The mere manufacture of
liquor can. do little to defeat the policy of the Eighteenth
Amendment and the Prohibition Act, unless the for-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

bidden product can be distributed for illegal sale and use.
Section 26 was intended to reach and destroy the forbidden liquor in transportation and the provisions for'
forfeiture of the vehicle and the arrest of the transporter were incidental. The rule for determining what
may be required-before a seizure may be-made by a competent seizing official is not to be determined by the
character of the penalty to which the transporter may be
subjected. Under Section 28, Title II, of the Prohibition
Act the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, his assistants,
agents 'and inspectors are to have the power and protection in the enforcement of the Act conferred by the
existing laws relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors. Officers who seize under Section 26
of the Prohibition Act are therefore protected by Section
970 of the Revised Statutes, providing that:
"When, in any prosecution commenced on account of
the seizure of any vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise,
made by any collector or other officer, under any Act of
Congress authorizing such seizure, judgment is rendered
for the claimant, but it appears to the court that there
was reasonable cause of seizure, the court*shall cause a
proper certificate thereof to be entered, and the claimant
shall not, in such case, be entitled to costs, nor shall the
person who made the seizure, nor the prosecutor, be liable
to suit or judgment on account of such suit or prosecution: Provided, That the vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise be, after judgment, forthwith returned to such
claimant or his agent."
It follows from this that if an officer seizes an automobile or the liquor in it without a warrant and the facts
as subsequently developed do not justify a judgment of
condemnation and forfeiture, the officer may escape costs
or a suit for damages by a showing that he had reasonable
or probable cause for the seizure. Stacey v. Emery, 97
U. S. 642. The measure of legality of such a seizure is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

therefore, that the seizing officer shall have reasonable
or probable cause for believing that the automobile which
he stops and seizes has contraband liquor therein which is
being illegally transported.
We here find the line of distinction between legal and
illegal seizures of liquor in transport in vehicles. It is
certainly a reasonable distinction. It gives the owner of
an automobile or other vehicle seized under Section 26,
in absence of probable cause, a right to have restored to
him the automobile, it protects him under the Weeks
and Amos cases from use of the liquor as evidence against
him, and it subjects the officer making the seizures to
damages. On the other hand, in a case showing probable
cause, the Government and its officials are given the
opportunity which they should have, to make the investigation necessary to trace reasonably suspected contraband goods and to seize them.
Such a rule fulfills the guaranty of the Fourth Amendment. In cases where the securing of a warrant is reasonably practicable, it must be used, and when properly
supported by affidavit and issued after judicial approval
protects the seizing officer against a suit for damages. In
cases where seizure is impossible except without warrant,
the seizing officer acts unlawfully and at his peril unless
he can show the court probable cause. United States v.
Kaplan, 286 Fed. 963, 972.
But we are pressed with the argument that if the search
of the automoile discloses the presence of liquor and leads
under the statute to the arrest of the person in charge of
the automobile, the right of seizure should.be limited by
the -common law rule as to the circumstances justifying an
arrest without warrant for a misdemeanor. The usual
rule is that a police officer may arrest without warrant one
believed by,the officer upon reasonable cause to have
been guilty of a felony, afid that he may only arrest without a warrant on guilty of a misdemeanor if committed

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

157

Opinion of the Court.

in his presence. Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487; Elk v.
United States, 177 U. S. 529. The rule is sometimes expressed as follows:
"In cases of misdemeanor, a peace officer like a private
person has at common law no power of arresting without
a warrant except when a breach of the peace has been
committed in his presence or there is reasonable ground
for supposing that a breach of peace is about to be committed or renewed in his presence." Halsbury's Laws of
England, Vol. 9, part III, 612.
The reason for arrest fbr misdemeanors without warrant
at common law was promptly to suppress breaches of the
peace, 1 Stephen, History of Criminal Law, 193, while the
reason for arrest without warrant on a reliable report of
a felony was because the public safety and the due apprehension of criminals charged with heinous offenses required that such arrests should be made at once with6lit
warrant. Rohan v. Sawin, 5 Cush. -281. The argument
for defendants is that as the misdemeanor to justify arrest
without warrant must be committed in the presence of the
police officer, the offense is not committed in his presence
unless he can by his senses detect that the liquor is being
transported, no matter how reliable his previous information by which he can identify the automobile as loaded
with it. Elrod v. Moss, 278 Fed. 123; Hughes v. State,
145 Tenn. 544.
So it is that under the rule contendpd for by defendants
the liquor if carried by one who has been already twice
convicted of the same offense may be seized on information other than the senses, while if he has been only once
convicted it may not be seized unless the presence of the
liquor is detected by the senses .as the automobile concealing it rushes by. This is .certainly a very unsatisfactory line of difference when the main object -of the
section is to forfeit And suppress the liquor, the arrest of
the individual being only incidental as shown by the,light-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

ness of the penalty. See Commonwealth v. Street, 3 Pa.
Dist. & Co. Reports, 783. In England at the common law
the difference in punishment between felonies and misdemeanors was very great. Under our present federal
statutes, it is much less important and Congress may exercise a relatively wide discretion in classing particular
offenses as felonies or misdemeanors. As the main purpose of Section 26 was seizure and forfeiture, it is not so
much the owner as the property that offends. Agnew v.
Haymes, 141 Fed. 631, 641. The language of the section
provides for seizure when the officer of the law. " discovers" any one in the act of transporting the liquor by
automobile or other vehicle. Certainly it is a very narrow and technical construction of this word which would
limit it to what the officer sees, hears or smells as the
automobile rolls by and exclude therefrom, when he
identifies the car, the convincing information that he may
previously have received as to the use being made of it.
We do not think such a nice distinction is applicable in
the present case. When a man is legally arrested for an
offense, whatever is found upon his person or in his control which it is unlawful for him to have and which may
be used to prove the offense may be seized and held as
evidence in the prosecution. Weeks v. United States,
232 U. S. 383, 392; Dillon v. O'Brien and Davis, 16 Cox.
C. C. 245; Getchell v. Page, 103 Me. 387; Kneeland v.
- Connally, 70 Ga. 424;- 1 Bishop, Criminal Procedure, Sec.
211; 1 Wharton, Criminal Procedure (10th edition), Sec.:.
97. The argument of defendants is based on the theory
that the seizure in this case can. only be thus jistified.
If their theory were sound; their conclfion would be.
The validity of the seizure then. would turn wholly on the
validity of the arrest without a seizure. But the theory
is unsound. The right to search and the validity of the
seizure are not dependent on the right to arrest. They
are. dependent on.the reasonable cause the seizing officer

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES..
-

132

.159

Opinion of the 'Court.

has for belief that the-contents of the automobile offend
against the law.

The-seizure in such a proceeding comes

before the arrest as Section 26 indicates. It is true that
Section 26, Title II, provides for immediate proceedings
against the pers6n' arrested and that upon conviction the
liquor is to be destroyed and the automobile or other
vehicle is to be sold, with the saving of the interest of a,
lienor who does not know of its unlawful use; but it is
evident that if the person arrested is ignorant of the contents of the vehicle, or if he escapes, proceedings can be
had against the liquor for destruction or other disposition'
under Section 25 of the same title. The character of theoffense for which, after the contraband liquor is found
and seized, the driver can be prosecuted does not affect
the validity of the .seizure.
This conclusion is in keeping with the requirements of
the Fourth Amendment and the principles of seafch and
seizure of contraband forfeitable property; and it is a wise
one because it leaves the rule one which is easily applied
and understood and is uniform. Houck v. State, 106
Ohio St. 195, accords with this conclusion. Ash v. United
States, 299 Fed. 277 and Milam v. United States, 296 Fed.
629, decisions by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
fourth circuit, take the sama view. The Ash case is very
similar in its facts to the case at bar and both were by
the same court which decided Snyder v. United States,
285 Fed. 1, cited for the defendants. See also Park v.
United States (1st C. C. A.) 294 Fed. 776, 783, and Lambert v United States, (9th C. C. A.) 282 Fed. 413.
Finally, was there probable cause, In The Apollon,
9 Wheat. 362, the question was whether the seizure of a
French vessel at a particular place was upon probable
cause that she was there for the purpose of smuggling.
In this discusdion Mr. Justice Story, who delivered the
judgment of the Court, said (page 374):
"It has been very justly observed at the bar, that the
Court is bound to -a k -notice of public facts and ge6-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

graphical positions; and that this remote part of the
country has been infested, at different periods, by smugglers, is a matter of general notoriety, and may be gathered from the public documents -of the government."
We know in this way that Grand Rapids is about 152
miles from Detroit and that Detroit and its neighborhood
along the Detroit River, which is the International
Boundary, is one of the most active centers for introducing illegally into this country spirituous liquors for
distribution into the interior. It is obvious from the evidence that the prohibition agents were engaged in a regular patrol along the important highways from Detroit to
Grand Rapids to stop and seize liquor carried in automobiles. They knew or had convincing evidence to make
them believe that the Carroll boys, as they called them,
were so-called "bootleggers" in Grand Rapids, i. e., that
they were engaged in plying the unlawful trade of selling
such liquor in that city. The officers had soon after noted
their going from Grand Rapids half way to Detroit and
attempted to follow them to that city to see where they
went, but they escaped observation. Two months later
these officers suddenly met the same men on their way
westward presumably from Detroit. The partners in the
original combination to sell liquor in Grand Rapids were
together in the same automobile they had been in the
night when they tried to furnish the whisky to the officers
which was thus identified as part of the firm equipment.
They were coming from the direction of the great source
of supply for their 'stock to Grand Rapids where they
pliea their trade. That the officers when they saw the
defendants believed that they were carrying liquor we can
have no doubt, and we think it is equally clear that they
had reasonable cause for thinking so. Emphasis is put
by defendants' counsel on the statement made by one of
the officers that they were not looking for defendants at
the particular time when they appeared. We do not perceive that it has any weight. As soon as they did appear,

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

Opinion of the Court:

the officers were entitled to use their reasoning faculties
upon all the facts of which they had previous knowledge
in respect to the defendants.
The necessity for probable cause in justifying seizures
on land or sea, in making arrests without warrant for past
felonies, and in malicious prosecution and false imprisonment cases has led to frequent definition of the phrase.
In Stacey v. Emery, 97 U. S. 642, 645, a suit for damages
for seizure by a collector, this Court defined probable
cause as follows:.
"If the facts and circumstances before the officer are
such as to warrant a man of prudence and caution in believing that the offense has been committed, it is sufficient."
Locke v. United States, 7 Cranch, 339; The George,
1 Mason, 24; The Thompson, 3 Wall. 155. It was laid
down by Chief Justice Shaw, in Commonwealth v. Carey,
12 Cush. 246, 251 that "if a constable or other peace
officer arrest a person without a warrant, he is not bound
to show in his justification a fefony actually committed,
to render the arrest lawful; but if he suspects one on his
own knowledge of facts, or on facts communicated to him
by others, and thereupon he has reasonable ground to
believe that the accused has been guilty of felony, the
arrest is not unlawful." Commonwealth v. Phelps, 209
Mass. 396; Rohan v. Sawin, 5 Cush. 281, 285. In
McCarthy v. De Armit, 99 Pa. St. 63, the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania sums up the definition of probable cause
in this way (page 69):
"The substance of all the definitions is a reasonable
ground for belief in guilt."
In the case of the Director General v. Kastenbaum,
263 U. S.25, which was a suit for false imprisonment, it
was said by this Court (page 28):
"But, as we have seen, good faith is not enough to
constitute probable cause. That faith must be grounded
on facts within knowledge of the Director General's agent,

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

which iii the judgment of the court would make his faith
reasonable." See also Munn v. De Nemours, 3 Wash.
C. C. 37.
In the light of these authorities, and what is-shown
by this record, it is clear the officers here had justification
for the search and seizure. This is to say that the facts
and circumstances within their knowledge and of which
they had reasonably trustworthy information were sufficient in themselVes to warrant a man of reasonable caution in the belief that intoxicating liquor was being transported in the automobile which they stopped and
searched.
Counsel finally argue that the defendants should be
permitted to escape the effect of the conviction because
the court refused on motion to deliver them the liquor
when, as they say, the evidence adduced on the motion
was much less than that shown on the trial, and did not
show probable cause. The record does not make it clear
what evidence was produced in support of or against the
motion., But, apart from this, we think the point is
without. substance here. If the evidence given on the
trial was sufficient, as we think it was, to sustain .the
introduction of the liquor as evidence, it is immaterial
that there was an inadequacy of-evidence when application was made for its return. A conviction on adequate
and admissible evidence should not be set aside on such
a ground. The whole matter was gone into at the trial,
so no right of the defendants was infringed.
Counsel for the Government contend that. Kfro, the
defendant who did not -own the automobile, could -notcomplain of the violation of the Fourth -Amendment in
the use of the liquor as evidence agaiust hima_, whatever
the view taken as to Carroll's rights. Our conclusion as
to the whole case makes it unnecessary for us to discuss
this aspect of it.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132
MR.

McREYxoIPs and SUTHERL ND, J. J., dissenting.
JusTcIC

MCKENNA,

before his retirement, con-

curred in this opinion.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNODS
concurred in by MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND.
1. The damnable character of the "bootlegger's" business should not close our eyes to the mischief which will
surely follow any attempt to destroy it by unwarranted
methods.

" To press forward to a great principle by

breaking through every other great principle that stands
in the way of its establishment; ...in short, to procure

an eminent good by means that are unlawful, is as little
consonant to private morality as to public justice." Sir
William Scott, The Louis, 2 Dodson 210, 257.
While quietly driving an ordinary automobile along a
much frequented public road, plaintiffs in error were arrested by Federal officers without a warrant and upon
mere suspicion-ill founded, as I think. The officers then
searched the machine and discovered carefully- secreted
whisky, which was seized and thereafter used as evidence against plaintiffs in error when on trial for transporting intoxicating liquor contrary to the Volstead Act
(c. 85, 41 Stat. 305). They maintain that both arrest and
seizure were unlawful and that use of the liquor as evidence violated their constitutional rights.
This is not a proceeding to forfeit seized go3ds; nor is
it an action against the seizing officer for a tort. Cases
like the following are not controlling: CroweIl v. M'Fadon,
8 Cranch 94, 98; United States v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, 8
Cranch 398, 403, 405; Otis v. Watkins, 9 Cranch 339;
Gelstom v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 310, 318; Wood v. United
States, 16 Pet. 342; Taylor v. United States, 3 How. 197,
205. They turned upon express provisions of applicable
Acts of Congress; they did not involve the point now
presented and afford little, if any, assistance toward its
proper solution.

The Volstead Act does not, in terms,

authorize arrest or seizure upon mere suspicion.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MEEY-NOLDS and SUTHERLAND, J. J.,

dissenting. 267 U. S.

Whether the officers are shielded from prosecution or
action by Rev. Stat. Sec. 970 is not important. That
section does not undertake to deprive the citizen of any
constitutional right or to permit the use of evidence unlawfully obtained. It does, however, indicate the clear
understanding of Congress that probable cause is not
always enough to justify a seizure.
Nor are we now concerned with the question whether by
apt words Congress might have authorized the arrest
without a warrant. It has not attempted to do this.
On the contrary, the whole history of the legislation
indicates a fixed purpose not so to do. First and second
violations are declared to be misdemeanors-nothing
more-and Congress, of course, understood the rule concerning arrests for such offenses. Whether different penalties should have been prescribed or other provisions
added is not for us to inquire; nor do difficulties attending enforcement give us power to supplement the legislation.
2. As the Volstead Act contains no definite grant of
authority to arrest upon suspicion and without warrant
for a first offense, we come to inquire whether such authority can be inferred from its provisions.
Unless the statute which creates a misdemeanor contains some clear provision to the contrary, suspicion that
it is being violated will not justify an arrest. Criminal
statutes must be strictly construed and applied, in harmony with rules of the common law. United States v.
Harris,177 U. S. 305, 310. And the well settled doctrine
is that an arrest for a misdemeanor may not be made
without a warrant unless the offense is committed in the
officer's presence.
Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487, 498--" By the common
law of England, neither a civil officer nor a private citizen
had the right without a warrant to make an arrest for a
crime not committed in his presence except in the case

-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

McRYNoLDs

and

SuTHERLAND,

J. 3., dissenting.

of felony, and then only for the purpose of bringing the
offender before a civil magistrate."
Elk v. United States, 177 U. S. 529, 534-"An officer,
at common law, was not authorized to make an arrest
without a warrant, for a mere misdemeanor not committed in his presence."
Commonwealth v. Wright, 15S Mass. 149, 158-1." It is
suggested that the statutory misdemeanor of having in
one's possession short lobsters with intent to sell them is
a continuing offence, which is being committed while such'
possession continues, and that therefore an officer who
sees any person in possesssion of such lobsters with intent
to sell them can arrest such person without a warrant, as
for a misdemeanor committed in his presence. We are of
opinion, however, that for statutory misdemeanors of this
kind, not amounting to a, breach of the peace, there is
no authority in an officer to arrest without a warrant,
unless it is given by statute. . . . The Legislature
has often empowered officers to arrest without warrant
for similar offenses, which perhaps tends to show that,
in its opinion, no such right exists at common law."
Pinkerton v. Verberg, 78 Mich. 573, 584--" Any law
which would place the keeping and safe conduct of another in the hands of even a conservator of the peace,
unless for some breach of the peace committed in his
presence, or upon suspicion of felony, would be most
oppressive and unjust, and destroy all the rights which
our Constitution guarantees. These are rights which existed long before our Constitution, and we have taken just
pride in their maintenance, making them a part of the
fundamental law of the land. . . . If persons can be
restrained of their liberty, and assaulted and imprisoned,
under such circumstances, without complaint or warrant,
then there is no limit to the power of a police officer."
3. The Volstead Act contains no provision which annuls
the accepted common law rule or discloses definite intent

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREYNOLDs

and

SUTHERLAND,

J. J., dissenting. 267 U. S.

to authorize arrests without warrant for misdemeanors
not committed in the officer's presence.
To support the contrary view Section 26 is relied
upon"When... any officer of the law shall discover
any person in the act of transporting in violation of the
law, intoxicating liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile,, water or air craft, or other vehicle, it shall be his
duty to seize any and all intoxicating liquors found
therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever
intoxicating liquors transported or possessed illegally shall
be seized by an officer he shall take possession of the vehicle and team or automobile, boat, air or water craft,
or any other conveyance, and shall arrest any person in
charge thereof."
Let it be observed that this section has no special application to automobiles; it includes any vehicle-buggy,
wagon, boat -or air craft. Certainly, in a criminal 9tatute,
always to be strictly construed, the words "shall discover .. in the act of transporting in violation of
the law" cannot mean, shall have reasonable cause to
suspect or believe that such transportation is being carried on. To discover and to suspect are wholly different.
things. Since the beginning apt words have been used
when Congress intended that arrests for misdemeanors
or seizures might be made upon suspicion. It has
studiously refrained from making a felony of the offense
here charged; and it did not undertake by any apt words
to enlarge the power to arrest. It was not ignorant of
the established rule on the subject, and well understood
how this could be abrogated, as plainly appears from
statutes like the following: " An Act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage," approved
March 2, 1789, c. 22, 1 Stat. 627, 677, 678; " An Act to
provide more effectually for the collection of the duties
imposed by law on goods, waires and merchandise im-

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

MCREY2iOLDS and

SUTHERLAND,

J. J., dissenting.

ported into the United States, and on the tonnage of ships
or vessels," approved August 4, "1790, c. 35, 1 Stat. 145,
170; "An Act further to provide for the collection of
duties on imports and tonnage," approved March 3, 1815,
c. 94, 3 Stat. 231, 232. These and similar Acts definitely
empowered officers to seize upon suspicion and therein
radically differ from the Volstead Act, which authorized
no such thiifg.
"An Act supplemental to the National Prohibition
Act," approved November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222,
223. provides" That any officer, agent, or employee of the United
States engaged in the enforcement of this Act, or the
National Prohibition Act, or any other law of the United
States, who shall search any private dwelling as defined
in the National Prohibition- Act, and occupied as such
dwelling, without a warrant directing such search, or who
while so engaged shall without a search warrant maliciously and without reasonable cause search any other
building or property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall be fined for a first
offense not more than $1,000, and for b subsequent offense
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more thap one
year, or both such fine and imprisonment."
And it is argued that the words and history of this
section indicate the intent of Congress to distinguish between the necessity for warrants in order to search private dwellings and the right to search automobiles w.ithout
one. Evidently Congress regarded the searching of private dwellings as matter of much graver consequence than
some other searches and distinguished between them by
declaring the former criminal. But the connection between this distinction and the legality of plaintiffs ip
error's arrest is not apparent. Nor can I find reason for
inquiring concerning the validity of the distinction under
the Fourth Amendment. Of course, the distinction is

168'

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCREYNOLDS

and

SUTHERLAND,

J. J., dissenting. 267 T.S.

valid, and so are some seizures. But what of it? The
Act made nothing legal which theretofore was unlawful,
and to conclude that by declaring the unauthorized search
of a private dwelling criminal. Congress intended to remove ancient restrictions from other searches and from
arrests as well, would seem impossible.
While the Fourth Amendment denounces only unreasonable seizures, unreasonableness often depends upon the
means adopted. Here the seizure followed an unlawful
arrest, and therefore became itself unlawful-as plainly
unlawful as the seizure within the home so vigorously
denounced in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 391,
392, 393.
In Snyder v. United States, 285 Fed. 1, 2, the Court of
Appeals, Fourth Circuiti rejected evidence obtained by an
unwarranted arrest, and clearly announced some very
wholesome doctrine : "' That an officer may not make an
arrest for a misdemeanor not committed in his presence,
without a warrant, has been so frequently decided as not
to require citation of authority. It is equally fundamental that a citizen may not be arrested on suspicion
of having committed a misdemeanor and have his person
searched by force, without a warrant of arrest. If, therefore, the arresting officer in this case had no other justification for the arrest than the mere suspicion that a bottle,
only the neck of which he could see protruding from the
pocket of defendant's coat, contained intoxicating liquor,
then it would seem to follow without much question that
the arrest and search, without first having secured a warrant, were. illegal. And that his 6nly justification was his
suspicion is admitted by the evidence of the arresting
officer himself. If the bottle had been empty or if it had
qontained any one of a dozen innoxious liquids, the act of
the officer would, admittedly, have been an unlawful invasion of the personal liberty of the defendant. That it
happened in this instance to contain whisky, we think,

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

169

McRE NoIs and SuTHERLAND, J. J., dissenting.

neither justifies the assault hor condemns the principle'
which makes such an act unlawful."
The validity of the seizure under consideration depends
on the legality of the arrest. This did not follow the
seizure, but the reverse is -true. Plaintiffs in error were
first brought within the officers' power, and; while therein,
.the seizure took place. If an officer, upon mere suspicion
of a misdemeanor, may stop onp on the public highway,
take articles away from him and thereafter ise them as
evidence to convict him of crime, 'what becomes of the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments?
In Weeks v. United States, supra, through Mr. Justice
Day, this court said: "The effect of the Fourth. Amendrnent is to put the courts of the Unitedi States and Federal officials, in the exercise of their poWer and authority,
under limitations and restraints asi to the exercise of such
power and authority, and to forover secure the, people,
their persons, houses, papers and effects dgainst all unreasonable searches and seizures funder the guise of law.
This protection reaches all alike, hhther accused of crime
or not, and the duty of giving tcy it force and effect is
obligatory upon all entrusted i;"-&aer our Federal system
with the enforcement of the laws. 'The tendency of those
who execute the criminal laws of the country to obtain
conviction by means of unlawful seizures and enforced
confessions, the latter often obtained after subjecting
accused persons to unwarranted practices destructive of
rights secured by the Federal Constitution, should find no
sanction in the judgments of the courts which are charged
at all times with the support of the Constitution and
to which people of all conditions have A right to appeal
for the maintenance of such fundamental rights..-..
The efforts of the courts and their officials to bring
the guilty to punishment, praiseworthy as they are, are
not t'o be aided by the sacrifice of th'ose great principles
established by years of endeavor and suffering which have

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McRzyNOLDS and

SU'THERLAND,

J. J., dissenting. 267 U. S.

resulted -intheir embodiment in the fundamental law of
the land."
Silverthorne Lumber Co. -v.United States, 251 U. S.
385, 391: "The proposition could not be presented more
nakedly. It is that although of course its seizure was an
outrage which the Government now regrets, it may study
the papers before it returns them, copy them, and then
may use the knowledge that it has gained to call upon
the owners in a more regular form to produce them; that
the protection of the Constitution covers the physical
possession but not any advantages that the Government
can gain over the object of its pursuit by doing the forbidden act. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S.383, to be
sure, had established that laying the papers directly before
the grand jury was unwarranted, but it is taken to mean
only that two steps are required instead of one. In our
opinion such is not the law. It reduces the Fourth
Amendment to a form of words. 232 U. S. 393. The essence of w provision forbidding the acquisition of evidence
in a certain way is that not merely evidence so acquired
shall not be used before the court but that it shall not be
used at all. Of course this does not mean that the facts
thus obtained become sacred and inaccessible. If knowledge of them is gained from an independent source they
may be proved like any others, but the knowledge gained
by the Government's own wrong cannot be used by it in
the way proposed."
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, and Amos v.
United States, 255 U. S. 313, distinctly point out that
property procured by unlawful action of Federal officers
cannot be introduced as evidence.
The arrest of plaintiffs in error was unauthorized, illegal
and violated the guarantee of due process given by the
Fifth Amendment. The liquor offered in evidence was
obtained by the search which followed this arrest and
was therefore obtained in violation of their constitu'tional

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

McRLNoDs and

SuTHERLAND,

J. J., dissenting.

rights. Articles found upon or in the control of one
lawfully arrested may be used as evidence for certain purposes, but not at all when secured by the unlawful action
of a Federal officer.
4. The facts known by the officers who arrested plaintiffs in error were wholly insufficient to create a reasonable belief that they were transporting liquor contrary to
law. These facts were detailed by Fred Cronenwelt, chief
prohibition officer. His entire testimony as given at the
trial follows-"I am in charge of the Federal Prohibition Department
in this District. I am acquainted with these two respondents, and first saw them on September 29, 1921, in
Mr. Scully's apartment on Oakes Street, Grand Rapids.
There were three of them that came to Mr. Scully's apartment, one by the name of Kruska, George. Kiro and John
Carroll. I was introduced to them under the name of
Stafford, and told them I was ivorking for the Michigan
Chair Company, and wanted to buy three cases of whisky,
and the price was agreed upon. After they thought I
was all right, they said they would' be back in half or
three-quarters of an hour; that they had to go out to the
east end of. Grand Rapids, to get this liquor. They went
away and came back in a short time, and Mr. Kruska
came upstairs and said-they couldn't get it that night;.
that a fellow by the name of Irving, where they were
going to get it, wasn't in, but they were going to deliver
it the next day, about ten. They didn't deliver it the
next day. I am not positive about the price. It seems
to me it was around $130 a case. It might be $135.
Both respondents took part in this conversation. When
they came to Mr. Scully's apartment they had this same
car. While it was dark and I wasn't able to get a good
look at this car, later, on the sixth day of October, when
I was out on the road with Mr. Scully, I was waiting on
the highway while he went to Reed's Lake to get a light

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCREYNOLDS and Su'rlEIANxD, J. J., dissenting. 267 U.S.

lunch, and they drove by, and I had their license number
and the appearance of their car, and knowing the two
boys, seeing them on the 29th day of September, I was
satisfied when I seen the car on December 15th it was
the same car I had seen on the 6th day of October. On
the 6th day of October it was probably twenty minutes
before Scully got back to where I was. I told him the
Carroll boys had just gone toward Detroit and we were
trying to 6atch up with them and see where they were
going. We did catch up with them somewhere along by
Ada, just before we got to Ada, and followed them to East
Lansing. We gave up the chase at East Lansing.
"On the 15th of December, when Peterson and Scully
and I overhauled this car on the road, it was in the country, on Pike 16, the ioad leading between Grand Rapids
and Detroit. When we passed the car we were going
toward Ionia, or Detroit, and the Kiro and Carroll boys
were coming towards Grand Rapids when Mr. Scully and
I recognized them and said 'there goes the Carroll
brothers,' and we went on still further in the same direction we weregoing and turned around and went back to
them; drove up to the side of them. Mr. Scully was
driving the car; I was sitting in the front seat, and I
stepped out on the running board and held out my hand
aad said, 'Carroll, stop that car,' and they did stop, it.
John Kiro was driving the car. After we got them
stopped, we asked them to get out of the car, which they
did. Carroll referred to me and called M~e by the name of
'Fred' just as soon as I got up to him. Raised up the
back part of the roadster; didn't find any liquor there;
then raised up the cushion; then I struck at the lazyback
of the seat and it was hard. I then started to open it up,
and I did tear the cushion some, and Carroll said, 'Don't
tear the cushion; we have only got six cases in there; '
and I took out two bottles and found out it was liquor;
satisfied it was liquor. Mr. Peterson and a fellow by the

CARROLL v. UNITED STATES.
132

McRmYaOLs and

SUTHERLAND, J. J.,

dissenting.

name of Gerald Donker came in with the two Carroll
boys and the liquor and the car to Grand Rapids. They
brought the two defendants and the car and the liquor
to Grand Rapids. I and the other men besides Peterson
stayed out on the road, looking for other cars that we
had information were coming in. There was conversation between me and Carroll before Peterson started for
town with the defendants. Mr. Carroll said, 'Take the
liquor and give' us one more chance and I wl make it
right with you.' At the same time he reached in one of
his trousers pockets and pulled out money; the amount
of it I don't know. I wouldn't say it was a whole lot.
I saw a ten dollar bill afid there was some other bills;
I don!t know how much there was; it wasn't a large
amount.
"As I understand, Mr. Hanley helped carryt the liquor
from the car. On the next day afterwards, we put this
liquor in boxes, steel boxes, and left it in the Marshal's
vault, and it is still there now. Mr. Hanley and Chief
*Deputy Johnson, -some of the agen~ts and myself were
there. Mr. Peterson was there the next day that the
labels were signed by the different officers; those two bottles, Exhibits 'A' and' B.'
"Q. Now, those two bottles, Exhibits 'A' and' B,' were
those the two bottles you took out of the car out there, or
were those two bottles taken out of the liauor after it
go up here?
"A. We didn't label them out on the road; simply found
it was liquor and sent it in; and this liquor was in Mr.
Hanley's custody that evening and during the middle of
the next day when we checked it over to see the amount of
liquor that was there. Mr. Johnson and I sealed the bottles and Mr. Johnson's name is on the label that goes over
the box with mine, and this liquor was taken out of the
case today. It was taken out for the purpose of analyzation. The others were not broken- until today.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCREYNOLDS and

SUTHERLAND,

J. J., dissenting. 267 U. S.

"Q. And are you able to teli us, from the label and
from the.bottles, whether it is part of the same liquor
taken out of that car? A. It has the appearance of it,
yes sir. Those are the bottles that were in there that Mr.
Hanley said was gotten out of the Carroll car.
" [Cross-examination.] I think I was the first one to
get back to the Carroll car after it was stopped. I had a
gun in my pocket; I didn't present it. I was the first
one to the car and raised up the back of the car, but the
others were there shortly afterward. We assembled right
around the car immediately.
"Q. And whatever examination and what investigation
you made you went right ahead and did it in your own
way? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And took possession of it, arrested them, and
brought them in? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And at that time, of course, you had no search
warrant? A. No, sir. We had no knowledge that this
car was coming through at that particular time.
" [Redirect examination.] The lazyback was awfully
hard when I struck it with my fist.. It was harder than
upholstery ordinarily is in those backs; a great deal
harder. It was practically solid. Sixty-nine quarts of
whiskey in one lazyback."'
The negotiation concerning three cases of whisky on
September 29th was the only circumstance which could
have subjected plaintiffs in error to any reasonable suspicion. No whisky was delivered, and it is not certain
that they ever intended to deliver any. The arrest came
two and a half months after the negotiation. Every act
in the meantime is consistent with complete innocence.
Has it come about that merely because a man once agreed
to dgliver whisky, but did not, he may be arrested whenever thereafter he ventures to drive an automobile on the
road to Detroit!
5. When Congress.has intended that seizures or arrests
might be made upon suspicion it has been careful to say

WORK v. RIVES.
132

Syllabus.

so. The history and terms of the Volstead Act are not
consistent with the suggestion that it was the purpose of
Congress to'grant the power here claimed for enforcement
officers. The facts known when the -rrest occurred were
wholly insufficient to engender reasonable belief that
,plaintiffs in error were -committing a misdemeanor, and
the legality of the arrest cannot be supported by facts
ascertained through the search Which followed..
To me it seems clear enough that the judgment should
be reversed.
I am. authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
concurs in this opinion.
-

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. RIVgS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 272. Argued November 25, 26, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Where the duties imposed upon an executive officer by a statute
granting gratuities based on equitable and moral considerations
include the duty of construing the statute itself in its execution,
his construction of it is a discretionary act which can not bce controlled by the writ of mandamus. P. 177.
2. Under § 5 of the. Dent Act, March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272,
refusal by the Secretary of the Interior to allow a claim for money
spent to obtain a release from a contract to buy manganese land,
the refusal being based upon the view that expenditures for real
estate or mining rights were'not "for or upon" property, but,
were speculative, within the meaning of the act-was conclusive
against the' claimant. P. 178.
3. The amendment of November 23, 1921, c. 137, 42 Stat. 322, did
not change -the act in this regard. P. 182.
4. This case, upon the facts admitted by the demurrer to the answer,
is not within the class allowing mandamus to compel an officer
to take actifn and-exercise his discretionj or an inferior tribunal
to take jurisdiction." P. 184.
54 App. D'C.-84, 295. Fed. 225 reversed.

