OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

going may now be considered': value of property for ratemaking purposes, $154,655.93; annual amount of income
based upon rates fixed by commission, $53,563; operating
expenses, together with amount of annual depreciation
allowed by commission, $45,996.85; leaving a balance as
return to the company of $7,566.15, or less than five per
cent. upon the value of the property. That this is so
plainly inadequate as to result in depriving the company
of its property without due process of law may not be
doubted. See Bluefield Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 262
U. S. 679, 692-695, and cases cited; S. W. Tel. Co. v. Pub.
Serv. Comm., 262 U. S. 276, 288.
From the foregoing, it is evident that the state supreme
court did not accord to the plaintiff in error that sort of
judicial inquiry to which under the decisions of this court
it was entitled. Bluefield Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm.,
supra, p. 689; Ohio Valley Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253
U. S. 287, 289.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
action not inconsistent with this opinion.
LYNCH, EXECUTRIX, ETC. v. ALWORTHSTEPHENS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 273.

Argued January 7, 8, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. The interest of a corporate lessee of a mine under a lease for a
term of years obliging it to mine a minimum tonnage of ore annually and to pay the lessor, owner of the fee, a stated royalty per
ton mined, is property within the meaning of § 12a of the Income
Tax Law of September 8, 1916, which provides that the net income
of corporations organized in the United States shall be ascertained
by deducting from gross income, among other things, "a reasonable
allowance for the exhaustion . . . of property arising out of its
use," and specifically, in the case of miies, "a reasonable allowance

LYNCH v. ALWORTH-STEPHENS CO.
364

365

Opinion of the Court.

for depletion thereof not to exceed the market value in the mine
of the product thereof which has been mined and sold during the
year," etc. United States v. Biwabik Mining Co., 247 U. S. 116;
Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503, distinguished.
P. 368.
2. As the mining goes on, the property interest of the lessee in the
mine, and that of the owner, are lessened, and in both cases the
extent of this exhaustion, with the consequent deduction to be
made under the above statute, is arrived at by determining the
aggregate amount of the depletion of the mine, based upon the
market value of the product, and allocating that amount inproportion to the interests of owner and lessee, severally considered.
P. 370.
294 Fed. 190, affirmed.

CERTioRAR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
(278 Fed. 959) for the present respondent in its action
to recover back from an internal revenue collector the
amount of an income tax, paid under protest. Upon the
death of the defendant, his executrix was substituted.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Merrill E. Otis,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for petitioner.
Mr. W. D. Bailey and Mr. HoraceAndrews, with whom
Messrs. J. L. Washburn, Oscar Mitchell and William P.
Beldern were on the briefs, for respondent.

MRt. JUsTIcE SuT.ERLND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The federal income tax return made by respondent (a
corporation organized in the United States) for the year
1917 showed the sum of $10,253.21 due the government
for income and excess war.profits taxes for that year; and
this amount was paid. Thereafter, the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue assessed respondent with an additional
tax of $17,128.44, which respondent was forced to pay
and did pay under protest, and to recover which this

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

action was brought against E. J. Lynch, a collector of
internal revenue, to whom the payment had been made.
Lynch subsequently died and his executrix was substituted as defendant. The federal district court for the
district of Minnesota, where the action was brought, rendered judgment in favor of respondent for the amount.
278 Fed. 959. The circuit court of appeals affirmed the
judgment, 294 Fed. 190; and the case is here upon certiorari. 264 U. S. 577.,
The facts from'which the controversy arose, are not in
dispute, and, for present purposes, may be shortly stated.
Prior to March 1, 1913, respondent had leases upon two
definitely described tracts of land in Minnesota containing deposits of iron ore, known as the Perkins mine and
the Hudson mine. The leases, unless sooner terminated
by the lessee in the manner therein provided, ran for a
period of fifty years and obliged respondent to mine and
remove at least fifty thousand tons of iron ore annually
from the Perkins and twenty-five thousand tons annually
from the Hudson and to pay the lessor, owner of the fee,
a royalty of thirty cents per ton upon each ton of ore
extracted. Respondent subleased the lands upon terms
not necessary-to be stated further than that the sublessee of the Perkins was to pay respondent a royalty of
seventy-five cents per ton and the sublessee of the Hudson
a royalty of sixty cents per ton, or forty-five cents and
thirty cents, respectively, per ton more than was made
payable by respondent to the lessor owner.
Before March 1, 1913, both tracts of land had been fully
explored and the deposits of ore therein developed to such
an extent that the entire amount of tonnage was known,
with substantial accuracy, and the properties were demonstrated to be of great value. On that date it was known
that these ore bodies would be entirely worked out and
the mines exhausted within seven years; and this in fact
happened. The market value of the ore in the mines

LYNCH v. ALWORTH-STEPHENS CO.
364

Opinion of the Court.

during that entire time exceeded seventy-five cents per
ton; and it sufficiently appears that during such time
respondent and its sublessees were in possession of the
lands engaged in mining and removing the ore therefrom.
Without repeating the formula followed in arriving at
the result, it is enough to'say-that the trial court found
that, under the leases, the respondent had a property
interest in these ore bodies, the fair market value of
which, as of March 1, 1913, was 71.9 per cent. of the total
royalties which would be received under the subleases,
and such royalties constituted the sole source of respondent's income. Thereupon, the lower courts held that
respondent was entitled to deduct from its gross income
for 1917 a sum equal to 71.9 per cent. thereof for depletion, and that only the balance remaining was subject to
income and excess profits taxes. Such taxes, properly
computed, amounted to the sum returned and originally
paid by respondent and no more.
The applicable law is found in §§ 2, 10 and 12 (a) of
the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 757758, 765, 767. Section 10 imposes a tax of two per
centum upon the total annual net income received from
all sources by every corporation, etc., organized in the
United States. Section 12 (a)' provides that such net

'Sec. 12. (a). In the case of a corporation, joint-stock company
or association, or insurance company, organized in the United States,
such net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross
amount of its income received within the year from all sourcesSecond. All losses actually sustained and charged off within the
year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise, including a
reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property
arising out of its use or employment in the business or trade; (a)
in the case of oil and gas wells a reasonable allowance for actual
reduction in flow and production to be ascertained not by the flush
flow, but by the settled production or regular flow; (b) in the case
of mines a reasonable allowance for depletion thereof not to exceed
the market value in the mine of the product thereof which has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

income shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross
amount of the income, among 'other things, "a reasonable
allowance for the exhaustion' . . . of property arising
out of its use .
.
; (b) in the case of mines a reasonable allowance for depletion thereof not to exceed the
market value in the mine of the product thereof which has
been mined and sold during the year for which the return
and computation are made, . . .". Section 2 contains
the following provision (p. 758): "(c) For the purpose of
ascertaining the gain derived from the sale or other disposition of -property, real, personal, or mixed, acquired
before March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, the
fair market price or value of such property as of March
first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, shall be the basis for
determining the amount of such gain derived."
Upon the foregoing facts and under these statutory
provisions, the question presented for consideration is
whether the relation of respondent to the mines which
were the source of its income, was such that it was entitled
to deduct from the gross amount of such income a reasonable amount -for exhaustion or depletion. Upon the
part of the petitioner the contention is that the leases do
not convey to the lessee the ore bodies but are contracts
of rental conferring only the right to use and occupy the
premises and mine the ore, which, so long as it remains
in the ground, is the property of the fee owner. It is,
therefore, insisted that by the extraction of 'the -ore, only
the property of the fee owner is depleted and such owner
alone is entitled to an allowance therefor. On the other
mined and sold during the year for which the return and comlutation are made, such reasonable allowance to be made in the case of
both (a) and (b) under rules and regulations to be prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That when the allowance
authorized in (a) and (b) shall equal the capital originally invested,
or in case of purchase made prior to March first, nineteen hundred
and thirteen, the fair market value as of that date, no further allow-

ance shall be made; .

.

.

LYNCH v. ALWORTH-STEPHENS CO.
364

369

Opinion of the Court.

hand, respondent contends that under the leases the
lessee, as well as the lessor, owns a valuable property
interest in the mines and by the terms of the statute each.
is entitled to deduct from gross income a reasonable allowance for depletion, the lessee for exhaustion of the leasehold interest and the lessor for exhaustion of the fee
interest as lessened by the interest of. the lessee, such
deduction to be allowed according to the value of the
interest of each in the property, the *entire allowance,
however, not to 6xceed the total market value in the mine
of the product thereof mined and sold during the taxable
year.
It is, of course, true that the leases here under review
did not convey title to the unextracted ore. deposits,
United States ,v.
Biwabik Mining Co., 247 U. S. 116, 123;
but it is equally true that such leases, conferring upon the
lessee the exclusive possession of the deposits and -the
valuable right of removing and reducing the ore to ownership, created a very real and substantial interest therein.
See Hyatt v. Vincennes Bank, 113 U. S.408, 416; Ewert
V. Robinson, 289 Fed. 740, 746-750. And there can be
no doubt that such an interest is property.' Hamilton v.
Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 421; Bryant v. Kennett, 113
U. S.179, 192.
The general , rovision in § 12 (a), Second, is that the
deduction from gross income shall include a reasonable
allowance for the " exhaustion . . . of property."
There is nothing to suggest that the word "property" is
used in any restricted sense. In the case -.of mines, a
specific kind of property, the exhaustion is described as
depletion, and is limited to an amount not exceeding the
market value in the mine of the pr6duct mined and sold
during the year. The interest of respondent under its
leases in the mines being property, its right to deduct a
reasonable allowance for exhaustion of. such property, if
there be any, during the taxable year results from the

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

plain terms of the statute, such deduction, since the
property is an interest in mines, to be limited to the
amount of the exhaustion of respondent's interest caused
by the depletion of the mines during the taxable year.
We agree with the circuit court of appeals, 294 Fed. 194,
that, "The plain, clear and reasonable meaning of the
statute seems to be that the reasonable allowance for
depletion in case of a mine is to be made to every one
whose property right and interest therein has been depleted by the extraction and disposition 'of the product
thereof which has been mined and sold during the year
for which the return and computation are made.' And
the plain, obvious and rational meaning of a statute is
always to be preferred to any curious, narrow, hidden
sense that.nothing but the exigency of a hard case and
the ingenuity and study of an acute and powerful intellect
would discover."
It is said that the depletion allowance applies to the
physical exhaustion of the ore deposits, and since the title
thereto is in the lessor, he alone is entitled to make the
deduction. But the fallacy in the syllogism is plain.
The deduction for depletion in the case of mines is a
special application of the general rule of the statute allowing a deduction for exhaustion of property. While respondent does not own the ore deposits, its right to mine
and remove the ore and reduce it to possession and ownership is property within the meaning of the general provision. Obviously, as the process goes on, this property
interest of the lessee in the mines is lessened from year to
year, as the owner's property interest in the same mines
is likewise lessened. There is an exhaustion of property
in the one case as in the other; and the extent of it, with
the consequent deduction to be made, in each case is to
be arrived at in the same way, namely, by determining
the aggregate amount of the depletion of the mines in
which the several interests inhere, based upon the market

LYNCH v. ALWORTH-STEPHENS CO.
364

Opinion of the Court.

value of the product, and allocating that amount in proportion to the interest of each severally considered.
We are referred to Weiss v. Mohawk Mining Co., 264
Fed. 502, where the circuit court of appeals for the sixth
circuit reached an exactly opposite conclusion to that
announced in the present case by the courts below. The
opinion in that case was apparently made to rest upon the
decision of this court in United States v. Biwabik Mining
Co., supra, which, in turn, followed Von Baumbach v.
Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503. These cases, however,
arose under the corporation tax law of i909, c. 6, 36 Stat.
11, 112, § 38, imposing a special excise tax with respect
to the carrying on or doing business by a corporation, etc.,
measured by its net income, in the ascertainment of
which, among other things, there was authorized adeduction of "a reasonable allowance for depreciation of .property." The Sargent Land Co. case concerned the owner
and lessor of mining property, while the Biwabik Mining
Co. case concerned a lessee of mining property. It was
held in both cases, as we lold here, that the leases under
consideration did not convey title to the ore in place.
Whether the lessees had property interests such as we
have determined here, was not considered. Both decisions, expressly in one and implicitly in the other, turned,
primarily, upon the scope of the word "depreciation."
In the Sargent Land Co. case this appears expressly from
the following extract (pp. 524-525): "We do not think
Congress intended to cover the necessary depreciation of
a mine by exhaustion of the ores in determining the income to be assessed under the statute by including such
exhaustion within the allowance made for depreciation.
It would be a strained use of the term depreciation to say
that, where ore is taken from a mine in the operation of
the property, depreciation, as generally uiderstood in
business circles, follows. True, the value of the mine is
lessened from the partial exhaustion of the property, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

owing to its peculiar character, cannot be replaced. But
in no accurate sense can such exhaustion of the body of
the ore be deemed depreciation. It is equally true that
there seems to be a hardship in taxing such receipts as
income, without some deduction arising from the fact that
the mining property is being continually reduced by the
removal of the minerals. But such consideration will not
justify this *court in attributing to depreciation a sense
which we do not believe Congress intended to give to it
in the Act of 1909." And this view. is immediately
emphasized by putting in contrast with the " depreciation" of the 1909 Act, the "reasonable allowance for the
exhaustion .
.
of property" of the income tax provision of the Tariff Act of 1913 and the exhaustion and
depletion provisions of the Act of 1916, heretofore quoted.
"These provisions," the court concluded (p. 525), "were
not in the Act of 1909,and, as we have said, we think that
Congress, in that act, used the term 'depreciation' in its
ordinary and usual significance. We therefore reach the
conchision that no allowance can be made of the character
contended for as an item of depreciation."
The decision in the later case of the Biwabik Mining
Co., it is true, rests upon the predicate that the lessee was
not a purchaser of the ore in place, but that was because
the decision of the lower court-that the lease as applied
to the situation there developed, was "in every substantial way pro tanto a purchase "--presented that question
as the one to be met. The lower court thought that the
case of the lessor (Sargent Land Co.) was to be distinguished from that of the lessee (Biwabik Mining Co.)
upon the theory that, while the royalties paid to the
former might properly be called income,, the receipts of
the latter resulted from the sale of capital assets and were
not income. But this court rejected the assumed distinction as unsound and decided the case upon that point
without referring to the question of deduction on account

BLUNDELL v. WALLACE.
364

373

Syllabus.

of depreciation. Evidently, it was taken for granted in
the lower court that under the decision in the Sargent
Land Co. case, the latter point was no longer open; and
it was passed there, as it was here, without comment.
Considering the'Sargent Land Co. and. the Biwabik MinIng Co. cases together, it is apparent that in respect of
the matter of depreciationunder the Act of 1909, in the
opinion of this court, lessor and lessee stood upon the
same footing, neither being entitled to an allowance; but
it was plainly recognized that if the statutory allowance
had been for exhaustion or depletion, as in the later acts,
an entirely different question might have been presented
as to both interests. We find nothing in either case out
of harmony with the conclusion reached by the lower
courts, in respect of the construction and application of
the pertinent provisions of law which are now under
review.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicn BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.
BLUNDELL, EXECUTOR, ET AL. v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA;

No. 276. Argued January 29, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1.-Section 2.3 of the Act of April 26, 1906, disposing of the affairs
of the Five Civilized Tribes, which provides:, "Every person of
lawful age and sound mind may by last will and testament devise
and bequeath all of his estate, real and personal, and all interest
therein," was intended (save the proviso limiting full-bloods) to
enable the Indiapl to dispose of his estate by will on the same
footing as any other citizen, notwithstanding restrictions previously
imposed against alienation of allotments (e. g., by ChoctawChickasaw Supplemental Agreement, July 1, 1902, §§ 12 and 16),
leaving the regulatory local laW of wills 'free to operate as in the
case of other persons and property. P. 375.

