122

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus,

267 U.S.

The power of a court to protect itself and its usefulness
by punishing contemnors is of course necessary, but it is
one exercised without the restraining influence of a juryand without many of the guaranties which the bill of
rights offers to protect -the individual against unjust conviction. Is it unreasonable to provide for the possibility
that the personal element may sometimes ,enter into a
summary judgment pronounced by a judge who thinks
-his authority is flouted or denied? May it not be fairly
said that in order to avoid possible mistake, undue prejudice or needless severity, the chance of pardon should exist
at least as much in favor of a person convicted by a judge
without a jury as in favor of one convicted in a jury trial?
The pardoning by the President of criminal contempts
has been practiced more than three-quarters of a century,
and no abuses during all that time developed sufficiently
to invoke a test inthe federal courts of its-validity.
It goes without saying that nowhere is there a more
earnest will to maintain the independence of federal courts
and the preservation of every legitimate safeguard of
their effectiveness afforded by tlte Constitution than in
this Court. But the qualifid independence which they
fortunately enjoy is not likely to be permanently strengthened by ignoring precedent and practice and minimizing
the importance of the coirdinating checks and balances
'ofthe Constitution.
The rule is made absolute and the petitioner is discharged.
NAHMEH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 157.

Argued January 6, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Under the Suits in Admiralty Act, suit against the United States
may be brought in the district where the libelant resides, as well

NAHMEH v. UNITED STATES.
122

123

Opinion of the Court.

as" in that where the vessel is found, even though it would have
been a suit in rem if involving only private parties. P. 125.
2. The language in this regard (ยง 2 of Act) should be accorded its
broad and ordinary meaning and not be interpreted in a restrinted
and distributive sense. Id.
Reversed.

APPmAL from a decree-.of the District Court dismissing
a libel for want of jurisdiction, as brought in the wrong
district.-

Mr. Silas Blake Axtell for appellant.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUsTi m TA F T

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
William Nahmeh, employed as a fireman on the steamship Quinnipiac, was injured August 3, 1920, in the performance of his duties. One of his legs had to be ampu-tated. To recover for this injury, he filed a libel on
March 30, 1922, against the United States as owner' of
the Quinnipiac, under the Suits in Admiralty Act of
March 9, 1920, ch. 95, 41 St. 525, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York
where he lived. The steamship Quinnipiac was then in
the Southern District of New York. The United States
appeared specially and excepted, on the ground that the
libel did not show that the steamship was at the date of
the filing 'of the libel within the Eastern District of New
York; and there was no jurisdiction. December 20, 1922,
the appellant made a motion before the District Court for
the Eastern District for an order removing the cause to
the Southern District. The District Court denied-the
motion to transfer the cause, and, under a decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in the Isonomia,
285 Fed. 516, that the only district in which such a suit

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

could be brought was where the vessel was, dismissed it
for want'of jurisdiction.
The Suits in Admiralty. Act was passed to provide a
suit in personam in lieu of the previous unlimited right of
suitors to. libel merchant vessels belonging to the United
States Government in rem in the ports of the United
States and in its possessions--a right which had proved
objectionable. Section 2 and Section 3 of the Act indicate the- District Courts in which suits under the Act
were thereafter to be brought. The relevant parts of
those sections are as follows:
"Section 2. That in cases where if such vessel were
privately owned or operated, or if such cargo were pri.rately owned and possessed, a proceeding in admiralty
could be maintained at the time of the commencement of
the action herein provided for, a libel in personam may
be brought against the United States or against such corporation, as the case may be, provided that such vessel
is. employed as a merchant vessel or is a tug boat operated by such corporation. 'Such suits shall be brought~in
the district court of the United States for the district in
which the parties so suing, or any of them, reside or have
their principal place of business in the United States, or
in which the vessel or cargo charged with liability is
found . . . upon application of either party the
cause may, in the discretion of the court, be transferred
to any other district court of the United States.
"Section 3. If the libellant so elects 'in his libel the
suit may proceed in accordance with the principles of
libels in rem whenever it shall appear that had the vessel
or cargo been privately owned and possessed a libel in
rem might have been maintained. Election so to proceed
shall not pretlude the libellant in any proper case from
seeking relief in personam in the same suit."
We held in,the case of Blamberg Brothers v. United
States, 260 U. S. 452, that the Act did not authorize a

NAHMEH v. UNITED STATES.
122

Opinion of the Court.

suit in personam..againstthe United States as a substitute

for a libel in rem, when a United States vessel was not
in a port of the United States or in one of her possessions
at the time of filing the libel; that Congress had no power
to grant immunity from seizure in respect to such vessels
when in foreign ports, and did not intend to do so. There
has been a difference of opinion, however, with reference
to the meaning of the.provision as to jurisdiction in Section 2, relating to vessels within the jurisdiction of the
United States. The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit in the Isonomia case construed Section 2,
strictly so far as it provides for jurisdiction, because it
depends on the statutory consent of the United States.
The court, therefore, came to the conclusion that the
language fixing three places of jurisdiction under the Act,
should not be held to be cumulative but should be applied
distributively; and that the provision by which the suits
might be brought in the district where the vessel charged
with the liability was found should be held to give the
only place for jurisdiction in a suit in personam against
the United States which was substituted by the Act for
a suit against the vessel in rem. This same view was held
by the District Court in Galban Lobo & Company v.
United States, 285 Fed. 665, and in Axtell v. United
States, 286 Fed. 165. A different view was taken in a
District Court of South Carolina in Middleton & Company v. United States, 273 Fed. 199, and in Alsberg v.
United States,.285 Fed. 573, in the Southern District of
New York.
I The opinion in the Isonomia case was carefully prepared, but we think that the rule as to a strict construction of the language of statutes providing for suits against
the United States was there carried too far. In taking
away what was then the law, namely the right of claimants to sue merchant vessels of the United States as if
they were private vessels, Congress was evidently anxious

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

to consult the convenience of intending libellants as far
as it could, and as the United States was present everywhere in the United States, it named as the proper place
for suit either the place of the residence of the parties
suing, or of any one of them, or their principal place of
business, or where the vessel or cargo charged with liability was found. It further expressly provided that
those which would have been under the prior act causes
of action in rem might be united with those in personam.
To avoid any difficulty in bringing needed parties into the
same suit it directed that the cause might be transferred
in the discretion of the court to any other District Court
in the United States. These liberal provisions indicate
that the language used in the section should have its
broad and ordinary meaning and should not be interpreted in a restricted and distributive sense. We think,
therefore, that the suit brought in the district where the
libellant resided was a suit brought in accordance with
Section 2, even though it would have been an action in
rem between private parties, and that it made no differ.ence where the vessel then was, provided only that it was
within the jurisdiction of the United States. The decree
of the court below must, therefore, be reversed, and the
cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Reversed.
,MERCHANTS MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
INSURANCE COMPANY v. SMART.
ERRORTO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 22a. Argued January 2Z, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925.
A state law (N. Y. Laws 1918, c. 182) required that any policy
'issued by an insurance corporation,. ih the future, to indemnify
the. owner of a motor vehicle against liability to persohs injured
through negligence in its operation, shall provide that the insolvency or bankruptcy of te insurMd shall not release the company

