U. S. v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CORP.

387

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BUTTERWORTHJUDSON CORPORATION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 338. Argued December 9, 10, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Under the Act of October 6, 1917,. § 5, c. 79, 40 Stat. 383, the
Secretary of War was authorized to advance money to a contractor
for carrying out a contract for producing and furnishing supplies
of picric acid to the War Department and could provide the
"adequate security" called for by the act by requiring the balances of the advanced funds be kept in special deposits subject
to a lien in favor of the Government, in addition to requiring a
collateral note of the contractor and surety bond. P. 392.
2. Under a contract for the erection of a plant, and manufacture
and delivery to the Government of picric acid, the Government
advanced the contractor moneys, to be deposited at interest in
special bank accounts separate from the contractor's other funds,
such money to be drawn on only for specified purposes, and the
balance thereof to be accounted for to the Government, either
by deliveries of the acid at a specified price or by return of the
amount, less authorized deductions, Held, (asuming that the tite
passed, establishing the relation of debtor and creditor,) that the
purpose and effect of the special accounts were to provide security
for the United States and that an equitable lien upon them
existed in its favor, although not expressly reserved in the agreement. P. 393.
3. An equitable lien reserved by the United States as security for
the proper use or return of funds advanced to a contractor,
which under the agreement were deposited in special bank 'accounts for the purpose of providing such security--held superior
to the right of the banks (they having notice of the agreement,)
to set off such deposits against debts owed them by the contractor.
P. 394.
297 Fed. 971, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed,
as to defendant banks, a suit brought by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

States against the Butterworth-Judson Corporation and
its receivers, the banks and several surety companies.
The bill sought an accounting under a contract between
the first named defendant and the United States, and
to apply the balances of special deposits made by the
contractor with the banks to the amount found due under
the contract-also a decree for any deficiency against the
surety companies on bonds furnished by the contractor.
The contractor, receivers and surety companies answered
and also filed counter claims against the banks, seeking
to have the special account deposits paid over to the
United States. The banks' motions to dismiss the bill
and counter claims were sustained by the courts below.
Mr. WiZliam MarshallBullitt, with whom Mr. Solicitor
General Beck and Mr. Victor House, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the appellants.
Mr. William C. Breed, with whom Mr. Edward J. Redington was on the brief,, for National Newark & Essex
Banking Company of Newark, N. J.
Mr. David Paine,with whom Mr. Michael H. Cardozo,
Jr., was on the brief, for Chase National Bank, et al.
MR. JuSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The United States, plaintiff below, and certain surety
companies, defendants below, appeal from a decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 297 Fed. 971, affirming that
of the District Court dismissing the complaint as to certain banks, defendants below, and dismissing counterclaims set up against the banks in the answers of the
surety companies. The decree also dismissed counterclaims against the banks, set up in the answer of the

U. S. v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CORP.
387

389

Opinion of the Court.

Butterworth-Judson Corporation and its receivers, defendants below. They have not appedled.
The controversy concerns the right of the banks, as
against appellants, to set off against debts owing to them
by the Butterworth-Judson Corporation the deposit balances remaining with them in special accounts.
The Butterworth-Judson Corporation, a contractor,
and the United States made an agreement, dated May 9,
1918. The contractor agreed to select a site and, for a
profit of one dollar and no more, to design, construct and
equip thereon a plant for the production of picric acid,
and to manufacture for the United States 72,000,000
pounds for 53 cents per pound. The entire cost of the
plant was to be paid by the United States. The contractor was to make all necessary expenditures for the construction work, and the United States from time to time
was to reimburse it therefor. Tlke United States agreed
to recommend to the War Credits 'Broad an advance payment to the contractor of $1.50Q,000, upon such terms as
the board might prescribe; and also agreed that, if the
board should require interest on the advance payment, it
would reimburse the contractor as a part of the cost and
expense of the latter under the contract. The United
States reserved the right to cancel the agreement at any
time that its need for the plant or output ceased. It
agreed in such event to reimburse the contractor for its
expenditures, to assume all its outstanding obligations
incurred under the cQntract, and to pay for all the picric
acid wholly or partly manufactured; and it agreed, in case
of cancelation before 18,000.000 pounds were delivered,
to pay three cents per pound for the undelivered portion
up to that amount.
The same parties made a supplementary agreement,
dated May 22, 1918. The United States agreed to advance $1.500,000 to the contractor. The contractor agreed
to account for the advance with interest, by applying that

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

amount to the payment of vouchers covering deliveries
of picric acid. The contractor reserved the right at any
time to repay in cash. If the United States did not recoup, through the deliveries of picric acid, the total
amount of the advance with interest, the contractor was
required to "return to the Government, on demand, any
balance of the said advance and interest after deducting
the total of any recoupments made as hereinabove provided, together with all liquidated accounts that may be
due and owing under the Principal Agreement from the
Government to the contractor." The contractor agreed
to give the United States, as collateral security for the
recoupment or return of the above mentioned advance
and any interest due, its demand note for $1,500,000,
bearing six per tent. interestj and to furnish a bond in the
sum of $750,000, with surety, for the performance of the
agreement. - The United States reserved the right, in case
of failure of the contractor to comply with the agreement,
to sell the note and apply the proceeds to the repayment
of the advance, accounting to the contractor for the surplus, if any. But it agreed not to negotiate or demand
payment of the note, so long as the contractor was not in
default, and to return the note and bond upon complete
performance. And the agreement contained the following: "The contractor shall deposit the money advanced
hereunder in special accounts in banks, separate from its
other funds, and shall draw on said accounts only in payment of expenditures made and obligations incurred in
designing, constructing and equipping the plant specified
in the Principal Agreement, and fot other equipment and
for material, labor and overhead expense, required in the
direct performance of the Principal Agreement, unless
otherwise authorized in writing by the War Credits
Board." It was stipulated that the contracting officer
might require the contractor to deposit in the special accounts the funds paid by the Government, reimbursing

U. S. v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CORP.
387

391

Opinion of the Court.

the contractor for expenditures made from such advance
payment. The contractor was to collect from the banks
with which such accounts were kept such interest as is
usually allowed for similar accounts, and credit or. pay
that interest to the Government.
The bonds provided for in the principal and supplementary agreements were furnished. The United States
advanced $1,500,000 to the contractor, and the latter gaye
its note as agreed. The contractor deposited the money
with defendant banks in special accounts, and entered
upon the performance of the agreement. It made withdrawals from these accounts for the specified purposes,
and from time to time deposited therein the sums paid to
it by the United States in reimbursement of its expenditures. The banks at all times knew that the moneys deposited by the contractor in the special accounts consisted
exclusively of the advance payment and replenishments,
and that all deposits and balances in these accounts were
held pursuant to the principal and supplementary agreements. Shortly after the Armistice, the plant being less
than half completed, the United States terminated the
principal agreement. No picric acid had been -manufactured. The United States reimbursed the contractor and
assumed all the latter's obligations under the principal
agreement. It was shown in a creditors' suit in the District Court that the contractor was unable to pay its
debts, and April 22, 1922, the court appointed receivers
who are defendants in this case. Neither the contractor
nor its receivers accounted to the United States for any
part of the advance of 81,50b,000 or interest, except $348,550, leaving unaccounted for, as the United States claims,
$1,151,450. The total of the balances in the special accounts on April 22, 1922, was $519,631.99. On that day,
the contractor was indebted to each of the banks in an
amount in excess of the balance in the special account
with it, and each bank set off the amount of such deposit
against the debt owed by the contractor.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The suit was-for an accounting and to have the balances
in the special accounts applied on the amount found unaccounted for and due the United States on the settlement
of the account between it and the contractor. In affirming the District Court, the Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the advance payment was for supplies purchased and
thereafter to be delivered, and that the Secretary of War
had no authority to retain title to the moneys advanced
and make the contractor agent of the United States for
its disbursement; -that the supplementary agreement
created no relation of trust or agency between the parties,
but only that of debtor and creditor. It held that the
doctrine of trust, or equitable lien, or equitable assignment, did not apply, and that the banks had the right of
set-off. The appellants maintain that the United States
had an equitable lien on the balances in the special accounts, and that the banks, having notice of the lien,
could not set off the deposits against the debts owed them
by the contractor.
The advance payment was made under the authority of
an act of Congress of October 6, 1917, § 5, c. 79, 40 Stat.
383, which provides: "That the Secretary of War and the
Secretary of the Navy are authorized, during the period
of the existing emergency, from appropriations available
therefor to advance payments to contractors for supplies
for their respective departments in amounts not exceeding thirty per centum of the contract price of such supplies: Provided, That such advances shall be made upon
such termt as the Secretary of War and the Secretary of
the Nav--, respectively, shall prescribe and they shall
require Adequate security for the protection of the Governmeilt for the payments so made." The act was intended to relax, during the period of the war, the strict
rule against advances of public money. See R. S. § 3648.
The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. .666. The act plainly
authorized advance payments' such as that. covered by

U. S. v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CORP.
387

393

Opinion of the Court.

the supplementary agreement. It left the terms to the
discretion of the Secretary of War, subject to the duty to
require adequate security, but the act did not specify or
limit the amount or kinds of security to be taken. A lien
upon and right over the balances in the special accounts
required to be kept is clearly within the meaning of the
word "security," as used in the act. The power of the
Secretary to exact such a lien or right.in addition to the
collateral note and surety bond cannot be doubted.
The agreements made the balances in the special accounts security for the obligations of the contractor and
so created an equitable lien in favor of the United States.
The established rule as to the creation of equitable
liens is stated in Walker v. Brown, 165 U. S. 654, 664:
"The doctrine may be stated in its most general form
that every express executory agreement in writing,
whereby the contracting party sufficiently indicates an
intention to make some particular property, real or personal, or fund, therein described or identified, a security
for a debt or other obligation, or whereby the party
promises to convey or assign or transfer the property as
security, creates an equitable lien upon the property so
indicated, which is enforceable against the property in
the hands not only of the original contractor, but of his
heirs, administrators, executors, voluntary assignees and
purchasers or encumbrancers with notice." See also
Hauseli v. Harrison, 105 U. S. 401, 405; Ingersoll v.
Coram, 211 U. S. 335, 368; Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence (4th ed.) §§ 1233, 1234, 1235. It may be assumed that the United States did not retain title to the
advance payment, and that when it was made it became
the property of the contractor, and also that the contract contemplated that the relation of debtor and creditor might arise. The contractor's obligation, subject to
its right at any time to repay the Government in cash,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opiniofn of the Court.

267 U. S.

was to account for the amount of the advance with interest, by deliveries of the picric acid at the agreed price,
or to return that amount to the United States, after
making the authorized deductions, if any. The contractor's note and the surety bond were given to secure
performance of the agreement. And the requirement
that the contractor deposit the money in special accounts
in banks, separate from its other funds, and collect and
account for interest on deposit balances, and draw on
such accounts only for the purposes specified and return
the balance of the advances, was additional security. It
was to make more certain the performance of the agreement. The purpose and effect of the special accounts
was to identify and keep separate the advance payment
and replenishments, to limit the use of the fund to the
purposes specified, and so to make it available as security
to the United States. Failure of the agreement expressly
to grant a lien on -or declare these balances to be additional security is not significant. See Barnes v. Alexander, 232 U. S. 117, 121. The Armistice came, and the
United States terminated the agreement before there
was any production at the plant. The advance and replenishments were not wholly expended, or accounted for
by deliveries of picric acid. The contractor was bound
to "return" and the United States was entitled to demand and have "any balance of the said advance" remaining ifter the deductions authorized. The. agreements show that the parties contemplated that the need
for picrie acid might cease before the advance payment
was covered by deliveries; and bound the contractor, in
that event, to return the balances in the special accounts
to the United States. This case is plainly within the
rule.
Ordinarily, the relation existing between banks and
their depositors is that of debtor and creditor, out of
which the right of set-off arises. As a general rule, in the

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v U. S. 395
387

Syllabus.

absence of an agreement to the contrary, a deposit, not
made specifically applicable to some other purpose, may
be applied by the bank in payment of the indebtedness
of the depositor. See Studley v. Boylston Bank, 229,
U. S. 523, 528; New York County Bank v. Massey, 192
U. S. 138, 145; National Mahawie Bank v. Peck, 127
Mass. 298, 300. But a bank having notice that a deposit
is held by one for the use of or as security for another
has only such right of set-off as is not inconsistent with
the rights of the latter. Here, the banks had knowledge
of the agreements, under which these balances constituted security for the advance made by the United States.
By acceptance of the moneys furnished in accordance
with the agreement, their right of set-off was made subject to the rights of the United States and the obligations
of the contractor. See National Bank v. Insurance Co.,
104 U. S. 54, 71; Union Stock Yards Bank v. Gillespie,
137 U. S. 411, 421; Boyle v. Northwestern National Bank,
125 Wis. 498, 507. The appropriation of these balances
by the banks cannot be sustained.
Decree reversed.
LOUISVILLE

& NASHVILLE

RAILROAD

COM-

PANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 29. Argued December 4, 1924-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Contracts for sale and delivery of coal to the United States,
construed, with the advertisements, specifications and conduct of
the parties, as providing for delivery on cars at the mine; so that
title passed then and the railroad transportation, on government
bills of lading, was subject to land-grant rates. P. 397.
2. Provisions in such contracts for service by the vendor in transferring the coal to barges at railroad destination, compensation
therefor to be included in price of coal; and reserving right of
United States to test coal after transportation and reject it if

