462

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

267 U. S.

OLSON ET AL., CO-PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE FIRM NAME OF OLSON BROS. OR
OLSON & OLSON v. UNITED STATES SPRUCE
PRODUCTION CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 128. Argued March 5, 6, 1925.-Decided March 16, 1925.
1. Where a federal statute excludes jurisdiction in state as well as
federal courts,'a judgment of a District Court dismissing the case
for that reason is not reviewable here directly under Jud. Code
ยง 238. P. 467.
2. The Dent Act, which provides for adjustment of certain classes
of claims against the United States through the Secretary of War
and by suit in, the Court of Claims, did not purport to confer
jurisdiction on that court over a suit against the United States
Spruce Production Corporation, which, though a federal agency,
is a corporation of the State of Washington. P. 466.
3. An action against the Spruce Corporation to recover for work
done, materials furnished or destroyed and profits lost in consequence of a government requisition prior to the Dent Act, held
within the jurisdiction of the state court and of the District Court.
on removal, whatever the merits. Id.
Reversed.

ERROR to b judgment of the District Court dismissing
an action for want of jurisdiction as . federal court.

Mr. 0. A. Neal, 'with whom Messrs. R. H. Cake, John
C. Murphy and F. R. Salway were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
The United States Spruce Production Corporation is a
distinct corporate entity and may be sued as any private
corporation. Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. Fleet ,Corp, 258
U. S. 549; The Lake Monroe 250 U. S. 246; Com. Finance
Corp. v. Landis, 261 Fed. 440; -Gould Coupler Co. v.

OLSON v. U. S. SPRUCE CO.
462

463

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Fleet Corp., 261 Fed. 716; Lord & Burnham Co.v. Fleet
Corp., 265 Fed. 955; Bank-Russo-Asiatique of Londor v.
Fleet Corp., 266 Fed.. 897; Ingram Day Lumber Co. v.
Fleet Corp., 267 Fed. 283; United States v. galas, 234
Fed. 842; PanamaR. R. v. Curran,257 Fed. 768; Ingersol
Rand Co. v. Fleet Corp., 187 N. Y. S. 695; Eichberg v.
Fleet Corp., 273 Fed. 886; In re Eastern Shore Shipbuilding Corp., 274 Fed. 893; American Cotton Oil Ca. v.
Fleet Corp., 270 Fed. 296; United States v. Strang, 254
U. S.491; Krichman v. !United States, 254 U. S. 616.
The United States Spruce Production Corporation was
organized under the laws of the State of Washington,
which- creates it a body politic and corporate with power
to sue and be sued in any court of law or equity where
it may transact business. This is a statement of a power
which is incidental to every corporation.
The doctrine of government immunity has but little
place in this country. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.
196; Gould Coupler Co. v. Fleet 'Corp., 261 Fed. 716;
Fed. Sugar Ref. Co. v. U. S. Sugar Equalization Bd. 268
Fed. 585.
Exclusive ownership-of stock by the United States does
not make the corporation immune from suit. United
States v. Strang, 254 U. S. 491; Saias v. United States,
234 Fed. 842; Panama R. R. v. Curran, 256 Fed. 772;
Bank of U. S. v. Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat. 904; Bank of
Ky. v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Brisco v. Bank of Ky., 11
Pet. 257.
The creation by Congress of a corporation to facilitate
discharge of a governmental function does not in itself
imply immunity from suit. Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat.
738; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 315; Farmers'
Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S.29; Thompson v. Union Pac.
R. Co., 9 Wall 579; Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161
'U. S.275; United States v. Union Pac. R. Co., 98 U. S.
569; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 156 U. S. 525.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

2(17 U. S.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney-General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
The court below had no jdrisdiction of the cause of
action alleged. There was no attempt to allege a cause
of action against the Corporation based upon any contract made by it for its own benefit or anything done by
it in its corporate capacity. The cause of action set forth
is under the so-called Dent Act. It is, in express terms,
an action brought because the Secretary of War had
rejected a claim under the Dent Act. That is its sole
basis. But under that act the Court of Claims has exclusive jurisdiction, Nassau Smelting & Refining Works v.
United States, 266 U. S. 101.
The only things specifically alleged to have been done
by plaintiffs were prior to the 19th day of August, 1918,
when the corporation was organized; and it is alleged that
thereafter the corporation took over and assumed control
of and undertook the work theretofore carried on or directed by the Spruce Production Division, and, acting
through and by the same officers, "further promised and
assured plaintiffs that t}hey would be compensated therefor" and "thereby ratified and confirmed all that had
been theretofore done and/or promised by said Spruce
Production Division." The only allegations with respect
to prior promises of compensation were that the plaintiffs
would be reimbursed by the Government." The case
presented, therefore, is not one calling for determination
of the question whether ,the Spruce Corporation is generally immune from suit, and such was not the basis of the
decision by the court below.
As to the status of the Spruce Production Corporation,
see Clallam County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341;
Erickson v. United States, 264 U. S.246. The suit is not
against the corporation upon contracts made by it, in its
own behalf, or upon work done for it at its request. The

OLSON v. U. S. SPRUCE CO.
462

Argument for Defendant in Error.

suit is for compensation which agents of the War Department had promised would be paid by the Government of
the United States for work done pursuant to authority
conferred by acts of Congress upon the President and
Secretary of War. While ordinarily the question of liability of an agent would go to the merits, rather than
to the jurisdiction of the court, nevertheless, where the
allegation is that .the agent was an agent of the United
States-a division of its War Department-that what it
did was done in behalf of the United States, and 'pursuant to authority of acts of Congress; that its promises
were of compensation to be made by the United States;
and where it appears that Congress has provided a special and exclusive remedy under such circumstances, the
conclusion would seem- to follow that no court other than
the court specified in the act of Congress has jurisdiction
of the subject matter of the controversy.
Furthermore, the Dent Act waives the provision of
law in favor of the United States relating to the manner
prescribed for executing the agreements, and limits the
liability of the United States by excluding prospective
or possible profits. The United States has therefore consented to be sued in a class of cases which could not
theretofore have been brought against it. It has provided for itself a. special and partial defense to such
claims, and has prescribed a specific court in which such
matters may be litigated. No other court, therefore, has
jurisdiction to entertain a suit against a Government
agent based upon such a claim and subject to such a
limit of liability. -Looked at in this way, the question
seems clearly to be one of jurisdiction.
Though the defendant named is the corporation, nevertheless the allegations themselves are to the effect that
it is not the real party in interest.
The suit is a. mere device to avoid the jurisdiction prescribed by Congress, and to seek a judgment, binding

-466

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

upon the property of the United States, in a tribunal
deemed more favorable and under circumstances less onerous. It appearing, therefore, that the suit "does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said court," it was
properly dismissed. Judicial Code, ยง 37.
MR. JUSTiCE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case comes here directly from the District Court
by a writ of error and a certificate that the action was
dismissed upon the ground that the Court had no jurisdiction.
The suit Was begun in a Court of the State of Oregon
and removed. It was brought 'gainst the corporation
described in Clallam County v. United States, 263 U. S.
341, to recover for work done, materials furnished or destroyed, and profits lost, during the year 1918, in consequence of a requisition by the Government that the
plaintiffs should devote their logging camp to the production of airplane timber alone. The declaration is long
and suggests throughout- an effort to state a case under
the Dent Act, March 2, 1919,. c. 94; 40 Stat. 1272; and to
account for this suit by the fact that the plaintiffs' claim
under that Act was disallowed. The assurances and
promises relied upon seem to have been the assurances
and promises of successive agents of the United States
that the United States would pay. for what the plaintiffs
were asked to do.
The Court below seems to have regarded the Dent Act
as giving the only remedy in cases like this, although the
supposed cause of action arose before that Act was passed;
and'according to the certificate treated the statute as excluding jurisdiction elsewhere. If the suit were against
,the United States, as no Court has jurisdiction over the

LEWIS v. ROBERTS.

467

Syllabus.

462

United States except when it is granted, the ruling might
have been correct. Btit this suit is against a corporation
of the State of Washington, brought originally in a Court
of Oregon to enforce .a supposed liability in contract.
Even if a statute of the United States created a bar, it
would be unusual if the act went-to the jurisdiction rather
than to the merits, Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235;
and if the statute went further it would be more likely to
exclude jurisdiction in all other Courts rather than merely
in Courts of the United States as such. If the statute excluded jurisdiction in State as well as United States Courts
the case could not be certified under ยง 238 of the Judicial
Code. Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S.
175, 178. But the Dent Act does not contemplate suits
against corporations in the Court of Claims, and we. perceive no ground for the ruling as certified. It well may
be that the Court was right in deciding that the allegations were not sufficient to justify a suit against the corporation, and our judgment is without prejudice to a
judgment dismissing the .case upon the merits. But it
was error to decide that there was a want of jurisdiction
and therefore the judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

LEWIS v. ROBERTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE" CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH3.
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 284.

Argued January 29, 1925.-Decided March 16, 1925.

Under ยง 63a of the Bankruptcy-Act, including among provable
.
"(1) a fixed liability, as evraenced by a judgment
lutely owing at the time of the filing of the petition .
judgment founded on a tort (personal injuries caused by

gence) is a provable claim. P 468.
294 Fed. 171, reversed.

debts
abso. 'Y a
negli-

