OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the decision.

BENJAMIN W. MORSE v. THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.
HARRY F. MORSE v. THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 597 and 598. Argued January 9, 1925.-Decided February 2,
1925.

1. Appellants were arrested under a federal indictment in New York.
while traveling through the State to attend trial under another indictment which they had given bail to answer in the District of
Columbia, and were thus prevented from being present there at
the time set. Held that the arrest was not in violation of the due
process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 81.
2. Even if arrest in such circumstances be a breach of comity as 'between the two federal tribunals, the objection does not concern the
constitutional rights of the persons arrested; nor involve a question
of jurisdiction or any error reviewable on habeas corpus. Id.
3. A judgment of a District Court in habeas corpus which discharges
a defendant held by a commissioner under Rev. Stats. ยง 1014 -or
removal to another district and which is based on a finding that
the indictment does not charge a criminal offense, is not res judicata
either as to the validity of the bench warrant issued by the court
in- which the indictment is pending or as to the sufficiency of the
indictment itself. P. 82.
292 Fed. 273, affirmed.
APPEALS

from judgments of the District Court dismiss-

ing writs of habeas corpus.
Mr. Nash Rockwood, with whom Mr. Charles T. Lark
was on the brief, for appellants.

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

80

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellants, under indictment in the District of Columbia, while passing through New York on February 6, 1923,
on their way to Washington for trial, were arrested and
taken from the train by a United States marshal upon
bench warrants issued on federal indictments found in
New York charging them with fraudulent uses of the
mails. Previously, their removal to New York from Connecticut and Massachusetts, respectively, for trial under
these indictments had been sought under ยง 1014 Rev.
Stats. The removal of Harry F. Morse from Connecticut
had been granted by the commissioner, but, upon habeas
corpus proceedings, he had been discharged from custody
by the Connecticut federal district court for want of probable cause, principally on the ground that the New York
indictment was insufficient to charge a criminal offence,
287 Fed. 906; although the New York court had previously held it good. The proceedings for the removal of
Benjamin W. Morse from Massachusetts were still pending before the commissioner at the time of the arrest.
Both appellants were on bail to answer the District of
Columbia indictment. Their case had been peremptorily
set for trial on the morning following the arrest, and the
effect of it was to prevent their appearance at the time
set. Upon these facts, writs of habeas corpus were granted
by the federal district court for the southern district of
New York. After a hearing, the writs were dismissed and
these appeals followed.
First. It is contended that the arrest of appellants in
New York, while en route to Washington for trial, under
the circumstances stated, was arbitrary, unauthorized and

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

illegal, and constituted a violation of the due process of
law clause of the Fifth Amendment. The contention is
plainly without merit. The principle that when the jurisdiction of a court has attached, it must. berespected as
exclusive until exhausted, is a rule of comnity, having a
wide application in civil cases but a limited one in criminal cases. Peckham v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 483, 486. The
mutual forbearance which two federal courts having coordinate jurisdiction should exercise to prevent conflicts
by avoiding interferences with the process of each other,
has "perhaps no higher sanction than the utility which
comes from concord." Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176,
182. But this aside, if there be a violation of the rule of
comityr here, it primarily concerns only the courts or the
sovereignty which is their common superior, and cannot
avail the appellants indicted for crimes in the different
jurisdictions. Moreover, their constitutional rights are
not affected; and if there was erior in any respect, it is
not reviewable on habeas corpus. Peckham v. Henkel,
supra,p. 487; Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U. S. 77, 85. And
see In re Fox, 51 Fed. 427, 430; United States v. Marrin,
170 Fed. 476, 479-480.
Second. It is urged that the decision of the federal
district court in Connecticut discharging Harry F. Morse
was res judicataand conclusively determined (1) that the
New York bench warrant was illegally issued and therefore could not be made the basis for the subsequent arrest
in New York; and (2) that the indictment was fatally
defective. In respect of the first contention, it is enough
to say that the warrant upon which the Connecticut
arrest was made was that issued by the commissioner and
not the New York bench warrant upon which the present
arrest was made. The discharge of the prisoner determined that he could not be held upon the process issued
by the commissioner. It had nothing to do with the question whether he could be arrested and held in New York

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

upon the process issued by the trial court. See Ex parte
Milburn, 9 Pet. 704, 710; Barbee v. Weatherspoon, 88
N. C. 19, 20-22; In re Begerow, 136 Cal. 293, 299.
The second contention proceeds upon a complete misconception of the purpose for which the indictment is produced and considered in removal proceedings, and the
authoritative effect of the ruling of the commissioner and
the court on habeas .corpus in respect thereof. The inquiry in such proceedings is whether there is probable
cause to believe the prisoner guilty and justify his removal
for trial. That inquiry may be made and the prisoner
removed to the trial district in advance of indictment or
without the production of the indictment if one has been
found. Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, 260; Pierce v.
Creecy, 2i0 U. S.387, 403; United States v. Greene, 100
Fed. 941, 943. The indictment was before the commissioner simply as evidence for the purpose of establishing
or tending to establish the commission of an offense; and
the commissioner had authority to pass upon its effect in
that aspect only. The court reviewing the action of the
commissioner under ยง 1014 upon habeas corpus was governed by the same rules and its decision was subject to
the same limitation. Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219,
230; Benson v. Palmer, 31 App. D. C. 561, 564-565.
Neither had authority to determine the sufficiency of the
indictment as a pleading. "The only safe rule is to abandon entirely the standard to which the indictment must
conform, judged as a criminal pleading, and consider only
whether it shows satisfactorily that the fugitive has been
in fact, however inartificially, charged with crime in the
State from which he has fled." Pierce v. Creecy, supra,
pp. 401, 402. In Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 12, this
court said:
"While we have no desire to minimize what we have
already said with regard to the indictment setting out the
substance of the offense in language sufficient to apprise

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

the accused of the nature of the charge against him, still
it must be borne in mind that the indictment -is merely
offered as proof of the charge originally contained in the
complaint, and not as a complaint in itself or foundation
of the charge, which may be supported by oral testimony
as well as by the indictment. When the accused is arraigned in the trial court he may take advantage of every
insufficiency in the indictment, since it is there the very
foundation of the charge, but to hold it to be the duty
of the Commissioner to determine the validity of every
indictment as a pleading, when offered only as evidence,
is to put in his hands a dangerous power, which might bp
subject to serious abuse. If, for instance, he were moved
by personal considerations, popular clamor or insufficient
knowledge of the law to discharge the accused by reason
of the insufficiency of the indictment, it might turn out
that the indictment was perfectly valid and that the ac-cused sh6uld have been held. But the evil once done is,
or may be, irremediable, and the Commissioner, in setting
himself up as a court of last resort to determine the validity of the indictment, is liable to do a gross injustice."
'See also Benson v. Palmer,supra; United States v. Reddin, 193 Fed. 798, 802; In re Hacker, 73 Fed. 464; In re
Dana,68 Fed. 886, 890; Ex parte Mitchell, 1 La. Ann. 413,
414. Benson v. Palmer,supra, contains a very full review
of the precise question here under consideration. In the
course of the opinion, the court, after pointing out that
the discharge of the accused from the process under which
he was held in the removal proceedings had nothing to do
with the process upon which he was subsequently arrested and held by the trial court, that the indictment
could be considered in such proceedings only as evidence,
and that a finding thereon "concludes the proceedings
for removal, but not for trial," said (p. 568): "It is not
the policy of our criminal jurisprudence that an accused
shall be permitted to escape trial on the merits of the

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
80

Opinion of the Court.

charge against him, through a mere defect in the preliminary proceedings leading up to the trial. No discharge by
writ of habeas corpus will operate as a bar to further proceedings in the same cause, unless the inquiry on the petition for writ involves a full investigation into the merits
of the case,--the guilt or innocence of the accused." It is
unnecessary to refer to other authorities. While they are
not entirely harmonious the rule to be deduced therefrom
is that the judgment in a habeas corpus proceeding can be
regarded as conclusive upon the merits only where the case
presented is one wi ich calls for a final determination of
the ultimate facts and of the law; and not where the proceeding is preliminary and ancillary to a trial upon the
merits. See, for example, United States v. Chung Shee, 71
Fed. 277, 280; Kurtz v. State, 22 Fla. 36, 45. Thus it is
held that a judgment in a preliminary examination discharging an accused person for want of probable cause is
not conclusive upon the question of his guilt or innocence
and constitutes no bar to a subsequent trial in the court
to which the indictment is returned. Commonwealth v.
Hamilton, 129 Mass. 479, 481. Likewise, in extradition
proceedings, a discharge for insufficient evidence will not
preclude a second inquiry. 'In re Kelly, 26 Fed. 852. And
see Collins v. Loisel, 262 U. S. 426, 429; In re Begerow,
supra,p. 298. The functions of the commissioner and the
court in removal proceedings under ยง 1014 are of like character and exercised with like effect. The judgment rendered therein, whatever may be its effect in subsequent
proceedings of the same character involving the samequestion-Sainger v. Loisel, 265 U. S.224, 230-232; Collins v. Loisel, supra, p. 430; United States v.'Haas, 167
Fed. 211, 212--does not abridge the power of the trial
court to deal independently with the main cause if the accused be subsequently arrested and brought before that
court to answer to the indictment. In other words, the
commissioner, or the court in review on habeas corpus, for

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the CQurt.

.267 U.S.

lack of power cannot conclusively adjudge the indictment,
qua indictment, to be either good or bad or pass finally
upon the, guilt or innocence of the accused. A decision
discharging the prisoner neither annuls the indictment nor
blots out the offence. Upon the case here presented, the
trial court alone had plenary jurisdiction over the cause
and consequently alone had plenary power to pass upon
the sufficiency of the indictment as the pleading which
initiated and was the foundation of the prosecution. '
Judgment affirmed.
Mandate to issue forthwuith.
JAMES SHEWAN & SONS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FOR THE SOUTHfERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 42." Argued October 7, 8,. 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
A libelant whose libel against the United States for repairs on a vessel

was dismissed by the District Court but sustained by this Court
on appeal, held entitled, under the Suits in Admiralty Act, to costs
in the District Court and this Court, and interest as that court shall
order in accordance with the statute. P. 87.
APPEAL, from a decree of the District Court in Admiralty which dismissed a libel for repairs. The decree
was reversed (See 266 U. S. 108,) and the present decision
is upon an application to withdraw the mandate and to
award costs.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On November 17, 1924, this Court reversed the decree
of the District Court for the Southern District of New
York, dismissing a libel in admiralty against the United
States, brought to recover the value of repairs made on the
steamship Biran, owned by the United States. The suit

