330

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

not in contravention of the federal law. It is on this
ground, and this only, that the District Court declared
the bill should be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction; meaning obviously that, upon the facts found, it was not warranted in enjoining the condemnation proceedings, and
not that as a federal tribunal it was without power to
entertain the suit and inquire into the matters alleged in
the bill.
This conclusion is confirmed by the fact that the plaintiffs were ordered to pay "all costs." If the District
Court had lacked jurisdiction as a federal court, it would
'have been without power to order the plaintiffs to pay
costs. Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96; Citizens'.Bank
v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319.
The cause must be
Returned to the Circuit Court of
Appeals with directions to prqceed.

FORT SMITH LIGHT & TRACTION COMPANY v.
BOURLAND ET AL., CITY COMMISSIONERS OF
THE CITY OF FORT SMITH, ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 220. Argued January 22, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925..
An order in effect requiring a street railway company to continue
operating a part of one of its lines, though it was unremunerative
and must be practically rebuilt at great expense to conform to a
change of street grade, and though the railway as a whole, under
existing rates, was not earning a fair return, held not arbitrary
and not violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 332.
160 Ark. 1, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas

which affirmed .a judgment dismissing a bill brought by
the Traction Company to set aside an order made by the

FORT SMITH TRACTION CO. v. BOURLAND. 331
330

Opinion of the Court.

City Commissioners denying it leave to abandon a part
of one of its lines. The opinion is here printed as
amended by an order of April 27, 1925, which also denied
a petition for rehearing.
Mr. R. M. Campbell, with whom Mr. Joseph M. Hill
and Mr. Henry L. Fitzhugh were on the brief, for plaintiff
in erfor.
Mr. Sam R. Chew, Mr. Harry P. Daily and Mr. Geo.
W. Dodd appeared for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDis delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Fort Smith Light & Traction Company owns and
operates in that city a street railway system with about
22 miles of "line. Included in the system is a line extending, for a third of a mile, on Greenwood Avenue. Under
the law of Arkansas, a street railway is not permitted to
abandon any part of its line without leave of the city
commission'which exercises the powers of a public utility
commission. The company applied to that board for
leave to abandon the line on Greenwood Avenue because
it was, and would be, unremunerative. It appeared,
among other things, that the city had concluded to change
the grade of Greenwood Avenue; that in accepting its
franchise the company had agreed to conform to the city
ordinances; that these required a street railway, in case of
any change in the grade of a street, to make the grade of
the tracks conform thereto; that the cost of so relaying
the tracks on Greenwood Avenue was estimated at
$11,000; that the allocated daily earnings of this small
part of the system were $2.40, the cost of operating it
$8.25; and that the total net earnings of the system in
1922 were $16,000, which" amount is about 1.7 per cent.
of $934,540, the estimated value of the property. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

request to abandon the Greenwood Avenue line was
denied. This suit was then brought in a court of the
State to set aside the order on the ground, among others,
that it deprived the company of its property in violation
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The trial court denied the relief sought. Its judgment
was affirmed by the highest court of the State. 160 Ark.
1. The case is here on writ of error under ยง 237 of the
Judicial Code.
The Greenwood Avenue line had been in operation
nearly twenty years. No change in conditions had supervened which required the commission to permit the abandonment, unless it were the fact that this particular part
of the system was being operated at a loss; that continued
operation would involve practical rebuilding of that part
of the line; that such rebuilding would entail a large
expenditure; and that the system as a whole was not
earning a fair return upon the value of the property used
and useful in the business. The order complained of does
not deal with rates' Nor does it involve the question of
the reasonableness of service over a particular line. Compare Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, '23-27; Railroad Commission v.
Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 388. It merely
requires continued operation. We cannot sar that it is
inherently arbitrary. A public utility cannot, because of
loss, escape obligations voluntarily assumed. Milwaukee
Electric Ry Co. v. Milwaukee, 252 U. S. 100, 105. The
fact that the company must make a large expenditure in
relaying its tracks does not render the order void. Nor
does the expected deficit from operation affect its validity.
A r,%ilway may be compelled to continue the service of a
branch or part of a line, although the operation involves
a loss. Missouri PacificRy. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262,
279; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 242 U. S. 603, 607. Compare Railroad Commis-

CANNON MFG. CO. v. CUDAHY CO.
330

Statement of the Case.

sion"v. Eastern Texas 1?. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, 85.

This
is true even where the system as a whole fails to earn a
fair return upon the .value of the property. So fai as
appears, this company is at liberty to surrender its franchise and discontinue operations throughout the city. It
cannot, in the absence of contract, be compelled to continue to operate its system at a loss. Brooks-Scanlon.Co.
v. Rai1roadCommission of Louisiana,251 U. S. 396. But
the Constitution does not confer upon the company the
right to continue to enjoy the franchise or indeterminate
permit and escape from the burdens incident to its use.
__
Affirmed.
CANNON MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
CUDAHY PACKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 255.

Argued January 28, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Defendant, a Maine corporation, marketed its products in North
Carolina through a subsidiary, an Alabama corporation which it
completely dominated through stock ownership and otherwise, but
a distinct corporate entity which did not act as the defendant's

agent but bought the defendant's goods and sold them to dealers
to be shipped directly from the defendant. Held,
(a) That the defendant corporation did not thereby do business
in North Carolina so as to be present there and suable in the

federal court. P. 334.
(b) That the concentration of the Alabama corporation's stock in
the defendant's single ownership and the legal consequences of this

under the Alabama law did not have the effect of rendering its
business in North Carolina the business of the defendant for purposes of jurisdiction. P. 337.
292 Fed. 169, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment dismissing an action on con-

tract for want of jisdiction over the defendant corporation.

