BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.

479

Syllabus.

BOHLER, TAX COLLECTOR OF RICHMOND
COUNTY, GEORGIA, ET AL. v. CALLAWAY,
EXECUTOR OF THE ESTATE OF J. B. WHITE,
DECEASED.
CALLAWAY, EXECUTOR OF THE ESTATE OF
J. B. WHITE, DECEASED, v. BOHLER, TAX COLLECTOR OF RICHMOND .COUNTY, GEORGIA,

ETAL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT-COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Nos. 170, 171.

Argued January 14, 1925.--Decided April 13, 1925.

1. Refusals to grant interlocutory injunctions to stay proceedings
before a board of arbitratirn, held not res judicata in favor of the
validity of those proceedings. P. 485. '
2. The provision in Georgia for reviewing tax assessments by arbitration; Code 1910, § 1059; Acts 1910, pp. 22, 24, Parks Ann.
Code, 1914, § 1116 (d); was superseded by Acts of 1918, No; 270,
p. 232, which substitutes a petition in equity to eihjpin excessive.
assessments. P. 485.
3. Where the only remedy afforded by the state law to a tax payer
against an invalid tax is by a proceeding in equity in the state
court, purely judicial in character, to enjoin, excessive assessment,
the federal court has jurisdiction of a bill to, enjoin collection in
which it is set up that the tax violates the federal Constitution.
P. 486.
4, If the administration of the tax laws of a State is shown to result
in a systematic and intentional discrimination against the plaintiff,
the federal court may grant injunctive relief allowed by the state
law without deciding the federal constitutional question upon
which jurisdiction of ihQ bill is based. P. 489.
5. Evidence held sufficient to show such systematic underassessment
of property in Georga, particularly of stocks and bonds, as justified a decree holding invalid an assessment of plaintiff's securities
at full market value, and reducing it to 25%. P. 489.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

6. In'cases of this kind it is proper to call as witnesses tax officials
of the State and county, because of' their experience in assessing
property, to testify to the existence of systematic and intentional
undervaluation. C. B. & Q. Ry. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, distinguished. P. 491.
7. To avoid addition of interest, a tender of money in discharge of
a disputed tax should not be tied to the condition that it be received
in full payment. P. 492.
291 Fed. 243 affirmed.

These are an appeal and a cross appeal direct from the
District Court for the Soithern District of Georgia., under
§ 238 of the Judicial Code, because involving the application of the Federal Constitution.
The bill sought to enjoin the levy of executions on delinquent tax assessments of the tax receiver of Richmond
County, Georgia, against the estate of J. B. White, for
the seven years, -from 1911 to 1917. The assessments
were as follows:
Tax
Assessment, 1911 $1,000, 866. 87 $13, 552.20
"
1912
1, 399, 161.67
18, 888. 68
"
1913
1,558,300.83
22,751.19
c
°11914
1,548,735.38
21,527.42
c
1915
1,439,160.83
21,011.75
cc,
.1916 1,509,936.00
22,347.05
1917
1,623,567.52
25,490.01
The aggregate amount of the executions was $145,568.30, with interest thereon to the date when issued, July
28, 1918, of $70,764.01, or a total of principal and interest
of $216,332.01.
The bill of the complainant, who was White's executor,
asked an injunction on two grounds. One was that in the
sum assessed were national bank stocks, which under
§ 5219 R. S. should have been assessed for taxation in
New York City where the banks were and not in Georgia,

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.
479

Statement of the Case.

and also stock in a Georgia railway exempt from taxation
by the state law.
The second ground was that the assessment of the
stocks and other securities was at their full market value,
whereas in Georgia and in Richmond County property
of this class in the hands of others was generally and intentionally assessed by the taxing officers at less than 25
per cent. of such value, and that such discrimination was
unlawful under the statutes and constitution of Georgia
and would work a denial of the equal protection of the
laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Federal Constitution.
J. B. White, a native of Ireland, came to Georgia in
1866, and resided there continuously until 1909. He never
was naturalized. In 1909 he went abroad and died at
Genoa, Italy. in March. 1917. leaving a will, in which he
described himself as of Richmond "County in that State,
and named the complainant, E. H. Callaway, as his executor. The executor probated -the will and filed an inventory of the estate in the Court of the Ordinary. During the seven years-1911 to 1917-White .had returned
for taxation his real estate in Richmond County, amounting to $600,000, and $300 of household and kitchen furniture, but 'no other personal property. After the probate
of the will, the tax receiver of the county demanded of
the executor returns for taxation for seven years on the
securities shown in the inveitory. The certificates of
stock and the bonds were physically in possession of
Henry Clews & Company in New York. *The executor
insisted (though he subsequently abandoned the claim)
that they were not, subject to taxation in Georgia, for
the reason that White was a nonresident. The tax receiver withdrew his demand. Thereafter, the Board of.
County Commissioners directed institution of proceed-.
ings in mandamus to compel the tax receiver to assess
this property as delinquent. The suft for mandamus,

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

though it did not go to a rule absolute, brought out from
a member of the firm of Clews & Company evidence of
the exact amount and value of the property which White
had left with them. The.tax receiver then made the assessments at full market value. The executor demanded
arbitration as provided by § 1059 of the Georgia Code of
1910 and the General Arbitration Act-Acts of Georgia
of 1910, pp. 22, 24, as codified in Park's Annotated Code,
(1914), § 1116 (d). The latter section directed 'the
County Tax Receiver to assess property at the valuation
fixed by the taxpayer in the return, if satisfactory, 'and if
not, within thirty days to make an assessment on the best
information he could procure, and notify the taxpayer.
The latter miight by a demand within twenty days have
the question of true value referred to arbitrators, one
selected by him, one by the tax receiver, and a third by
the other two and, in default of their agreement, by the
Board of County Commissioners. In this case the executor selected his arbitrator, the tax receiver his, and the
county comimissioners selected the third. On the day of
the meeting of the arbitrators, the State applied to the
Superior Court of the County for an injunction to prevent
their further proceeding; but the application was denied.
The issue was then heard by the arbitrators, the State and
county appearing and taking part therein by counsel.
The arbitrators made an award fixing the valuation at
25 per cent. of the market value of the securities, and
-the same was "fastened in tax digest of the County for
the year 1917." The tax collector calculated the taxes
due and submitted the amount to the executor as $27,980.88. This sum the executor tendered as full payment
of the taxes due. On advice of counsel representing the
State, the collector declined it. The State and county
then filed a second petition in the Superior Court to
enjoin tlhe tax receiver and the tax collector from making
the assessments and collections according to the arbitra-

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY..
479

Statement of the Case,

tion. The Superior Court held the petition insufficient
on demurrer and dismissed the application. Meantime
the first application to enjoin the proceedings in arbitration reached the Supreme Court, and the Superior
Court was sustained in refusing the injunction. Georgia
v. Callaway, 150 Ga. 235. When the second application
for injunction reached the Supreme Court, two of the
judges out of six (only four being present) held that an
Act of 1918 (Acts of Georgia of 1918, No. 270, p. 232) repealed the section of the Act of 1910 on which the arbitration had proceeded and rendered it void, and that
therefore the original assessments made by the tax receiver were valid, the executions could issue and no injunction was necessary. Of the other two judges, one
held that the Act of 1918 did not prevent the arbitration
proceedings in which the State participated. The other
held that the State had not put itself in a position to object to the assessment of the arbitrators, because its only
complaint was that the award was fraudulent and it had
not made out its case; and that the effect of the Act of
1918 it Was not necessary for the court to decide. So
an injunction was a second time refused. Georgia v.
Callaway, 152 Ga. 871.
The second decision was made March 4, 1922. On
March 9th following, tax executions on the assessments
made by the tax receiver July 28, 1919, including those on
the stock of the national banks of New York City, were
.issued. The executor thereupon again tendered payment of taxes and interest under the award of the arbitrators to the tax collector, which was again declined.
On March 22, 1922, the bill in the present case was
filed, and after a hearing before three judges, a temporary injunction was issued by the District Court. The
State and the county and the tax officials were made defendants, and filed answers. Among other objections by
them to the equitable relief sought was that, though the

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

complainant in his bill admitted that there was due from
him $27,980.88 to the tax receiver, it had not been paid,
and the bill should be dismissed. Thereafter, on the 25th
of September, 1922, the executor tendered the sum of
$27,980.88, and it was accepted, without prejudice to the
rights of any of the parties in the pending litigation. The
executor then upon leave of court amended his bill and
made the averment of the payment.
The District Court after a full hearing sustained' its
jurisdiction, held that the award of the arbitrators was
invalid and that the State and county were not estopped
by the state court orders to attack it, enjoined execution
of the assessments on the national bank and Georgia
railway stocks as non-taxable, found unlawful discrimination in the assessments on the other securities, enjoined
collection thereof to the extent of 75 per cent., and decreed
against the -complainant interest on the 25 per cent. of
the assessments already paid by him, from the date of his
first tender until their actual payment. The cross appeal
of the executor raised in his assignments of error the
validity of the award of 'the arbitration and the question
of interest.
Mr. E. H. Callaway, with whom Mr. Wm. M. Howard
was on the brief, for appellant in No. 171, and for appellee
in No. 170.
Mr. Berjamin E. Pierce, with whom Mr George M.
Napier, Attorney General of Georgia, Mr. Wallace B.
Pierce and Mr. Wm. K. Miller were on the brief, for appellees in No. 171, and for appellants in No. 170.
after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE TAFT,

First. A primary and preliminary question is that of
the validity of the arbitration and award. The proceeding was initiated and award made under the Act of 1910,

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.
479

485

Opinion of the Court:

but it was not begun until July 28, 1919, a year after
the Act of 1918 claimed by appellants to have repealed
the arbitration provision, was enacted.
The executor contends that the reifisal of the state
Supreme Court to enjoin the arbitration. board from
proceeding, was res judicata as to its validity. There
were no defensive pleadings. It was a decision upon an
interlocutory injunction and was presumably made in
the exercise of judicial discretion upon a balance of convenience as to halting the proceeding of arbitration before its conclusion. Chicago Great Western Ry. v.
Kendall, 266 U. S. 94, 100. The 'court pointed out that
the ruling it affirmed was only a pendente lite injunction.
•150 Ga. 235. Neither the court nor counsel referred to
or considered the Act of-1918. Its effect upon the arbitration proceeding does not seem to have been called tb
the attention of either. To give finality to such a temporary ruling would be contrary to the principles governing estoppel by judginent.' Santowsky v. McKay, 249
Fed. 51; Knzox v. Alwood, 228 Fed. 753; Webb v. Budcalew, 82 N. Y. 555. When the case came again to the
Supreme Court, on the second application for injunction
by the tax authorities, it was dismissed for varying reasons of the four judges. Certainly, in view of the holding by two of them that the Act of 1918 repealed the
provision for arbitration, it could not be said to be a
judgment binding the parties to the validity of the
awaid. We agree with the District Judge that no
estoppel grew out of the injunction suits. '
Second. Did the Act of 1918 .render the award a
nullity?. Two of tle state Supreme Court judges held
that it did. Four federal judges have agreed with
them. The sections of the act of 1918 here applicable
were the first, third,. fifth, seventh, and eighth. By .the
first section, when the owner of property had omitted to
return the same for taxation at the time and for the

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

years the return should have been made, he, or, if he
was dead, his personal representative, was required to
return the property for taxation for each year it was
delinquent. By the third section, when such property
was of the class which should have been returned to the
tax receiver of the county, the latter was to notify in
writing the delinquent, or, if dead, his personal representative, requiring a return within twenty days. By
the fifth section, if the delinquent or his personal representative refused to return the property after notice,
the tax receiver was to assess the property from the best
information he could obtain as to its value, for the years
in default, and to notify such delinquent of the valuation, which should be final unless the person or persons
so notified raised the question that it was excessive, in
which event the further procedure should be by petition
in equity in the Superior Court of the county where
such property was assessed. By the seventh section, if
the delinquent or his personal representative disputed
the taxability of such property, he might also raise tthat
question by petition in equity. By the eighth section,
all laws and parts of laws in conflict with the act were
repealed.
As already stated, by the laws in force before 1918, the
remedy for the delinquent taxpayer was, in case of excessive assessment, to demand arbitration in 20 days.
Obviously, the Act of 1918 gave to the taxpayer an
opportunity to file a petition in equity to enjoin excessive assessment as a substitute for his previous remedy
by arbitration. The repealjng section, though not specific, was quite broad enough to end a resort to arbitration under the old law.
Third. Had the federal court jurisdiction -to entertain
the bill and enjoin the enforcement of the executions
issued upon the assessments? Appellants cite Keokuk
& Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Salm, 258 U. S; 122, as indi-

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.
479

487

Opinion of the Court.

cating the contrary. That was a bill in equity by a
bridge company to enjoin a tax assessment by county
assessors on a railroad bridge, because of discrimination.
The assessment made by the county assessors was subject
to revision by a board of review, required to give a hearing and to correct the assessment as should aippear just.
The payment of taxes was not to be enforced by distraint
or levy, but by legal proceedings in a civil suit for the
collection of a debt in which the owner might appear and
defend on any legal ground. including discrimination.
The complainant there brought his bill without taking
any of the steps offered by the statute as an administrative remedy. and ignored the defense he might make
in the suit to collect the tax. The question here is different. The remedy to be taken by the taxpayer
against excessive assessment is by petition in equity.
That is a judicial proceeding. Such a proceeding is not
administrative, as the appeal to the Supreme Court was
in the case of Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211
U. S. 210. Nothing in the Georgia. decisions shows that
the petition here provided was other than a.regular application to a court of equity for relief by injunction.
Nothing indicates that the court was to make administrative assessment. It was only to enjoin excessive assessmen'. No reason existed why a federal court sitting
in the same jurisdiction might not grant equitable relief
to the taxpaypr against the executions on the assessinents. provided there were stated in-the bill ground forfederal equity jurisdiction. This was a suit of a civil
nature under § 247 of the Judicial Code, and arose under
the Constitution of the United States. It was properly
in equity because there was no adequate remedy at law,
the assessmeilts being final except as subject to equitable
intervention. The Georgia law gives no right of action
to recover taxes voluntarily paid, even under protest on
the ground that they were iflegally assessed and-eollected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924..
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Section 4317 of the Civil Code of Georgia (1910) is as
follows:
"Payments of taxes or other claims, made through ignorance of the law, or where the facts are all known, and
there is no misplaced confidence and no artifice, deception,
or fraudulent practic6 used by the other party, are deemed
voluntary and can not be recovered back, unless made
under an urgent and immediate necessity therefor, or to
release person or property from detention, or to prevent
an immediate seizure of person or -property. Filing a
protest at the time of payment does not change the rule."
In Georgia the statutory methods for levy, assessment
and collection of taxes are not merely cumulative-they
are exhaustive. Richmond County v. Steed, .150 Ga.
229; State v. Western & Atlantic R..R., 136 Ga. 619. It
would seem to follow that the only remedy intended to be
furnished in. Georgia i such a case as this was by injunction in equity against excessive assessments. If the remedy by law is doubtful, equitable relief may be had.
Wilson v. Ill. So. Ry., 263 U. S. 574, 577; Union Pacific
R. R. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282, 285, 286; Davis v.
Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680, 688. The case seems to be quite
like that of Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, in
which, under a statute of Ohio authorizing a suit for injunction to prevent the collection of illegal taxes, it was
held that a bill would lie in the federal court to enjoin the
collection of a tax as illegal because it discriminated
against the shares of a national bank.
Another objection to the bill is that the assessments
made in July, 1919, have become final by the-delay, because this bill was not filed until March 11, 1922. It is
argued that, as the petition in equity takes the place of
the arbitration proceeding and the arbitration proceeding
had to be.begun within twenty days after the notification to the taxpayer. of the assessment, in some way or
other the 20-day limitation is projected into the new act.

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.
479

'489

Opinion of the Court.'

No statutory time limitation which would bar the resort
to a petition or a bill in equity as filed in this case has
been pointed out to us by counsel, and we can not infer
one.
We come now to the issue of discrimination. By the
constitution of Georgia, Article 7, § 2, it is provided
that "All taxation shall be uniform upon the same class
of subjects, and ad valorem on all property subject to be
taxed within the territorial limits of the authority levying the tax, and shall be levied and collected under general laws." By the laws of Gaergia all real and personal
property, including stocks and securities in corporations
in other States owned by citizens of Georgia, is to be returned and taxed at its fair market value, i. e., what it
would bring at cash sale When sold in such manner as it
is usually sold.. Park's Annotated Code of Georgia
(1914), §§ 1002, 1002 a, 1003 and 1004.
It is well settled that-if the administration of the tax
laws of a State is shown to result in an intentional and
systematic discrimination against a complainant by a bill
in a federal court, the court may grant relief by injunction under the state law without deciding the federal constitutional question upon which jurisdiction of the bill is
based. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522,
,527; Greene v. Louisville R. R., 244 U. S.499, 508, 514519; Taylor v. L. & N. R. R., 88 Fed. 350; Georgia Railroad v. Wright, 125 Ga. 589, 602, 603.
Complainant's evidence to show that the valuation of
real and personal property by the county officials was fa
below the market value in Richmond County and
throughout the State of Georgia, is convincing. It consists of reports and admissions by the Comptroller General and the. State Tax Commissioner, the chief taxing
officers of the State, and of the testimony of past and
present taxing officials of a great number of counties,

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267US..

some haNimg large cities, and others without such cities.
in different parts of the State. In his report of 1920, the
State Tax Commissioner said he thought it wise not to
require more than 35 per cent. of the true value of real
estate as a minimum basis for equalizing purposes, and he
finally approved a comparative statement of counties
showing the highest per cent. of true value of lands returned to be 60 and the lowest 25. The evidence further
showed that the assessmeftt of intangible personalty was
at a much less percentage of true value than that of real
estate. The fact seemed to-be that stocks and bonds
were not generally returned at all, and when they were
returned they were assessed at a mere nominal figure.
The condition in respect to the low valuations was attributed by several of the taxing officials, who were witnesses
for the complainant, in part to the arbitration method.
They said that if they attempted to impose anything like
the real value, an arbitration was demanded, and the invariable result was a reduction of the assessment, so that
there had come to be a generally understood acquiescence
by county officials in low percentages. It was quite apparent that the undervaluation of both realty and personalty by county taxing officials in Richmond County
and elsewhere in Georgia had become systematic and intentional. It would seem from the evidence and .the reports that not more than 10 per cent. of stocks and bonds
was taxed at all. The Comptroller General's report for
1912 said that the system of assessment of such property
was but little better than voluntary contributions of taxpayers to State's revenue. The recognition of these conditions seems to have led equalizers and assessors in fairness to scale down the assessment of stocks and bonds
when returned. Hence, we find that the Board of Tax
Assessors of Richmond County, a body whose .duty it was
to receive the regular annual returns from the tax receiver and equalize them as between individuals, Park's

BOHLER v. CALLAWAY.
-479

Opinion of the Court.

Annotated Code (1914) § 1116 (k), in determining the
value of the White estate for taxing purposes for 1918-a
current assessment the next year after those here in suitfixed the value of the same stocks and bonds and intangibles at $250,000, or about 18 per cent. of their market"
value. Two of the assessors by affidavit testified from
their experience that such percentage was at a higher rate
than that at which such property when returned was
usually assessed. The tax receiver who returned the
property in this case at its full market value for the seven
years, testified before the Board of Arbitration that
neither he nor the Board of Appraisers had ever taxed
real estate at more than two-thirds of its value, mortgages or stocks at more than 50 per cent., and county
property at more than 33% per cent.
Objection is made to the testimony of tax officials in
this case, especially to that of the tax receiver who fixed
the 100 per cent. assessment in the present case, and to
that of the members of the Board of Tax Assessors and
Equalizers who assessed the value of the White estate for
the year 1918. It is based upon the language of this
Court in C. B. & Q. Ry. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 593.
We do not think that the citation. has application here.
That was a case where members of a state railway assessing board were called by the taxpayers and subjected to
an elaborate cross-examination with reference to the operation of their minds in valuing and-taxing the particular railroads whose assessment was there in question. It
was held~to be improper thus to impeach official awards.
The witnesses in this case were not subjected to crossexamination as to the reasons for t1teir official action in
this case. They were called because they were men of
long experience in assessing property in the county and.
State to testify to the existence of a systematic and intentional undervaluation of the property of others-of
property generally.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The court, in reaching a conclusion as to the percentage
to which the valuation here should be reduced in order
fairly to avoid discrimination. fixed 25 per cent., the same
as that in the award of the Board of Arbitration. It is
insisted that the action of the board, because its power to
make an award was abolished by the law of 1918, was not
admissible evidence. It is quite true that the award
might be of doubtful competency if *offered as independent evidence, but the fact that the award was made an
issue in the pleadings and evidence and was a part of the
record, suggests a difference. But even if it ought not to
have been considered, the other evidence sustaining the
conclusion of the court was ample. The evidence which
the defendants offered was of a stereotyped character
from the state and county officials of many counties, in
which it was said that they all struggled'to obey the law;
but nothihig which was said by them was any real contradiction of the affidavits already referred to, or of the
reports of the state officials already commented on.
There only remains to consider the question of interest
made by the executor on his cross appeal. The District
Court exacted interest on the amount found to be due
and which the executoi admitted to be due,' from the
time of the first tender by him at the time of the award
of the arbitrators until the final tender some three years
later when the amendment to the bill was filed. We
think this was right. The tenders of the complainant
were with a condition attached, namely that the money
to be received was to be received in full payment of the
claim. The complainant had no right to impose such
limitation. If he owed the money, as he admitted he
did, he should have Piaid it without restriction, and his
withholding it for three years requires that he pay interest on it during the time of detention.
Decree affirmed.

