PEARSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

415

tended that the mere. making of an agricultural lease
should put the State at the mercy of the lessee, and require a sale of the land before its value had been ascertained or the available revenue derived from it. In short,
the preference right of purchase given the lessee by the
Act was merely the preference right of purchasing the
land in the condition in which it might be when and if
the State chose to sell it; and not a right to compel the
State to sell it, either in its entirety or otherwise, whenever he wished to buy.
It results that the Oklahoma statutes under which, as
held by the Supreme Court of the State, the Commissioners were authorized to withhold this quarter section
from sale and to execute the oil and gas .lease to the Magnolia Company, did not impair any right vested in Price
as an agricultural lessee by the provisions of the Enabling
Act, or deprive him of any right as such lessee in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In so far as the other federal questions presented were
in issue under the pleadings or raised in the court below,
they are necessarily answered by what we have already
said, and need not be considered in detail. They show
no error in respect to any federal question. And the
judgment is
Affirmed.
PEARSON ET VIR v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 264.

Argued January 2,8, 1925.-Decided Marrh 2, 1925.

Where the Government erected- and used buldings on leased land
with the oral permission of the lessee, and subsequently removed
them, although the lessors contended that the right to do so had
expired by the terms of the lease, held; (a) That; in the absence
of proof that the Government had knowledge of the terms of
the lease or of the lessors' acquiescence in the user, no relation

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

of landlord and tenant existed between the lessors and the United
States under the lease from which an agreement of the latter
to pay for the property could be implied. P. 426. (b) The Government having removed the buildings under claim of right, no
agreement to pay as for property taken for public use could be
implied. P. 427.
58 Ct. Cls. 485, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing .the,petition on demurrer

Mr. George F. Williams, with whom Mr. Henry C.
Clark was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief for th&United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought under the Tucker Act I by
Mairgaret W. Pearson and her husband to recover the
value of buildings and improvements erected by the
War Department on leased premises and removed after
the expiration of the lease. The United States demurred
to the petition on the ground that it did not state a
cause of action within the jurisdiction of the court. The
demurrer was sustained, and the petition dismissed. 58

Ct. Cis. 485.
The petition shows the following facts: 'On September
11, 1917, the claimants leased to the Chamber of Com-merce of Jacksonville, Florida, a tract of land, to be used
solely for federal camp purposes, for the maximum term
of three years. The lease provided that all buildings'
And improvements placed upon the land during said
'term by the lessee, its, successors or assigns, should re'Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.-05, c. 359; Jud. Code, ยง 145.

PEARSON v. UNITED STATES.
423

Opinion of the Court.

main "the exclusive property of the lessee, its successors
or assigns," and might be removed within the period
of three months after the expiration of the lease.
Shortly after the execution of the lease the Chamber of
Commerce agreed "verbally" with the War Department
that the land might be used and occupied as a portion of
a training, camp for United States troops; and the
claimants acquiesced in and consented to its use and occupancy by the United States under and subject to the
terms, conditions and provisions of the lease. The land
was thereafter included in Camp Joseph E. Johnston.
The War Department erected thereon a base hospital,
homes for nurses and other buildings,*and placed extensive improvements thereon. By a general provision in
an Act of March 3, 1919,2 this and other Camp hospitals

were "permanently transferred to the Treasury Department for the use of the Public Health Service," with so
much of their equipment, sites and leases, and such other
buildings and land as might be required. The lease to
the Chamber of Commerce expired on September 11,
1920. On December 9, 1920, the plaintiff's attorney
wrote the Commanding Officer of Camp Johnston. that
by the terms of the lease all right of occupation and of
entry and removal of buildings would cease on December 11, and that on that date the property should be
finally surrendered to the plaintiffs without further removal or molestation of any of the property remaining
thereon; and suggesting a conference in reference to the
matter. The Commanding Officer replied to him that
the hospital had been transferred to the Public Health
Service, to which his letter had been referred, and with
which the matter should be taken up. After some further correspondence, the Surgeon General of the Public
Health Service, on March 28, 1921, wrote the claimants'40 Stat. 1302, c. 98, ยง 2.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

attorney, describing the land as the Pearson Tract " occupied by the United States," and stating that: "Owing
to the necessity of. salvaging certain materials placed
upon the property by the Government and now needed
elsewhere for hospital purposes, the use of the premises
will be required until about May 1, 1921." On April 6
the claimants' attorney replied reiterating the claim that
under the terms of the lease all buildings, etc.. were then
part of the property and legally were no longer subject
to removal; and suggesting a conference and proper
adjustment of the matter. Without replying to this
letter the Public Health Service continued to tear down
and remove all the buildings and improvements that had
been placed upon the land, and completed such removal
by the end of June, 1921.
The petition alleges that the value of the buildings and
improvements thus removed exceeds $100,000, and prays
judgment against the United States for the full value
of the property "removed as aforesaid from said lands
in violation of the rights of petitioners."
1. The petition does not allege any contract by the
United States, either express or implied in fact, to pay
the claimants the value of the buildings and improvements removed by it. Nor does it set forth facts on
which such a contract will be implied. It does not appear from the petition that the United States stood in
any contractual relation with the claimants, as an assignee of the lease or otherwise. On the contrary it
appears that it merely used the land under the oral permission of the Chamber of Commerce. And while the
claimants allege, in general terms, that they acquiesced
in and consented to such use and occupancy subject to
the terms of the lease, it is not shown that the War Department either knew this fact or had any knowledge of
the terms of the lease. Therefore, whatever may be the
construction and effect of the lease as to the right of

LANCASTER v. McCARTY.
423

Syllabus.

removing buildings and improvements, or the implied
obligation of the lessee or its assigns in regard thereto,
the petition fails to show that as between the claimants
and the United States there existed any relatiofiship of
landlord and tenant under the lease from which an
agreement to pay for the property can be implied.
2. The petition shows no ground of recovery on an
implied agreement upon the part of the Government to
pay the claimants for property taken for public use. No
recognition of the plaintiffs' title is alleged in the petition. On the contrary the facts shown plainly indicate
that the buildings and improvements were removed by
the Government as its own property under the claim of
right. Unider these circumstances no agreement to pay
for them can be implied. Whether the Government's
claim was well or ill founded, is immaterial. If it was
unfounded, and the claimants' property rights violatet,
the cause of action therefor would be one sounding in
tort, for which the Tucker Act affords no remedy. Klebe
States, 263 U. S. 188, 191, and cases cited.
v. The
United
demurrer was rightly sustained, and
the judgment is
Affirmed.
LANCASTER ET AL., RECEIVERS OF THE TEXAS
& PACIFIC -RAILWAY, v. McCARTY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE SECONDSUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 148.

Submitted December 11, 1924.-Decided March 9, 1925.

The second Cummins Anendment, (August 9, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat.
441,) authorizing carriers to limit liability upon property received
-for transportation to the value declared in writing by the shipper,
where the rates are based on such value pursuant to authority
from the Interstate Commerce Comrission;--held applicable, and
controlling the state law, in respect of a claim for damage to goods

