OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U.S.

290. Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50. A. G.
Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66, 69, 70. We see
no sufficient reason for believing that the decision would
have been the same if the State Court had regarded the
transactions as interstate commerce and therefore its decision must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
STEIN ET AL., DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF STEIN, HALL & COMPANY,
ETC. v. TIP-TOP BAKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 177.

Submitted Jaiuary 14, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

In an action in the District Court between citizens of different states
wherein plaintiff seeks to recover the agreed price of goods which
defendant agreed to buy but refused to accept, and where plaintiff
alleges that upon defendant's refusal plaintiff rescinded the contract and, in his own right, retook the goods, which then had no
value and could not be sold, and a year later, when they had
acquired value, resold them as his own to a third person for a
price alleged, the price received at the resale is not to be deducted
from the plaintiff's demand in determining whether the jurisdic-

tional amount.is in controversy. P. 227.
Reversed.
ERROR

to a judgment of the District Court dismissing an

action on contract for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Charles Carrollfor plaintiffs in-error. Mr. Sigmund

W. David, Mr. W. S. Hefferan, Jr., and Mr. Richard
PriestDietzman,were also on the brief.
Mr. Allen P. Dodd for defendant in error. Mr. George
.Du Relle was also on the brief."

STEIN v. TIP-TOP BAKING CO.
226
MR.

227

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an action to recover damages for breach of a contract to purchase 80,000 pounds of Badex, a foodstuff.
The defendant demurred because, as it alleged, the petition showed that the amount in controversy, exclusive of
interest and costs, did not exceed the sum of three thousand dollars, and the action was dismissed by the District
Court on that ground. Judicial Code, § 24. The case
comes here on that single question, as determining the
jurisdiction of the District Court.
The material allegations are that the agreed price was
$5800; that at the time of the breach no price could be
got for the goods and that they had no value then in the
market or elsewhere; that upon the breach the plaintiffs
took possession of them as their own, and that nearly
a year later they sold the same as their own to third persons for $4521.95, but it is expressly denied that the plaintiffs sold on behalf of the defendant. The position of the
defendant is that the price realized, even if diminished by
transportation charges of $620.45, must be deducted from
the contract price and leaves less than $3000. We presume that the District Court took the same view, although
its opinion referred to in the judgment is not printed, as
it should have been. Rule 8. But obviously the plaintiffs have a claim that can not be dismissed as absurd, and
on which they are entitled to the judgment of the Court.
Their allegations are that on the unjpstified refusal of the
defendant to accept the Badex they rescinded the transaction, and they argue that when they did'so their rights
against the defendant became fixed and that what they
may have done a year afterwards was ,wholly their own
affair. The cases where instead of rescinding the seller
sells for the buyer's account have no application. The
breach of contract occurred in Louisville, Kentucky, where
possibly the contract was made. If the wase is governed.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U.S.

by the law of that State, as to which it would be premature
to express ali olpinion, wa-h~r that the .plaintiffs' argument probably would be regarded as correct. Zinsmeister
v. Rock Island Canning Co., 145 Ky. 25, 31. See further
Dustan v. McAndrew, 44 N. Y. 72, 78; Van Brocklen v.
Smeallie, 140 N. Y. 70, 75., At all events the plaintifts
are entitled to try their case.
Judgment reversed.
KAPLAN v. TOD, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 241. Argued January 26, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Section 217-2 of the Revised Statutes, by which naturalization of
-parents extends to minor children "if dwelling in the United
States," does not apply where a child was rightly denied entry
as a feeble-minded person and ordered deported but permitted,
under special safeguards, to remain in this country with her father
while the deportation was temporarily suspended because of the
late war. P. 229.
2. Under the above circumstances, the alien, properly speaking, has
not "entered" the United States and is not "found" there but
is in custody at the limit of jurisdiction awaiting the order of the
authorities; consequently the limitation of five years upon liability
to deportation (Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, §19, 39 Stat. 889)
is inapplicable. P. 230.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court dismissing a
petition for habeas corpus.
ir. James Marshall, with whom Mr. Louis Marshall
*was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Soticitqr General Beck wA§ on the brief, for appellee.

