OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U. S.

legal wrong and that on these a charge of conspiracy could
be predicated, and a remedy by injunction might be had
in behalf of the complainants. For the same reasons as
those stated in the previous case, the same conclusion
must be reached. The Circuit Court of Appeals and the
District Court were therefore right in dismissing the bill.
The decree is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. STEAMSHIP "COAMO," HER
ENGINES, ETC., ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 47. Argued October 8, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
Section 10 of the Immigration Act, 1917, makes it the duty of any
person, -including owners, officers and agents of vessels, bringing in
an alien, to prevent his landing at a time or place other than as
designated by the immigration officers, and punishes failure to
comply by a fine in each- case of not less than $200 nor more than

$1,000, or by imprisonment, or both, but provides that if in the
opinion of the Secretary of Labor it is impracticable or inconvenient
to prosecute such person,. owner, etc., "a penalty of $1,000 shall
be a lien upon the vessel whose owner, master, officer, or agent
violates the provisions of this section, and such vessel shall be libeled
therefor in the appropriate United States court."
Held, that where a vessel is so libeled, the penalty is $1,000, neither
more nor less, for each alien landing from it in violation of the
section. P. 221.

certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals, in a
libel for violation of the Immigration Act. See 292 Fed.
1016.
QUEsTIoN

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Otis, with whom Mr.
Solicitor GeneralBeck and Mr. George Ross Hull, Special
Asistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.

THE COAMO.
220

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ray Rood Allen, with whom Mr. Charles C. Bur-

lingham was on the brief, for the Steamship "Coamo."

M . JusTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, § 10; 39
Stat. 874, 881, makes it the duty.,of every person, including owners, officers, and'agents of vessels or transportation lines, &c., bringing aliens to ports of the United States
to prevent the landing of such aliens at any time or place
other than as designated by the immigration officers, and
failure to comply with the requirements of the section is
made a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than
"$200 or more than $1,000, or by imprisonment or by both.
"Or, if in the opinion of the Secretary of Labor it is impracticable or inconvenient to prosecute the person, owner,
master, officer, or agent of any such vessel, a penalty of
$1,000 shall be a lien upon the vessel whose owner, master,
officer, or agent violates the provisions of this section, and
such vessel shall be libeled therefor in the appropriate
United States court." The United States libeled the
Coamo for a violation of this section-by a failure to deliver
two aliens at the designated place, Ellis Island, and to
prevent their landing elsewhere. The District Court
found the violation, but held that $1,000 was simply the
upward limit and imposed a penalty of $200 for each alien.
The libellant appealed demanding $1,000 for each. The
Circuit Court of Appeals certifies the question whether in
such a case the trial court is '"bound as a matter of law
to pass a decree condemning said vessel for a penalty of
exactly $1,000, neither more or less, for each alien landing from said vessel in violation of said, section of said

statute."
We are of opinion that the language of the statute is too
definite to be escaped by construction. After dealing with
the personal liability of owners and agents of vessels and "
transportation lines, the section passed to another matter,

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

the liability of vessels. It provides a remedy against them
irrespective of any fine that may have been incurred by
owners or agents. The liability is not a security for any
such fine, it is a new one. The statute does not say that
the fine or penalty previously mentioned shall be a lien
upon the vessel but that a penalty of $1,000 shall be. It
seems to us as plain that this is the sum to be demanded
as it is that the right to demand it does not depend upon
a conviction of the owner or agent of the ship. See The
Scow 6-S, 250 U. S. 269, 272. The earlier part of this
section and other sections of the Act simply fix limits and
leave discretion as to the amount within the limit or limits
fixed. In §§ 35, 36, discretion is given to the Secretary of
Labor. But here the statute allows only one judgment in
case of guilt. We answer the question
Yes.
PLANAGAN v. FEDERAL COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

No. 75. Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. A contract of sale between two coal dealers for delivery of coal
by the one to, the other in car load lots, f. o. b. cars at the mine
where produced is a transaction in interstate commerce not subject to be invalidated by a license law of the State, if the buyer,
though entitled to stop the coal when so delivered, in practice buys
it for shipment to his customers in other States and procures such
shipment by orders under which the seller takes bills of lading, in
the buyer's name, from the railroad at the mine and consigns the
coal to such customers. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257

U.S.282. P. 225.

Reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Tennessee which affirmed a judgment against the petitioner in his action for breach of a contract to purchase
coal.

