UNITED STATES v. CORNELL S. S. CO. 281
276.

Syllabus.

latter had the superior claim to the deposit or credit here
involved-whether it could be required to account to the
customer as for his money was a question between them.
Bank of Metropolis v. New England Bank, 1 How. 234,
6 How. 212; Wilson & Co. v. Smith, 3 How. 763; Nationa
Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Union Stock Yards
Bank v. Gllespie, supra. There were no funds in the
receivers' possession and none subject to their demand as
fo which Hozier asserted any right-his claim was against
something in the bank's possession and beyond the receivers' reach. His petition sought to compel them to
litigate with the bank for his hole interest and without
possibility of benefit to the estate. As shown by the decree quoted above, the expected fruit of the litigation was
for petitioner alone. He had no right to bring the bank,
which for jurisdictional purposes was to be deemed a citizen of Georgia (Jud. Code, § 24, Subdiv. 16), into th
Federal court or to interfere with the affairs of the estate
by injecting this controversy concerning which the receivers had no material interest-wherein the estate might
lose much but could gain nothing.
The decree is reversed. The cause will be remanded
to the District Court. The costs in all the courts will be
taxed against the intervener-respondent here.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE QOURT OF CLAimS.
No. 265. Argued January 28, 29, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
Tug-boats were chartered to the United States for a per diem for
each and every day of the charter period, the owner agreeing to
furnish everything for them, except coal and water, which were to'
be furnished by the United States; the Government had the entire
use of t1le boats and they were subject at all times to the orders

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

267 U. S.

and directions of its officers. Held, a demise; and that the United
States was not entitled to make deductions -from the owner's
monthly bills for loss of service caused by short crews, ill condition,
*delay in taking on supplies, and by the sinking of one of the boats,
which was raised and repaired by the owner. P. 286.

58 Ct. Clms. 497, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment. of the Court of Claims allow-'
ing the claimant, appellee, recovery of deductions made
by the United States from the bills rendered by the
claimant under a charter of tug-boats.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the briefs, for the United States.
The rule announced in this Court in New OrleansBelize S. S. Co. v. United States, 239 U. S. 202, determines that the charters of the tugs in this case were contracts for hire and did not constitute a demise. See also
The Spokane, 294 Fed. 242; Bramble v. Culmer, 78 Fed.
497; Clyde Commercial S. S. Co. v. West India S. S. CO.,
169 Fed. 275.
The charters gave the use of tugs, some for a day of
12 hours, others for a day of 24 hours, -at a daily rate.
The letting for a 12-hour day is inconsistent with a demise
of the boat.
The owner, by express terms, agreed to supply everything in' connection with the maintenance and operation
of the tugs, with the exception of coal and water, which
the Government was to furnish. The owner undertook
to prdvide and pay the crew. The charterer was without
authority to nominate or select the officers and crew or
to dischaige or discipline them. The owner provided subsistence for the crew, ship's stores, including oil for elt
gines and machinery, assumed all responsibility for keep;
ing te tugs equipped and in vroper running order and
condition with ut limitations of any kind.

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL S. S. CO.
281

283

Argument for Appellee.

•The practice of submitting accounts monthly, clearly
denies that the Government considered the agreement a
demise -of the vessel. To the contrary it insisted that
the owner properly, man and equip its tugs as provided
and it denied the right to discipline the crews for lax
attention in the handling of the tugs; rather it imposed
upon the tugboat owner penalties for its failing to.provide
full crews and to discipline the officers and crew, which
it regarded owner's duty.
Again when the Ira Hedges sank, the owner at its own
expense raised the vessel and repaired it. This it was
bound to do by the terms of the charter. If the charter
is to be read as a demise of the tugs, such loss would have
been borne by the Government as pro hac vice owner,
and not by the owner.
It is common knowledge that tugs employed in harbor
service keep a log of the movements of the tug and the
services they perform covering every day, whether the
tugs are in the service of the owners or if they are hired
to others. The fact that such logs were kept under the
direction of the Army Transport Service can not be considered a factor determining the arrangements a demise.
Courts are not inclined to regard the contract as a
demise of the ship if the end in view can be accomplishedwithout the transfer of the vessel to the charterer. Reed
v. United States, 11 Wall. 591. See Leary v. United
States, 14 Wall. 607; Donald v. United States, 39 Ct.
Clms. 357; Plant Investment Co. v. United States, 45
Ct. 'Clms. 374. United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178,
distinguished.
Mr. Robert S. Erskine, with whom Mr. John M.
Woolsey was on the brief, for appellee.
The judgment rests upon findings of fact. These cannot now be questioned by the Government.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

267 U. S.

The surrounding circumstances, as shown by all the
facts, in each case, determine whether or not a charter
is a demise. United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178; Leary
v. Unied States, 14 Wall. 607.
The findings here support the ruling that the charters
demised the tugs to the Government. The Charlotte,285
Fed. 84; s. c. 299 Fed. 596; Hahlo v. Benedict, 216 Fed.
.303; The Del Norte, 119 Fed. 118.
There are three classes of charter parties, in two of
which the vessel is always let or hired for an agreed period of time. (a) a demise; The Barnstable, 181 U. S.
464; (b) a time charter, or ordinary hiring of the vessel,
not constituting a: demise; S. S. Co. v. West India S. S.
Co. 169 Fed. 275; (c) voyage charter, or contract of affreightment; Texas Co. v. Hogarth Shipping Co. 256
U. S. 619.
The demise and ordinary time charter are alike in that,
under botl4 forms, the vessel is let or hired for an agreed
period of time, and hire is to be paid, at a specified rate,
from the beginning-to the end of the charter period, unless
there is some express exception providing for suspension
of hire.
The principal difference between the two forms is that
under a demise the ship's officers and crew become, even
in matters of navigation and care of the vessel, the agents
of the charterer, while under an ordinary time charter the
officers and crew remain the agents of the owner with respect to the navigation and care of the ship.
The third class referred to is obviously not .involved
in the case at bar.
The error in the appellant's argument lies in its failure
to recognize the fact that even if the charters here did not
constitute a demise (which the lower court held they did),
they must still fall in the second class, as time charters;
in either class, the contract is for the use of the vessels
Iand,

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL S. S. CO. 285
281

Opinion of the Court.

for an agreed period of time, with the corresponding
promise to pay hire from the beginning to the end of the
agreed period.
Even under ordinary time charters, the law requires
continuous payment of hire from beginning to end of the
entire period, where the charters do not contain any exceptions. Carver on Carriageof Goods by Sea (6th Ed.), p.
741; Scrutton on. Charter Parties and Bills of Lading
(10th Ed.), 382; Atlantio.FruitCo. v. Solari,238 Fed. 217;
The Santona, 152 Fed. 516; Havelock Y.Geddes, 10 East.
555; Ripley v. Scaife, 5 B. & C. 167.
In the absence of a specific exception in the contract,
the only excuse which the charterer could offer for the
cessation of hire, even under a time charter not constituting a demise, would be a frustration of the adventure.
The Frankmere, 262 Fed. 819, 278 Fed. 139; The Claveresk, 264 Fed. 276; The Isle of Mull, 278 Fed. 131.
The Government cannot now support its position by a
belated suggestion that it is entitled to an off-set on account of alleged negligence of the owner of the tugs
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This proceeding was instituted to recover the sum of
deductions made by the United States from monthly bills
rendered by appellee for the hire of tugs.
During 1917 and 1918, under informal charters evidenced by letters, appellee hired twelve tugs to the United
States for use in and about New York Harbor. The
specified price was "for each and every day of-the charter period," and the owner agreed "to furnish everything
for these tugs with the exception of coal and water which
you are to, furnish."
The vessels reported for service in accordance with the
several contracts and the plaintiff rendered monthly bills

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

at the per diem rate stated therein. Those for December,
1917, were paid as rendered. Thereafter deductions were
made which amounted in all to $24,822.48. They were
based upon the vessels' logs, kept by their captains and
engineers as directed by the Army Transport Service, and
were entered'if a boat reported with a short crew, or not
in condition to perform the service required, or if too long
a time was consumed in taking on supplies. The owner
saved its rights through proper claims and protests.
While in the service of the United States the "Ira M.
Hedges" sank. It was raised and repaired by and at the
expense of the owner, and was subsequently used by them.
One of the challenged deductions was for loss of time incident to this accident.
"During the time when the tugs hereinbefore mentioned were in the service of the Government, the Army
Transport Service had the entire use of thd tugs and they
were subject at all times to the orders and directions of
the officers of the Government, an6 at no time during the
,period did the plaintiff have-the use of and [it] did not
in any way interfere with or direct the operations of the
said tugs."
The United States maintain that the owner did not part
with possession, command and navigation during the charter periods; that the charter was for service, and not a
demise; 'and that consequently they rightly made deductions for the time the vessels were not at their disposal.
Relying upon the doctrine approved in United States
v. Shea, 152 U. S.178, the Court of Claims concluded that
the charter amounted to a demise and that the deductions
were not permissible. It accordingly sustained the claim
of the owner, appellee here. Accepting the facts as found,
we agree with that conclusion and affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

