OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY, AS
OWNER, ETC., OF THE STEAMSHIP LLAMA, v.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
CERTORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 169.

Argued January 14, 1925.-Decided February 2, 1925.

1. A vessel insured by the United States against "takings at sea,
arrests, restraints and detainments of all kings, princes, and peoples," etc., "and all consequences of hostilities or war-like operations," was stopped by a British war ship and boarded by a British
naval officer with armed men; her navigation was resumed by her
master, but under the general control of the officer; she struck a
rock and was lost. Held that the proximate cause was the seizure
and paramount control (insured against), and not the marine peril.
P. 77.
2. When the United States goes into the business of insurance (Act
of Sept. 2, 1914, c. 293, ยง 5,) issues policies in familiar form and
provides that, in case of disagreement, it may be sued, it must be
assumed to have accepted the ordinary incidents of suits in such
business, including the payment of interest. P. 79.
291 Fed. 1, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals reversing a decree of the District Court awarded
against the United States, as respondent, in a libel on two
war risk insurance policies, issued under the War Risk Insurance Act of September 2, 1914.
Mr. Cletus Keating, with whom Mr. John M. Woolsey
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant, to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Albert Ottinger,Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a libel upon two-policies of insurance issued by
the Government insuring respectively the steamship
Llama and her freight and advahces against war risks.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
76

77

Opimion of the Court.

Act of September 2, 1914, c. 293, ยง 5; 38 Stat. 711, 712.
The libellant recovered in the District Court, but the decision was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 291
Fed. 1. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
263 U. S. 694.
The risks assumed by the insurer in the two policies
included "takings at sea, arrests, restraints and detainments of .all kings, princes; and peoples, of what nation,
condition or quality soever, and all consequences of hostilities or war-like operations, whether before or after
declaration of war." The loss happened as follows. On
October 14, 1915, the Llama sailed from New York for
Copenhagen with a cargo of oil, routed via Kirkwall that
her papers might be examined. On October 29 she was
stopped by the British warship Virginia and was boarded
by a lieutenant and four men, all armed, and her papers
examined. The result was signalled to the Virginia and
the lieutenant directed to proceed to Kirkwall, which was
400 miles to the east on the farther side of the Orkneys,
keeping'to the northward of Scule Skerry and North Rona
and not to pass between the islands at night. The steamer
arrived off Westray Firth, one passage between the islands,
on the night of October 30. The next morning it started
on a course through Westray Firth but in a few hours
struck a rock and was totally lost.
In defense it is argued that the proximate cause was a
marine peril not covered by the policies and that the decision should be governed by Morgan v. United States, 14
Wall. 531; Queen Insurance Co. v. Globe & Rutgers Fire
Ins. Co., 263 U. S. 487, and other similar cases. But in
those very strict applications of a well-known rule, however strong the motives of the insured or owners for acting
as they did, the loss ensued upon their own conduct. But
if a vessel should be taken from an owner's hands without
his consent and should be lost while thus held by a paramount power, obviously a company -that had insured

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

against such a taking could not look beyond and attiibute
the loss to a peril of the sea. Whatever happens while the
taking insured against continues fairly may be attributed
to the taking. That is a nonconductor between the insured and subsequent events. See Muller v. Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co., 246 Fed. 759, 763. Cory v. Burr,8 App.
Cas. 393, 398. Andersen v. Marten, [1908] A. C. 334.
The Llama at the time of the accident was under the
paramount control and in the possession of the Virginia.
We regard the differences between the testimony of the
British officer and that of the master of the Llama as immaterial. The master, who was believed in the District
Court, makes the intervention of the British lieutenant
frequent, active, and the cause of a change of the course
that the ship otherwise would have taken. But whether
the intervention was more or less, if by mutual understanding, after a manifestation of armed force, the last
word was with the lieutenant, it does not matter whether
he uttered his commands often or rarely. The lieutenant
while denying that he had a general charge of the navigation testifies again and again to facts that show that he
assumed and was recognized to be the ultimate power.
After his signalling his ship the master, he says, asked him
if he could proceed "So I said, ' Yes.'" He looked at the
course to see that it complied with the orders from his
captain. "The captain approached me and asked my
permission to go through the Westray Firth . . . I
gave my consent." If the captain had. suggested a course
that the lieutenant did not approve, the latter said he
assumed that he had power to correct it. He recognized
that the vessel might possibly be the subject of prize court,
proceedings. Some comment was made upon .the meagreness of the entries in the -log as to any ,control of the
master's conduct. But after an entry 'British naval
officer boarded ship with prize crew' nothing more was
necessary to-show what the master understood his position

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
76

179

Opinion of the Court.

to be, whether in fact the crew was a prize crew or not.
As was said of similar facts in Muller v. Globe & Rutgers
Fire Ins. Co., 246 Fed. 759, 762, that the vessel and her
cargo were seized, arrested and detained within the meaning of the policy we think too plain to require much more
than mention. It no more mattered that the master took
an active part in the navigation than that the ship still
was steered by one of the crew.
As the vess6l had passed out of the owner's control before the accident by a seizure within the policy and as
the loss happened while the vessel thus was held. by an
adverse hand, it follows that the libellant must prevail.
Some question was made as to the allowance of interest.
When the Vnited States went into the insurance business,
issued policies in familiar form and provided that in case
of disagreement it might be sued, it must be assumed to
have accepted the ordinairy incidents of suits in such
-business. The policies promised that claims would be
paid within thirty days after complete proofs of interest
and loss had been filed with the Bureau of War Risk Insurance. The proofs seem to have been filed on January
11, 1917. Interest at six per cent should be allowed from
February 11, 1917. The decree of the District Court
will be corrected so as to allow for total loss of the
$115, 000.00
Iaama .................................
With interest at six per cent. from Februair 11, 1917.
44, 686. 82'
Total loss of the freight, &c. ............
With interest at six per cent. from February 11, 1917.
Expenses incurred under sue and labor
2,270.34
clauses ............................
With interest at six per cent. from February 11, 1917.
Thus modified the decree will be affirmed:
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court modified and affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the decision.

BENJAMIN W. MORSE v. THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.
HARRY F. MORSE v. THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 597 and 598. Argued January 9, 1925.-Decided February 2,
1925.

1. Appellants were arrested under a federal indictment in New York.
while traveling through the State to attend trial under another indictment which they had given bail to answer in the District of
Columbia, and were thus prevented from being present there at
the time set. Held that the arrest was not in violation of the due
process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 81.
2. Even if arrest in such circumstances be a breach of comity as 'between the two federal tribunals, the objection does not concern the
constitutional rights of the persons arrested; nor involve a question
of jurisdiction or any error reviewable on habeas corpus. Id.
3. A judgment of a District Court in habeas corpus which discharges
a defendant held by a commissioner under Rev. Stats. ยง 1014 -or
removal to another district and which is based on a finding that
the indictment does not charge a criminal offense, is not res judicata
either as to the validity of the bench warrant issued by the court
in- which the indictment is pending or as to the sufficiency of the
indictment itself. P. 82.
292 Fed. 273, affirmed.
APPEALS

from judgments of the District Court dismiss-

ing writs of habeas corpus.
Mr. Nash Rockwood, with whom Mr. Charles T. Lark
was on the brief, for appellants.

