12

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

267 U. S.

COLLEGE POINT BOAT CORPORATION v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 121. Argued November 17, 1924.-Decided January 19, 1925.
1. Claimant's preparations to perform its contract for furnishing
supplies to the Navy were stopped as the result of steps taken by
thb Navy Department, for the purpose of avoiding useless production, without manifested intention to cancel the contract and
without giving the notice requisite to the exercise of the unconditional right of cancellation existing under the Act of June 15,
1917, (Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 514,)
pursuant to which the contract was made. Held, that there'was no
cancellation as a matter of law, and that the stoppage of performance was an anticipatory breach. P. 15.
2. The Government's right of cancellation, under the above statute,
is continuing and not lost by delay in exercising it. P. 16.
3. This continuing right of cancellation, limiting the value of the
other party's right to require performance, curtails his damages
for an anticipatory breach by the Government, so that prospective
profits are not recoverable. Id.
4. There is no general rule that a party can not exercise a right to
cancel a contract when himself in default. Id.
5. Held, that a default on the part of the Government was insubstantial and did not render inequitable delayed exercise of its right
to cancel the contract. Id.
6. The right to cancel conferred by the Act of June 15, 1917, is not
made dependent on a tender of 75% of the amount offered by the
Government in settlement. P. 17.
58 Ct. Clms. 380' affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for loss of profits anticipated under a contract
with the United States, performance of which was stopped
by the Government.
Mr. Jutian C. Hammack and Mr. Bynum E. Hinton,
for appellant.
The mere presence in a contract of a right of cancellation by one party,- does not relieve that party from lia-

,COLLEGE POINT BOAT CO. v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court.

bility for breach of the contract. Kenney v. Knight,
119 Fed. 475.
Also the mere presence in a contract of the right of
cancellation, if not exercised n accordance with that
right, does not affect the measure of damages for breach.
The injured party in such a case is entitled to recover
his proven prospective profits. Philadelphia etc. R. R.
.Co.
v. Howard, 13 How. 307.
The law is generally well settled that a party who is
hbinself in default of performance cannot rescind. 13
Corpus Juris 614, ยง 662. It is also well established that
a party cannot cancel a contract, even though a right to
do so is expressly written in the contract, after a liability has occurred. This is s6 even where the extent of
the liability is not then determinable. Black on Rescission and Cancellation, .ยง480.
As thq contract has not been cancelled, no question of
the application of 'the Act of June 15, 1917,. is involved.
Therefore Russell Motor Car Co. Case, 261 U. S. 514, is
not decisive of the case at bar. That case, moreover, is
otherwise clearly distinguishable on the facts.
There was no takng of this contract by the government. The stoppage of the physical work had to do with
the subject-matter and could not constitute a cancellation or a taking of the contract. Omnia Commercial Co.
v. United States, 261 U. S.502.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistapt to the Attorney
General, with whonm Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellee.
MA. JusmcF,-BRA.&vEIS delivered the opinion of ther
Court.
On October 25, 1918, the College Point Boat Corporation agreed to manufacture for -the Navy Departmefit
2,000 collision mats. The United States agreed to pay
therefor $641,200, and to supply the required canvas, On

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

November 11, 1918, the Armistice was signed.

Soon

after, the Navy Department Informed the Corporation
that the mats would probably not be needed, suggested
that it stop operations, and asked it to submit , proposition for cancellation of the contract. This notification
and request were received before the process of manufacture had been begun; but the Corporation had expended
large sums in necessary preparations. Negotiations for
settlement followed. They extended over nearly eight
months and proved inconclusive. Without prejudice to
the rights of either party, the United States made a partial settlement by taking over at cost raw materials which
the Corporation had purchased or contracted for.
In November, 1919, this suit was brought in the Court
of Claims to. recover the further amounts claimed. The
court found that, in addition to the amounts covered by
the.partial settlement, expenditures had been made, services rendered and charges incurred aggregating $5,112.42
in cost or value. For that amount it entered judgment.
The claimant contended that-the United States was under
the ordinary liability of one who, having contracted for
goods to be manufactured, without cause gives notice that
he will not accept delivery; and that it was liable, also,
for the prospective profits. United States v. Speed, 8
Wall: 77; United" States v. Purcell Envelope Co., 249
U. S. 313, 320. The court found that the Corporation
was ready, willing and able to perform the contract;' and
that if it "be entitled to prospective profits on the contract work, the amount of such profits it would be entitled to recover, after allowing for its release from the
care and responsibility which would have attended full
performance of the contract, would be $123,980." As a
conclusion of law, the court ruled that no part of these
prospective profits was recoverable; because the United
States had cancelled the contract. 58 Ct. Clms. 380.
The case is here on appeal ,under ยง 242 of the Judicial
Code.

COLLEGR.POINT BOAT CO. v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court.

There is nq finding of fact that the contract was cancelled. Nor do the facts found warrant the conclusion
that there was in law a cancellation before the suit was
begun. The contract did not contain any clause authorizing cancellation other than for default by the plaintiff.
There was no such default. The United States actually
did have an unconditional right of cancellation. For the
contract was made pursuant to the Act of June 15, 1917,
c. 29, 40 Stat. 182. By virtue of the statutory provision,
as was later held in Russell Motor Car Co. v. 'United
States, 261 U. S.514, the right to cancel became, by implication, one of the terms of the contract. But, so far as
appears, neither party knew that the United States had
such a right. The Navy Department failed to give the
notice requisite to terminate the contract. Its sole objective in suggesting that preparations for the performance of the contract be stopped was to avoid. useless production. The Corporation necessarily acquiesced. The
parties negotiated, seeking to find a basis on which they
could agree to cancel and liquidate the obligation of the
Government. In the negotiations, and in the agreements
which embodied the partial settlement. the Navy usedlanguage inconsistent with an intention to exercise a right,
of cancellation. As -its efforts to procure consent to cancel proved futile, stopping the work was an anticipatory
breach.
The question remains whether the measure of damages
recoverable for this breach is the same as it would have
been if the Government had not possessed the right of
cancellation. A party to a contract who is sued for its
breach may-ordinarily defend on the ground that there
existed, at the'time, a legal excuse for nonperformance by
him, although he was then ignorant of the fact.1 He
'H. D. Williams Cooperage Co. v. Schofield, 115 Fed. 119, 121;
Trinidad Asphalt Mfg. Co.-v. Trinidad Asphalt Refining Co., 119

Fed. 134, 138.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

may, likewise, justify an asserted termination, rescission,
or repudiation, of a contract by proving that there was,
at the time, an adequate cause, although it did not become known to him until later.2 An unconditional right
to cancel can be availed of for the purpose of terminating
a contract, even after suit brought, unless some intervening change in the position of the other party renders
that course inequitable. Compare Clough v. London &
Northwestem'Ry. Co., L. R. 7 Exch. 26, 33 et seq. Ignorance of its right doubtless prevented the Navy Department from taking, shortly after the Armistice, the
course which would have resulted legally in cancelling the
contract at that time. But the right to cancel was not
lost by mere delay in exercising it; among other reasons,
because the statute conferred upon the Government also
the power to suspend the contract. The right remained
effective as a limitation upon the Corporation's right to
have the Government accept and pay for the mats: This
continuing right of cancellation, which was asserted later,
in court, operated to curtail the damages recoverable. It
limited the value of the plaintiff's right to require performance, and hence the amount and character of the
loss for which compensation must be made. Prospective
profits were not recoverable.
The Corporation contends that the United States had
broken its agreement even prior to its notification to stop
preparations for the performance of the contract; and
that a party in default cannot exercise a right to cancel.
There is no such rule of general application. The default
referred to was not substantial. By the terms of the
Carpenter Steel Co. v. Norcross, 204 Fed. 537, 539-540; Farmer
v. First Trust Co., 246 Fed. 671, 673; E. H. Taylor, Jr., & Sons v.
Julius Levin Co., 274 Fed. 275, 282; Lubriko Co. v. Wyman, 290
Fed. 12, 15; Boston Deep Sea Fishing & Ice Co. v. Amsell, L. R.
39 Ch.Div. 339, 352; In re London & Mediterranean Bank, Wright's
Case, L. R. 7 Ch. App. 55; Baillie v. Kell, 4 Bing. N. C. 638, 650.

LEDERER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
12

Syllabus.

contract the United States was to furnish the canvas
within thirty days, that is, on November 25. It did not
do so. Two weeks before that date. the Armistice had
been signed. On December 3, the Corporation requested
that the canvas be supplied. On December 6 it received
from the Navy notice that the mats would probably not
be nbeded. Neither these facts, nor any other found,
render inequitable a delayed exercise of the right to cancel.
It is also urged that the Navy did not tender to the
Corporation 75 per cent. of the amount which it offered in
settlement. The right to cancel conferred by the Act of
June 15, 1917, is not made dependent upon such tender.
The Corporation made no demand for that amount.
Moreover, for aught that appears, it has actually received
a larger percentage. With the amount awarded by the
lower court, it will receive full compensation.
Affirmed.'

EPHRAIM LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF THE
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, v.FIDELITY TRUST
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 184. Argued January 15, 16, 1925.-Decided January 26, 1925.
1. Railroad equipment certificates issued by a trust company as
security for money advanced by a syndicate to purchase equipment leased by the trust company to a railroad" under contract
for periodical payments, as rentals, and ultimate acquisition of title
by the latter, and which are payable with interest to-bearer or registered holder from the rentals thus to be paid by the railroad,held subject to stamp tax, under Title XI, ยง1100 and schedule
A (1) of the Act of February. 24, 1919, c. 18, as in the category
of "instruments . . . issued by any corporation . . . known generally as corporate securities." P. 20.
289 Fed. 1009, reversed.

