SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
231

233

Syllabus.

was large and additions were agreed for. The contractors
were entitled to call for one hundred and fifty million
cubic feet of gas for each thirty days, with a possible 'extension up to three hundred million. They were given
the 'first call' upon the Company's gas supplies and it
was agreed that if the Company should sell gas to consumers, except churches, schools, hospitals, or charitable
institutions, at a, rate less than that fixed by the contract
there should be a corresponding reduction. Everything
in short pointed to a very extensive enterprise which
hardly would be possible without the power incident to
this public service under the laws of the State. It would
be most unusual, as all know, for such a Company to
attempt to work in any other way. It already had franchises in several towns and cities to supply gas.
Judgment affirmed.
A. B. SMALL COMPANY v. AMERICAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 101.

Argued October 22, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Written orders for goods, addressed to a sugar refiner, and written
acceptances by the latter, compared and construed, in the light
of the parties' conduct, and held free from variances alleged to
prevent their forming completed contracts. P. 235.
2. In construing a typewritten document, a mistake of the typist by
transferring the concluding clause of one sentence to the beginning of the next, thus altering the literal meaning, may be corrected to conform to the context and the sense of the whole and to

the conduct of the parties. P. 236.
3. Section 4 of the Act of August 10, 1917, amended October 22,
1919, known as the Lever Act, which provides that it shall be
"unlawful for any person wilfully . . . to make any unjust or
unreasonable . . . charge in . .
dealing in or with any
necessaries," or to agree with another "to exact excessive prices for

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U. S.

any necessaries," and which has been adjudged violative of the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment as applied to criminal
prosecutions,- (United States v. Cohen Grocery Co. 255 U. S. 109,)
is likewise invalid as a test of the validity of a contract for the
sale of a commodity (e. g. sugar,) because in either case the standard of duty set up is so vague and indefinite ag really to be no
rule or standard at all. Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S.
242, distinguished. P. 237.
4. Section 5 of the Lever Act did not invest the President with general authority to fix the profit which might be taken on sales of
sugar, but only with special authority, on finding that a licensee
was taking an unreasonable profit, to require that such practice
on the part of the licensee be discontinued and.to determine what
was a reasonable profit to be taken in place of the pne condemned.
P. 242.
5. Section 6 of the Lever Act, though prohibiting wilful hoarding
and also certain acts done for the purpose of unreasonably increasing or diminishing prices, did not prohibit a selling for delivery more than 30 days in the future. P. 243.
6. The duty of'a seller upon retaking goods for sale on the buyer's
account is to make the resale fairly in a reasonably diligent effort
to obtain a good price. P. 244.
7. Evidence, on the part of -the buyer, of particular sales of like
goods by others at higher prices than that obtained by the seller's
resale of the goods in question, held rightly excluded from the jury,
both because the seller was not obliged to obtain the best price
possible, and because the other sales, due to circumstances disclosed, did not tend to establish a standard by which the fairness
of the resale could be judged. Id.
*8. The duty of a seller to resell goods under a vendor's lien does not
arise until he takes possession under it; and the reasonable time
permitted for reselling does not begin to run until then. P. 246.
Affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court recovered by
the plaintiff in an action upon two contracts for the sale
of sugar, which the defendant broke by refusing to accept
the sugar when delivered.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Frederick T.
Saussy, Mr. Mac Asbil and Mr. Horace Russell were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

235

Opinion of the Cburt.

Mr. Orville A. Park, with whom Mr. J. F. Abbott and
Mr. Ralph, Crews were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MiL JUsTICE VAw DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action to recover for the breach of two
contracts for the sale by a sugar refiner to a wholesale
dealer of 35,000 pounds of refined sugar-the breach consisting in the buyer's refusal to accept the sugar when delivered. The plaintiff secured a verdict and judgment in
the District Court; and the defendant prosecutes this
direct writ of error, a constitutional question, among
others, being involved.
The contracts were alleged to have arisen out of written
orders from the wholesale dealer and written acceptances
by the refiner. Whether the acceptances conformed to
the orders, and so resulted in contracts, was questioned by
a demurrer to the petition, and also at the trial, and is
the first matter presented by the assignments of error.
The defendant asserts that there was a material variance
in three particulars. One is that the orders contained no
designation of the place from which the sugar was to be
,hipped, while -the acceptances named New Orleans as
the place. This closely approaches a mere quibble. The
orders were addressed to the refiner at New Orleans and
expressly gave it an option to ship from any of its refineries, one of which was at New Orleans. So, in naming
that place as the one from which shipment would be made,
the acceptances were in accord -with the orders. Another
asserted difference is that the orders fixed one price for the
sugar, while the acceptances fixed another price. This is
equally without substance. In the acceptances the basis
on which the price was calculated was described a little
differently from what it was in the orders; but there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

no difference in meaning. Besides, the price calculated on
the indicated basis was set out in the price column in the
orders and in the acceptances, and was the same in both.
Lastly it is said that the orders gave the refiner a conditional right to supply such grades of sugar as it might
have available at the time of shipment, while the acceptances omitted the words of condition and made the right
absolute. This point, although having more color than
the other two, must fail for reasons which will be stated.
The orders and acceptances were both prepared by the
refiner-a circumstance strongly suggesting they were
intended to be in accord. After the acceptances were
given, both parties in- several ways affirmatively treated
the orders as effectively accepted. Not until this action
was brought was a variance suggested. In such circumstances a court should be solicitous to find, as the parties
evidently did before they became hostile, an accord between the two instruments.
The orders were given in July, 1920, and called. for shipment of the sugar during September of that year. * They
set forth carefully the assortment of packages and grades
of sugar desired, with the particular price of each, and then
said:
"Barrels or equivalent at price of 22 cents, assortment to be furnished seller by buyer before Septefhber 1,
1920, but subject to such substitutions as seller may find
necessary to make. In event assortment is not furnished
prompt seller reserves right to ship such grades as it has
available at the time of shipment."
The acceptances set forth the assortment of packages
and grades, with prices, in the same way, and then said:
"Seller reserves right to ship such grades as it has available at the time of shipment."
This provision in the acceptances is well constructed and
can have but one meaning. But not so of the provision
quoted from the orders. In any view it is neither gram-

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

237

Opinion of the Court.

.matical nor rightly punctuated. It was typewitten, and
probably was prepared with the idea that the assortment
of packages and grades would not be embodied in the
orders, but would be furnished by the buyer later on. In
fact, as just shown, the assortmeit was set -forth in the
orders. But, putting this aside, the context and the sense
of the whole provision indicate that the clause, "in event
assortment is.not furnished prompt," was intended to be
a part of and to qualify what precedes it ratlier than what
follows. If that was the meaning'intended, a mistake in
punctuation by the.typist should not be permitted to de-feat it. Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 54; Hammock v.
Farmers'Loan and Trust Com'any, 105 U. S. 77, 84. The
parties evidently treated it as the true meaning when the
orders and acceptances were given, for their adts already
recited have no other explanation. There is ample warrant therefore for regarding the full provision as reading:
Barrels oi equivalent at price of 22Y, cents. Assortment to be furnished seller by buyer befoi'e September 1,
1920, but subject to such substitutions as seller may find
necessary to make in event assortment is not furnished
promptly. Seller reserves right to ship such grades. as it
has available at the tifhe of shipment.".
In this vieW the 6iders and acceptances contained the
same reservation of a right to ship available grades. A
like conclusion in a like situation was reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in American
Sugar Refining Co. v. Newnan Grocery Co., 284 Fed. 835.
To avoid any misapprehension, it is well to state at this _
point that, in fact, the refiner delivered the assortment of
packages and grades specified in the orders -andrepeated
in the acceptances.
In its answer th
'defendant
set up two defenses expressly based on the Lever Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276. as amended by the Act of October 22, 1919, c.
80, 41 Stat. 297. and on orders and regulations made there-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

under. One defense was to the effect that the plaintiff
was not entitled to "more than one cent per pound profit
on what the sugar cost, which was the prima facie reasonable profit fixed by the President," and in no event was
entitled to "more than a reasonable profit." The other
defense was to the effect that the contracts were unlawful, because they provided for delivery at a future time,
more than thirty days away, and thereby "tended to increase the price of sugar and to promote the hoarding
thereof." Each of these defenses was challenged by a demurrer on the grounds, first, that the facts alleged were
not sufficient to constitute a defense under the Lever Act,
and, secondly, that that Act was in conflict with the'Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution and void. The demurrers
were sustained on the second ground; and the defendant
assigns error on that ruling.
As the Lever Act is a long one with various provisions,
we assume that the District Court's ruling was confined to
certain provisions in sections 4, 5, and 6, for they are all
that could have any bearing. Section 25, mentioned in the
briefs, related only to coal and coke. Section 1, likewise
mentioned, provided for the issue of regulations and orders
to carry out other sections, but did not alter or enlarge
their prohibitions or requirements.
Section 4 provided it should be "unlawful for any person wilfully . . . to make any unjust or unreasonable . . . charge in . . . dealing in or with any

necessaries," or to agree with another "to exact excessive
prices for any necessaries." In a series of cases, of which
United States v. Cohen Grocery Company, 255 U. S. 81,
and Weeds Inc. v. United States, 255 U. S. 109, are examples, this Court held that provision invalid as contravening the due process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment, among others, because it required that the transactions named should conform to a rule or standard which
was so vague and indefinite that iio one could know what

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

239

Opinion of the Court.

it was. By copious references to judicial pronouncements
and proceedings the court illustrated that the terms "unjust," "unreasonable" and- "excessive !' as applied to
prices by that provision had no commonly recognized or
accepted meaning. The ground of the decision is reflected
by the following excerpt from the opinion in the first case

(255 U. S. 89):
"Observe that the section forbids no specific or definite
act. It confines the subject-matter of the investigation
which it authorizes [by court and jury after the act] to no
element essentially "inheringin the transaction as to which
it provides. It leaves open, therefore, the widest conceivable inquiry, the scope of which no one can foresee and the
result of which no one can foreshadow or adequately guard
against. In fact; we see no reason to doubt the soundness
of the observation of the court below, in its opinion, to the
effect that, to attempt to enforce the section would be
the exact equivalent of an effort to carry out a statute
which in terms merely penalized and punished all acts detrimental to the public interest when unjust and unreasonable in the estimation of the court and jury."
The defendant attempts to distiniish those cases because they were criminal prosecutions. But that is not
an adequate distinction. The ground or principle of the
decisions was not such as to be applicable only to criminal
prosecutions. It was not the criminal penalty that was
held invalid, but the exaction of obedience to a rule or
standard which was so vague and indefinite as really to be
no rule or standard at all. Any other means of exaction,
such as declaring the transaction unlawful or stripping a
participant of his rights under it, was equally within the
*principle of those cases. They have been so construed and
applied by other courts in civil proceedings. Standard
Chemicals, etc., Corporatimv. Waugh Chemical Corporation, 231 N. Y. 51, 54; Dun-man v. South Texas Lumber
Co., 252 S. W. 274, 275. In the first of these citations, the

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Court of Appeals of New York, referring to this Court's
ruling in the Cohen Grocery Company Case, well said:
"The ground on which it placed its judgment applies, and
with like consequences, to civil suits as well. The prohibition was declared a nullity because too vague to be intelligible. No standard of duty had been established.
The variant views of judges of the District Courts
were quoted as evidence of the absence of a standard.
If this is the rationale of the decision, its consequences are
not limited to criminal prosecutions. A prohibition so indefinite as to be unintelligible is not a prohibition by
which conduct can be governed. It is not a rule at all; it
is merely exhortation and ehtreaty."
In Levy Leasing Company v. Sieel, 258 U. S. 242, 250,
a civil case arising out of the war-time rent law of the
State of New York, this Court referred to the Cohen
Grocery Company Case as "dealing with definitions of
crime" and declared it "not applicable." This brief
reference is now pressed on our attention, special emphasis being laid on the words "dealing with definitions
of crime." We appreciate their import, but must recognize that they do not adequately reflect the matter dealt
with. As already shown, it was broader than they indicate; and of course they were not intended to qualify or
limit the decision. The important part of the reference
was the declaration that the decision was not applicable
to the case then under consideration. The inapplicability
resulted from a material difference between the cases.
One dealt with a federal statute prohibiting the sale of
sugar at unjust, unreasonable and excessive prices, and
the other with a state statute*directed against reserving
unjust, unreasonable and oppressive rent in the leasing of
real property in a city for dwelling purposes.
The federal statute contained no provision pointing to
what should be deemed a just, reasonable and not excessive price; and there was no accepted and fairly stable

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

Opinion of the Court.

commercial.standard which could be regarded as impliedly
taken up and adopted by the statute, as this Court con.strued it. While sugar has a market value, that value is
subject to fluctuations which individual manufacturers
and dealers can neither control nor readily foresee. The
price in one trade center is affected by that in others, and
in all there are material variations, even in short periods.
The tendency to vary is illustrated in the present record,
which shows that the price advanced in the early part of
1920, reaching 26 cents a pound in June, then remained
steady for a month or two, and then declined irregularly
to about eight cents.
The New York statute was not silent as to what should
be deemed a just, reasonable and unoppressive reservation of rent. It recognized and named elements which
would require consideration, and the state court construed
it as prescribing a standard "which.permitted the landlord to receive a reasonable income on his investment,"
valued as of the time when the rent was reserved. Levy
Leasing Company v. Siegql, 194 App. Div. 482, 506; s. c.
230 N. Y. 634. So, when the case came here the question
presented in this connection was whether that standard
was sufficiently definite to satisfy the requirement of due
process of law in the Fourteenth Amendment. This Court
held that it was. Real property, particularly in a city,
comes to have a recognized value, which is relatively
stable and easily ascertained. It also comes to have a
recognized rental value-the measure of compensation
commonly asked and paid for its occupancy and use-the
amount being fixed with due regard to what is just and
reasonable between landlord and tenant in view of the
value of the property and the outlay which the owner
must make for taxes and other current charges. These
are matters which in the course of business come to be
fairly well settled and understood. A standard thus developed and accepted in actual practice, when made the

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

test of compliance.with legislative commands*or prohibitions, usually meets the requirement of due process of law
in point of being sufficiently definite and intelligible.
The difference which we have pointed out between the
two statutes and between the 'matters sought.to be regulated by them made it obvious that the decision on the
validity of one statute had no bearing on the question of
the validity of the other.
As section 4 was invalid, whether taken as a civil regulation or as a criminal statute, it follows that in so far as
the special defenses were based on it the demurrers were
rightly sustained.
Section 5 was not dependent on section 4; nor did this
Court consider its validity along with that'of section 4.
For present purposes, it may be described as' (a) providing
for the licensing of transactiois in necessaries., including
the manufacture, refining, distribution and sale of sugar;
(b) as declaring that the Presitent on finding that any
licensee was taking an unreasonable profit, might, by an
order reciting his. finding, require such licensee to discontinue taking the unreasonable profit, and might also determine what was a reasonable profit to be taken in lieu
of the 'one found unreasonable; and (c) as providing
that "in any proceedings brought in any court such order
of the President shall be prima facie evidence."
It is apparent that the. section did not invest the President with general authority to fix the profit which .might
be taken on sales of sugar, but only with special authority, on finding that a licensee was taking an unreasonable
profit, to require that such practice on the part of the
licensee be discontinued and -to determine what was a
reasonable profit to be taken in place of the one condemned.
The special defenses, while showing that the plaintiff
was licensed to manufacture, refine and sell sugar, containedno allegation that the President had found that the

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

243

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in selling its sugar was taking an unreasonable
profit, nor any allegation of an order by the President
requiring it to discontinue such a practice. Of course,
the special defenses could not derive any support from
that section when there had been no action by the President under it.
One of the special defenses speaks of the President's
having fixed one cent per pound as the profit which might
be taken. But the reference isto an administrative regulation1 which had no application to sales by a manufacturer or refiner to a wholesale dealer, such as are in question here. Besides, that regulation was revoked May 31,
1919, before these contracts were made. There was an
administrative regulation I applicable to manufacturers
and refiners which restricted them to taking not more
than a fair and reasonable advance over cost; but this
regulation was revoked January 26, 1919, before the con.tracts were made.
The allegation that the contracts called for a delivery
more than thirty days in, the future, and therefore were
unlawful as tending to increase the price and promote
hoarding, was of no legal effect. While section 6 prohibited wilful-hoarding, and also certain acts done for
the purpose of unreasonably increasing or diminishing
*the price, it did not prohibit a selling for delivery more
than thirty days in the future. Nor did the special defenses set forth any facts which could be regarded as
bringing the contracts within any prohibition of that section. Not improbably the pleader had in mind an administrative regulation 3 applicable to manufacturers and refiners which forbade making contracts of sale under which
1
Food
1

Administration Special License Regulations, No. XI, A-5.
U. S. Food Administration Special License Regulations, No. VI,

B-2 and C-2.
'U. S. Food Administration Special License Regulations, No.
VI, A-2.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

shipment was not to be made within thirty days. But no
support can be derived from that regulation, for it was
revoked January 26, 1919, prior to-the making -of these
contracts.
In so far therefore as the special defenses were based
on sections 5 and 6 and the regulations cited the demurrers
were rightly sustained-and this regardless of any question respecting the validity of either of those -sections tr
of any of the regulations.
A short statement of cthe case shown by the evidence,
in so far as it is embodied in the record, will give a better
understanding of the remaining questions.
By the contracts, made in July, 1920, the plaintiff
agreed to deliver the sugar to a carrier at New Orleans
during September, or soon thereafter, for shipment to the
defendant at Macon, Georgia; and the defendant agreed
to accept delivery to the carrier, to pay the contract price,
and to bear the carrier's charges. In August the market
price of sugar took a downward turn ' and continued to
decline to the end of that year. In September the plaintiff made the delivery to the carrier as agreed; and in
due course the sugar reached Macon. The defendant
,then refused to accept it and wrote to the plaintiff saying, "For the good of whom it may concern we suggest
that this carload of sugar be stored to save any additional
cost (demurrage, etc.) against whoever might be affected."
The storage was effected as suggested with a Macon warehouseman, but was intended to be only temporary. Much
correspondence ensued-the defendant repeating its refusal to take the sugar, and the plaintiff insisting the
"defendant was bound to take it and to bear the carrier's
charges, etc. Finally, on November 30, the plaintiff sent
to the defendant a notice saying, "As you have continued
to refuse to take this shipment we must now inform you
that unless you accept and pay for same at once we will
resell this sugar for your account. When resale ismade

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

Opinion of the Court.

we will require you to remit the difference between con-

tract price and price received on resale, as well as for all
freight, storage and other charges incurred." The defendant made no answer. The plaintiff then paid the
several charges, took possession of the sugar and resold
it in and around Macon-the last. portion being sold
December.20. There was an oversupply of sugar in the
hands of wholesale dealers and others in that vicinity at
the time, which made it difficult to effect a resale. tut
the plaintiff made an active and honest effort to make
a fair sale and succeeded in obtaining the full market
price prevailing in larger markets, plus the freight to
Macon. The total amount realized, less storage and other
charges not questioned, was $2,963.04. With this sum
credited on the contract price there remained a balance
of $5,111.70, which was demanded in the first count of
the plaintiff's petition.
On the trial the defendant sought to prove by jobbers
and dealers in Macon that the price of sugar at Macon was
higher in October -and November than in December,
and that in December particular sales were made at a
higher rate than the plaintiff obtained on the resale-the
purpose in offering this testimony being- to discredit the
fairness of the resale by the plaintiff. A preliminary examination of the witnesses- disclosed that the market at
Macon was greatly demoralized during that period; that
jobbers and dealers were selling for what they could get
regardless of cost, lest they might lose more through a
further decline; that the buying was in relatively small
quantities and was on what was termed a "hand to
mouth" plane; and that the particular sales in December
were of such a character that they would shed no light on
the fairness of the resale. On the plaintiff's objectioi, the
court refused to permit the proffered testimony to go to
the jury. Complaint is made of this ruling. In our qpinion it constitutes no ground for a -reversal. There)were

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

obvious infirmities in what was proposed to be shown
about the market price in October and November; but
we need not dwell on them, because, as will be explained
later on, the state of the market in those months came to
be quite immaterial. What was proposed to be shown
about particular sales in December was rightly excluded.
The sales were of a kind that did not tend to establish a
standard by which to judge the plaintiff's resale. Besides,
the real question was not whether the plaintiff got the
best possible price, or as much as others got in special
instapces, but whether the resale was fairly made in a
reasonably diligent effort to obtain a good price. To have
admitted the proffered testimony would have tended to
confuse and mislead the jury.
At the trial the plaintiff took the position that when it
delivered the sugar to the carrier at New Orleans its obligation under the contracts was fully performed an.l it became entitled to the contract price; that it could then
have abandoned the sugar, but was not obliged to do so;
that it had a vendor's lien thereon which could be availed
of at any time before the sugar passed into the actual possession of the defendant; that it could realize on the lien
by retaking the sugar and, after notice to the defendant,
reselling the same for the latter's account and crediting
the net proceeds on the contract price; and that it could
recover the balance from the defendant. The District
Court, in dealing with the first count of the petition,
charged the jury to that effect-evidently believing it was
conforming to Georgia statutes and decisions on the
subject. No objection was made to that part of the charge
nor was any exception taken to it; so we assume that it
conformed to the local law and was applicable to the evidence. The court then proceeded to explain how that part
of the charge should be applied, and in that connection
said to the jury that if they believed from the evidence
that the plaintiff retook possession under its vendor's lien,

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
233

247

Opinion of -the Court.

they should next consider whether the resale was made
within a reasonable time, and in doing so should take as
the starting point November 30, when the plaintiff gave
notice of its purpose to retake and resell, and should consider only the period between that date and December
20, when the resale was concluded. The defendant's counSsel excepted to this, the terms of the exception being, "We
except to the court fixing November 30 as the time from
which a reasonable time shouldl be figured. I construe the
plaintiff as being always in possession." The defendant
now insists the exception was well grounded. But we are
of a different opinion. As the jury's verdict was for the
plaintiff on the first count, they must have found that the
plaintiff retook possession and made the resale under a
vendor's lien. If it had such a lien under the law of
Georgia-as we must assume in view of the unchallenged
charge on that subject-the court plainly was right in saying the -date when possession was taken under the lien was
the starting point from which to reckon a reasonable time;
and was also right in designating November 30 as that
date. The suggestion in the exception that the plaintiff
was "alwaysin possession" had no support in the evidence set forth in the record, for it shows that the plaintiff
surrendered possession to the carrier at New Orleans and
was not again in possession until after the notice of November 30 was given declaring the plaintiff's purpose to
take possession and sell. According to the Georgia statute, which the District Court applied, the plaintiff was
entitled to take possession under its lien at any time be7fore "actual receipt" of the sugar by the defendant.
Parks Ann. Code, sec. 4132; Brananv. Atlanta and West
Point R. R. Co., 108 Ga. 70, 73. A duty to sell under the
lien could not arise until'possession was taken under it;
and the reasonable time permitted for nikng a sale by
way of realizing on the lien hardly would begin to run
before.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

What we have just said explains why the testimony
offered respecting the state of the market at Macon in
October and November, before the plaintiff took possession under the lien, became immaterial.
Judgment affirmed.

A. B. SMALL COMPANY v. LAMBORN & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITRED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHIE R
DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

*No. 100. Argued October 21, 22, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Contracts for the sale of sugar considered and held free from the
objection that they made delivery optional with the seller and
therefore lacked mutuality. P. 250.
2. In an action by the seller on an intrastate contract for the sale
and delivery of gbods owned by the seller and title to which passed
to the buyer unrestricted under the contract, the buyer can not
defend upon the ground that the seller was party to a combination
to manipulate interstate trade in goods of that kind in violation
of the Anti-Trust Act and made the contract during the life of the
combination and in conformity with standards sanctioned by it.
It is only when the invalidity is inherent in the contract itself
that the Act may be interposed as a defense to it. P. 251.
3. Defenses based on §§ 4, 5 and 6 of the Lever Act, held insufficient
on grounds stated in Small (o. v. Am. Sugar Co. ante, 233. P. 252.
4. The duty of a seller of goods, in reselling on account of the buyer,
is to sell fairly in a reasonably diligent effort to obtain a good price;
the test is not whether he got the highest possible. price or as much
as others got in particular instances. P. 253.
5. Evidence of particular sales held rightly rejected in the circumstances. Id.
6. Where the evidence is undisputed, or of such conclusive character
that if a verdict were returned for one party, whether plaintiff or
defendant, it would have to be set aside in the exercise of a sound*
judicial discretion, a verdict should be directed for the other party.
P. 254.
7. The view that a scintilla or modicum of conflicting evidence, irrespective of the character and measure of that to which it is opposed, necessarily requires a submission to the jury, has met with
express disapproval by this Court and by many others. Id.

