OASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
GUARDIAN SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 7
OF POINSETT COUNTY, ARKANSAS.
CERTIORAR

TO THE cmcurr coUR

OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 389.

Argued January 8, 1925.-Decided January 19, 1925.

When state legislation has authorized and confirmed assessments
of benefits on lands of a special improvement district and the

mortgaging of these taxes as security for bonds t6-be,sold to the
public, and has provided in terms for collection* of' the tax4
through a receiver to be appointed by a state court to pay the
bonds in case of default, and the bonds are bought by the public
upon this assurance, the power thus conferred upon the state
court may be exercised by the federal District Court, in-a suit
to foreclose the mortgage in which jurisdiction otherwise exists
through diversity of citizenship. P. 6.
298 Fed. 272, reversed.

CERTIORARi to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court and directed
that the bill be dismissed. The decree of the District
Court was made in a suit brought by a trustee for bonaholders, alleging diversity of citiz'enship, against a road
improvement district, to foreclose a mortgagd covering
the assets of the district, including assessments for benefits already made and confirmed against the lands of the
district. The decree directed a receiver to collect these
taxes to the extent necessary to pay outstanding bonds
and coupons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

267 U.S.

Mr. G. B. Rose, with whom Mr. D. H. Cantrell, Mr.
J. F. Loughborough and Mr. A. W. Dobyns were on the
briefs, for petitioner.
The question is whether the statute creates a substantive right, or whether it deals merely with a remedy.
If a substantive right is given, it will be enforced in the
federal courts, according to the practice established in
those tribunals. If only a remedy is given, unknown to
federal jurisdiction, that remedy must be sought in the
state courts.
Along with every mortgage there goes the right to the
appointment of a receiver, where that course is essential
to the protection of the mortgagee's interests. An improvement district is merely a creature of the Legislature,
and the Legislature can"impose upon it such liabilities as
it deems fit. The Legislature has provided that so long
as there is no default'in the payment of the b6nds, the
property owners shall have a right to pay their taxes"
through the county collector. It has provided also that
in case of such default the taxes shall be collected by a
receiver appointed by the court on the application of the
bondholders. That this right to the appointment of a
receiver is a substantive one of the greatest value must
be apparent to this Court, from its long and p'ainful experience in matters of mandamus against public corporations.
By the terms of the statute creating the district, the
bondholders were solemnly assured that if there should
be default for thirty days in the payment either of principal or interest of the bonds a receiver would be appointed.
It was upon the faith of this assurance that they bought
.the bonds. The law under which an obligation is issued
enters into it and forms a part -thereof, as completely as
if fully set forth therein. It would be monstrous to hold
the bondholders as
that this solemn promise held out to
gu inducement to buy the bonds did not confer upon them

GUARDIAN SAVINGS CO. v. ROAD DIST.
1

3

Argument for Respondent.

a substantive righi which vill be enforced by the federal
courts.
This is particularly the case because the appointment
of a receiver in a suit to foreclose a mortgage lien is a
part of the ordinary equity jurisdiction of the federal
courts; so that there is no attempt in the state statute
to grant a remedy unknown to those courts, but merely to
create a right which those courts will enforce in the
manner provided by their rules and the practice in
chancery.
What are substantial remedial rights is illustrated by
numerous decisions of this Court: Holland v. Challen,
110 U. S. 15; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S. 313; The
Case of Broderick'&WiZl, 21 Wall. 503; Ellis v. Davis,
109 U. S. 485; Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89; Sutton v.
English, 246 U. S. 199; Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338;
Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Western' Union Tel.. Co., 234
U. S. 370; Reynold&v. Crawfordsvlle Bank, 112, U. S.
405; United States Mining Co. v. Lawson, 134 Fed. 769,
207 U. S. 1.
This case comes exactly within the principle of the
exception laid down in Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261
U. S. 491. See also Butz v. City of Muscatine, 8 -Wall.
575; Brbnson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311; Howard v. Bugbee,
24 How. 461; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118, Sheffield
v. Witherow, 149 U. S. 574.
Mr. Henry D. Ashley, with whom-Mr. J. F. Gautney
was on the brief, for respondent.
United States courts will not' assume all jirisdiction
that the State courts could assume. Heine v. Board of
Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall., 655.
The right to have a receiver appointed for the purpose
set out-in the Act is not substantive but is purely remedial. No court has' an inherent right to appoint a re-.
ceiver to collect or levy taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, -1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The right to levy and collect taxes can only be acquired by express delegation from the legislative body
and can be exercised by no other body or person than
the one designated by the Legislature.
The appointment of the receiver to levy and collect
taxes is not on account of the equity powers ofthe Chancery Court of Poinsett County, but on account of an
express delegation from the Arkansas Legislature. The
right, therefore, is purely remedial and is not substantive
so as to be administered by any other court.
The court erred in exercising jurisdiction herein, the
Chancery Court of Poinsett County having first acquired
jurisdiction. Ktine v. Burke Construction Company, 260
U. S. 226.
A proceeding had m a proper court for the laying out
of a public road is in the nature of a proceding iTA rem
and binds all the world. Mi7creek Tp. -v.- Reed, 29 Pa.
St. 195; Farmers Loan & T. Co.: v. Lake St. Elevated,
177 U. S., 51.
Section 13 of Act 322 provides that the Board of Commissioners shall enforce the collection by chancery proceedings in the Chancery Court of Poinsett County in
the manner provided by Sections 23 and 24 of Act 279.
Sec. 23 provides "Said proceedings and judgment shall
be in the nature of proceedings in rem."
The case brought in the United States District Court
was a proceeding in rem and the suit in the Chancery
Court of Poinsett County was begun before the suit in
the United States District Court.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES

-delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the petitioner against
Road Improvement District No. 7 pf Poinsett County,
Arkansas. It alleges that the District was organized
under acts/ creating the District and in the second

GUARDIAN SAVINGS CO. v. ROAD DIST.
Opinion of the Court.

statute confirming the District's assessment of benefits;
that after the assessment the District issued its negotiable
bonds, as authorized by the acts; that the bonds are in the
hands of innocent purchasers for value before maturity;
that, as also authorized, the bonds are secured by.a mortgage of the assessments and all other assets, of the District, to the plaintiff as trustee for the bondholders;. and
that by the terms of the acts after a default for more than
thirty days in payment of interest or principal, a receiver
shall be appointed to take charge of the affairs of the
District. A default is alleged and is explained by a decree
of the Chancery Court of Poinsett County that set aside
the assessment securing the bonds and enjoined the District from paying any money belonging to it. The
plaintiff and the bondholders were not parties to the suit
and the decree saved their rights, but of course it prevents their getting any payment until they are, relieved.
The District Court made a decree for the plaintiff and
directed a receiver appointed by it to collect the taxes
theretofore levied to the extent necessary to pay the outstanding bonds and coupons. The Circuit Court of
Appeals held that the District Court had no jurisdiction
and ordered the bill to be dismissed. 298 Fed. 272.
The acts from which the District got its existence and
power were Act No. 322 of the State for 1919, and Act
No. 45 of the Acts of 1920, the second being an amendment of the first and a declaration and enactmeht that
the assessments of benefits have been made and are confirmed. The plan of the first was that the assessment
should be made at the outset and that thereupon the
county court should enter ah order 'which shall have all
the force of a judgment' that there should be assessed
upon the real property of the district a tax sufficient to
pay the estimated cost of the improvement with ten per
cent. added, in the proportion of the benefits, to be paid
in annual instalments, not to exceed ten per cent. for any

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U. S.

one year. The tax is made a lien upon the land and in
this way a security is created and the statute allows it
to be mortgaged, as was done in this case. If any bond
or coupon is not paid within thirty days of its maturity
it is made the duty of the Chancery Court of Poinsett
County to appoint a receiver to collect the taxes and pay
what is due, and power is given to direct the receiver to
foreclose the lien on .thelands.
The ground on which jurisdiction "wasdenied by the
Circuit Court of Appeals was that the power to levy and
collect taxes wa a legislative function of the State which
could not-be usurped by a federal court. But while that
may be true as a general doctrine, it cannot apply when
a State has authorized- and confirmed an assessment and
a mortgage of it as security for bonds that the public is
invited to buy, akd has provided in terms for a collection
by a receiver appointed in equity if there should be a
default. There is no longer any legislative act to be
done; and there is no usurpation of powers in following
the. course provided by state law. It seems to be recognized in Meriwether v. Garrett, 102 U, S. 472; that a
receiver -might be appointed by a Court of Chancery
when that remedy was contemplated by the contract, as
it fairly may be said to have been contemplated here.
The subject matter of the mortgage and the possible foreclosure of the lien require the intervention of such a Court
if right isto be done.. In the argument bef6re us there
was some suggestion that the chancery power was confined to the state court named in the statutb. But the
decisions have done away with such a limitation and it
was not relied upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co.,
196 U. S. 239; Road Improvement District v. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 547, 555. The state law
is nbt merely an enlargement of the remedial powers of
a local court as in Pusey & "ones .Co. v. Hanssen; 261

OKLAHOMA. v. TEXAS.
1

Syllabus.

U. S. 491, it recognizes the inadequacy of the remedy at
law and is an attempt to give to purchasers of bonds the
assurance of adequate relief against shortcomings that
experience has taught the business world to apprehend.
We see no reason why it should not succeed,. CampbellsmiTe Lumber Co. v. Hubbert, 112 Fed. 718. Stansell v.
Levee Board, 13 Fed. 846. Supervisor&v. Rogers, 7
Wall. 175.
The respondent attempted to open the general merits
of the case. If there is anything in the effort, which we
do not imply, we shall leave that for further consideration
below. The Circuit Court of Appeals regarded the case'
as stopped at the outset by Want of jurisdiction. In that
we think it erred.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IT EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Orders entered January 19, 1925.

Receivership Orders: 1 and 2. For payments to Kirby Petroleum
Company by way of reimbursement for expense of drilling certain

wells prior to receivership.
3. Requiring one Testerman to accept within 40 days moneys here-_
inbefore allowed him (265 U. S. 516, Par. 11) *in discharge of
claim; otherwise claim to be deemed abandoned and moneys paid
to Secretary of Interior for United States.
4. Requiring contesting claimants as to expense o±illing of Burke-

Senator well prior to receivership to adjust differences and accept
reimbursement (265 U. S. 516, Par. 13) or show cause why claims
should not be denied and moneys paid to Secretary of Interior for
United States.
5 and 6. Pursuant to stipulations, moneys derived from certain wells
to be paid to persons named as trustees, to hold. pending deter-

mination of rights of rival claimants through litigation in Tecs
courts.

