BROWNE v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
248

255

Statement of the Case.

made within a reasonable time. The state of the market
was such that it was difficult to make any sales; and the
quantities to be sold enhanced that difficulty and also the
need for care. The witnesses for the plaintiff described
with much detail the efforts which were made, and the
evidence as a whole reasonably admitted of no other conclusion than that the efforts were timely, well directed and
persistent. Many bids were received, but almost all were
so low that their acceptance would have meant a, great
sacrifice. The defendant was notified of the purpose to
resell, but made no effort to advance it in point of time or
to bring in a purchaser at an acceptable price. Considering the state of the market, the outcome appears to have
justified both the time and care taken by the plaintiff.
Judgment affirmed.
BROW 1E v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI, TO THE sUPREF,

cOURT

OF THE STATE

OF

KANSAS.

No. 194. Argued January 19, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
A purchaser of interstate shipments of grain sued the carrier for
damages alleged to have resulted from the falsity of dates of
original shipment as recited in substituted order bills of lading
issued by the carrier's agent, and the state court. sustained the
carrier's defenses, partly upon the ground that such bills of lading
were not" strictly negotiable under the Federal Bill of Lading Act,
as contended by the plaintiff, and partly upon other and nonfederal grounds. Held that, as the latter grounds were substantial

and broad enough to sustain the judgment, the judgment should
be affirmed without considering the federal question.
113 Kans. 726, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Kansas which sustained a judgment for the Railroad
Company in an action by Browne for damages alleged

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

to have resulted from false recitals of dates in substituted
billa of lading. See 113 Kansas, 726.
Mr. Ray Campbell, with whom Mr. J. Graham Campbell was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Nelson H. Loomis, with whom Mr. T. M. LiZlard
and Mr. C. B. Matthaiwere on the brief; for respondent.
Mr. Luther M. Walter, by leave of Court,
filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR.JUSTICE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was begun in the District Court, Shawnee
County, Kansas, to recover damages resulting from false
recitals of dates contained in substituted order bills of lading for four cars of wheat. These bills were issued by
respondent's agent at Denver and stated, contrary to the
facts, that they were given in lieu of others issued at points
of origin on specified dates prior to November 9, 1920.
Petitioner agreed to buy a quantity of wheat from the
Ed Past Grain Company, of Denver, at a stipulated price,
shipments to be made before November ninth, and then
contracted to resell at a favorable price contingent upon
like shipments. He alleged that, -relying on the false recitals in the substituted bills, he paid drafts drawn on himself by the Past Company for the purchase price, but was
unable to use the Yfheat, when received, to fulfill his contract of resale because original shipments were too late,
and that he was compelled tb dispose of it on a declining
market at considerable loss. Also, "That according to
the usage and custom of the grain business, well known to
defendant . . . time of shipment of grain in car lots
ig determined by the date appearing on the bills of lading
on which the carrier received such car of grain for transP;rtation and grain on contract is delivered by tendering

BROWNE v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
255

257

Opinion of the Court.

a properly endorsed order bill of lading attached to the
seller'$ draft on the buyer for the estimated price of such
car of grain, such order bill of lading being delivered to the
buyer upon payment of such draft."
Answering,, respondent denied every .allegation of the
petition not sppcifically admitted. It acknowledged purchase of the wheat by petitioner from the Past Company,
but alleged that, having failed to cancel the contract because of delay, as permitted, he.was bound to accept the
wheat on arrival; also, that it had no notice of the contract
for resale and was not liable for any special damages consequent upon failure to comply therewith. It further
stated that the.substituted bills were prepared by the Past
Company and the signature of its Denver agent obtained
by fraud; that the agent had no authority to sign bills
containing false or erroneous stateinents; that petitioner
could have disposed of the wheat without loss if he had
acted promptly and prudently upon receipt of the .same.
And (Paragraph 5), "Defendant denies specifically that
plaintiff used every effort to ascerta.in-the dates said shipments were made, and this defendanit alleges that the
freight bills which plaintiff alleges were paid by him, show
fully the points where differedt parts of said shipments
originated in less than carload lots, and show the transit
point where the same were consolidated into the four carload, shipments involved in this action; that had plaintiff
awaited the arrival of said shipments at McKinney, Texas,
before paying the drafts attached to the bills of lading
he could, by inquiring of the delivering carrier, have ascertained all of the facts relative to the dates and points
of origin of said shipments, and defendant alleges this
information was equally available t6 him at any time
thereafter. Defendant further alleges that by reason of
the lateness of the delivery of said shipments, plaintiff was,.
or should have been warned, of the probability of the
fraud of the Ed Past Grain Company, and should have

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

detected the same prior to the payment of the drafts and
acceptance of the wheat, as did The Gladney Milling Company when the wheat was thereafter tendered to them for
application on the contract between them and the
plaintiff."
A general demurrer to the answer and special demurrers
to certain paragraphs were interposed and overruled by
the court. Judgment went against petitioner. He stood
on the demurrer and perfected an appeal to the Supreme
Court, which affirmed the challenged judgment. In the
latter court his principal contention seems to have. been
that the Federal Bill of Lading Act, approved August 29,
1916, c. 415, 39 Stat. 538, makes order bills of lading
stri6tly negotiable and therefore respondent became liable
to him for the damages consequent upon misstatements
of dates in the substituted bills. This contention was
duly considered and rejected. The court then said"It follows that insofar as plaintiff's demurrer involved
the question chiefly urged here, the ruling of the trial
court was correct. The other matters pleaded in defendant's answer, to which the plaintiff objected and demurred,
need but brief attention. The fact, if correct, that plaintiff was bound to accept the shipments from the Ed Past
Grain Company, may not be a complete defense to plaintiff's cause of action, but it does raise an issue which may
become important on the measure of damages if any are
recoverable in the action. And whether there was a
custom of grain dealers to rely on the datings of bills of
lading, of which the carrier had notice or was bound to
take notice, was also a question of fact, and therefore not
denurrable. The scope of the powers of defendant's
agent at Denver could not be determined by demurrer;
and neither could the matters pleaded in the fifth paragraph of the answer summarized above."
"It is well settled that where the Supreme Court of a
State decides a Federal question in rendering a judgment,

BROWNE v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
255

259

Opinion of the Court.

and also decides against the plaintiff in error upon an
independent ground not involving a Federal question and
broad enough to maintain the judgment, the writ of error
will be dismissed without considering the Federal question." Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73, 78; Enterprise Irrigation District v. Canal Company, 243 U. S.

157, 164.
It seems clear that the Supreme Court of Kansas rested
its judgment, affirming the action of the trial court, upon
a non-federal ground broad enough to sustain it. The
answer not only relied upon non-negotiable features of
the bills-the federal question-but advanced other defenses good as against the general demurrer. It denied
the existence of any trade usage to accept as accurate
recitals as to dates in bills of lading, also that the Denver
agent had power to issue the substituted bills. It asserted
that petitioner was obligated to accept the grain irrespective of the dates of original shipments, and that if
due diligence had been exercised no loss would have
occurred. These denials and assertions raised questions
under the state laws. They were substantial and broad
enough to sustain the ruling of the trial court.
The judgment below is affirmed.
Affirmed.

