458

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

2671U. S.

vorable advisory opinion thereon, would be facts clearly
insufficient to establish plaintiff's contentions.
Moreover if those facts could conceivably affect the
result, the, motion should, as a matter of discretion, be
denied because of the delay in filing it. A motion to remand for further findings, even if based wholly upon
matter included in the original record on appeal, should
be submitted at the first term of the entry of the case
so that this Court may determine whether the motion
shall be passed upon in advance of the hearing on the
merits or be postponed until such hearing. Compare
United States v. Adams, 9 Wall. 554, 559. Where, as in
this case, the motion is based largely upon matter not
appearing in the record on appeal, the reasons for insisting upon promptness in making an application to remand are particularly persuasive. Diligence. in this respect.is essential to the orderly and expeditious administration of justice. Compare Rule 14 of this Court gov-,
erning petitions- for certiorari for diminution of the"
record. Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499.
Affi7med.
HOROWITZ v. UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 74. Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided March 9, 1925.
1. The United States, when sued as a contractor, can not be held
liable for an obstruction to the performance of the particular contract resulting from its. public and general acts is a sovereign.
P. 460.
2. So held, where the Government, having sold silk to the claimant,
did not ship it promptly; owing to an embargo placed on freight
shipments of silk by the United States Railroad 'Administration,
so that the claimant lost his opportunity to resell at a profit..
58 Ct. Cls. 189, affirmed.

HOROWITZ v. UNITED STATES.
458

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of*Claims dismissing the petition upon demurrer.
Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for appellant.
Mr. M. E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States. -Solicitor General Beck, Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, and Mr. Wm. M.
Offley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were
on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by Horowitz, under the Tucker
Act,' to'recover damages for the alleged breach of a contract relating to the purchase of silk from the Ordnance
Department. The petition was dismissed, on demurrer,
for failure to state a cause of action. 58 Ct. Cls. 189.
The petition alleges, in substance, these facts: On December 20, 1919, the claimant, a resident of New York,
submitted a bid for certain Habutai-silk offered for sale
by the New York Ordnance Salvage Board. At that time
the "Chief of the Textile Division of New York City,"
agreed, "on behalf of such Board," that the claimant
would be given an opportunity to re-sell the silk before
completing the payment of the purchase price, and that
the "departments of the Government having jurisdiction in matters of this kind " would ship the silk-which
was then in Washington-within a day or two after shipping instructions were given. On December 22 he was
notified by the Board that .the sale of the silk to him had
been "approved "; and he thereupon paid part of thfe
purchase price. On January 30, 1920, he sold the silk to
a silk company in New York. On February 16 he paid the
balance of the purchase price, and wrote the Board to
'Act of Mar. 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, e. 359; Jud. Code, ยง 145.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

ship the silk at once, by freight, to the silk company. Two
days later he was notified by the Board that. it had received the shipping instructions and had ordered the silk
to be shipped. Thereafter the price of silk declined
greatly in the New York market, until March 4. On that
date the "claimant learned . -. . that the silk was
still in Washington, and had not been shipped because
the Government through one of its agencies, the U. S.
Railroad Administration, had prior to March 1, 1920,
placed an embargo on shipments of silk by freight, and
the shipment of Habutai silk for, claimant had been
held up.". Afterwards the Government shipped the silk
to thd consignee, by express. It arrived in New York "on
or about March 12." The consignee then refused to accept delivery on account of the fall in prices. And "by
reason of the Government's breach of the contract and
agreement in placing an embargo, and failing to ship
the silk either by express or freight prior to March 4, 1920,
the price of silk having declined, the claimant was forced
to sell the said silk for $10,811.84 less than the price the
consignee had agreed to pay for same had it been delivered
in time."
The petition alleges' that the claimant is entitled to
-recover from the United States the said sum of $10,811.84,
"for and on account of the- violation of the said agreement;" and prays judgment. therefor.
We assume, without determining, that the petition
shows a valid contract with the Salvage Board for the
sale of the silk and its prompt shipment after the receipt of shipping instructions. The sole breach of this
contract which is alleged is the failure to ship the silk
Prior to March 4, 1920. This, according to the averment
of the petition, was caused by an embargo placed by the
Railroad Administration on shipments of silk by,freight.
Neither the validity, of this embargo nor its effect in delaying the shipment is challenged by the petition.

HOROWITZ v. UNITED STATES.
458

Opinion of the Court.

It has long been held by the Court of Claims that the
United States when sued as a contractor cannot be held
liable for an obstruction to the performance of the particular contract resulting from its public and general acts
as a sovereign. Deming v. United States, 1 Ct. Cls. 190,
191; Jones v. United States, 1 Ct. Cs. 383, 384; Wilson v.
United States, 11 Ct. Cs. 513, 520. In the Jones Case,
supra, the court said: "The two characters which the
government possesses as a contractor and as a sovereign
cannot be thus fused; nor can the United States.while
sued in the one character be made liable in damages for
their acts done in the other. Whatever acts the government may do, be they legislative orLexecutive, so long
as they be public and general, cannot be deemed specially
to alter, modify, obstruct or violate the particular contracts into which it enters with private persons.
In this court the United States appear simply as contractors; and they are to, be held liable only within the
same limits that any other defendant would be in any
other court. Though their sovereign acts performed for
the general good may work injury to some private contractors, such parties gain nothing by having the United
States as their defendants."
It was upon this ground that the demurrer in the'present case was sustained by the Court of Claims. We think
this was correct, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

