PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
188

203

Syllabus.

It is aimed at the liquor traffic. See De Laney v. Plunkett,
146 Ga. 547; Barbour v. State, 146 Ga. 667; Bunger v.
State, 146 Ga, 672, cited by that court as authority for its
decision in this case. Attention has not been called to
any legislation which attempts directly to forbid the mere
drinking or other private use of such liquors. As against
the objection that it would infringe constitutional pro-visions safeguarding liberty and property, the power of
the State to enact and enforce such legislation has not
been established. That question isnot involved in this
case.
Any suggestion that the destruction of such private
supply lawfully acquired and held for the use of the owner
in his own home is necessary for or has any relation to the
suppression of sales or to the regulation of the liquor
traffic or to the protection of the public from injury would
be fanciful and without foundation. The facts in the
case do not permit the application of the doctrine applied
in Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204.
To me it seems very plain that, as applied, the law is
oppressive and arbitrary, and that. the seizure deprived
plaintiff in error of his property in violation of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. I would
reverse the judgment of the state court.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD SYSTEM AND ALLIED LINES FEDERATION NO. 90, ET AL. v.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM. THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

i

No. 661. Argued January 13, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Since, as decided in Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Labor Board,
261 U. S. 72, the provisions of Title III of the Transportation Act,
1920, seeking to, promote adjustment of disputes between carriers
and their employees through conferences and through decisions of

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

the Railroad Labor Board, rely only upon the moral sanction of
public opinion and do not grant rights enforceable in a court of
law, a carrier, in dealing with its employees concerning wages and
working conditions, is not bound by rulings of the Board affirming
the right of any craft or class to select a trade union as their representative, but may substitute an election whereby only individuals,
chosen regionally, are elected and votes for a union are rejected;
may refuse to allow furloughed employees to vote in the election,
and may even threaten discharge of employees who do not consent to the agreement made with the representatives elected. P.210.
2. These things, being within the legal rights of a railroad company,
are not subject to be enjoined, at the suit of a union composed of
existing and former employees, upon the ground that the company and its officers, in doing them, are guilty of a conspiracy
both at common law and under ยง 19 of the Criminal Code.. Id.
3. Denial of the prayer for equitable relief and dismissal of the main
part of the bill carries with it incidental claims for damages, without prejudice to their prosecution at law by individual claimants.
P. 218.
1 Fed. (2d) 171, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (296 Fed.
220) dismissing the bill in a suit brought by a union, composed of present and former workers of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to enjoin the corporation and
its officers from carrying out an alleged conspiracy to de-'
feat the provisions of the Railroad Labor Board legislation and to deprive the employees of rights under it.
Damages also were prayed. The case is fully stated in"
the opinion.
Mr. Morris Hillquit and Mr. David Wallerstein for appellants.
Mr. John Hampton Barnes for appellees.
Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE TFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Pennsylvania Railroad System and Allied Lines
Federation No. 90, by its bill in equity herein against the

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

205

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania Company and its officers, continued the controversy which was considered in PennsylvaniaRailroad
Company v. Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72. The Company
filed an answer, and the case was heard in the District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on exhibits
and evidence. The District Court dismissed the bill, 296,
Fed. 220, and the decree was affirmed in the Third Circuit
Court of Appeals, 1 Fed. (2d) 171. The issues involve the
construction and application of Title III of the Transportation Act of 1920, Ch. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 469. The
Title provides a method for the settlement of disputes
over wages, rules and working conditions between railroad
companies engaged in interstte commerce and their employees, and, as a means of securing it, creates the.Railroad Labor Board and defines its functions and powers.
The Pennsylvania Railroad System and Allied Lines
Federation No. 90 is a trades'union of 50,000 employees
or more affiliated with the American Federation of Labor,
and embracing those crafts which have to do with the
mechanical part of railroad service. It contains as members only workers, or those who have been workers, in the
employ of the Pennsylvania Company or its Allied Lines. Our statement of the case and the opinion in what we shall
call the Labor Board case show the dealings between the
Company and Federation No. 90 down to and beyond the
time when the Transportation Act was passed and the
railroad property Was turned back by the Government to
the Company. The Railroad Labor Board, April 14, 1921,
decided that the modus Vivend! under which rules and
working conditions under the Railroad Administration
had continued should end July 1, 1921, and called upon
each carrier and its respective employees to designate
representatives to confer and decide, so far as possible,
respecting their future rules and working conditions and
to keep the Board advised of the progress toward agreement. The Board accompanied their announcement,

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

known as Decision 119, with a statement of ruleis of decision which it intended to follow in consideration of the
settlement of disputes under Title III. The two which
are relevant here, as they were in the case cited, are as
follows:
"5. The right of such lawful organization [i. e. trade
unions] to act toward lawful objects through representatives of its own choice, whether employees of a particular
carrier or otherwise, shall be agreed to by management."
"15. The majority of any craft or class of employees
shall hiave the right to determine what organization shall
represent members of such craft or class. Such organization shall have the right to make an agreement which shall
apply to all employees in such craft or class. No such
agreement shall infringe, however upon the right of employees not members of. the organization representing the
majority to present grievances either in person or by representatives of their own choice."
Officials of Federation No. 90 met the representatives
of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, in compliance
with the request of the Board, in May, 1921. The Pennsylvania representatives refused to confer, on the ground
that the Federation did not represent a majority of the
employees of the system, and proposed to send out a form
of ballot to their employees asking them to designate their
representatives. The Federation officers objected, because the ballot made no provision, in accordance with
principles 5 and 15, for the representation of employees
by a trade union, but specified that they must be natural
persons and such only as were employees of the Pennsylvania Company; and further because the Company required that the representatives of the employees should be
selected regionally rather than from the crat in the whole
system, in compliance with Principle No. 15. The result
was that two ballots were sent out, one by the Company
and the other by the Federation. These forms were both

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

207

Opinion of the Court.

found objectionable by the Board, which by its decision
No. 218 ordered a new election for which rules were prescribed and a form of ballot specified on which labor organizations, aswell as individuals, could be voted for as
his representatives at the option of the employee. The
Pennsylvania Company applied to the Board to vacate
this decision, on the ground that there was no dispute
before the Board of which by Title III of the Transportation Act the Board was given. jurisdiction. After a rehearing the'Board confirmed its original decision. The action
of the Company in refusing to comply with the decision of
the Board as to the manner of holding the elections led
to a vote among the members of the Federation No. 90
as to whether-they should stiike against the Company
because of such vote. There was an affirmative vote and
some 20,000 struck. A- bill was brought by the Pennsylvania Company to enjoin the Labor Board from hearing
the controversy instituted by Federation No. 90 over the
election of representatives who should act for the employees in .the conferences proposed with the Company.
It was first objected that the Federation No. 90 had no
standing or capacity to invoke the hearing of the dispute
because a labor union; second, that the controversy did
not involve the kind of dispute of which the Board could
take cognizance under the Act, because the question who
should represent the employees as to grievances, rules and
working conditions was not within the jurisdiction of the
Labor Board to decide; and, third, the Board had no right
to publish its opinion condemning the action of the Company as it proposed to do, because that only applied to
final decisions of a dispute over wages -or working conditions. The position- of- the 'Company was not sustained
by this Court. It was held that'a labor union could invoke the Board's action, that the question who- should
be recognized as representatives of the employees was not
only before the Board but involved one of the most im.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

portant of the rules and working conditions in the operation of a railroad, and that such a decision could therefore be made public if the Board deemed it Wise and
proper. The District Court in which the suit was brought
had enjoined the Labor Board from hearing the dispute
and from publishing its opinion. Notwithstanding the
opinion of the Board, the Pennsylvania Company proceeded to carry out its original method of selecting employees' representatives and their regional distribution.
It refused to allow its employees to vote for the Federation No. 90 as their representative and where ballots
were cast, as happened in some of the voting places, for
the Federation No. 90 in a great majority, individuals,
though they had but a small minority of votes, were declared elected as -representatives by the Company. The
Company's plan brought together in the organizations an
equal number of officers and of employees' representatives, with the restriction that no action should be taken
indicating agreement unless two-thirds of the body acting
should concur. The Company paid the expenses of the
organizations and such permanent officers as they had
were put upon the pay roll of the Company. It instituted
a trade organization with which the Company proposed
to deal and has dealt, although the evidence conclusively
showed that it did not, at the time of the election certainly, represent a majority of the employees. The Company and the employees whom it recognized as the representatives of its employees came to an agreement in respect to wages and working conditions and have induced
many employees to sign such agreement. This agreement
took effect as of July 1, 1921.
The bill in this case was filed to enjoin what was charged
to be a conspiracy by the Pennsylvania Company and its
officers to defeat the provisions of the Act and deprive the
employees of their rights with which the provisions of
Title III of the Act intended to vest them in their deal-

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

209

Opinion of the Court.

ings with the Company; averring that in the effort to deprive them of their proper representation and to maintain the plan of the Company, the Company resorted to
coercion with threats of discharge, and further violated
their rights by prcventing a large number of employees
who were furloughed from casting their vote in the elections.
The complainants further contend, first that all furloughed employees, who in July, 1921, were refused
reemployment in accordance with their seniority rights,
should recover wages for the time the Company has denied them reemployment at former wages; that employees
who, having worked a year from July, 1921, to July, 1922,
were discharged by the Company for refusing to waive
their rights under the Transportation Act, were entitled
to recover the difference between the rate paid and what
they were entitled to under a wage decision of the Board
in June, 1921; and, finally, that a large number of the
Company's employees, members of Federation No. 90,
who were not furloughed in 1921 and did not strike in
the summer of 1922, bui continued at work under the
wages, rules and conditions established by the Company's
alleged unlawful agreement, are entitled to. be paid by
the Company the difference between the amounts actually
received by them and the amount they should have received at the rate of wages in force before the first of
July, 1921. The contention is that complainants in this
their representative suit and as incident to the main relief sought by injunction, may have an accounting of
damages sustained by the members of the Federation No.
90 in the premises.
The prayer of the bill is for a decree enjoining the defendant, the Pennsylvania Company, from enforcing the
provisions of the agreement with respect to wages and
working conditions made as of July 1; 1921, between it and
its employees under its plan on the vote taken, from en-

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

forcing any change in rules and working conditions as
they existed on June 30, 1921, that is as they existed under
a previous national agreement entered into while the
property was under federal control, from continuing to
deal with persons chosen on the Company's ballots as the
representatives of the employees engaged in mechanical
work, and from financing, interfering with, directing and
controlling the organizations of the Company's employees
for the purposes set forth in the Transportation Act, and
from refusing to confer and deal with Federation No. 90
as the organization representing the great majority of the
Company's employees engaged in such work.
The whole case for Federation No. 90 rests upon the
contention that the conduct of the Company and its
officers is a statutory offense in the nature of a conspiracy
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Criminal Code,
which provides that if two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free
exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to
him by the laws of the United States, they shall be punished; and further that injunction will lie to restrain the
means for promoting such conspiracy. Moreover, it is
claimed that this is a conspiracy at common law, because
it is a combination to accomplish an unlawful result by
unlawful means, and actionable. Citing Pettibone v.
United States, 148 U. S. 197, and Duplex v. Deering, 254
U. S. 465. The whole issue, therefore, is whether the provisions of Title III, in pointing out what Congress wished
the parties to the dispute to do, was intended by Congress
to be a positive, obligatory law, creating 'an enforceable
duty such that a combination by the Company and its
officials to violate it is a conspiracy. Title III we have
already construed in the Labor Board Case in 261 U. S. 72.
We quote from the statement in that case:
"Title III of the Transportation Act of 1920 bears the
heading 'Disputes Between Carriers and their Employees and Subordinate Officials'.

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

211

Opinion of the Court.

. " Section 301 makes it the duty of carriers, their officers,
employees and subordinate officials, to exert every reasonable effort to avoid interruption to the operation of an
interstate commerce carrier due to a dispute between the
carrier and its employees, and further provides that such
disputes shall be considered and if possible decided 'in
conference between representatives designated and authorized so to confer by the carriers, or the employees or
subordinate officials thereof, directly interested in the
dispute'.
"The section concludes"'If any dispute is not decided in such conference, it
shall be referred by the parties thereto to the board which
under the provisions this title is authorized to hear and
decide such dispute'.
"Section 302 provides for the establishment of railroad
boards of adjustment by agreement between any.carrier,
groups of carriers, or the carriers as a whole, and any employees or subordinate officials of carriers, or organization
or group of organizations thereof. No such boards of adjustment were established when this controversy arose.
"Section 303 provides for hearing and decision by such
boards of adjustment upon petition of any dispute involving only grievances, rules or working conditions not decided as provided in Sec. 301.
"Sections 304, 305 and 306 provide for the appointment and organization of the 'Railroad Labor Board'
composed of nine members, three from the Labor Group,
three from the Carrier Group, and three from the Public
Group.
"Section 307(a) provides that when a labor adjustment
board under Sec. 303 has not reached a decision of a dispute involving grievances, rules or working conditions in
a reasonable time, or when the appropriate hdjustment
board has not been organized under Sec. 302, the Railroad
Labor Board '(1) upon the application of the chief execu-

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

tive of any carrier or organization of employees or subordinate officials whose members are directly interested in
the dispute, (2) upon a written petition signed by not
less than 100 unorganized employees or subordinate officials directly interested in the dispute, or (3) upon the
Labor Board's own motion if it is of the opinion that the
dispute is likely substantially to interrupt commerce, shall
receive for hearing, and as soon as practicable and with
due diligence decide, any dispute involving grievances,
rules or working conditions which is not decided as provided in section 301'.
"Paragraph (b) of the same section provides for a hearing and decision of disputes over wages.
"Paragraph (c) makes necessary to a decision of the
Board the concurrence of five members, of whom, in the
case of wage disputes, a member of the Public Group
must be one. The paragraph further provides that
'All decisions of the Labor Board shall be entered
upon the records of the board and copies thereof, together
with such statement of facts bearing thereon as the board
may deem proper, shall be immediately communicated to
the parties to the dispute, the President, each Adjustment
Board and the [Interstate Commerce] Conimission, and
shall be given further publicity in such manner as the
Labor Board may determine.'
"Paragraph (d) requires that decisions of the Board
shall establish standards of working conditions which in
the opinion of the Board are just and reasonable.
"Section 308 prescribes other duties and powerg of the
Labor Board, among which is that of making 'regulations necessary for the efficient execution of the functions
vested in it by this title'.
"Section 309 prescribes that
"' Any party to any dispute to be considered by an Adjustment Board or by the Labor Board shall be entitled
to a hearing either i-q person or by counsel .

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

213

Opinion of the Court.

"Section 313 is as follows:
'The Labor Board, in case it has reason to believe
that any decision of the Labor Board or of an Adjustment
Board is violated by any carrier, or employee or subordinate official, or organization thereof, may upon its own
motion after due notice and hearing to all persons directly
interested in such violation, determine whether in its opin'ion such violation has*occurred and make public its decision in such manner as it may determine."'
This Court's construction of the effect of these provisions is shown in the opening language of the opinion, as
follows:
(Page 79.) "It is evident froxi a review of Title III
of the Transportation Act of 1920 that Congress deems it
of the highest public interest to prevent the interruption
of interstate commerce by labor disputes and strikes, and
that its plan is to encourage settlement without strikes,
first, by conference between the parties; failing that, by
reference to adjustment boards of the parties' own choosing, and if this is ineffective, by a full hearing before a
National Board appointea by the President, upon which
are an equal number of representatives 'of the Carrier
Group, the Labor Group, and the Public. The decisions
of the Labor Board are not to be enforced by process.
The only sanction of its decision is to be the force of
,public opinion invoked by the fairness of a full hearing,
the intrinsic justice of the c -nhlisibn, strengthened by
the official prestige of the Board, and the full publication
of the violation of such decision by any party to the
proceeding. The 'evident, thought of Congress in these
provisions is that the economic interest of every member of the Public in the undisturbed flow of interstatecommerce and the acute inconvenience to which all must
be subjected by an interrupti6xi caused by a serious and
widespread labor dispute, fastens public attention closely
on all the circumstances of the controversy and arouses

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

public criticism of the side thought to be at fault. The
function of the Labor Board is to direct that public
criticism against the party who, it thinks, justly deserves it."
Another passage is as follows:
(Page 83.) "The second objection is that the Labor
Board in Decision 119 and Principles -5 and 15, and in
Decision 218, compels, the Railroad Company to recognize labor unions as factors in the conduct of its business. The counsel for the Company insist that the right
to deal with individual representatives of its employees
as to rules and working conditions is an inherent right
which can not be constitutionally taken from it. The
employees, or at least those who are members of the
labor unions, contend that they have a. lawful right to
select their own representatives, and that it-is not within
the right of the Company to restrict them in their selection to employees of the Company or to forbid selection
of officers of their labor unions qualified to deal with and
protect their interests. This statute certainly does not
deprive either side of the rights claimed.
"But Title III was not enacted to provide a tribunal
to determine what were the legal rights and obligations
of railway employers and employees or to enforce or protect them. Courts can do that. The. Labor Board was
created to decide how the parties ought to exercise their
legal rights so as to enable them to coSperate in running
the railroad. It was to. reach a fair compromise between
the parties without regard to the legal rights upon which
each side might insist in a court of law. The Board is
to act as a Board of Arbitration. It is to give expression
to its view of the moral obligation of each side as members of society to agree upon a basis for coSperation in
the work of running the railroad in the public interest.
The only limitation upon the Board's decisions is that
they should estaJi
a standard of conditions,, which,

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
203

215

Opinion of the Court.

in its opinion, is just and reasonable. The jurisdiction
of the Board to direct the parties to do what it deems
they should do is not to be limited by their constitutional
or legal right to refuse to do it. Under the act -there is
no constraint upon them to do what the Board decides
they should do except the moral constraint, already mentioned, of publication of its decision."
A third passage is as follows:
(Page 85.) "It is not for this or ,ny other court to pass
upon the correctness of the conclusion of the Labor Board
if it keeps within the jurisdiction thus assigned to it by
the statute. The statute -does not require the Railway
Company to recognize or to deal with, or confer with
labor unions. It does not require employees to deal
with their employers through their fellow employees. But
we think it does vest the Labor Board with power to decide how such representatives ought to be chosen with
a view to securing a satisfactory co~peration and leaves
it to the two sides to accept or reject the decision. The
statute provides the machinery for conferences, the hearings, the decisions and the moral sanction. The Labor
Board must comply with the requirements 6f the statute;
but having thus complied, it is not in its reasonings and
conclusions limited as a court is limited to a consideration
of the legal rights of the parties."
It is clear from this language that in the Labor Board
Case this Court has decided that there is nothing compulsory in the provisions of the statute as against either
the Company or the employees upon the basis of which
either acquired additional rights against the other which
can be enforced in a court of law. The language of the
Title is a legal definition of the jurisdiction and duty of
the Railroad Labor Board in attempting to settle the
controversies between the railroad employefi and its employees, and where the Labor Board exceeds its jurisdiction and violates the provisions describing its functions, it

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

may be subject to judicial restraint at the complaint of
any properly interested party. The so-called mandatory
language of Section 301 might, if that section were accompanied by a penalty for its violation or some other means
of compulsion, and there were not the other provisions of
the Title to help its construction, be given the force of a
statutory obligation of the parties to a dispute. There
are two Sections, 310 and 311, in this Title, which do
furnish instances of judicial compulsion in the matter
of securing evidence and the production of records to
promote the efficient administration of the functions
vested in the Labor Board by the Title. And there is
Section 312 which required that carriers until September
1, 1920, should continue to pay wages not less than those
paid March 1, 1920, and fixed a penalty for each violation of this obligation and gave a right to the United
States to a civil suit to recover the penalty. But when
the other sections of the Title are taken as a whole, they
may be searched through in vain to find any indication
in the mind of Congress or any intimation that the disputants in the controversies to be anticipated were in
any way to be forced into compliance with the statute or
with the judgments pronounced by the Labor Board,
except through the effect of adverse public opinion.
What the complainants here are seeking to do is to
enforce by mandatory injunction a compliance with a
decision of the Board, not based on the legal rights of
the parties, but on its judgment as to what legal rights
the disputants should surrender or abate in the public interest and in the interest of each other, to maintain
harmonious relations between them necessary to the continuance of intertate commerce, and to avoid severing
those relations as they would have the strict legal right
to do. Such a remedy by injunction in a court, it was
not the intention of Congress to provide.
The ultimate decision of the Board, it is conceded, is
not compulsory, and no process is furnished to enforce it,

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R..R. Co.
203

217

Opinion of the Court.

but it is urged that the preliminary steps are not the
final decision, and it will make the Act meaningless and
wholly ineffective if under the Act the parties may not
be forced to a conference and to a contest before the
Labor Board. This very point was considered by us in
the Labor Board Case and we held that the questions how
the representatives of each side should be selected and
whom the Board should recognize as accredited representatives were of primary importance affecting the working conditions of the railroad, and such decisions, therefore, must be regarded, although preliminary, as of the
same class of decisions as those with respect to wages
and ultimate working .conditions. The same sanction,
therefore, of publication and public opinion, exists for
them and nothing else.
The Pennsylvania Company is using every ex}jeavor
to avoid compliance with the judgment and principles of
the Labor Board as to the proper method of securing
representatives of the whole body of its employees, it is
seeking to control its employees by agreements free from
the influence of an independent trade union, it is, so far
as its dealings with its employees go, refusing to comply
with the decisions of the Labor Board and is thus defeating the purpose of Congress. Appellants charge that the
Company is attempting, by threats to discharge its employees, to secure their consent to the agreement of July
1, 1921, as to wages and working conditions agreed to by
the representatives of its employees it declared elected.
This is denied, though there is some evidence tending to
support the charge. All these things it might do and remain within its strict legal rights after it came fully into
control of its railroad property subsequent to September
1, 1920. We. do not think Congress, while it would deprecate such action, intended to make it criminal or legally
actionable. Therefore, the bill of complaint does not
aver a conspiracy and without that, equitable relief can
not be granted.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

We come now to the prayer for an allowance of damages to Federation No. 90, suing on behalf of its members. The claims are, first, for certain employees who, being. on furlough when they were notified to return to
work on a scale of wages made effective by the Company
July 1, 1921, refused to return except on the old scale
prevailing September 1, 1920. They seek wages on the
.old scale though they did not work. Second, for certain
,dmployees who worked under this Company scale for a
year and then struck. They seek a recovery for the difference between the old and the new scale established by
the Company. Third, for certain employees who did not
strike at all, and accepted wages at the new scale till the
filing of the bill. They seek recovery for the difference
between the old scale and the new scale which they accepted.
It is argued that the new scale was illegal because not
fixed by the. Labor Board under Title III after a hearing
and therefore the only legal scale was that which prevailed
before. We db not find it necessary to consider these
claims on their merits. Even if the Federation No. 90
and its members as representatives in a class suit in equity
could recover such claims as damages incidental to granting the main equitable relief prayed for, the denial of the
prayer for the equitable relief and the dismissal of the
main part of the bill carries with it such incidental claims
without 'prejudice to their prosecution at law by individual claimants as they may be advised. Our conclusions on the merits of the main issue and the damage
claims have made it unnecessary for us to consider objections made to the representative capacity of the complainants to maintain the bill.
Decree affirmed.

