NEWARK v. CENTRAL R.R.
373

377

Syllabus.

considered was very different from the one now under
review. There the authority to dispose of restricted
property by will was limited by the provisions of the Act
of February 14, 1913, c. 55, 37 Stat. 678, that the Will
must be "in accordance with regulations to be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior," and that no will "shall
be valid or have any force or effect unless and until it
shall have been approved" by that officer. By this language the intent of Congress to exclude the local law and
to establish the regulations of the Secretary as alone controlling was made evident; and it was so held. But here
the federal statute contains no provision of like character;
it is without qualification except in the single particular
set forth in the proviso; and, clearly, it does not stand
in the way of the operation of the local law.
Affirmed.
CITY OF NEWARK, ET AL. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 351.

Argued November 21, 24, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. New Jersey, by empowering a railroad company to have as
many tracks within its specified right of way as it might deem
necessary, and to erect suitable bridges to accommodate them,
including draw bridges over navigable waters crossed, impliedly
consented that, in the maintenance and- improvement of the railroad, a draw bridge over Newark Bay, originally constructed
with two tracks, might be replaced by a better one accommodating four tracks upon substantially the same location. Ls. N. J.
1860, c. 64. P. 381.
2. Both state and federal governments having consented to this
replacement, it is unnecessary to decide whether the acts of Congress and approval of the plans' by the Chief of Engineers and
Secretary of War would be sufficient without the consent of the

378

7OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U. S.

State, or whether the legislation of Congress supersedes the laws
of the State, respecting navigable waters wholly within New

Jersey. P. 384.
3. The replacement in question was not within Ls. N. J. 1914, 1 4,
c. 123, as amended; requiring approval by the state Board of
Commerce and Navigation of plans for water front development
undertaken since the passage of that act. P. 385.
4. Nor, was approval necessary by the Port of New Yofk Authority,
a body corporate and politic created by compact between New
Jersey and New York with the consent of Congress. P. 386.
5. The fact that the railroad's bridge was not included in the com-prehensive plan for the development of the Port of New York
(embracing Newark Bay) adopted pursuant to the said compact,
does not make it unlawful or deprive the company of power to
construct it. Id.
297 Fed. 77; 287 id., 196, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
a bill brought by the .City of Newark to enjoin the Railroad Company from constructing a bridge over Newark
Bay. Jersey City and the State of New Jersey inter.vened as complainants. The Port of New York Authority, a body politic established by compact for the development of the Port of New York District, including
Newark Bay, was made a defendant and answered, leaving its duties in the matter to the decision of the court.
The bill was dismissed on motion of the Railroad, upon
the ground that it did not state a cause of action. The
two cities and the State appealed.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Messrs.Jerome
T. Congleton, Corporation Counsel of the City of Newark;
Edward L. Katzenbach, Attorney General of the State of
New Jersey; Thomas J. Brogan, Corporation Counsel of
the City of Jersey City, and Paxton Blair, were on the
briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Richard V. Lindabury, with whorm Mr. Charles B.
Miller was on the brief, for the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey,.

NEWARK v. CENTRAL R. R.
377

379

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Julius Henry Cohen, for the Port of New York
Authority.
MR. JuSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought by the City of Newark to enjoin
the construction of a bridge across Newark Bay. Jersey
City and the State of New Jersey by leave of court intervened as parties complainant.
Under the authority of c. 64, Laws of New Jersey, 1860,
the defendant company constructed and has since maintained and used a d6uble-track wooden railroad bridge,
with bascule draws, across Newark Bay. It is below
Newark, between Elizabeth and Bayonne, and crosses the
channel at an angle of about 66 degrees. Newark Bay is
a navigable estuary, and its waters at thiNplace are
wholly within the State of New Jersey. The company
proposes, and has commenced, to construct upon substantially the same location a substitute bridge of masonry and steel with four tracks and vertical draws. It
claims that the acts of Congress of August 8, 1919, c. 42,
41 Stat. 277, and February 15, 1921, c. 47, 41 Stat. 1099,
and ihe Bridge Act of March 23, 1906, c. 1130, 34 Stat.
84, with the approval of its plans by the Chief of Engineers and Secretary of War, confer authority to construct
the bridge in question without the consent of the State.
But the company also insists that, if the authority of the
State is necessary, it was granted by the act of 1860.
Appellants maintain that the source of power to construct a bridge over navigable waters wholly within one
State is in the State itself; that the concurrent consent
of both state and federal governments is necessary before
such a bridge lawfully may be erected;, that the authority
granted by the act of 1860 does not extend to the new
bridge, and that under laws of New Jersey (c. 123, Laws
of 1914, and c. 242, Laws of 1915) the approval of the

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

substitute bridge by the state Board of Commerce and.
Navigation is necessary.
The complaint alleges that the City of Newark owns
real estate above the bridge on the westerly shore of the
bay, and has expended large sums for improvements
thereon, consisting of warehouses, slips, docks and other
facilities of commerce, known collectively as Port Newark
Terminal:- that neither the present nor the proposed
bridge isnecessary to the operation of the railroad; that,
because of the threatened construction of the proposed
bridge, complainant has been unable to secure tenants
for the terminal property; and that, if any bridge shall
be constructed between Elizabeth and Bayonne, thb free
and unobstructed access of vessels to the Newark Terminal will be prevented and the value of the terminal
destroyed. The complaint shows that the defendant the
Port of New York Authority is a body corporate and
politic, established by a compact between New Jersey and
New York for the creation of the Port of New York District,, and for the comprehensive development of that
port. Coigress gave its consent to the agreement. C.
151, Laws of New Jersey, 1921; c. 154, Laws of New York,
1921; c. 77,. 42 Stat. 174. The district extends as far
north as Irvington on the Hudson, New York, as far east
as Long Beach, Long Island, as far south as Atlantic
Highlands, and as far west as Summit, New Jersey, and
so includes Newark Bay and the site of the bridge. See
opinion of District Court in this case, 287 Fed. 196, 201.
Pursuant to the compact, a comprehensive plan for the
development of the Port of New. York was approved by
.both States and consented to by Congress. C. 9, Laws of
New Jersey, 1922; c. 43, Laws of New York, 1922; c. 277,
42 Stat. 822. Appellants insist that Congress, by creating
and adopting as its instrumentality the Port Authority,
,qalified the license granted by the United States to thecompany by imposing as an additional requirement the
approval of that body.

NEWARK v. CENTRAL R.R.
377

381

Opinion of the Court.

The petition of intervention of Jersey City adopts the
allegations of the complaint and 'shows that within its
territorial limits it has much shore land on Newark Bay
and the Hackensack River, which is a continuation of 'the
bay, and that it owns lands on these waterfronts, on
which it has expended large sums for the construction of
wharves and other impfovements. The petition states
that the construction of the proposed bridge will cause
that city irreparable injury. The petition of intervention'
of the State of New Jersey calls attention to the provisions of the acts of 1914 and 1915, and alleges that the
company has not obtained the approval of its plans for
the proposed bridge by the Board of Commerce- and
Navigation.
The complainant and interveners pray judgment that
the defendant company is without right or power tb
build the proposed bridge; that it would be an unlawful
purpresture and public nuisance; and that its construction without the permission of the New Jersey Board of
Commerce and Navigation and the Port Authority- is
unlawful, and for an injunction.
The defendant Port Authority answered. The defendant company moved to dismiss the complaint on the
ground that it failed to state a cause of action. The motion was granted by the District Court (287 Fed. 196),
and its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 297 Fed. 77. Complainant and interveners appealed to this court. Judicial Code, § 241.
By the legislation empowering the company to construct, maintain and use the railroad, the State of New
Jersey consented to the construction of the bridge in
question.
At the time the bridge was built, there was no applicable legislation by Congress. And it was within the
power of the State to authorize its construction: Wilson
v. Black-Bird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Pet. 245, 252;

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

EscanabaCompany v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683. Chapter 64, Laws of New Jersey, 1860, provides: "That it
shall and may be lawful for the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey to extend their railroad from some
point in their track in the city of Elizabeth, to some
point or points on New York bay, in the county of Hudson, at or south of Jersey City; and for that purpose, in
its construction and completion, maintenance, use and
enjoyment, all and every provision of the act entitled,
'An act to incorporate the Somerville and Easton Railroad
Company' [approved February 26, 1847], and of the s6veral supplements thereto, shall extend and be applicable
to the railroad now authorized to be constructed, in every
respect as if the same had been originally authorized
under the'said act to which this is a supplement. [§1]
That the said- railroad company shall construct
a suitable bridge over any navigable water that they may
cross, with a pivot draw with two openings, each of seventy-five feet in width, at right angles to the main chanreel, located at a point convenient for navigation
(§2.) Section 6 of the act of incorporation of 1847 confers upon the president and directors of the company "all
the rights and powers necessary and expedient to survey, lay out, and construct" the railroad "not exceeding
one hundred feet in width, with as many sets of tracks and
rails as they may deem necessary . . . and to erect
embankments, bridges, ferries, and all other works necessary to lay rails and to do all other things which shall be
suitable or necessary for the completion or repair of the
said road or roads." These laws conferred on the company,not only the powers expressly defined, but-also those
which fairly are incidental thereto. Union Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Chicago, &c. Ry. Co., 163 U. S.564, 581. Necessary bridges are essential parts of the railroad; they are
stretches of railroad over water. As to bridges over navigable waters, the act of 1860 specified draws and the num.

NEWARK v. CENTRAL R. R.
377

383

Opinion of the Court.

ber and width of openings. But it did not prescribe the
number of tracks or other elements which were to constitute the railroad. The company was empowered to have
as many tracks, within the width specified, as it deemed
necessary. That the company in the first -instance might
have built a four-track bridge of permanent materials
such as is now proposed; instead of the smaller wooden
structure, cannot be doubted. The powers granted were
not exhausted by the construction of the tracks and bridge
first provided. Its charter was of unlimited .duration.
Bridges, as well as other elements of the property, must
be replaced when they wear out or become inadequate.
The company was empowered to maintain and improve
its railroad, as it might from time to time find necessary
or expedient. It was not bound to have its performance
limited to the capacity of the bridge first constructed, but
it was free to add to its transportation facilities by laying
down additional tracks over waters crossed by its bridges
as well as upon land. Plainly, authority to provide, as
needed, better and stronger bridges having additional
tracks is to be regarded as within the purposes of and
incidental to the powers- expressly givenS'- See Railway
Companies v. Keokuk Bridge Co., 131 U. S. 371,385, 389;
Brainardv. Clapp, 10 Cush. (Mass.) 6, 10; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Poihemus, 178 Fed. 904, 906. This case
is not like Morris and Essex Railroad Co. v. Central Railroad Co., 31 N. J. L. 205, or McCran v. Erie Railroad
Company, 95 N. J. Eq. 653. In the former, the company,
having laid out its railroad in accordance with the charter,
was held to be without power to add a branch or spur..
In the latter, it was held that. a change of a part of the
line shortening a curve could not be made without complying with § 16 of the Railroad Act of New Jersey,
requiring the consent of the Riparian Commission (now
the Board of Commerce and Navigation) and the payment of compensation to that. body for land under water

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

taken by the company. Here no extension, branch, spur,
or change of route is involved.
The replacement was authorized by the United States.
The act of August 8, 1919 authorized the company to
construct a bridge suitable to the interests of navigation,
betwen-Elizabeth and Bayonne, in accordance with the
Bridge Act of March 23, 1906. The latter requires the
plans and specifications to be approved by the Chief of
Engineers and Secretary of War (§ 1), and provides that,
whenever Congress shall authorize a bridge over navigable
waters of the United States, the authority shall cease
unless construction be commenced within one year and
completed within three years. § 6. The company failed
to commence construction within one year. But the act
of February 15, 1921 made the time for commencing and
completing the bridge two and five years respectively
from the date of its passage. The Chief of Engineers and
Secretary of War, December 29, 1922, approved the plans.
The supremacy of the power of Congress to regulate com.merce with foreign nations and among the States and of
the regulations made by the exertion of that power is so
well known as not to require citation of authority. Undoubtedly, that power extends to the navigable waters of
Newark Bay and to the plans for the replacement of the
bridge in question. As both state and federal governments have authorized or consented to the construction
of the bridge, we need not decide whether the acts of Congress and approval of the plans by the Chief of Engineers*
and Secretary of War would be sufficient without the consent of the State, or whether, in respect of the navigable
waters of Newark Bay wholly within the State of New
Jersey, the legislation of Congress supersedes the laws of
the State.
The laws of New Jersey do not require approval of the
plans for the proposed bridge-by the state Board of Commerce and Navigation.

NEWARK v. CENTRAL R. R.
377

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4, c. 123, Laws of 1914, provides: "All plans
for the development of any water front upon any navigable water or stream of this State, or bounding thereon
in the nature of individual improvement or
development, or as a part of a general plan which involves
the construction, change, alteration or modification of a
dock, wharf, pier, bulkhead, bridge, pipe line, cable, or
any other similar or dissimilar water front development,
to be undertaken subsequent to the passage of this act,
shall first be submitted to the said commission [the Board
of Commerce and Navigation. §§ 5, 13, c. 242, Laws of
1915], and no such development
. ..
shall be commenced or executed without the approval of this commission first had and received . . ." And it declares
that any such development or improvement commenced
or executed without such approval shall be deemed to be
a purpresture and a public nuisance. The company in
February, 1917, June, 1918, and February, 1922, applied
to that board fo' the approval of its plans for the proposed
bridge. All its applications were denied. Nevertheless,
the company is free to insist that such.approval was not
required. See Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307. The
plans for the new bridge to replace the old one are not
shown by any allegations of fact to constitute a "plan
for the development of any water front.". The constructionr
or replacement of a railroad bridge across a bay or river
is not necessarily a" water front development." The company was empowered under the act of 1860 not only to
construQt and maintain its railroad and the.existing double-track bridge across the bay, but also to replace that
bridge by another having additional tracks, whenever the
company found it expedient so to do. We find nothing in
the act to indicate an intention to require the plans for
such replacement to be submitted to the state board. It
is plain that the construction to be undertaken by the
company for the maintenance and betterment of its rail-

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267U. S.

road bridge over the bay is not a "water front development to be undertaken subsequent to the passage" of c.
123, Laws of 1914.
Approval by the Port Authority of the company's plans
for the proposed bridge was not required. There is no
provision in any of the laws relating to the Port Authority,
or to the comprehensive plan for the development of the
port, which requires such approval. And the Port Authority does not claim that the company was required to
obtain its permission. In its answer, it prays the court
"to determine its legal duties in the premises," and expresses willingness to pass on the application for a permit if the court shall determine one is required. The
complaint alleges that the bridge is not included in the
comprehensive plan, and that the existing and proposed
bridges" are in conflict therewith, obstructive thereof, and
inimical thereto." But the fact that the bridge is not
included does not make it unlawful, or leave the company
without authority to construct it. It does not appear
that the Port Authority has attempted, or has power,
to~deprive the company of its right to maintain, improve
and use that part of its railroad. The assertion that the
bridge is in conflict with the comprehensive plan is not
supported by any facts alleged in the complaint or in
the answer of the Port Authority. The pleader's naked
assertion-is not enough to support the contention that
the consent of the Port Authority was required.
Decree affirmed.

