OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

CHAS. WOLFF PACKING COMPANY v. THE COURT
OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS OF THE STATE -

OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Nos. 207 & 299.

Argued Nov. 20, 1924.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. When a judgment entered by a state court is modified by another
entered after a rehearing, the second supersedes the first, and a
writ of error to the second alone is proper for review in this Court.
P. 561.
2. A decision of a state Supreme Court that provisions of a statute
of the State are separable is conclusive on this Court in the case.
P- 562.
3. A judgment of reversal is not necessarily an adjudication by the
appellate court of any other than the questions in terms discussed
and decided.
Held that the former decision of this Court in this case (262 U. S.
522) holding the Kansas Industrial Relations Act unconstitutional
in so far as it permitted the fixing of wages in plaintiff in error's
packing plant, and reversing the judgment of the Kansas Supreme
Court for that reason, was'-neither an adjudication that the entire
act was invalid nor an adjudication that its provisions for fixing
hours of labor were valid. P. 562.
promote
4. The Industrial Relations Act of Kansas, which seeks top
continuity of operation and production in the industries fo which
it relates by compelling employer and employees to submit their
controversies to compulsory settlement by a state, agency, is, as
applied to a manufacturer of food products, unconstitutional, not
only so far as it permits compulsory fixing of wages, (as previously
decided, 262 U. S. 522,) but also, and for the same reasons, in the
provision for compulsory' fixing of hours of labor, since the compulsion in both these features alike is but part of a system by
which the act seeks to compel owner and employees to continue in
business on terms not of their own making, which infringes the
rights of property and liberty of contract guaranteed by the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 563.
5. Wiether a power conferred on a state agency to fix hours of
labor would be valid if it were conferred independently, and made
either general or dpplicable to all business of a particular class, is
not considered. P. '569.
114 Kans. 304, 487, reversed..

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDTS. COURT.
552

553

Akrgument for Plaintiff in Error.

ER OR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
entered, upon rehearing, after receipt of the mandate
issued from this Court upon a previous reversal, 262 U. S.
522. The judgment awarded a mandamus to compel
obedience to an order of the Kansas administrative agency
called the Court of Industrial Relations, in so far as it
*purported to fix the hours of labor and pay for over
time in the meat packing plant of the plaintiff in error.

Mr. D. R. Hite, with whom Messrs. John S. Dean and
Harry W. Colmery were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
The mandate and judgment of this Court required the
vacation of the judgment of the Kansas Supreme Court
as a whole and did not authorize its modification upon the
original record, ยง 709 Rev. Stats.; Cowdrey v. Bank, 139
Cal. 293; Davis v. Healey, 22 N. J. 115.
The object of the Industrial Court Act is the compulsory arbitration of disputes between employers and employees in designated industries, endangering continuity of
operation of such industries. The act was not concerned
with the health of employees engaged in operating such
industries. Howat's Case, 109 Kan. 376; IndustrialCourt
v. Packing Co., 109 Kan. 645; Industrial Court v. Packing
Co., 11l Kan. 501; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286;
Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522.
Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426, is not authority for
upholding the order of the industrial court fixing hours
and conditions of labor. Packing Co. v. IndustrialCourt,
262 U. S. 522; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Dorchy
v. Kansas, supra, Adkins v. Childrens Hospital, 261 U. S.
525.
Considered as a statute authorizing an order fixing hours
and conditions of labor for packing house employees,
the act creating the Court of Industrial Relations encounters the Fourteenth Amendment. Packing Co. v. In-

OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

267 U. S.

dustriat Court, supra; Lochner v. New York, 'supra;
Dorchy v. Kansas,supra;Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S.
578; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Coppage v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Truax v. Raich, 239 TT. S. 33; Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 467; Hairston v. D. & W. Ry. Co. 208
U. S. 606; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 661; St. Louis Ry.
Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350; People v. Road Co. 9 Mich.
285;'Cooley's*Const. Lim'ns. 7th ed. p. 838; Brick Co. v.
Perry, 69 Kan. 300; Howard v. Schwartz, 77 Kan. 609.
The parts of the order sustained by the Kansas Supreme Court are void because the necessary effect is to
increase the operating expenses of the packing company
against its will, notwithstanding the income of the company was and is insufficient to pay the cost of raw material and operating expenses, including the increase of
wages required to be paid by such order. Reagan v.
Farmers Loan & Trust Co. 154 U. S. 362; Railway Co. v.
Mills, 253 U. S. 206; Pa. Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S.
393.
Mi.John G. Egan and Mr. Chester I. Long, with whom
Messrs. Charles B. Griffith, Randal C. Harvey and Austin
M. Cowan were on the brief, for defendant in error.
After reversal and direction to take further proceedings
not inconsistent with the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the United States, a state court has authority to determine questions not decided by the higher court and to
modify its judgment accordingly. The authorities uniformly hold that a judgment of reversal is not an adjudication of any question other than the one actually discussed and decided. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 193
U. S. 551; Erie Ry. Co. v. Western Trans. Co. 204 U. S.
220. See also: In re Potts, 166 U. S. 263; Murphy v.
Utler, 186 UI. S. 99; Sou. Building Etc., Co. v. Carey, 117
Fed. 325; Gt. Northern Ry. Co. v: West. Union Tel. Co.,

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT.
552

555

Argument for Defendant in Error.

174 Fed. 321; Taenzer v. Railway Co. 191 Fed. 543; General Inv. Co. v. Ry. Co. 269 Fed. 235. The application
of the rule to the case at bar is exemplified by the recent
case of Hallananv. Eureka Pipe Line Co., 2.61 U. S. 393.
In the cases cited above, no distinction is made in cases
where further evidence was introduced and the pleadings
amended in the lower court ad those where no further
proceedings were had except the entering of a decree pursuant to the mandate. The question of the validity of
the statute and order relating to hours of labor was not
determined by this court in the former appeal.
The Kansas Industrial Court law, in so far as it authorizes fixing hours of labor in plaintiff in error's packing plant and penalizes overtime, is valid. The Supreme
Court of Kansas, from the start of this litigation, has interpreted the statute as having among its purposes the protection of the health of the workers, and has recognized
the fixing of hours of labor as a mpthod of protecting their
health. That Court has construed the statute to empower the Court of Industrial Relations to take jurisdiction of this controversy between the Wolff Packing Company and its employees over hours of labor. This jurisdiction can be sustained though the provision of the
statute declaring the packing industry to be affected with
'a public interest be ignored.
The opinion of this Court when this case was here before did not say that the business of meat packing might
not to any extent be affected with a public interest. The
opinion does not intimate that the legislature may not to
some extent remove obstacles to the*continued or efficient
operation or service of the meat packing industry. That
the State may to some extent at least remove such obstacles is plain from the establishment by States and by
National Government of boards of mediation, conciliation or arbitration to settle disputes between employers
and employees.

"556

OCTOBER TERI, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

267 U. S.

In addition to taking jurisdiction of a controversy
which may endanger the continuity or efficiency of service
of the meat packing industry, the Court of Industrial Relations may, .under ยง 7 of the act, take jurisdiction of a
controversy that may "affect the production or transportation of the necessaries of life affected or produced by
said industries or employments, or produce industrial
strife, disorder or waste, or endanger the orderly operation
of such industries, employments, public utilities or common carriers, and -thereby endanger the public peace or
,threaten the public health."
For the purpose of this argument, we can pass the
question as to the power of the Court of Industrial Relations to take jurisdiction of a controversy which "may
endanger the continuity or efficiency of service of any
of said industries," and consider the other cases where,
under ยง 7, it may take jurisdiction. To some extent the
State may intervene to keep open a market to its producers of live stock, to protect the supply of meat food,
to prevent the obstruction, crippling or breaking down of
the meat-packing industry and the interruption or the
loss of employment of the workers therein. An injury to
the employer in the industry or to the employees is an
-injury to public welfare. The interruption or loss of
employment of the workers means a deprivation to them
and their families and a blow to the prosperity of the
community in which they live.
The dispute at this plant concerning hours of labor
presented a controversy that affected the production of
the necessaries of life produced at the plant, caused industrial strife, disorder and waste, injured the orderly operation of the-plair, and thereby endangered the public
peace and threatened the public health. The facts presented in the controversy come within the provisions of
ยง 7 authorizing the-Court of Industrial Relations to take
jurisdiction. The dispute over hours of labor was one of

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT.
552

557

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the grounds of the controversy. The court properly took
jurisdiction and ordered relief which, if carried out, would
remove one of the causes of the controversy and would
do away with injuriously long hours of labor. 'This relief
was within the purview of the statute and within the
power of the State.
The act is uniform in its operation and there is no denial
of the equal protection of the laws. Radice v. New York,
264 U. S. 292. All manufacturers of food products are
equally subject to the Industrial Court law. so far as it
is valid.
Hours of labor in packing plants are a proper subject
for regulations under the police power. Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426; Adkins
v. ChildrensHospital, 261 U. S. 525; Radice v. New York,
supra. The Court of Industrial Relations has found the
fact that prolonged hours of labor are detrimental to the
health of the worker, and to the public welfare, in the
plant of the plaintiff in error, and this finding is supported
by the evidence in the record, and has been approved by
the Kansas Supreme Court. This finding is entitled to
the same consideration given that of the legislature in
Holden v. Hardy, supra; Bunting v. Oregon, supra; Radice v. New York, supra. But the validity of the order in
question concerning hours does not depend in any respect
on the public interest or lack of public interest in the
meat packing industry. This was important on the quest.ion of wages, but not as to hours of labor. In neither
the Holden, Bunting nor Radice cases, cited above, was
the nature of the business considered except its effect on
the health of the worker, and practically all the industries affected thereby were impressed with no public interest, whatever, and certainly not as much as is conceded
to the packing industry in the first decision of this case.
Hours of labor is a proper subject for regulation in any
industry where prolonged hours are detrimental to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

267 U. S.

health of the workers. The portions of the statute relating to hours are valid despite the invalidity of the wagefixing provisions. Dorchy v. Kansas, supra; State v.
Howat, 107 Kan. 423; State, ex rel., v. Howat, 109 Kan.
'376; The State v. Howat, 116 Kan..412.
There is no inconsistency between these decisions and
the case of Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, where this Court
found invalid certain sections of the futures trading act
(c. 76, 42" Stat., 178), and likewise found other sections
invalid because so interwoven with the invalid regulations
that they could not be separated. See United States v.
Reese, 92 U. S. 214. All that is necessary here, and all
that has been done by the State Supreme Court, is to
strike out the invalid word "wages" and the invalid provisions relating to wages only. Animportant distinction
between this case and the cases of Hill v. Wallace and
United States v. Reese, is that in both of those cases a
federal statute was involved, and it was the primary duty
of this Court to decide whether such statutes were severable. But in the case at bar a state statute is involved,
and the duty of determining its severability falls upon
the state court, and the state court has held the statute
to be severable. The order affects women as well as men.
Freedom of contract as to hours of labor must yield to
police power. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Bunting v.
Oregon, supra; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. I. C. C., 221 U. S.
612; M. K. & T. v. United States, 231 U. S. 112; Holden
v. Hardy, supra; Mueller v. Ore., 208 U. S. 412; Bosley v.
McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S.
373; Riley v. Mass., 232 U. S. 671; Atkin v. Kansas, 191
U. S. 207; Arizona Copper Co. v. Hammer, 250 U. S.
400; New York Cent. Ry. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188;
New' York Cent. Ry. Co. v. Bianc, 250 U. S. 596. See,
also, Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota,226 U. S. 157;
Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152;
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Na-

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT.
552

559

Opinion of the Court.

tional Safety Deposit Co. v. Stead, 232 U. S. 58; Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 472; Grand Trunk W. R. R.
Co. v. R. R. Comm'rs. of Indiana,221 U. S. 400. The'act
is not invalid because it operates only when there is a
controversy. Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373. The claim
of confiscation is not well founded. The fact that an
industry is doing business at a loss cannot defeat a proper
exercise of the police power. In all cases where an exercise of the police power was challenged, and the point of
the loss to the individual has been raised, it has been decided adversely to such contention (except in price-fixing cases). Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; California
Reduction Co. v. Sanitary Reduction Works, 199 U. S.
306; Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U. S. 394; Hebe Co. v.
Shaw. 248 U. S. 297; Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro,
232 U. S. 548.
The plaintiff in error has proven -no operating loss de
to limitation of the hours of labor of its employees. Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339.
The burden was upon the Packing Company to establish
that the order of the Industrial Court was confiscatory.
MR. JusTiEci VY
the Court.

DEVANrtER delivered the opinion of

This was an original proceeding in mandamus in the
Supreme Court of Kansas to compel the Wolff Packing
Company to put into effect an order of a state agency,
'called the Court of Industrial Relations, determining a
dispute respecting wages, hours of labor and working conditions in a slaughtering nd packing plant owned and
operated by the company. The order was made in a compulsory proceeding under a Kansas statute, called the Industrial Relations Act, c. 29, Laws 1920, Special Session,
and consisted of 19 distinct paragraphs-some fixing
wages, some fixing hours of labor and pay for overtime,
and others prescribing working conditions. After a hear-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

ing, the Supreme Court eliminated the paragraphs relating to working conditions, because made without the required notice, and awarded a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding obedience to the other paragraphs;
109 Kan. 629; 111 Kan. 501. That judgment was
brought to this Court for review and was reversed-with a
direction that the case be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion rendered at the
time. 262 U. S. 522. After receiving the mandate, the
state court vacated its original judgment; eliminated the
paragraphs relating to working conditions and those fixing wages; also eliminated from the paragraphs fixing
hours of labor the clauses relating to pay for overtime;
and awarded a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding obedience to what remained of the last paragraphs..
114 Kan. 304. On a rehearing, the court modified that
judgment by awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus
to compel obedience to the paragraphs fixing hours of
labor, including the clauses relating to pay for overtime.
114 Kan. 487. The paragraphs to which obedience was
thus finally commanded are as follows:
"3. A basic working day of eight hours shall be observed in this industry; 'but a nine-hour day may be observed not to exceed two days in any one week without
penalty: Provided, however, That if the working hours
of the week shall exceed forty-eight in number, all over
forty-eight shall be paid for at the rate of time and onehalf: furthermore, in case a day in excess of the eight
hour day shall be observed more than two days in any
one week, all over eight hours, except for said two days
in said week, shall be paid for at the rate of time and onehalf, even though the working hours of the week may be
forty-eight hours or fewer."
"14. Workers paid by the week or day, if employed
within the plant and not within the office or gales department, shall be subject to hours of work and overtime

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT.
552

561

Opinion of the Court.

as other employees under the terms of finding No. 3
hereof."
"19. In departments operating twenty-four hours a
day and seven days a week, each employee therein shall
be entitled to one day off each week. In other departments work performed on Sunday and legal holidays shall
be paid for at the rate of time and one-half."
The order, according to its terms, was to remain in
force until changed by the Court of Industrial Relations
or by agreement of the parties with the approval of that
agency.
The company has brought the case here again-this
time on two writs of error. One covers the judgment first
entered after receipt of the mandate of this Court, and
the other covers the judgment entered on the rehearing.
The first of these writs can serve no purpose and must be
dismissed. The rehearing was seasonably requested.-and
the judgment entered thereon became the final judgment, the other being superseded by it.
Throughout the mandamus proceedings the company
insisted that the Industrial Relations Act, on which the
order was based, was in conflict with the provision of
the Fourteenth Amendment that no State shall deprive
any person of liberty or property without due process of
law. This insistence was wholly rejected when the
original judgment, heretofore reversed, was rendered, and
was largely rejected when the judgment on the rehearing
was given.
When the case was first before this Court the discussion at the bar and in the briefs chiefly related to the
validity of the parts of the Act permitting the fixing of
wages; and the opinion then delivered particularly dealt
with that question, the ultimate conclusion, as expressed
therein, being:
"We think the Industrial Court Act, in so far as it
permits fixing of wages in plaintiff in error's packing

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

house, is in conaflict with the Fourteenth Amendment and
deprives it- of its property and liberty of contract without
due process of law."
That conclusion, without more, required a reversal of
the judgment of the state court. The parts of the Act
permitting the fixing of hours of labor were not specially
dealt with, and were not affected by the decision, save as
the reasons on which it proceeded might be applicable to
them. The reversal was with a direction that the case
be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this Court's decision, and therefore the mandate operated
particularly to require that the, parts of the Act permitting the fixing of wages be regarded as invalid.
In the proceedings which followed the receipt of the
mandate, the state court held that the other parts of
the Act were separable from those permitting the fixing
of wages, and also pronounced them constitutional. As
the question of separability was a state question, the
decision of that court thereon is conclusive here. Dorchy
v. Kansas, 264 1U. S. 286; Hallananv.Eureka, Pipe Line
Co., 261 U. S. 393, 397. The decision on the constitutional question is all that we can review.
Both parties rely on our decision when the case was
first here. One insists that by reversing the original judgment of the state court, and not merely a part of it, we
adjudged the invalidity of ihe entire Act; and the other
that by particularly declaring the provisions, permitting
the fixing of wages invalid and saying nothing about the
provisions permitting the fixing of hours of labor we
iinpliedly held- the latter valid. Both contentions are
wrong. "A judgment of reversal is not necessarily an
adjudication by the appellate court of any other than the
questions in terms discussed and decided," Mutual Life
Insurance Company v. Hill, 193 I. S. 551, 553.
The company next contends that the decision, even
though not in terms determining the question of the valid-

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT. 563
552

Opinion of the Court.

ity of the provisions permitting the fixing of hours of
labor, recognized and gave effect to principles which are
applicable to that question and if applied will solve it.
A survey of the Act and of the decision will show that this
contention is well taken.
The declared and adjudged purpose of the Act is to
ensure continuity of operation and production in certain
businesses which it calls " essential industries." To that
end it provides for the compulsory settlement by a state
agency of all labor controversies in such businesses which
endanger the intended continuity. It proceeds on Vthe
assumption that the public has a paramount interest in
the subject which justifies the compulsion. The businesses named include, among others, that of manufacturing or preparing food products for sale and human consumption. The controversies to be settled include, among
others, those arising between employer and employees
over either wages or hours of labor. The state agency
charged with the duty of making the settlement is the
Court of Industrial Relations. Although called a court
it is an administrative board. It is to summon the disputants before it, to give them a hearing, to settle the
matter in controversy-as by fixing wages or hours of
labor where they are what is in dispute-to embody its
findings and determination in an order, and, if need be,
to institute mandamus proceedings in the Supreme Court
of the State to compel compliance with its order. The
order is to continue in effect for such reasonable time as
the agency may fix, or until changed by agreement of the
parties with its approval. The employer may discontinue
the business (a) where -it can be conducted conformably
to the order only at a loss, or (b) where for good cause
shown the agency approves; and individual employees
may quit the service in the exercise of a personal .privilege, but may not induce others to quit or combine with
them to do so.

With these qualifications both employer

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the.Court.

267 U. S.

and employees are required to continue the business on
the terms fixed in the order, -violations and evasions being

penalized.

The authority given to the agency to fix

wages, or hours of labor is not general, nor is it to be
exerted independently of the system of compulsory settlement. On the contrary, it is but a feature of that system and correspondingly limited in purpose and field of
application. No distinction is made between wages and
hours of labor; both are put on the same plane. In the
fixing of wages regard is to be had for what is fair between employer and employees, and in the fixing of hours
of labor regard is to be had for what are healthful periods;
but neither is to be fixed save in the compulsory adjustment of an endangering controversy to the end that the
business shall go on.
The following excerpt from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the State in State ex rel. v. Howat, 109 Kan. 376,
417, explains the pervading theory of the Act:
"Heretofore the industrial relationship has been tacitly
regarded as existing between two min-mbers-industrial
manager, and industrial worker. They have joined wholeheartedly'in excluding others. The legislature proceeded
on the thdory there is a third member of those industrial
relationships which have to do with production, preparation and distribution of the necessaries of life-the public.
The legislature also proceeded on the theory the public
is not a silent partner. When the dissensions of the other
two become flagrant, the third member may see to it the
business does not stop."
On three occasions when the Act was before us we referred to it as undertaking to establish a system of "compulsory arbitration." Howat v. -Kansas, 258 U. S. 181,
184; Wolff Packing Company v. Court of IndustrialRelations, 262 U. S. 522, 542; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S.
286. 288. The Supreme Court of the State in a recent
opinion criticizes this use of -the term " arbitration."

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT. 565
.552

Opinion of the Court.

State v. Howat, 116 Kan. 412. 415. We recognize that in
its usual acceptation the term indicates a proceeding based
entirely on the consent of the parties. And we recognize
also that this Act dispenses with their consent. Under it
they have no- voice in selecting the determining agency
or in defining what that agency is to investigate and determine. And yet the determination is to bind them even
to the point of preventing them from agreeing on any
change in the terms .fixed therein, ufiless the agency approves. To speak of a proceeding with such attributes
merely as an arbitration might be subject to criticism,
but we think its nature is fairly reflected when it is spoken
of as a compulsory arbitration. Of course, our present
concern is with the essence of the system rather than its
name. In this connection it is well to observe that in the
opinion last mentioned the state court recognizes that
the system, while intended to be just between employer
and employees, proceeds on the theory that the public interest is paramount, as was explained in State ex rel. v.
Howat, supra.
The survey just made of the Act, as construed and applied in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State,
shows very plainly that its purpose is not to regulate
wages or hours of labor either generally or in particular
classes of business, but to authorize the state agency to
fix them where, and in so far as, they are the subjects of
a, controversy the settlement of which is directed in the
interest of the public. In short, the authority to fix them
is intended to be merely a part of the system of compulsory arbitration and to be exerted in attaining its object, which is continunity of operation and production.
When the case was first here the question chiefly
agitated, and therefore discussed and decided, was
whether the authority to fix wages as an incident of the
compulsory arbitration could be.applied to a business like
that of the Wolff Company consistently with the protec-

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

tion which the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment affords to the liberty of contract and rights
of property. The question was answered in the negative
and the Act was held invalid in so far as it gives that
authority. The subject was much considered and the
principles which were recognized and applied were distinctly stated.
At the outset the Court pointed out that the Act assumes as a "necessary postulate" that the State, in the
interest of the public, "may compel those engaged in the
manufacture of food and clothing, and the production of
fuel, whether owners or workers, to continue in their
business or employment on terms fixed by an agency of
the State if they cannot agree." Then, after referring to
the limited privilege of withdrawing from the business or
employment which the Act accords to owners and employees who may be dissatisfied with the determination,
the Court said [534]:
"These qualifications do not change the essence of the
act. It curtails the right of the employer on the one hand,
and of the employee on the other, to contract about his
affairs. This is part of the liberty of the individual protected by the guarantee of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Meyer v. Nebraska, ante, 390.
While there is no such thing as absolute freedom of contract and it is subject to a variety of restraints, they must
not be arbitrary or unreasonable. Freedom is the general
rule, and restraint the exception. The legislative authority to abridge can be justified only by exceptional circumstances. Adkins v. Childre's Hospital, 261 U. S.
525."
Various matters which were relied on as justifying the
attempted restraint or abridgement were considered and
pronounced inadequate. Among them was the assumption in the Act that a business like that in question-preparing food for sale and human consumption-is so far

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT.
552

567

Opinion of the Court.

affected with a public interest that the State may compel its continuance, and, if the owner and employees cannot agree, may fix the terms through a public agency to
the end that there shall be continuity of operation and
production. This assumption was held to be without any
sound basis and its indulgence by the state legislature was
declared not controlling. The court recognized that, in a
sense, all business is of some concern to the public and
subject to some measure of regulation, but made it
plain that the extent to which regulation reasonably may
go varies greatly with different classes of business and is
not a matter of legislative discretion solely, but is a judicial question to be determined with due regard to the
rights of the owner and employees. Care was taken to
point out that operating a railroad, keeping an inn, conducting an elevator and following a common calli4g are
not all in the same class, and particularly to point out the
distinctions between a quasi-public business conducted
under a public grant imposing a correlative duty to operate, a business originally private which comes to be affected with a public interest through a change in pais,
and a business which not only was private in the beginning but has remained such. The conclusion was that
power to compel the continuance of a business because
affected with a public interestis altogether exceptional.
On this subject the Court said:
"An ordinary producer, manufacturer or shopkeeper
may sell or not sell as he likes, United States v. TransMissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 320; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252,
256, and while this feature does not necessarily exclude
businesses from the class clothed with a public interest,
German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389,
it usually distinguishes private from quasi-public occupations."
"It involves a more drastic exercise of control to impose limitations of 'continuity growing out of the public

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

character of the business upon the employee than upon
the employer; and without saying that such limitations
upon both may not be sometimes justified, it must be
where the obligation to the public of continuous service
is direct, clear and mandatory and arises as a contractual
condition express or implied of entering the business
either as owner or worker. It can only arise when investment by the owner and entering the employment by the
worker create a conventional relation to the public somewhat equivalent to the appointment of officers and the
enlistment of soldiers and sailors in military_ service."
"The penalties of the act are directed against effort
of either side to interfere with the settlement by arbitration. Without this joint compulsion, the whole theory
and purpose of the act would fail. The State cannot be
heard to say, therefore, that upon complaint of the em"ployer, the effect upon the employee should not be a
factor in our judgment."
"The power of a legislature to compel continuity in a
business can only arise where the obligation of continued
service by the owner and its employees is direct and is
assumed when the business is entered upon. A common
carrier which accepts a railroad franchise is not free to
withdraw, the use of that which it has granted to the
public. It is true that if operation is impossible without
continuous loss, Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 396; Bullock v. Railroad Commission,
254 U. S. 513, it may give up its franchise and enterprise,
but short of this, it must continue. Not so the owner
[in another field] when by mere changed conditions his
business becomes clothed with a public interest. He may
stop at will whether the business be losing or profitable."
Applying these principles, the Court was of opinion
that the business in question is one which the State is
without power to compel the owner and employees to
continue.

WOLFF PACKING CO. v. INDUS. COURT. 569
552

Opinion of the Court.

On further reflection we regard the principles so stated
and applied as entirely sound. The are as applicable
now as they were then. The business is the same and the
parties are the same. So, we reach the same conclusion
now that we reached then.
The system of compulsory arbitration which the Actestablishes is intended to compel, and if sustained will
compel, the owner and employees to continue the business on terms which are not of their making. It will
constrain them not merely to respect the terms if they
continue the business, but will constrain them to continue the business on those terms. True, the terms have
some qualifications, but as shown in the prior decision
the qualifications are rather illusory and do not subtract
much from the duty imposed. Such a system infringes
the liberty of contract and rights of property guaranteed
by the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. "The established doctrine is that this
liberty may not be interfered with, under the guise of
protecting the public interest, by legislative action which
is arbitrary or without reasonable relation to some purpose within the competency of the State to effect."
Meyer v. Nebraska,262 U. S. 390, 399.
The authority which the Act gives respecting the fixing of hours of labor is merely a feature of the system
of compulsory arbitration and has no separate purpose.
It was exerted by the state agency as a part of that system and the state court sustained its exertion as such.
As a part of the system it shares the invalidity of the
whole. Whether it would be valid had it been conferred
independently of the system and made either general or
applicable to all businesses of a particular class we need
not consider, for that was not done.
It follows that the state court should have declined to
give effect to any part of the order of the state agency.
No. 207. Writ of error dismissed.
No. 299. Judgment reversed.

