SANTA FE PAC. R. R. v. WORK.
505

511

Syllabus.

whether there was probable cause to issue the warrant,
with direction that if the jury found that there was not
probable cause, it should ignore the evidence resulting
from the seizure and acquit the defendant. There are
two answers to this assignment of error. One has already
been referred to, that the fact of the existence of probable
cause in the issue of the search warrant was res judicata,
made so by the judgment of the court in the case preceding that the property could not be returned to Steele.
The second answer is that the question of the competency
of the evidence of the whiskey by reason of the legality
or otherwise of its seizure was a question of fact and law
for the court and not for the jury. Gila Valley Ry. Co.
v. Hall, 232 U. S.94, 103; Bartlett v. Smith, 11 M. & W.
483; Doe dem. Jenkins v. Davies, 10 Ad. & El. N. S.314;
5 Wigmore, Evidence (2d Ed.) ยง 2550.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Affirmed.

SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 302. Argued March 18, 19, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. The construction of a law of the United States was "drawn in
question by the defendant" within the meaning of ยง 250, par. 6
of the Judicial Code permitting appeals to this Court from the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, where the Secretary
of the Inteior, as defendant, secured the dismissal' of plaintiff's
bill upon the ground that the lieu land selection in controversy was
not perrmitted by an Act of Congress. P. 515.
2. Under the Act of June 22, 1874, providing that railroads may
relinquish lands appertaining to their land grants which are found
in possession of actual settlers, etc., and select an equal quantity
of other lands in lieu thereof from any of 'tle public lands "not
mineral" within the limits of the grant, not otherwise appropriated

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

267 U. S.

at the date of selection, "to which they shall receive title the same
bs though originally granted," a railroad company is not entitled to
lieu-select coal land, even though coal and iron lands are not
excluded from its land grant but are declared therein not to fall
within the term "mineral." P. 516.
54 App. D. C. 161; 295 Fed. 982, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, which affirmed a decree of the Supreme Court of the District, dismissing a bill to restrain
the Secretary of the Interior from canceling a railroad lieu
selection.

Mr. F. W. Clements, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton was on the brief, for appellant.
In determining what is meant by "public lands not
mineral," as used in the act of June 22, 1874, that act
must-be construed as in pari materia'with the granting
act; and when so construed, the lands are considered as
non-mineral notwithstanding the presence of valuable
deposits of coal. There is nothing in the act of 1874 limiting the selection of lands in lieu of those relinquished
to other "lands equal in quantity and value," as said
by the court below. Congress undoubtedly had a defined
policy in permitting the large transcontinental railroads
to take under their grants lands containing iron or coal
products. These railroads were great undertakings opening up country practically unexplored, and coal and iron
were necessary products, not only in construction, but in
later maintenance of the proposed railways. Nothing
had occurred to change this policy, and the construction
of the act of '74 should be in line with the constructive
policy so clearly defined in the original granting acts;
and surely the generosity of the companies in relinquishing that which belonged to them, in order to protect
unfqrtunates misled, furnishes no reason for changing
this policy or -oenalizing the companies.

SANTA FE PAC. R. R. v. WORK.
511

Opinion of the Court.

The act of 1874 provided that the grantee company
should receive title to the lieu selection as though originally granted. In other words, the lieu lands were to be
taken in place of those surrendered, as the surrendered
lands might have been taken under original grant. This
left both the companies and the individual as though the
provision protecting those coming after definite location
had been incorporated in the original grant. Nothing
could be fairer, and if this were the purpose of Congress
it could not have been more clearly expressed.
The granting act of 1866 permits selection within the
enlarged or indemnity belt of lands containing valuable
deposits of coal where taken in lieu of agricultural lands
lost within the primary or place limits of the grants.
The Secretary's action in refusing to approve the Company's selection is arbitrary, in that he exceeded his
power and authority in taking into consideratioi in determining its validity the facts with respect to the possible
coal contents and the valuation of the lands in that
regard.
Mr. Harry L. Underwood, Special Aisistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and
Assistant Attorney General Wells were on the brief, for
the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TA1kr delivered the opinion of Oe
Court.
The bill in this case was filed by the Santa Fe Pacific
Railroad Company, incorporated under an-Act of Congress, against -the Secretary of the Interior to enjoin him
from canceling a certain selection of lieu lands, and to
command him to recall the order for such cancellation
and to refrain from any further action except to issue a
patent therefor in accordance with the rights of the
plaintiff.

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267U. S.

By Act of Congress, July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, Congress made a grant of lands in New Mexico and Arizona
to the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company in aid of
the construction of a railroad of that name. The company defaulted on its bonds, the mortgage was foreclosed,
and a sale effected to the Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Company, the complainant, which became possessed of all the
rights granted by the Act of July 27, 1866, to the mortgagor company. The grant of 1866 covered every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated by
odd numbers, to the amount of twenty, alternate sections
per mile, on each side of the railroad line, not reserved,
sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, at the time that
the line of the road was designated by the filing of a
plat in the General Land Office. The granting act provided further that the word "mineral" when it occurred
in the Act should not be held to include iron or coal.
The Act of June 22, 1874, c. 400, 18 Stat. 1947 provided:
"That in the adjustment of all railroad land grants,
whether made directly to any railroad company or to any
State for railroad purposes, if any of the lands granted be
found in the possession of an actual settler whose entry
or filing has been allowed under the preemption or homestead laws of the United States subsequent to the time at
which, by the decision of the land office, the right of said
road was declared to have attached to such lands, the
grantees, upon a proper relinquishment of the lands so
entered or filed for, shall- be entitled to select an equal
quantity of other lands in lieu thereof from any of the
public lands not mineral and within the limits *ofthe grant
not otherwise appropriated at the date of selection, to
which they shall receive title the same as though originally granted. And any such entries or filings thus
relieved from conflict may be perfected into complete
title as if such lands had not been granted: Provided,
That nothing herein contained shall in any manner be so

SANTA FE PAC. R. R. v. WORK.
511

Opinion of the Court.

construed as to enlarge or extend 'any grant to any such
railroad or to extend to lands reserved in any land grant
made for railroad purposes."
Pursuant to this legislation, the Railroad Company, on
December 1, 1921, filed in the proper local land office an
application to select the subject of the controversy here,
being a forty-acre tract, the quarter of a quarter sectioD
within the primary or place limits of the grant in Arizona, in lieu of a tract of the same area in the same limits
which it had relinquished because of a homestead claim
coming within the terms of the Act of 1874. The .filing
was accepted by the local land office, but was rejected by
the Secretary of the Interior because the land applied for
was embraced in a coal withdrawal. The view of the
Secretary was that the Act of June 22. 1874, did not authorize the selection of coal land in lieu of the land relinquished. The argument of the Railroad Company is that
as the granting Act of 1866 declared that "mineral" in
that act should not include coal or iron, the same construction should be given to the same word in the Act of June
22, 1874. in so far as selections rqade-by the appellant
are concerned.
The Supreme Court of the District sustained a motion
to dismiss the bill for want of equity. and this action was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
The question whether this Court has jurisdiction of
the appeal is raised on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior. We think it has under the 6th'paragraph of ยง 250
of the Judicial Code, which permits an appeal from the
Court of Appeals of the District in cases "in which the
construction of any law of the United States is drawn
in question by the defendant." Certainly the Secretary
of the Interior, as the defendant herein, by his contention that the Act of 1874 does not permit the Railroad
Company to select lieu lands which are coal lands, draws
in question the construction of a law of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The Act of 1874 was passed to help homestead and
other settlers who were in hard case because they had
established their settlement after the grant to the Railroad Company was held to have attached. The question
when it did attach was for a long time doubtful and the
subject of litigation. This Act of 1874 was intended to
induce the railroad companies to relinquish such lands
thus illegally occupied as against them by promising in
lieu thereof other lands of equa area in both odd and even
sections within the prescribed' limits- The act applied
not only to railroad grants in which the term "lands not
mineral" did not exclude iron or coal lands, as in this
case, but also to similar grants, of which there were severa l, in which the phrase "not mineral" was used in its
usual sense and excluded iron and coal. E. g., see grants
to Union Pacific R. R. and Central Pacific, 12 St. 489,
492, c. cxx.,-ยง 3; Joint Resolution Jan. 30, 1865, 13 Stat.
567. It would seem to-be impossible, therefore,. to give a
meaning to the phrase "not mineral" in the Act of 1874
which should mehn including c9al in some cases and excluding coal in others.
More than this, the settlers who were to be aided by
the Act of 1874 were those who made homestead or preemption filings. Coal lands were not subject to such entry or disposition. As the lands which the railroad companies wereinited to relinquish could not be known coal
lands, it is not to be inferred that Congress intended that
the' railroad companies should in compensation acquire
coal lands by their'lieu selections.
This construction of the Act of 1874 accords with the
action of the Department of the Interior since its passage.
Not until this case had the precise question been mooted
so as to invoke a formal decision of the Secretary; but the
record-discloses that it has been the uniform practice of
the General Land Office, in its printed forms furnished
under the adt "toconfine such lieu selections to lands not

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
511

Syllabus.

known to contain coal, iron or other minerals, and that
railroad companies generally have acquiesced therein by
furnishing proofs of the non-coal and iron character of the
land selected.
It has also been insisted on behalf of the Secretary that
the discretion vested in him by Congress in supervising
the selection of lieu lands and in executing the laws of
1866 and 1874 is quasi judicial, and that it may not be
controlled through mandamus or injunction by the Courts,
unless his conclusion can be said to be capricious or arbitrary, or so unreasonable as not to be debatable. To sustain this claim, the cases of Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324; Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683,
692; Alaska Smokeless Coal Co. v. Lane, 250 U. S. 549t
555, and Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S.343, and a number of
earlier cases are cited. See Brown v. Hitcocwk; 173 U. S.
473, 478. It may be that the authority of these cases
would require us to yield to the contention made on behalf
of the Secretary in this regard. .We are not; however, required to decide this point. The case against the construction of the Act of 1874 urged by the Railroad Company is so clear that we prefer to put our decision directly
on the merits of that issue.
Affirmed.
COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 311.

Argued March 20, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. On the day following a trial in the District Court in which'a
verdict had been rendered against his client, in a case ig'which
other necessary proceedings remained pending, and while the court
was engaged in trying another case. but during a short recess, an
attorney at law addressed a letter, marked "personal," to the District Judge and caused it to be delivered to him at his chambers
next the court room, in which the writer not only' "advised the

