OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

326

Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

amounted to regulation of interstate and foreign commerce.

"They fall within that class of powers which

may be exercised by the States until Congress has seen
fit to act upon the subject."
332, 341.

Olsen v. Smith, 195 U. S.

SMYTH ET AL. v. ASPHALT BELT RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL.
APP.AI; FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS, TRANSFERRED
FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT, PURSUANT TO THE ACT OF CONGRESS
OF SEPTEMBER, 14, 1922.

No. 206.

Argued January 20, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. The propriety of a transfer of a case from the Circuit Court of
,Appeals will be inquired into by this Court of its owm motion.
P. 327.
2. A decree of the District Court dismissing a bill "for lack of juris-diction" but in the absence of any challenge of the court's jurisdiction as a federal court, and based upon a conclusion, after full
hearing upon pleadings and evidence, that. the acts sought to be
enjoined were not violative of rights claimed by the plaintiff under
a federal statute,--held, not to involve the jurisdiction of the
District Court as a federal court, and not appealable directly to
this Court, but to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 328.
3. When the District Court lacks jurisdiction as a federal court it is
without power to impose costs on the plaintiff. P. 330.
292 Fed. 876, returned to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

from a decree of th6 District Court which dismissed a bill by which the appellants sought to enjoin
condemnation of their land for Taiway purposes. The
case was transferred to this Court by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, to which th6 appeal was taken. It is now
returned to that court.
APPEAL

SMYTH v. ASPHALT BELT RY.
326

327

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert H. Kelly, with whom Mr. T. W. Gregory
and Mr. FrankAndrews were on the .brief, for appellants.
Mr. Mason Williams and Mr. J. D. Wheeler, with whom
Mr. R. J. Boyle and Mr. G. W. Wharton,were on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the federal court for
western Texas which dismissed a bill in equity with costs.
There was a full hearing upon pleadings and evidence.
The plaintiffs had moved for an interlocutory injunction;
the defendants to dismiss the bill. 292 Fed. 876. The
decree recited, as the ground for dismissal, "that the court
is without jurisdiction." The plaintiff took an appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning fifteen errors, of
which only a few referred in any way to jurisdiction.
The appellate court was of opinion that, under *therule
declared in United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109, it was
without jurisdiction, because the jurisdiction of the District Court had been challenged and the decision there
was in favor of the defendants. The Court of Appeals,
therefore, transferred the case to this Court, pursuant to
the Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837. See
Mcill'illanr Contracting Co. v. Abernathy, 263 U. S. 438.
Whether the transfer should have been made is the preliminary question requiring decision, although not raised
by coufisel. Smith v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274, 275.
If the jurisdiction of the District Court as a federal
court was the -question there in issue, and was the only
question, it is clear that, under ยง 238, this Court alone
had jurisdiction of the appeal, Chappell v. United States,
160 U. S. 499, 508; The Carlo Poma, 255 U. S. 219, and
it was proper to transfer the case, Hoffman v. McClelland,
264 U. S. 552. But if the question, caled one of juris-

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

diction by the lower courts, was not, in fact, a question

of the jurisdiction of the federal court as such, but
whether the action complained of violated a federal law,
Louie v. United States, 254 U. S. 548; Binderup v. Pathe
Exchange, Inc., 263 U. S. 291, 304-308, or whether a
power possessed by the court should be exercised, Smith
v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274; Oliver American Trading Co.,
Inc. v. Mexico, 264 U. S. 440, then the appeal was properly
taken' to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The proceedings in the District Court; including its
opinion and decree, and the briefs filed in this Court, show
that at no time was the jurisdiction of the trial court as
a federal court questioned there; and that its jurisdiction
as a federal court was clear. The suit was brought as one
"arising under the Constitution and Laws of the United
States" and particularly under the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended. The sum involved was alleged to
exceed three thousand dollars exclusive of interest and.
costs. All the defendants were alleged to be citizens and
residents of the district. All were duly served. All appeared generally, answered and introduced evidence.
The motion to dismiss assigned the grounds therefor; and
lack of jurisdiction of the court as a federal court was not
one of them. Lack of merits, lack of equity, and lack of
that status which alone would entitle a private individual
to sue were the objections urged. Lack of jurisdiction
over the subject matter was also asserted in tei'ms, but
the pleadings and the opinion of the District Court show
that this expression was not intended as a challenge of
the jurisdiction of the court as a federal court, but as a
deial bf fundamental allegations in the bill essential to
a cause of action and to the relief under the federal statute
invoked.
The bill alleged that the plaintiffs owned a tract of land
in Texas; that the two corporate defendants, and another
defendant, who was the receiver of one of them, were

SMYTH v. ASPHALT BELT RY.
326

Opinion of the Court.

purposing to construct a railroad across the land; that, to
this end, they were proceeding under a statute of the State
to condemn, in the name of one of these corporations, a
right of way over the land; that the proposed -railroad is
in fact an extension of the line of the other railroad corporation which is engaged in interstate commerce; that
the new line is intended to be used in interstate commerce
and that, irrespective of intention, it will be required by
the laws of Texas to be open to such commerce; that it
cannot legally be constructed without there first having
been obtained from the Interstate Commerce Commission
a certificate, of public convenience and necessity as provided in paragraphs 18 to 20 of ยง 1 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce as amended by Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91,
41 Stat. 456, 477, 478; that the proposed condemnation
of plaintiffs' land was undertaken without first having
secured such certificate; and that this action violates
plaintiffs' rights under the federal statute. The District
Court said in its opinion:
"Since the plaintiffs' right to injunction rests uponprovisions of an Act of Congress regulating interstate
commerce, the Court would be without jurisdiction unless
thq facts show: (1) That the Asphalt Belt Railroad
Company is owned and controlled by the San Antonio,
Uvalde & Gulf Railroad Company, an interstate carrier,
thus constituting it an extension and branch of the latter
road, or (2) that the A. B. Company is obliged by law,
and its purpose is, to cari'y on business as an interstate
carrier.
The trial court found, on the evidence and as matter
of law, that the railroad which had instituted and brought
condemnation proceedings was an independent intrastate
carrier; that it was not obliged to conduct an interstate
business; and that, hence, its action in instituting condemnation proceedings, without first obtaining a certificate from the Interstate Commerce Commission, was

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

not in contravention of the federal law. It is on this
ground, and this only, that the District Court declared
the bill should be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction; meaning obviously that, upon the facts found, it was not warranted in enjoining the condemnation proceedings, and
not that as a federal tribunal it was without power to
entertain the suit and inquire into the matters alleged in
the bill.
This conclusion is confirmed by the fact that the plaintiffs were ordered to pay "all costs." If the District
Court had lacked jurisdiction as a federal court, it would
'have been without power to order the plaintiffs to pay
costs. Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96; Citizens'.Bank
v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319.
The cause must be
Returned to the Circuit Court of
Appeals with directions to prqceed.

FORT SMITH LIGHT & TRACTION COMPANY v.
BOURLAND ET AL., CITY COMMISSIONERS OF
THE CITY OF FORT SMITH, ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 220. Argued January 22, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925..
An order in effect requiring a street railway company to continue
operating a part of one of its lines, though it was unremunerative
and must be practically rebuilt at great expense to conform to a
change of street grade, and though the railway as a whole, under
existing rates, was not earning a fair return, held not arbitrary
and not violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 332.
160 Ark. 1, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas

which affirmed .a judgment dismissing a bill brought by
the Traction Company to set aside an order made by the

