STEELE v. UNITED STATES NO. 2.
498

Syllabus.

believing that the offense has been committed, it is sufficient." What Einstein saw and ascertained was quite
sufficient to warrant a man of prudence and caution and
his experience in believing that the offense had been committed of possessing illegally whiskey and intoxicating
liquor, 'and that it was in the building he described.
The search warrant fully complied with the statutory
and constitutional requirements as set forth above, the
liquor was lawfully seized and the District Court rightly
held that it should not be returned.
The decree is affirmed.
Affirmed.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES No. 2.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 636.

Argued March 11, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. A judgment upholding a search warrant on a petition to vacate
it is res judicata as to the competency of the person to whom
the warrant was directed and as to probable cause for its issuance;
so that the petitioner cannot subsequently raise the question in a
criminal proceeding against "him by objecting to evidence of seizure
under the warrant. P. 507.
2. Section 6 of Title XI of the Espionage Act, adopted in the Prohibition Act (Title II, § 25), authorizes a search warrant to be
issued "to a civil officer of the United States duly authorized to
enforce or assist in -1nforcing any law thereof "--Held, that this
is not meant to be confined to officers of the United States in the
limited Constitutional sense, but includes a general prohibition
agent appointed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. P.
507.
3. In a prosecution for illegal possession of intoxicating liquor, in
which-the results of a seizure under a search warrant are offered
against the defendant, the court, in deciding upon the competency
of the evidence, determines whether under the facts and law there
was probable cause for the warrant, and this question is not for
the jury. P. 510.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

ERROR to a. sentence under the National Prohibition
Act. See also the casepreceding, ante, p. 498.
Mr. Meyer Kraushaar,for plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Beck, Assistant Attorney General
Willebrandt, and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer, Special Assistant to the Attorney Geneal, were on the brief for the
United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFrT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a direct writ of error under § 238 of the Judicial
Code to a conviction in the District Court of John F.
Steele on an information in the District Court, for un-lawfully, willfully and knowingly possessing a quantity
of intoxicating liquor in violation of the National Prohibition Act. The prosecution grew out of the seizure
of whiskey and gin upon a search warrant, at 611 West
46th Street, New York City, the validity of which we have
had occasion to examine in the case just preceding. The
question here is as to the competency of the evidence of
seizure under the search warrant which we there found
sufficient. In addition to the grounds urged in the last
case, the validity of seizure is attacked because the search
warrant was issued to a general prohibition agent, when
under § 6 of Title XI of the Espionage Act of June 15,
1917, (c. 30, 40 Stat. 217, 228), such a warrant must
be issued "to a civil officer of the United States duly
authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing any law
thereof."
The argument is that the prohibition agent is appointed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and
therefore is only an employee and not a civil officer of
the government in the constitutional sense, because such
an officer under Article 2, Section 2 of the Constitution

STEELE-v. UNITED STATES NO. 2.
505

Opinion of the Court.

can only be appointed either by the President and the
Senate, the President alone, the courts of law or the
heads of departments.
It should first, be said that Steele is not in a position
to raise this question. He -might have raised it in the
preceding case, but he did not do so, and did not assign
error on account of it in his appeal to this Court. The
refusal to vacate the search warrant and to-return the
liquor seized was a final decree. The question is therefore res judicata as against him.
But.even if this were not so, we do not think the objection well taken. We think that the expression "civil
officer' of the United States duly authorized to enforce,
or assist in enforcing, any law thereof," as used in the
Espionage Act, does not mean an officer in the constitutional sense; that Congress in incorporating the provision in. § 25, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act,
did not so construe it and had no intention thus to limit
persons authorized to receive and serve search warrants.
It is quite true that the words "officer of the United
States," when employed in the statutes of the United
States, is to be taken usually to have the limited constitutional meaning. Burnap v. United States, 252 U. S.
512; United States v. Mouat, 124 U. S., 303; "United
States v. Smith, 124 U. S. 525. But we find that this
Court in consideration of the context has sometimes
given it an enlarged meaning and has found it to include
others than those appointed by the President, heads of
departments, and courts. United States v. Hendee, 124
U. S. 309. The emphasis of the words of description in
the Espionage Act is really -on the limitations that the
person designated shall be a civil and not a military agent
'of the government and shall be one "duly authorized to
enforce or assist -in enforcing any law of the' United
States." It is not to be supposed that Congress wished
to exclude from those empowered to receive and execute

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
-Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

search warrants persons usually called officers who are in
their duties most widely employed to enforce or assist
in enforcing laws. Thus deputy marshals of the United
States are appointed by the United States marshal under
whom they serve (§ 780,- Revised Statutes), and he and
his deputies have in each State the same power in executing the laws of the United States as the sheriffs and their
deputies in such State -inexecuting the laws thereof.
The dep4y marshal is not in the constitutional sense an
officer of the United States, and yet marshals and deputy
marshals are the persons chiefly charged with the enforcement of the peace of the United States, as that is
embraced in the enforcement of federal law. In rp
Neagle. 135 U. S. 1, 68, 69t A deputy marshal is engaged
in serving all sorts of writs and is called upon to exercise
great responsibility and discretion in the service of some
of them in dealing with the persons and property of individuals and in the preservration of their constitutional
rights. The same thing may be said of deputy collectors
of customs. Under § 2630, a collector of customs, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may employ, within his district such number of proper persons
as deputy collectors of customs as-he shall deem necessary, and such deputies are declared to be officers of the
customs, and the collector may exercise his powers and
perform his duties by deputy. And one of the chief functions of the collectors of customs and of the deputy collector is the seizure of goods which have not paid a tax,
as seen by Chapter 10 of Title 34 of the Revised Statutes.
Deputy collectors of internal revenue are to be appointed
by the Collector of Internal Revenue; § 3148 R. S. He
may appoint as many as he thinks proper. Each deputy
is to have the like authority which by law is vested in
the collector himself, and distraint and seizure in the
assessment and collection of taxes are authorized by Ch.
2, Title 35:

STEELE 'v. UNITED STATES NO. 2.
505

509

Opinion of the Court.

The National Prohibition Act in Title I, § 5, reads:
"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, his assistants,
agents, and inspectors, and all other officers of the United
States whose duty it is to enforce criminal laws, shall have
all the power for the enforcement of the War Prohibition
Act or any provisions thereof which is conferred by law
for the enforcement of existing laws relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors under the laws of
the United States."
Title II, § 28, is:
"The Commissioner, his assistants, agents, and inspectors and all other officers of the United States whose duty
it is to enforce criminal laws shall have all the power in
the enforcement of this act or any provisions thereof
which is conferred by law for the enforcement of existing
laws relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating.
liquors under the law of the United States."
Section 3462 of the Revised Statutes is one of the laws
thus referred to in the foregoing sections, and provides:
"That the several judges of the circuit and district
courts of the United States and commissioners of the circuit courts, may, within their respective jurisdictions,
issue a search-warrant, authorizing any internal revenue
officer to search any premises within the same, if such
officer makes oath in writing that he has reason to believe,
and does believe, that a fraud upon the revenue has been
or is being committed upon or by the use of said
premises."
Again, Title II, § 1, of the Prohibition Act, reads:
"Any act authorized' to be done by the commissioner
may beperformed by any assistant or agent designated'by
him for that purpose."'

Again, Title II, § 26, reads:
"When the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or
any officer of the law shall discover any person in the act

of transporting, in violation of the law, intoxicating ]iq-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

uirs in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or air craft
or other vehicle, it shall be his duty to seize any and all
intoxicating liquors found therein being transported contrary to law."
The foregoing would seem to indicate that lawful seizures were not to be confined to constitutional officers.
Again, in § 6 of the Act Supplemental to the National
Prohibition Act, 42 Stat. 222, it is provided- that any
officer, agent or employee of the United States engaged
in the enforcement of this Act or the National Prohibition Act, or any other law of the United States, who shall
search any private dwelling as defined in the National
Prohibition Act, without a warrant directing such search,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
This justifies an inference that Congress expected
searches to be made with search warrants by officers,
agents or employees.
The question whether a prohibition agent has the power
and right to serve a search warrant as provided in the
Espionage Act, and § 25 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, has led to some difference of opinion among
the judges of the Circuit Courts of Appeals and also of
the District Courts, but the weight of authority as indicated by the decisions is strongly in favor of the broader
construction which vests the power and duty to receive
and serve a search warrant in prohibition agents appointed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Raine v. United States, 299 Fed. 407 (C. C. A. 9th);
Keehn v. United-States, 300 Fed. 493 (C. C. A. 1st);
United States v. American Brewing Co., 296 Fed. 772;
United States v. O'Connor,294 Fed. 584; Uhited States v.
Syrek, 290 Fed. 820; United States v. Keller, 288- Fed.
204.
The second question which is raised here by proper exception and assignment is whether the defendant had the
right to have submitted to the jury the issue of fact

SANTA FE PAC. R. R. v. WORK.
505

511

Syllabus.

whether there was probable cause to issue the warrant,
with direction that if the jury found that there was not
probable cause, it should ignore the evidence resulting
from the seizure and acquit the defendant. There are
two answers to this assignment of error. One has already
been referred to, that the fact of the existence of probable
cause in the issue of the search warrant was res judicata,
made so by the judgment of the court in the case preceding that the property could not be returned to Steele.
The second answer is that the question of the competency
of the evidence of the whiskey by reason of the legality
or otherwise of its seizure was a question of fact and law
for the court and not for the jury. Gila Valley Ry. Co.
v. Hall, 232 U. S.94, 103; Bartlett v. Smith, 11 M. & W.
483; Doe dem. Jenkins v. Davies, 10 Ad. & El. N. S.314;
5 Wigmore, Evidence (2d Ed.) § 2550.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Affirmed.

SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 302. Argued March 18, 19, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. The construction of a law of the United States was "drawn in
question by the defendant" within the meaning of § 250, par. 6
of the Judicial Code permitting appeals to this Court from the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, where the Secretary
of the Inteior, as defendant, secured the dismissal' of plaintiff's
bill upon the ground that the lieu land selection in controversy was
not perrmitted by an Act of Congress. P. 515.
2. Under the Act of June 22, 1874, providing that railroads may
relinquish lands appertaining to their land grants which are found
in possession of actual settlers, etc., and select an equal quantity
of other lands in lieu thereof from any of 'tle public lands "not
mineral" within the limits of the grant, not otherwise appropriated

