22

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267"U. S.

as corporate securities. They would be called so
more accurately than some other documents which we
believe also would be known generally by that name.
Their purpose, as stated in the agreement of the trustee
with the railroad, is to secure payment to the"holder with
interest. They do-nothing else. We do not regard the
precise limits of the Trust Company's undertaking as important. If it were only to collect and pay money. received by the Company under the secured contract -of
the Railroad it would be a security for money payment.
But the counsel for the Company seemed not prepared
to argue that the Company could not put the money
received from the Railroad into its general account without a breach of trust, and give the certificate holder cash
or a check for his interest or principal. But be the undertaking greater or less, the security better or worse, we
cannot regard these certificates as anything but corporate
securities by general understanding and in fact:
Judgment reversed.

-known

DIRECTION DER DISCONTO-GESELLSCBAFT v.
UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, PUBLIC TRUSTEE, EGREMONT JOHN MILLS, ET
AL.
BANK FUR HANDEL UND INDUSTRIE v. UNITED
STATES STEEL CORPORATION, PUBLIC-TRUSTEE, ENGLISH ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN
BOND AND SHAREHOLDERS. LTD., RT AL
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF r TEY UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

os. 676 and 677. Argued January 9, 1925.-Decided January 26,
1925.
1. Certificates of shares, in,a New Jersey -corporation,: endorsed in
blank and owned, and,. held by German corporations; were seized

DISCONTO-GESELLSCHAFT v. U_ S.STEELCO.
22

23

Axgument for Appellants.

in London dutingthe late war'bythe Public Trustee, a cororation
sole appointed under the :English law to be custodian of -enemy
property. Held that the ownership of the Tpaper was dependent
upon the law of the place where it was at the time, viz., England,and, as the things done in "England transferred .the title to the'
certificates to the Public Trustee by English law and as, by the law
of New Jersey and the law of -England, the owner of such certificates may write a name in the blank endorsbment and thus entitle
the .nominee to obtain registration on the books of the corporation
and issuance of new certificates to himself, the Trustee was entitled
to pursue this cause as against the German corporations, there

being no assertion of power by.the United States to the contrary.
P. 28.
2. Consequently, a decree of the ])istrict Court recognizing this right ,
and directing the 'ew Jersey corporation to issue new certificates
to such nominee on surrender of the old ones properly endorsed

did not deprive the German corporations of property without due
process of law. Id.
300 Fed. 741, affirmed.
APPEALs

from two decrees of the District Court in

suits brought by the appellant German corporations to
establish their titles to shares of stock of the Steel Corporation, the certificates'for which, endorsed in blank,
were seized at London during the War and passed to the
Public Trustee of England, as custodian of alien property.
The defendants were the Steel Corpdration, the Public
Trustee, and stockholders of record who disclaimed interest. The title to the shares, with the right to registration,
and accrued dividends, was adjudged to be in the Public
Trustee.
Mr. John Weld Peck and Mr. John Wilson Brown, III,
with whom Mr. Alfred K. Nippert was on the briefs, for
appellants.
Our entire case is based on the proposition that a seizure
of certificates in Great Britain does not constitute a seizure
of the shares of the New Jersey corporation represented
thereby. Chicago Rark Island Co. v. Sturm, 174 U. S.
710.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

267 U. S.

The basis of jurisdiction is actual power and its existence must be determined by close adhesion to the actual
facts.
The question here is not as. to where fictions of convenience have, from time to time, thrown shares for purpose of taxation, administration and the like.
The question is: Where can power be exerted so as
actually, irrevocably and effectively to subject all that
there is of a share of stock to that power? The answer
is, obviously: Where the corporation'is and there only.
Jurisdiction of property, separate from its owner, can
be acquired and exerted only when, and to the extent,
that such property is actually within the territorial jurisdiction. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Boswell v. Otis,
9 How. 336; Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11
How. 165; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; McDonald v. Mdybee, 243 U. S. 90; Union RefrigeratorTransit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194.
A seizure of shares of stock, to be effective, must be
real and actual as opposed to anything constructive.
Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Phoenix Bankc v.
Risley, 111 U. S. 125; Chasev. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79.
Since a share of stock*is intangible, incorporeal (Miller
v. Kaliwerke, 283 Fed. 746)3 and in the nature of a chose.
in action (Jellenik v. Huron Copper Co., 177 U. S. 1),
it is fundamentally incapable of manucaption. Yet it
is clear that in the absence of statute one in position
to compel the issuing corporation may, by compulsion,
derive all the fruits of any particular shareholder's
rights, and neither the shareholder nor any other not
having power to compel the corporation can oust from
that position of advantage. Therefore it seems further
clear that it is only at the corporate domicile that a
seizure of a share, in any sense real aid actual, can be
made.

DISCONTO-GESELLSCHAFT v. U. S. STEEL CO.
22

25

Argument for Appellants.

Shares similar to those in suit have such existence at
the corporate domicile as to found jurisdiction in rem,
and may be levied upon, attached, and garnished by service on the corporation, although the certificate, its holder,
and its owner be outside the jurisdiction. Jellenik v.
Huron Copper Mining Company, 177 U. S. 1; Hudson
Navigation Company v. Murray, 223 Fed. 466; Schultz v.
Diehl, 217 U. S. 594; 54 Fed. 896; Ashley v. Quintard,
90 Fed. 84; Einstein v. Georgia Southern Ry. Co., 120
Fed. 1008; Gundry v. Reakirt, 173 Fed. 167;'Shaw v.
Goebel Brewing Company, 202 Fed. 408,*Gideon v. Representative Securities Corporation,232 Fed. 185; Harvey
v. Harvey, 290 Fed. 653; Andrews v. Guayaquil Ry., 69
N. J. Eq. 211, (affirmed) 71 N. J. Eq., 768; Sohege v.
Singer Mfg. Co., 73 N. J. Eq., 567; Ampara Mining Co. v.
Fidelity Trust Co., 75 N. J. Eq., 555.
The Jellenik decision has been applied and strictly followed -by the federal courts in determining the validity
of the seizure of shares of stock by the Alien Property
Custodian of the United States under the provisions of
the Trading with the Enemy Act. Columbia Brewing
Co. v. Miller, 281 Fed. 289; Garvan v. Marconi Wireless
Co., 275 Fed. 486; See particularly Miller v. Kaliwerke,
etc., 283 Fed. 746.
Shares cannot be captured except at some domicile of
the corporation where transfer can be enforced. The
presence of endorsed certificates beyond such domicile is
not enough. Baker v. Baker, 242 U. S. 394; Ashley v.
Quintard,90 Fed. 84.
The English cases and writers upon international law
sustain this view. Dicey Digest of Law of England; The
Attorney Ceneral v. The New York Breweries Co., 1 Q. B.
(1898), 205; Attorney General v. Bouwens, 4 Meeson &
Welsby, 171-191; Stern v. The Queen, 1 Q. B. (1896)
211; Winansv.The King,1 K. B. (1908), 1022; New York
Life Insurance Co.v. Public Trustee, 40 Times L.-R. 430;
Cassidy v. Ellahorst, 110 0. S.405, 1924.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1924,
Argument for Appellants.

267 TJ. S.

That the certificates were endorsed does not alter the
case. Colonial Bank v..Hepworth, L. R. 36 Ch. Div. 36,
53, 54.
Yazoo and Mississippi Railroad v. Clarksdale, 257 U.
S. 10, presented no question of the situs of-shares.
The weight of American authority is that foreign attachment -does not lie against shares of a non-resident
corporation merely by the seizure of the certificates.
Baker v. Baker, supra; Christmas v. Biddle, 13 Pa.
St. 233 (1850); Winslow v. Fletcher, 53 Conn. 391;
Tweedy v. Bojart, 56 Conn. 419; Sheep & Wool Co.
v. Traders Bank, 104 Ky. 90; Gundry v. Reakirt, 173
Fed. 167; Pinney v. Neville, 86 Fed. 97; Armour
Brothers Banking Co. v. St. Louis Nat. Bank, 113
Mo. 12; Richardson v. Bush, 198 Mo. 174; Ireland v.
Globe Milling Co, 19 R.I. 180; Maertens v. Scott, 33
R. I. 356; Danielv. Gold Hill Mining Co., 28 Wash. 411;
Reid Ice Cream Co. v. Stephens, 62 Ill. App- 334; Smith
v. Downey, 8 Ind. App. 179.
International law is clear and sweeping in its principle that incorporeal things including rights can be
seized only by seizure of the corporeal thing to which
the right is attached.
Were that not so, any sovereign might by his own laws
situate incorporeal things within his jurisdiction and
then proceed under color of right established by his law
to possess the thing corporeal, in whatsoever country it
was situate. Phillimore's Int. L. (3d Ed.), Vol. 3, at
page 817 et seq.; The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66; Wisconsin v. PelicanInsurance Co., 127 U. S. 265.
The principles here considered are strikingly like those
involved in Baglin v. Cusenier, 221 U. S. 581.
No confirmations of the treaty of Versailles apply.
Mr. Win. Averell Brown, with whom Mr. Kenneth B.
Halstead was on the brief, for United States Steel Corporation.

DISCONTO-GESELLSCHAFT v. U. S. STEEL CO.
22

27

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frederick R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard
Thayer Kingsbury and Mr. Mahlon B. Doing were on
the brief, for Public Trustee.

MR. JUSTICE HOLUMs delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are bills in equity in similar form each raising the
same question. In each the plaintiff is a German corporation and the interested defendants are the Public Trustee, an English corporation sole appointed to be custodian
of enemy property during the- late war, and the United
States Steel Corporation. Each plaintiff claims one hundred identified shares in the Steel Corporation and seeks
to be declared owner of the same, to have new certificates
issued to it and the outstanding certificates cancelled on
the books of the corporation, and to recover past dividends
declared but unpaid. The cases were submitted by them
upon an agreed statement of facts, and the District Court
after a discussion that leaves nothing to be added dismissed the bills. The decree declared the Public Trustee
to be entitled to the shares and directed the Steel Corporation to issue new certificates to hi nominee on surrender of the old ones properly endorsed. 300 Fed. 741.
As is usual with shares which it is desired to deal in
abroad these shares were registered by tens on the Steel
Corporation's books in the name of some well-known
broker or the like domiciled in England, and the assign'men't and power of attorney to transfer the shares printed
on the back of the certificate was signed by the broker
in blank so that the certificate passed from hand to hand.
The Disconto-Gesellschaft had bought a hundred shares
and held the certificates thus indorsed in its London
branch. The Bank fir Handel had bought the same
number and pledged them with an English banking house
in a running account. On March 27, 1918, an order of the
Board of Trade in pursuance of statutory powers purported to vest in the Public Trustee the rights, of the

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court..

267 U. S.

Disconto-Gesellschaft to the shares and the right to take
possession of the documents of title. On April 30, 1917,
a similar order had been made as to the Bank fir Handel's
stock. The Public Trustee thereupon seized the certificates in London as was regular and lawful under the laws
of England while the war was going on and freed the
pledged securities from the lien upon them by a sale of
other stocks. He claims a title confirmed by the Treaty of
Berlin and the Treaty of Versailles. The plaintiffs set up
that a decree recognizing his title would deprive them of
their property without due process of law.
The appellants, starting from the sound proposition that
jurisdiction is founded upon power, overwork the argument drawn from the power of the United States over
the Steel Corporation. Taking the United States in this
connection to mean the total powers of the Central and
the State Governments, no doubt theoretically it could
draw a line of fire around its boundaries and recognize
nothing concerning the corporation or any interest in it
that happened outside. But it prefers to consider itself
civilized and to act accordingly. Therefore New Jersey
having authorized this corporation like others to issue certificates that so far represent the stock that ordinarily
at least no one can get the benefits of ownership except
through and by means of the paper, it recognizes as owner
anyone to whom the person declared by the paper to be
owner has transferred it by the indorsement provided for,
wherever it takes place. It allows an indorsement in
blank, and by its law as well as by the law of England an
indorsement in blank authodrizes anyone who is the lawful
owner of the paper to write in a name, and thereby entitle
the person so named to demand registration as owner in
his turn upon the corporation's books. But the question
who is the owner of the paper depends upon the law of -the
place where tJhe pper is. It does not depend upon the
-holder's having given value or taking without notice of

DISCONTO-GESELLSCHAKT v. U; S. STEEL CO.
22

29

Opinion of the Court.

outstanding claims but upon the things done being sufficient by the law of the place to transfer the title. An
execution locally valid is as effectual as an ordinary purchase. Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Clarksdale, 257 U. S. 10. The things done in England transferred the title to.the Public Trustee by English law.
If the United States had taken steps to assert its paramount power, as in Miller v. Kaliwerke Aschersleben
Aktien-Gesellschaft, 283 Fed. 746, a different ,question
would arise that we have no occasion to deal with. The
United States has taken no *such steps. It therefore
stands in its usual attitude of indifference when title to
the certificate is lawfully obtained. There is no conflict
in matter of fact or matter of law between, the United
States and England and therefore Baker v. Baker, Eccles
& Co., 242 U. S. 394, does not apply. We deem it so
plain that the Public Trustee got a title good as against
the plaintiffs by the original seizure that we deem .it unnecessary to advert to the treaties upon which he"also
relies or to the subsequent dealings between England and
Germany showing that both of those nations have assumed without doubt that the Trustee could sell the stock.
We think it unnecessary also to repeat what was said
below as to the possibility of the United States making a
claim at some future time.
Decree affirmed.

