292

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

that the latter might proceed to destination was the thing
in view, an essential part of the undertaking in connection
with which the injuries arose.
The things shown to have been done by the deceased
certainly amount to no more than contributory negligence
or assumption of the risk, and both of these are removed
from consideration by the Liability Act. When injured
he was "within the class of persons for whose benefit the
Safety Appliance Acts required that the car be equipped
with automatic couplers and draw-bars of standard height.
. . . His injury was within the evil against which the
provisions for such appliances are directed." St. Louis &
San FranciscoR. R. Co.v. Conarty,supra. He went into
the dangerous place because the equipment of the car
which it was necessary to detach did not meet the statutory requirements especially intended to protect men in
his position.
We find no material error in the judgment below,, and
itis
Affirmed.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC., OPERATING PHILADELPHIA & READING
RAILWAY, v. NEWTON COAL COMPANY.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC., OPERATING PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD,
v. NEWTON COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 709 and 710. Argued January 12, 1925.-Decided March 2,
1925.

1. While coal which plaintiff had purchased thiough contracts with
producers was in course of transportation over rilroads then under
Federal Control, it was commandeered by the Director General of

,DAVIS
292

v. NEWTON COAL CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Railroads, acting under orders of the Fuel Administrator, for use
in operating the railroads, and he paid the producers the prices
fixed by the Fuel Administrator, which were the same as the prices
named in plaintiffs' contracts.. Held
(a) That the plaintiff was entitled to be paid the difference between
prices thus paid to its vendors and the market value, which was

higher. P. 301.
(b) That by § 206 (a) of Transportation Act, 1920, actions therefor'
could be maintained in the state court against the agent designated
by the President under that Act. P. 301.
281 Pa. St. 74, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirming recoveries from the Director General of
Railroads, as agent under the Transportation Act, 1920,
on account of coal seized and appropriated for operating
railroads while under Federal Control.

Mr. Win. Clarke Mason, with whom Mr. John Hampton Barnes and Mr. Charles Myers were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
At the time of the transactions, January and February,
1920, the war with Germany had not terminated and
therefore any powers which the Government had incident
to the war still remained. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146.
It must be assumed that all of the orders made by the
President or his agents under § 25 of the Lever Act were
made "for the efficient prosecution of the war " unless
the contrary appears on the face of such orders. The
orders here definitely show that they were made on account of the war emergency. All of the orders; both
executive and those made by the Fuel Administration,
refer to the Act of Congress of August 10th, 1917. The
executive order of October 30th, 1919, states in its preamble ". . . whereas it is necessary to restore and
maintain during the war certain of said rules, regulations,
orders and proclamations
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

267 U. S.

The Fuel Administration order of October 31st, 1919,

states t;hat it is made on account of the "present-emergency" and it must be assumed that this means the war
emergency.
It would be a most unwise policy to allow courts to
'enquire into the motives of the executive branch of the
Government in making orders during the war emergency
in order to determine their validity.
The state court in its opinion, however, said that -the
testimony showed that the Fuel Administrator in issuing
the orders under consideration did not act on acdount of
the war emergency but on account of the threatened coal
strike and, therefore, the orders were invalid. Section 2
of the Lever Act provides "that in carrying out the purposes of' tis Act the President is authorized to create or
use any -agency or agencies." Congress delegated certain
of its powers by this adt to the President and the Fuel Administrator was the President's duly authorized agent in
issuing orders, so that these orders were substantially the
acts of Congress and, therefore, the first answer to the
reasoning of the court below is that the court has enquired into the motive of Congress in determining the
validity of the orders. The second answer is that there
is no evidence to justify the finding that the orders were
issued solely because of the coal strike, but on the contrary the evidence shows that the conditions existing because of the war emergency were made more alarming
by the additional shortage due to the strike.
The conclusion of the State Supreme Court is in direct
cc~fiict with decisions of this Court. Cmmercial Trust
Co. v. Mter, 262it. 8. 51.
The fact and date of the termination of the war had
not been ascertained and proclaimed by the President in
the manner fixed by Congress at the time the events under
consideration took place, and this fact of termination was
not ascertained and proclaimed until after the orders
which are attacked in these cases were suspended.

DAVIS v. NEWTON COAL CO.
292

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The orders under consideration did not violate the FifthAmendment by the method provided to fix compensation.
The question must be approached in the light of the
facts, and the answer must take into consideration the
identity of the divertee. The diversion was by the agencyof the Fuel Administrator and the use of the diverted coal
was by the Director General of Railroads, which were the
first preferred consumers on the fuel administration list.
If the railroads had been privately operated at the time
of diversion this case would present substantially the facts
found in MorrisdaleCoal Co. v. United States. 259 U. S.
18S. and the conclusions should be the same as there. If
the fact of Government operation requires the diversion
to be treated as a requisitioning under § 10 of the Lever
Act for use by the United States of America, then a totally
different case is developed. In the latter event .the sole
cause of action would seem to be under that section of
the Lever Act. and the rule of United States v. New River
Collieries Co., 262 U. S.341, would probably apply.
In several decisions of the lower federal courts the constitutionality of -the Lever Act has been assumed, and
there-seems to have been but one federal decision which
has discussed and adjudicated the constitutionality of the
applicable sections of the Lever Act, Ford v. U. S. 281
Fed. 299. This Court reversed that decision (264 U. S.
239). but did so solely on the ground that the Lever Act
did not apply to the coal involved. See Lajoie v. Milliken, et al., 242 Mass. 508.
Congress is givei certain powers in war time which
even the Fifth Amendment does not limit or restrict.
The power to restrict the liquor traffic is one, as stated in
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., supra, at page
156, for the reason that this is an appropriate means
of increasing war efficiency. Is not this war efficiency
just as much affected by the use, distiibution and price
of coal?

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error..

267 U.S.

The contracts between the Coal Company and the shippers, show that the Coal Company agreed that the coal to
be shipped under the contracts would be subject to the
regulations of the Fuel Administration, including of
course the orders, such as those under consideration, to be
thereafter issued. In the case of Vogelstein v. United
States, 262 U. S. 337, this Court held that one who cooperated with others in putting into effect and maintaining a price established-by the Government could not later
recover a greater price, and the same reasoning would
seem to apply to the claim of the defendant-in-error.
Morrisdale Coal Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 188.
The origin of the Fuel Administrator and the Federal
Agent is in the federal statutes, and both are agencies
of the President. One derived his powers, however, from
the Lever Act and the other from the Transportation Act.
There is no-'authority given to the Federal Agent under
§ 206 of the latter act to answer for the acts of the agencies of the Fuel Administration under § 10 of the Lever
Act, or under the general power of condemnation of the
Federal Government, but merely for those causes of
action for which .the carriers would have been otherwise
liable.
The Director General as Federal Agent, plaintiff-inerror in these cases, admits his liability under the orders
of the Fuel Administrator to pay the proper price for coal
lawfully diverted to the Director General and lawfully
used by the Director General in the operation of the railroads.- He has assumed that the payment of the price
fixed by the Fuel Administration discharged thisliability;
but if authority was lacking to fix such price, then for ihe
coal lawfully- diverted he is liable for such price as may
be judicially determined.
The clear distinction which this Court has drawn between the several capacities in which the Director General
functioned is fjotd in Dahn v. Davis, 258 U. S. 421;

DAVIS v. NEWTON COAL CO.
292

297

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Dupont v. Davis, 264 U. S. 456; North CarolinaR1y. Co.
v. Lee, 260 U. S. 16; Missouri R. R. v. Ault, 256 U. S.
554; Davis v. Donovan,265 U. S. 257; Davis v. O'Hara,
266 U. S. 314.
Mr. Allen S. Olmsted, 2d, with whom Mr. Win. A.
Glasgow, .Tr., was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The post-war fuel regulations of 1919-20 were not
within the President's statutory power to regulate the
distribution of coal "whenever in his judgment necessary
for the efficient prosecution of the war."
The Government, having taken and used the coal, must,
pay its fair value, judicially determined.
Section 25 of the Lever Act, which gives the President
power to fix prices, also provides that in fixing the prices,
he shall cause a careful inquiry to be made into costs and
other factors affecting the price. There is no pretense
that such an inquiry was made here. The price paid by
the divertee of this coal was fixed in a series of orders, of
which the latest is dated May 24, 1918. The Government control of prices had been lifted on January 31,
1919, and there followed nine months of free trading.
Suddenly on October 30, 1919, the President revived the
1918 prices. Current prices, as this record shows, and
the trial court found, were far higher than the 1918 prices.
Under such circumstances we submit that, even though
the diversions were lawful, the 1918 prices were not binding, and therefore, even though the Director General were
a private citizen, the payment of the 1918 price would
not protect him in a suit by the owner of the coal.
But the Director General was not a private citizen. A
suit against him "is an action against the United States."
Davis v. O'Hara,266 U. S. 314, and cases cited. Corona
Coal Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 527. Plaintiff-inerror stresses the dual capacity of the Director General.
As Fuel Administrator he diverted the coal; as Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Operator he feceived it. This is but another way of
saying that the Government both took and used the coal.
How much must it pay for it?
Even the plaintiff-in-error, in answering that question,
concedes that the rule of United States v. New River Collieries Co. 262 U. S. 341, would probably apply. National
City Bank v. United States, 275 Fed. 855, s. c. 281 Fed.
. 754, 263 U. S. 726; Vogelstein v. United States, 262 U. S.
337.
This suit was properly brought against the Director
General under § 206,a of the Transportation Act, 1920.
If the orders were invalid, the tahking was wrongful and
all who participated in the transactions were trespassers
in their own wrong. That the Director General is liable
for torts committed by railroad employees is well settled.
Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Ault 256 U. S. 554; Director
General v. Kastenbaum, 263 U. S. 25.
If the taking be assumed to be lawful, the Director
General is none the less liable. In the pleadings he admits he is the proper defendant and counsel reiterates
that admission.
These suits come exactly within the language of the
statute. The cause of action arises out of Federal Control. It is of such character as prior to Federal Control
could have been brought againsta corporate carrier; for
surely an action lies against a corporation to recover the
value of property to which it has rightfully obtained title,
e. g., by eminent domain, or under contract.
It is, we submit, irrelevant that an action would also
lie against the United States eo nomine, under § 10 of the
Lever Act.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These causes present the same points of law and were
heard together both here and below. No disputed question of fact remains. In 1919 defendant .in error, a

DAVIS v. NEWTON COAL CO.
292

299

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania corporation, doing business at Philadelphia,
contracted with producers for large quantities of bituminous coal, f. o. b. the mines, subject to the regulations of
the United States Fuel Administration. During January
and February, 1920, while thirty-three cars of coal consigned to the corporation under these contracts were moving over the Philadelphia & Reading Railway, the Director
General of Railroads tookpossession of them and used the
fuel f6r operating trains o4 that line. Eigvtky cars loaded
with the same character of coal and- inoving on the
Pennsylvania Railroad were similarly treated. The claim
is that the Director General took this action under lawful
rules and orders of the President, acting through the Fuel
Administrator and pursuant to the Lever Act, approved
August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276, 279, 284. The producers of the coal were paid the, prices specified in the
contracts of purchase, as required by the Fuel Administrator; and it is now maintained that nothing more can be
demanded by the owner. The owner's claim is for the difference between the amount received by producers and the
market value of the coal-approximately $1.44 per ton.
The Lever Act conferred upon the President certain
powers to regulate the prices and distribution of fuel, to
be exercised for the efficient prosecution of the war.
August 23, 1917, he delegated these powers to a Fuel
Administrator, who freely used them during the continuation of hostilities. Shortly after the armistice substantially all such regulations were suspended and the Administrator ceased to function; but his- appointment was not
canceled or revoked.
On October 30, 1919, the President undertook to restore
former orders and to empower the Fuel Administrator, as
occasion might arise, to change or make regulations relative to the sale, shipment and apportionment of bituminous coal as the latter might think necessary. The next

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

day the Administrator delegated to the Director General
of Railroads the power to divert coal upon the railroads
as might seem "necessary in the present emergency to
provide for the requirements of the country." March
19, 1920, the President suspended all fuel regulations.
Seeking to recover the difference between the amounts
paid to the shipper-the purchase price-and the market
value of the coal, defendant in error commenced these proceedings (June, 1921), in a state court at Philadelphia,
against the Agent appointed by the President under the
Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461. Judgments went for it and were affirmed by the Supreme
Court. 281 Pa. 74. The latter court held: That the
war with Germany had ceased prior to October 30,. 1919,
and the purpose of the President's order then issued was
to meet an emergency incident to the miners' strike-not
to provide for the efficient prosecution of the war. Also
that seizure and use of the coal by the Director General
rendered the United States liable for just compensation,
measured by market value. And, further, that the Director General was not an innocent third person to whom
property has been delivered by the sovereign for the
public welfare, but an agency of the United, States for
operating the railroads, and, under the Transportation
Act, 1920, plaintiff in error might be sued upon claims
arising therefrom.
The plaintiff in error now insists: That the order of
October 30, 1919, and the regulations issued by the.Fuel
Administrator and the Director General of Railroads acting thereunder, were authorized by the Lever Act. That
by diverting the coal to himself the Director General incurred no obligation except to pay the amounts due the
shippers under the sale contracts--the compensation fixed
by the orders. That the act of the Director General in
diverting the coal to himself and its use on the railroads
imposed no liability for which an action can be main-

DAVIS v. NEWTON COAL CO.
292

301

Opinion of the Coi't.

tained against the Agent provided for by the Transportation Act.
From the facts stated -it appears, plainly enough, that
one hundred. and thirteen cars of coal belonging to defendant in error were seized by the United States while
upon. the lines of carriers under their control and thereafter appropriated and used in the operation of such roads.
The taking was for a public use. The incantation pronounced at the time is not of controlling importance; our
primary concern is'with the accomplishment. As announced in United States v iYew River Collieries Co.,
262 U.. S. 341, 343, 344, "where private property is taken
for public use, and there is a market price prevailing at
the time and place of the taking, that price is just compensation" to which the owner is entitled. Also, "the
ascertainment of compensation is a judicial function, and
no power exists in any other department of the Government to declare what the compensation shall be or to prescribe any binding rule in that regard."
Transportation Act, 1920, § 206(a)"Actions at law, suits in equity and proceedings in admiralty, based on causes of action arising out of the possession, use, or operation by the President of the railroad
or system of transportation of any carrier (under the provisions of the Federal Control Act, or of the Act of August
29, 1916) of such character as prior to Federal control
could have been brought against such carrier, may, after
the termination of Federal control, be brought against an
agent designated by the President for such purpose, which
agent shall be designated by the President within thirty
days after the passage of this Act. Such actions, suits,
or proceedings may, within the periods of limitation now
prescribed by State or.Federal statutes but not later than
two years from the date of the passage of this Act, be
brought-in any court which but for Federal coutrol would
have had jurisdiction of the cause of action had'-It arisen
against such carrier."

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

If the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company or the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, while operating its own
line, had seized and used the coal as the United States
did while they operated those roads, the jurisdiction of
the state court of actions to recover damages or compensation would be clear. And so, under the Transportation
Act, that court properly entertained the proceedings now
before us.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ARCHIBALD McNEIL & SONS
CO., INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT' OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 444.

Argued January 9, 12, .1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. In the absence of a bill of exceptions or special findings, the jurisdiction of the District Court over a law case tried by stipulation
without a jury is determinable, on direct appeal to this Court, only
upon the questions of law apparent on the face of the pleadings.
P. 307.
2. An action in the District Court to recover just compensation for
goods alleged to have been commandeered or requisitioned under
the Lever Act, may be brought, under § 10 of that statute, in the
District where the seizure occurred. Id.
3. Where a statement of claim filed in the District Court under § 10
of the Lever Act sought recovery of the value of coal alleged to have
been requisitioned under that act by the President through the
Fuel Administrator and used by the United States in the operation
of various railroads--"a public use connected with the common
defense,"--held that objections raised by demurrer, in terms questioning the jurisdiction upon the grounds that there had been no
preliminary determination of value, and partial payment, as contemplated by the statute, and that the cause of action was for a
diversion of the coal, under § 25, remediable only by action against
the agent designated by the President under § 206 (a) of the
Transportation Act, 1920,--did not go to the jurisdiction of the
court but concerned the merits. Binderup v. Pathg Exchange,
263 U. S. 291. Id.
Affirmed.

