OHIO UTILITIES CO. v. COMMISSION.
352

359

Statement of the Case.

withdrawn and the present decision, rendered after a rehearing, is the only one open to our consideration. The
decree of the state supreme court is reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Writ of error dismissed.
Decree reversed.
OHIO TTTLITIES COMPANY v. PUBLIC UTILITIES

COMMISSION OF OHIO.
FRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 210. Argued January 20, 21, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. In determining the reproduction value of the plant of a public
utility as a basis for fixing its rates, there should be a reasonable
allowance for organization and other overhead charges that necessari!3 would be incurred in reproducing it; and the amount of
such, allowance is a matter of estimate not dependent on proof of
actual expenditures originally made to defray such charges. P. 362.
2. An order of a state commission, affirmed by the state supreme
court, fixed rates for an electric company 'allowing a return of
less than 5% upon the value of its property, this result being
reached by arbitrarily refusing any allowance for preliminary
organization expenses, and by arbitrarily reducing allowances for
interest during the construction period, working capital, value of
buildings and plant equipment, and operating expenses, below the
amounts estahlished as reasonable by the undisputed evidence before the commission, Held that the return was so inadequate as to
result in deprh ing the company of property without due process
of law; and that the company was not accorded the sort of judicial
inquiry tc ,-hi,.'h under the decisions of this Court it was entitled.
P. 361.
108 Ohio St. 14J3, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio

which affirmed.an order of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission reducing the rates chargeable by the plaintiff in
error for electricity.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Mr. Timothy S. Hogan and Mr. J. C. Martin,for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John W. Bricker and Mr. Burch D. Huggins, with
whom Mi. C. C. Crabbe, Attornej General of Ohio, and
Mr. Granville Barrere were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTicu Su

!-BRLA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Ohio Utilities Company is engaged in supplying
gas and electricity for light, heat and power to various
communities in Ohio. In 1920 it filed with the Utilities
Commission rate schedules for gas and electrical service in
the Village of Hillsboro. The rates were protested and
the commission ordered a, hearing. Pending a decision,
the company was allowed to collect the rates in accordance with its schedule upon condition that it would return
to its customers any excess over the rates finally fixed,
for the due performance of which it furnished a bond.
After a hearing and rehearing, the commission reduced the
electrical service rates set forth in the company's schedule,
and fixed the same for residence and commercial lighting
at twelve cents per kilowatt hour for the first two hundred
hours per month and ten cents per kilowatt hour for all
over two hundred hours, and for private garage automobile charging a minimum of one dollar per month net.
As a basis for these rates, the commission found that the
fair value of the physical property of the company used
and useful in the furnishing of electrical service to consumers in Hlillsboro was "$138,521; to which allowances
were added as follows: taxes during construction, $1,081;
interest during construction, $1,500; to maintain an adequate stock of materials and supplies,, $1,071; working
capital for- carrying on the electrical service in Hillsboro,
$2,88 2 ;-bringing the value of the property, as of August
30, 1920, for rate maring purposes, to- the total sum of

OHIO UTILITIES. CO. v. COMMISSION.
359

361

Opinion of the Court.

$145,055. The commission further found that the reasonable operating expenses (including an allowance of $3,000
for taxes) in furnishing such electrical service for a period
of one year should be $837,608, and a reasonable annual
allowance for depreciation should be $7,252, (being five
per centumn of the value) making , total of $44,860. The
commission then found that a reasonable return to the
company for the period of one year would be $8,703, and
estimated that the rates fixed would produce the aggregate of these two sums, namely, $53,563. Upon error to
the state supreme court the order of the commission
was affirmed. 108 Ohio State 143.
The order of the commission is assailed as confiscatory
and, therefore; in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The specific grounds of complaint in respect of the order, so far as necessary to be stated and considered, are as follows: (1) the value of the property
.should have been fixed at $154,655.93; (2) under'the evidence, the allowance for operating expenses, including
taxes, should have been at least $38,744.85; (3) the return
to the company should have been on the basis of eight
per cent. upon the value stated in (1), or $12,372 annually.
Property valuation. An examination of the record
shows that the engineers of the commission made an itemized inventory and valuation of the company's property,
based on reproduction value less depreciation, from which
it appears that the aggregate fair value of the property
for rate-making purposes was $154,655.93. This valuation was confirmed by the oral testimony of the engineers;
it was acquiesced in by the company; and we find no substantial evidence in the record to the contrary. 'The commission accepted the valuation of its engineers in all respects except that it rejected or reduced the amount of the
following items: preliminary organization expenses,
$5,000, .rejected outright; interest for one year's construction period, reduced from $4,507.98,. as estimated and

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinioni of the Court.

267 U. S.

recommended, to $1,500, a reduction of $3,007.98; working capital, being one-twelfth of the annual operating expenses and cost of coal for one month, reduced from
$4,198.42 to $2,882, a reduction of $1,316.42. It also appears that the engineers' valuation of the buildings and
plant equipment, $122,276.15, was carried into the commissioner's computation at the round sum of $122,000.
The aggregate, therefore, of the rejections and reductions
is $9,600.55.
The item of $5,000 seems to have been rejected upon
the ground that there was no proof of actual expenditure.
Reproduction value, however, is not a matter of outlay,
but of estimate, and should include a reasonable allowance
for organization and other overhead charges that necessArily would be incurred in reproducing the utility. In
estimating what reasonably would be required for such
purposes, proof of actual expenditures originally made,
while it would be helpful, is not indispensable. The commission's chief engineer, explaining the appearance of the
item in his report called attention to the account system
prescribed by the commission, which, among other things,
provided that under the head of "organization" was included incorporation fees paid to the government and
other fees and expenses incident to organizing the utility
and placing it in readiness to do business, attorney's fees,
cost of preparing and issuing certificates of stock, etc., etc.,
and testified that the item was an estimate made as the
result of an investigation by the commission's engineer on
the spot. There was no testimony to the contrary; and
the company, in view of the concession, evidently deemed
it unnecessary to produce evidence upon the point. That
such expenditures in a substantial amount would necessarily be made in reproducing the utility is clear; it is
not suggested that the estimate of the engineers ig excessive or unfairly made; and the rejection of the entire
amount cannot be regarded as otherwise than arbitrary.

OHIO UTILITIES CO. v. COMMISSION.
359

363

Opinion of the Court.

The reduction of the item for interest seems to be of
like character. The engineers' estimate was based upon
their conclusion that it 'would require one year for the
construction of the plant; and interest at six per cent. was
allowed on the estimated cost for half of that period.
There is no justification in the record, so far as we can
see, for a reduction of the item to an amount which is
less than one-third of the engineers' estimate.
The item for working capital was carefully worked out
by the commission's own engineers; there was no evidence
to the contrary; and the reduction seems to'have been
equally capricious.
The curtailment of the estimated value of the buildings
and plant equipment by the sum of $276.15 finds no explanation in the record, and probably. was a sacrifice to
the easy convenience of round numbers.
Operating expenses.: The commission's engineers reported and testified that the actual operating expenses for
the year ending February 28, 1921, were $38,744.85,-to
which should be added the amount of a reasonable depreciation allowance, fixed by the commission itself at $7,252.
We are uniable to find any evidence in the record which
impeaches the accuracy of the sum of these expenses, or
which casts doubt upon their fairness as a measure'of the
necessary annual operating expenses. Yet the commission reduced the amount to $37,608, a difference of
$1,136.85. The commission found, it is true, that the
plant had been inefficiently operated. But we find no
evidence to this effect in the record and none has been
called to our attention. To the contrary, the commission's engineer who examined the property and accounts
of the company testified that he considered the expenditures of the company were reasonable and that the plant
was efficiently and economically managed.
Return. As bearing upon the amount of return to
which the company is entitled, a summary of the fore-

OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

going may now be considered': value of property for ratemaking purposes, $154,655.93; annual amount of income
based upon rates fixed by commission, $53,563; operating
expenses, together with amount of annual depreciation
allowed by commission, $45,996.85; leaving a balance as
return to the company of $7,566.15, or less than five per
cent. upon the value of the property. That this is so
plainly inadequate as to result in depriving the company
of its property without due process of law may not be
doubted. See Bluefield Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 262
U. S. 679, 692-695, and cases cited; S. W. Tel. Co. v. Pub.
Serv. Comm., 262 U. S. 276, 288.
From the foregoing, it is evident that the state supreme
court did not accord to the plaintiff in error that sort of
judicial inquiry to which under the decisions of this court
it was entitled. Bluefield Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm.,
supra, p. 689; Ohio Valley Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253
U. S. 287, 289.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
action not inconsistent with this opinion.
LYNCH, EXECUTRIX, ETC. v. ALWORTHSTEPHENS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 273.

Argued January 7, 8, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. The interest of a corporate lessee of a mine under a lease for a
term of years obliging it to mine a minimum tonnage of ore annually and to pay the lessor, owner of the fee, a stated royalty per
ton mined, is property within the meaning of ยง 12a of the Income
Tax Law of September 8, 1916, which provides that the net income
of corporations organized in the United States shall be ascertained
by deducting from gross income, among other things, "a reasonable
allowance for the exhaustion . . . of property arising out of its
use," and specifically, in the case of miies, "a reasonable allowance

