OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Slatemeiit of the Cas'c.

267 U.S.

of the Act of 1919, but we rest it upon what we have
said.
A protest was not necessary at the time of payment
because, apart from other reasons, at that time the event
creating the right to the drawback had not come to pass.
Judgment.affirmed.

WELLS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF THE ESTATE OF
CHARLES E. WELLS, DECEASED, v. BODKIN
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 144. Argued March 6, 1925.--Decided April 13, 1925.
The Act of May 14, 1880, confers a preference right of entry upon

the successful contestant of a homestead claim and provides that,
should the person who initiated a contest die "before the final
termination of the same ", the contest shall not abate, but that his
heirs, who are citizens of the United States, may continue the
prosecution and shall be entitled to the same rights under the act
that the contestant would have if his death had not occurred.

Held:
1. That, where the contestee relinquished and the contestant made
her homestead application within the time allowed and later died,
her heirs were entitled, in prosecuting the application, to preference

over a stranger to the contest whose homestead application was
made on the same day as the decedent's. P. 476.
'2. The fact that an heir applying had himself made a homestead
entrX in his own right was no obstacle, when he relinquished it
under permission of the Secretary of the Interior for the purpose

of availing himself of the inherited right of entry. P. 478.
289 Fed. 245 affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill whereby the appellant's decedent sought to have

WELLS v. BODKIN.
474

Opinion of the Court.

the appellees declared trustees for himself of a tract of
land patented to them under the public land laws.'
Mrs. Susie WelUs, pro se, submitted.
Mr. Patrick H. Loughran, for appellees.
M

. CHIEF JUSTICa

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit under ยง 241. It was a
bill in equity to have Patrick H. Bodkin and Arabella
Bodkin, patentees of a quarter section of public land in
the county of Riverside, California, declared trustees for
the complainant Charles E. Wells. In May, 1903, one
Geiger made a homestead entry of the land in dispute.
In September of that year the land was withdrawn from
public entry by the Secretary of the Interior under the
Reclamation Act. 32 Stat. 388. Florence V. Bodkin filed
a contest against the entry of Geiger on the 30th of January, 1908, pending this withdrawal. In March, 1908,
Geiger. filed a relinquishment of his entry, and in July,
1908, the contestant was notified by the local land office
that she had a preference right of entry for a period of
thirty days after the land should be restored to-entry.
On April 18, 1910, the land was restored to settlement,
and to public entry on May 18, 1910. On the latter date
Charles E. Wells, after having made a settlement, and
Florence V. Bodkin, the contestant, each made a homestead application for the land. The applications on the
same day were suspended for investigation as to the character of the land by the Surveyor General. On May 22,
1912, the suspension was removed and the land again restored to public entry. On June 3, 1912, the local land
office rejected the homestead application of Wells and
Charles E. Wells, appellant, died while this appeal was pending
in this Court, and his administratrix was substituted as appellant.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

allowed the. application of Florence Bodkin; and this decision was affirmed by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office on November 13, 1912. On May 27, 1913, the
Secretary of the Interior reversed the decision of 'the Commissioner, becanae it appeared that on the 25th of March,
1912, before the ispension for investigation was removed,
Florence Bodkin had died; and held that she had acquired no rights by her application to enter that would
descend to her heirs. On August 29, 1913, the Secretary
on rehearing overruled this decision and held that the contestant might have, acquired rights by her application t6
enter that would have descended to'her heirs, but denied
a rehearing to her heirs, who were her father and mother,
Patrick H. Bodkin and Arabella Bodkin, on the ground
that Patrick H. Bodkin had made a homestead entry in
his own right on other lands, and this precluded him
and his wife from perfecting the application for a homestead as heirs of the contestant. Accordingly, the entry
of Florence V. Bodkin was canceled and the application
of Wells was allowed. But this was changed on January
3, 1914, when the Secretary of the Interior, in the exercise
of his supervisory authority, decided that Patrick H.
Bodkin, the father of the deceased contestant, might elect
within thirty days to relinquish his own homestead entry
on other lands and make a new entry based on the application of the deceased contestant, his daughter, with his
wife as co-heir. The father thereupon relinquished his
own homestead entry and, upon the entry of himself and
his wife of the quarter section here in controversy, the
patent issued to him. The District Court dismissed the
bill, and this ruling was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Under the decision by this Court in the case of McLaren
v. Fleischer, 256 U. S. 477, Florence V. Bodkin,. as the
successful contestant of the homestead entry of Geiger
pending the withdrawal of the land from public entry

WELLS v. BODKIN.
474

Opinion of the Court.

under the Reclamation Act, had thirty days after the land
was restored to public entry within which to exercise her
preference right of entry as a homesteader of the land.
Had she lived, therefore, no question would have arisen
here. The controversy arises on the effect of the proviso
of ยง 2 of the Act of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 141, entitled
"An Act for the Relief of Settlers on Public Lands," as
amended by the Ait of July 26, 1892, c. 251, 27 Stat. 270.
The second section a amended reads as follows:
"Sec. 2. In all cases where any person has contested,
paid the land office fees, and procured the cancellation of
any pre-emption, homestead, or timber-culture entry,
he shall be notified by the register of the land office of
the district in which such land is situated of such cancellation, and shall be allowed thirty days from date of
such notice to enter said lands: Provided, That said
register shall be entitled to a fee of one dollar for the
giving of such notice, to be paid by the contestant and
not to be reported: Provided further, That should any
such person who has initiated a contest die before the
final termination of the same, said contest shall not abate
by reason thereof, but his heirs who are citizens of the
United States, may continue the prosecution under such
rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may
prescribe, and said heirs shall be entitled to the same
rights under this act that contestant would have been if
his death had not occurred."
The contention on behalf of the appellant is, that the
relinquishment of the Geiger entry, upon which the contestant won the contest, was the final termination of it
and that, thereafter, the contestant had only a mere right
to make an application to enter, and that the statute
had made no provision for succession or descent with
reference to that, because the contest here is not with
Geiger but is with Wells, who, having made a settlemeift
of the land, filed his application on the same day that
the contestant did. We think this a very narrow and

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

unwarranted construction of the meaning of the section.
We concur in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior
when,, in discussing this qiestion, he said, 42 L. D. 340,
342:
'To restrict the term used, 'the final termination of
the' contest, to the termination thereof as regards the
contestee, only, would be- contrary to the reason and
purpose of the act. No interest of the contestee called
for the enactment of such a law. 'The interest of the
coiitestant, however, based upon a consideration, the payment of the costs of contest on the promise of a prospective right of entry, called for just such an enactment
which should secure to such contestant and to his heirs
that for which such consideration had been given by
him, in part if not wholly, as in the present case; and
good faith on the part of the United States with such
contestant required such an enactment to apply to all
cases where the contestant's death intervenes before the
right of entry given him inchoately with his privilege of
contest is merged into actual entry or otherwise extinguished in some of the ways indicated."
Further objection is made that the circumstance that
Patrick H. Bodkin had himself made a homestead entry
in his own right deprived him and his wife, co-heirs of
the contestant, their daughter, of the capacity to inherit.
The only objection to the inheritance was that under
the homestead laws an entryman can not perfect title
to two homesteads. If he chooses to relinquish one, it
removes objection to his perfecting the other, certainly
when he does this under the permission granted him by
the Secretary of the Interior. As the Circuit Court of
Appeals said in this case, the question whether the heir
should be required or permitted to relinquish a homestead entry in his own right was one between him and
the United States, with which the appellant had no
concern.

The decree is affirmed.

