276.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

267 U. S.

FULTON NATIONAL BANK OF ATLANTA v.
HOZIER' INTERVENER; AND SMITH, ET AL.,
AS RECEIVERS OF IMBRIE & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 260. Submitted January 27, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. A controversy is not dependent or ancillary unless it has direct
relation to property or assets drawn into the court's possession or
control by the principal suit. P. 280.
2. Jurisdiction over a suit to administer the assets of an insolvent firm
of stockbrokers does not empower the District Court to entertain as
dependent or ancillary a controversy between a customer of the
firm and a national bank (citizens of the same state), over money
paid the firm by the customer to buy stocks and deposited by
the firm in the bank, and which the bank has set off against notes
owing it by the firm, but which the customer claims as equitably
his, free from the firm's obligations'. Id.
295 Fed. 611 reversed.
CERTIORAI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment of the District Court which decreed
that its receivers recover from the petitioner Bank the
amount of a claim made by the respondent Hozier, as
intervener, and pay it to the intervener or his counsel.
See also 287 Fed. 158.
Mr. Marion Smith, Mr. John D. Little, Mr. Arthur G.
Powell and Mr. Max F. Goldstein for petitioner.
The controversy between Hozier and the bank over the
chose in action was not a controversy over property drawn
into the custody of the court in the main bill, and was not,
therefore, a dependent controversy or within the jurisdiction of the federal court. Union Electric Co. v. La.
Electric Co., 68 Fed. 673; Forest Oil Co. v. Crawford, 101

'The name of the intervener appears in the record as Hozier, Hosier and Hoosier. The first version is adopted here as the correct one,
following his 'petition in intervention and his counsel's brief.

FULTON BANK v. HOZIER.
276

Argument for Respondents.

Fed. 849; Newton v. Gage, 155 Fed. 598; Venner v. Pa.
Steel Co., 250 Fed. 2.90; Mass. Loan & Trust Co. v. Kansas City R. Co., 101 Fed. 30; Continental Co. v. Alice
Chalmers Co., 200 Fed. 601.
The result of the controversy would not affect the aggregate amount of the receivers' obligations, because the
extent to which Hozier's claim was reduced, if he recovered
from the bank, would automatically increase the amount
of. the bank's claim. A mere remote interest of this kind
in the receivers is not sufficient to abrogate the rule that
an intervention pro interessesuo is not a " dependent controversy" unless it relates to property drawn into the constructive custody of the court by the main bill. Carey v.
McMillan, 289 Fed. 380.
Mr. Arthur Heyman for respondents. Mr. Albert
Howell Jr. and Mr. Hugh M. Dorsey were also on the
brief.
The court had jurisdiction of the Hozier intervention
and to make Fulton National Bank a party.
The District Court for'the Northern District of Georgia assumed charge of the Atlanta agency of Imbrie &
Company, appointed receivers, and gathered. into its custody and possession all of the assets of that company in
this jurisdiction. Hozier had a claim against the Atlanta
agency. He was by the terms of the order appointing
receivers enjoined from taking any independent steps to
prosecute his rights against that agency, and necessarily
would be without remedy unless allowed by the court to
intervene in the cause in which the court had gathered
to itself all of the assets. Hozier having the right to intervene, it would seem clear under the authorities that
the court was authorized to bring into the proceedings
all parties whose presence would be necessary or proper
to a complete adjudication of the issues involved. White
v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36, Porter v. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473;

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Bottom v. National Association, 123 Fed. 744; Peck v.
Elliott, 79 Fed. 10; Ross-Meehan Co. v. Iron Co. 72 Fed.
957; Hollanderv. Heaslip, 222 Fed. 808; Hume v. New
York, 255 Fed. 488; Pell v. McCabe, 256 Fed. 512; Gas
& Electric Co. v. Manhattan Co. 266 Fed. 625; Equity
Rule No. 37; Rhinehart v. Victor Co. 261 Fed. 646; Simkins Federal Equity Suit, p.p. 467, 482; ConsolidatedGas
Co. v. Newton, 256 Fed. 238; CincinnatiCo. v. Indianapolis Co. 279 Fed. 356; Rocca v. Thompson,223 U. S. 317;
Caidwell v. Taggart,4 Pet. 190.
-See also the discussion on the question of jurisdiction in
the ease at bar by the courts below.
MR.JUSTICE Mc.REYNoLDs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This cause arises from an intervention petition filed by
respondent Hozier in a proceeding to administer the assets
of Imbrie & Company, a partnership, pending in the
United States District Court, Northern District of Georgia. The following statement from the opinion of that
court (287 Fed. 158, 159) sufficiently indicates the material issues"On March 3rd, 1921. in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York,
was fied a creditors bill against Imbrie & Company, stock
and bond dealers and brokers, citizens of New York, New
Jersey and Massachusetts, whose principal place of business was New York. Receivers were appointed. On the
saine day, in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, other creditors, citizens of Georgia, sought and obtained a receiver for assets of Imbrie & Company in
Georgia connected with a branch office operated in Atlanta. On March 7th, 1921, the New York receivers, by
direction of the New York court, applied for ancillary
.receivership in this court and were, with the State Court
receiver, made such ancillary receivers. On March 8th,

FULTON BANK v. HOZER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

Imbrie & Company removed to this Court the case in the
Fulton Superior Court. The two proceedings were then
consolidated by consent, and numerous interventions have
been allowed in this Court, among them that of I. S.
Hozier. His claim, in brief, is that he gave Imbrie &
Company in Atlanta, on, February 21st, 1921, a check for
$2656.13, to be used as his brokers in buying certain
stocks; that Imbrie & Company deposited it to their credit
in Fulton National Bank on February 23rd; that the
proceeds of its collection were still to the credit of Imbrie
& Company at said bank, 'though in equity belonging to
Hozier, when the firm failed without having bought the
stock, whereupon Fulton National Bank on March 3rd,
offset certain notes it held against Imbrie & Company
against the deposit, absorbing it. Hozier prays that the
bank be made a party and be required to pay the $2656.13
to the receivers or to him. By an amendment he asks also.
a judgment against the estate in the receivers' hands, with
a first lien or otherwise, if the bank could not be required
to repay the money to them for him. This intervention
was allowed, the bank was made a party and the issues
made by answers to the intervention referred to a Master.
Exceptions to his report iaise three principal questions:
First, has this Court, as a Federal Court, jurisdiction of
this controversy; second, should it pass upon it or remand
the parties to the primary jurisdiction in New York; third,
on the merits has the bank the right to make the setoff as
against Hozier."
The trial court held that it had jurisdiction to entertain
the intervention petition as a dependent controversy, and
decreed-" That the receiver's in the above stated consolidated cause recover from the -FultonNational Bank of
Atlanta the principal sum of twenty-six hundred fifty-six
and 13/100 dollars ($2656.13), together with interest at
the rate of seven per cent. (7%), per annum from therdate
of this judgment, and upon the recovery of same, -that

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

said receivers pay said amount to I. S. Hozier, intervener,
or his counsel of record."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this judgment.
The cause is here by certiorari. It is insisted that the
trial court erred, (1) in assuming jurisdiction of the intervention petition, and (2) in holding the bank liable for
the amount of the deposited check.
We are of opinion that in no proper sense was the petition dependent or ancillary to the cause instituted for the
purpose of administering the assets of Imbrie & Company.
Consequently, the trial court could not entertain it.
The general rule is thit when a federal court has
properly acquired jurisdiction over a cause it may entertain, by intervention, dependeiit or ancillary controversies; but no controversy can be regarded as dependent or
ancillary unless it has direct relation to property or assets
actually or constructively drawn into the court's possession or control by the principal suit. HQffman v. McCleI-.
lan, 264 U. S.' 552, 558, and authorities there cited. And,
see Simkins' Federal- Practice, pp. 740, 741. All parties
seem to recognize this doctrine; they differ concerning its
application to the facts presented by the present record.
The proceeding under consideration cannot properly be
called a suit by a receiver, on authority of the appointing
court, to collect assets or to defend property rights. It
was begun to recover property, claimed by a customer of
the insolvent firm, which had passed into the hands of a
third person.
Hozier might have proceeded against the bank by an
original proceeding and demanded adjudication of his
claim to the alleged trust fund-pursued thus something
which he insisted belonged to him and was unjustly withheld by the bank. This course was successfully taken in
Union Stock Yards Bank v. Gillespie, 137 U. S. 4-11.
As between Imbrie & Company, or the receivers appointed to administer their assets, and the bank, the

UNITED STATES v. CORNELL S. S. CO. 281
276.

Syllabus.

latter had the superior claim to the deposit or credit here
involved-whether it could be required to account to the
customer as for his money was a question between them.
Bank of Metropolis v. New England Bank, 1 How. 234,
6 How. 212; Wilson & Co. v. Smith, 3 How. 763; Nationa
Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Union Stock Yards
Bank v. Gllespie, supra. There were no funds in the
receivers' possession and none subject to their demand as
fo which Hozier asserted any right-his claim was against
something in the bank's possession and beyond the receivers' reach. His petition sought to compel them to
litigate with the bank for his hole interest and without
possibility of benefit to the estate. As shown by the decree quoted above, the expected fruit of the litigation was
for petitioner alone. He had no right to bring the bank,
which for jurisdictional purposes was to be deemed a citizen of Georgia (Jud. Code, ยง 24, Subdiv. 16), into th
Federal court or to interfere with the affairs of the estate
by injecting this controversy concerning which the receivers had no material interest-wherein the estate might
lose much but could gain nothing.
The decree is reversed. The cause will be remanded
to the District Court. The costs in all the courts will be
taxed against the intervener-respondent here.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CORNELL STEAMBOAT
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE QOURT OF CLAimS.
No. 265. Argued January 28, 29, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
Tug-boats were chartered to the United States for a per diem for
each and every day of the charter period, the owner agreeing to
furnish everything for them, except coal and water, which were to'
be furnished by the United States; the Government had the entire
use of t1le boats and they were subject at all times to the orders

