22

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

the liability of vessels. It provides a remedy against them
irrespective of any fine that may have been incurred by
owners or agents. The liability is not a security for any
such fine, it is a new one. The statute does not say that
the fine or penalty previously mentioned shall be a lien
upon the vessel but that a penalty of $1,000 shall be. It
seems to us as plain that this is the sum to be demanded
as it is that the right to demand it does not depend upon
a conviction of the owner or agent of the ship. See The
Scow 6-S, 250 U. S. 269, 272. The earlier part of this
section and other sections of the Act simply fix limits and
leave discretion as to the amount within the limit or limits
fixed. In §§ 35, 36, discretion is given to the Secretary of
Labor. But here the statute allows only one judgment in
case of guilt. We answer the question
Yes.
PLANAGAN v. FEDERAL COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

No. 75. Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. A contract of sale between two coal dealers for delivery of coal
by the one to, the other in car load lots, f. o. b. cars at the mine
where produced is a transaction in interstate commerce not subject to be invalidated by a license law of the State, if the buyer,
though entitled to stop the coal when so delivered, in practice buys
it for shipment to his customers in other States and procures such
shipment by orders under which the seller takes bills of lading, in
the buyer's name, from the railroad at the mine and consigns the
coal to such customers. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257

U.S.282. P. 225.

Reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Tennessee which affirmed a judgment against the petitioner in his action for breach of a contract to purchase
coal.

FLANAGAN v. FEDERAL COAL CO.
222

223

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. James J. Lynch, with whom Mr. ClaiburnH. Garner was on the brief, f6r petitioner, relied chiefly on the
following cases: Lemke v. Farmers Grain Company, 259
U. S. 50; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U.' S.
282 i Railroad Commission v. Texas, etc. 229 U. S. 336;
Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. V. Sabine Tram -Co. 227 U. S.
111; Board of Trade v. Olsen, 261 U. S. 1; Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375; Eureka Pipe Line v. Hallanan,257 U. S.
265; United States Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S.
277; Pennsylvaniav. West Virginia,262 U. S. 553; Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S. 176.
Mr. Chas. C. Moore for respondent, cited and relied
chiefly upon: Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 -How. 73; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U. S. 665; Ware
v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 406; TransportationCo. v.
Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273; Howe Machine Co. v. Gage,
100 U. S. 679; Woodruff v. Parhai,8 Wall. 123; Walling
v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S.
418; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery, 260 U. S 256; Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517; as illustrating .conditions under
which property at rest is subject to local taxation, and as
authority for the proposition that the coal which Flanagan was selling to the Federal Coal Company wAs subject
to taxation in his hands up to the momenttite:pa sd
out of him.
There is a wide difference between a sale by a single
dealer in grain or live stock, and the organization of a
grain exchange, or stock yards, controlling the movement
in commerce of a large part of the grain, or live stock,
grown in the country.
The principle that the contract must necessarily involve
in its execution transportation across state lines in order
to be a part of interstate commerce was aptly stated in
United States v. Addyston Pipe Co., 85 Fed. 298.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Undoubtedly the Federal Coal Company in buying this
coal was engaged in interstate commerce. But, if the sale
and delivery of the coal by Flanagan was for that reason
interstate commerce, then its purchase by him must for
the same reason be interstate commerce, because he could
not sell and deliver it without first buying it. By the same
reasoning the mine operator in selling to him, in mining
the coal and employing miners for the purpose, was engaged in interstate commerce, because each was an essential prerequisite of the other.
The Tennessee Supreme Court in construing and applying this local revenue statute in this case has said that the
tax is levied not upon the sale but upon the business of
dealing, which embraces both buying. and selling. The
court ruled that Flanagan might sell coal produced by him
without paying the tax. He became subject to the tax,
not because he made this sale to the Federal Coal Company, but because he engaged in the business of buying and
selling coal. While paying the tax, Flanagan had the right
to sell and did sell coal to local users. The sale of a part of
it to the Federal Coal Company which it shipped out of the
State was only an incident of the local business being conducted. The tax is not levied upon the sale for foreign
shipment. Even if petitioner Flanagan had engaged exclusively in selling to foreign customers, he would have
been charged no higher tax than a competitor engaged exclusively in selling to local customers. There was no discrimination.
Mr. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit for breach of a contract to purchase coal.
The only question here is whether the State Courts erred
in holding that the plaintiff (Flanagan, the petitioner)
could not recover for an undeniable breach because at the
time'when the defendant, the Federal Company, refused
to accept the coal the plaintiff's license as a coal dealer had

FLANAGAN v. FEDERAL COAL CO.
222

Opinion of the Court.

expired. The plaintiff says that the transaction was interstate connnerce and therefore not subject to such regulation by state laws.
The contract was made on August 19, 1920, and bound
the plaintiff to deliver and defendant to accept approximately two hundred cars of Tracy City run of mine coal
at nine dollars per ton f. o. b. cars mines, i. e., at Tracy
City, Tennessee. Shipments to be approximately fifty cars
per month. Time, September 1, 1920, to December 31,
1920. Payments to be made weekly for coal shipped in
previous week. The Federal Coal Company bought to
sell again. It did not receive the coal itself but gave
orders to Flanagan who took bills of lading from the Railroad Company at Tracy City in the name of the Federal
Coal Company and consigned the coal to that Company's
customers in other States as directed. The Company
usually did not sell in Tennessee. It broke off its contract
because the price of coal went down and, as it said, its
customers refused to keep to their bargains in their turn.
There was some discussion below to show that Flanagan also bought this coal as a dealer and so was subject
to the law in respect of this transaction. But for the
present purpose it is immateriai how he came by what he
sold. For if he was engaged in interstate commerce he
could not be impeded because he was a dealer any more
than if he was selling from his own mine. It was understood between the parties that these dealings were
steps in sending coal from the mines to purchasers in other
States. Very likely the Federal Coal Company might
have stopped the coal at Tracy City in Tennessee, but it
had no thought of doing so and Flanagan understood the
course of business in which he was expected to co~perate
and did co~perate. Therefore in this matter the parties
were engaged in interstate commerce and the state law
even if valid as.a tax could not invalidate their contract.
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

267 U.S.

290. Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50. A. G.
Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66, 69, 70. We see
no sufficient reason for believing that the decision would
have been the same if the State Court had regarded the
transactions as interstate commerce and therefore its decision must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
STEIN ET AL., DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF STEIN, HALL & COMPANY,
ETC. v. TIP-TOP BAKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 177.

Submitted Jaiuary 14, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

In an action in the District Court between citizens of different states
wherein plaintiff seeks to recover the agreed price of goods which
defendant agreed to buy but refused to accept, and where plaintiff
alleges that upon defendant's refusal plaintiff rescinded the contract and, in his own right, retook the goods, which then had no
value and could not be sold, and a year later, when they had
acquired value, resold them as his own to a third person for a
price alleged, the price received at the resale is not to be deducted
from the plaintiff's demand in determining whether the jurisdic-

tional amount.is in controversy. P. 227.
Reversed.
ERROR

to a judgment of the District Court dismissing an

action on contract for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Charles Carrollfor plaintiffs in-error. Mr. Sigmund

W. David, Mr. W. S. Hefferan, Jr., and Mr. Richard
PriestDietzman,were also on the brief.
Mr. Allen P. Dodd for defendant in error. Mr. George
.Du Relle was also on the brief."

