OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. v. PUBLIC

UTILITIES COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-101.

Decided August 13, 1979*

Applications to stay, pending disposition of applicants' petitions for certiorari, the Court of Appeals' mandate issued upon affirming the District Court's denial of declaratory and injunctive relief against enforcement of a rate order earlier promulgated by respondent California
Public Utilities Commission which ordered applicants to refund certain
charges paid by subscribers and to reduce certain rates, are denied,
and a previously issued temporary stay is dissolved. This Court previously denied applicants' petitions for certiorari (and rehearing) to
review the Commission's rate order after the California Supreme Court
had denied applicants' request for review, and the applicants simply
seek to relitigate federal tax issues that were determined adversely to
them in such earlier proceedings, there being no intervening events to
change that outcome.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants request that I continue in effect a temporary
injunction issued by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on April 2, 1979, pending disposition by the full Court of
their petitions for certiorari to review the judgment of the
Court of Appeals. On July 18, that court, in a consolidated
case in which both applicants were appellants, affirmed the
judgment of the United States District Court for the Northern
District of California denying applicants injunctive relief
*Together with No. A-102, General Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities
Commission of California et al., also on application for stay of the same
mandate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

against the enforcement of a rate order earlier promulgated
by respondent California Public Utility Commission (PUC).
The PUC in September 1977 (Decision No. 87838), had ordered applicants to refund charges paid by subscribers before
1978 and to reduce certain of their rates for that and future
years. The PUC, however, stayed implementation of its order
pending judicial review. 600 F. 2d 1309, 1310 (CA9 1979).
After the Supreme Court of California denied applicants'
request for review, applicants petitioned this Court for certiorari. Applicants argued that this Court should review the
PUC rate order because it was premised on the PUC's interpretation of an unsettled question of federal tax law. They
claimed that if this interpretation subsequently proved incorrect, they would be subject to substantial liability in back
taxes. Applicant Pacific Telephone also challenged the
PUC's decision on the ground that it violated the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The petitions were
denied on December 11, 1978, 439 U. S. 1052, with MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN dissenting from
the order of denial. Petitions for rehearing were thereafter
denied on February 21, 1979, 440 U. S. 931. On March 14,
1979, the PUC terminated the stay of its own order of September 13, 1977, stating in its order so doing that "the avenues
of judicial review have been exhausted." 600 F. 2d, at 1311.
The following day, applicants filed a complaint for declaratory
and injunctive relief in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. That court denied relief,
but the Court of Appeals granted its own temporary injunction on April 2, 1979, pending consideration of applicants'
appeal from the order of the District Court. Last month, as
previously noted in this opinion, the Court of Appeals affirmed
the judgment of the District Court, dissolved its own injunction, and denied applicants' request for a stay of mandate in
order that they might petition this Court for certiorari.
With this sort of procedural history, one would expect

PACIFIC TEL. & TEL. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

applicants' petitions for certiorari to deal principally with
questions arising under the United States Constitution or laws
governing the setting of rates by state utility commissions for
public utilities. But the questions which applicants seek to
have reviewed on certiorari pertain to the application of federal tax statutes as they relate to depreciation which may be
claimed by public utilities. Since it is this type of question
which applicants seek to litigate if certiorari is granted, one
would likewise expect either an agency or officer of the United
States having some responsibility for administering these tax
statutes to be named as respondents, instead of the California
PUC or intervening California municipal corporations. Without dwelling further on the anomalous nature of applicants'
petitions for certiorari, I have concluded that their actions in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California begun in March 1979, were simply an effort to
relitigate issues which had been determined adversely to them
by the administrative and judicial processes of the State of
California, and with regard to which this Court denied certiorari and denied rehearing earlier this Term. These denials
took place notwithstanding the fact that the Solicitor General
urged the Court to grant certiorari and decide the issues
presented by the petitions.
The PUC in its Decision No. 90094, rendered on March 14,
1979, after the proceedings in this Court, was doing no more
than formally stating that the conditions on which its stay had
been granted-exhaustion of judicial review-had occurred,
and therefore the stay expired by its own terms. The PUC
dissolved this stay despite applicants' contention that the
PUC's interpretation of federal tax law in Decision No. 87838
was incorrect and that the rate order would consequently result in the Internal Revenue Service's assessment of substantial tax deficiencies against applicants. In my opinion, the
determination of whether or not the PUC's rate order should
have been stayed pending resolution of the federal tax issues

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

was, at this late stage in the proceedings, entirely a matter for
the State to decide.
One need not question the assertion of applicants that very
large financial stakes hinge on the manner in which the IRS,
subject to whatever review of its action is provided by law,
treats the refund and rate reduction orders imposed by the
PUC's order of September 13, 1977. Nor need one doubt that
this Court had jurisdiction, under cases such as Zacchini v.
Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co., 433 U. S. 562 (1977), to
review applicants' earlier petitions for certiorari in Nos. 78606 and 78-607, 0. T. 1978, on the ground that the PUC had
reached a decision based on a misapprehension of federal law
which it might not have reached had it correctly understood
federal law. But that is now water over the dam. This
Court denied those petitions earlier this Term, and denied
petitions for rehearing.
If I thought it necessary in passing upon this stay application to determine the present-day correctness of this Court's
reading of California law in Napa Valley Co. v. Railroad
Comm'n, 251 U. S. 366 (1920), I would naturally defer to the
opinion of the Court of Appeals, which must deal with California law more frequently than does this Court. But I do
not actually think it is necessary to make this determination;
a State may enunicate policy through an administrative
agency, as well as through its courts, and so long as there is an
opportunity for judicial review the fact that such review may
be denied on a discretionary basis does not make the agency's
action any less the voice of the State for purposes of this
Court's jurisdiction or for purposes of federal-state comity.
See United States v. Utah Construction Co., 384 U. S. 394,
419-423 (1966). Nor is this a case where any claim of bias
is made against the agency, see Gibson v. Berryhill, 411 U. S.
564 (1973), or where an action of the federal courts in refusing
to allow applicants to relitigate the merits of their claim on
which this Court has previously denied certiorari amounted

PACIFIC TEL. & TEL. CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMM'N
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

to the imposition of a requirement of "exhaustion of administrative remedies." Here, the administrative action was the
source of the claimed wrong, not a possible avenue for its
redress.
The net of it is that I believe applicants' federal-court litigation is new wine in old bottles. When it was new wine in new
bottles, last Term, this Court denied certiorari, and I have no
reason to believe that any intervening events would change
that outcome. Accordingly, without considering the second
part of the requirement which applicants must meet in order
to obtain a stay-the so-called "stay equities"-the temporary
stay which I previously issued is dissolved forthwith, and applicants' request for a stay of the mandate of the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is hereby
Denied.

