SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 2.)
291

297

Counsel for Parties.

its license. Those considerations which lead to the recognition of the power of a State to tax the property used
by the grantee in the enjoyment of a federal license require recognition of the power to tax it on the basis of
accepted standards of value, customarily applied in the
taxation of other forms of property. See Railroad Co. v.
Peniston,supra.
We have examined other objections to the tax, made in
brief and argument; but we do not discuss them, as they
are unsubstantial, and as the objections, on federal
grounds, were not presented by the record or passed upon
by the state court.
Affirmed.
SUSQUEHANNA POWER COMPANY v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.

(No. 2.)

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.
No. 369.

Argued March 20, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

A state tax on the capital stock of a corporation based on an assessment equal to the value of its personal property within the State

without regard to liens or debts, was construed and upheld by the
state court as an indirect tax on the personalty, which was not
taed otherwise. Held an adequate state ground of decision,
obviating consideration of constitutional objections directed to a
different construction of the statute. P. 300.
Dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a capital stock tax.
Reported below: 159 Md. 359; 151 Atl. 39.

Mr. William Clarke Mason, with whom Messrs. Stevenson A. Williams, Frederick R. Williams, and A. Allen
Woodruff were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. William L. Marbury, Jr., Assistant Attorney
General of Maryland, and Charles H. MacNabb, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

whom Mr. William P. Lane, Jr., Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal, § 237 Jud. Code, as amended
by Act of January 31, 1928, from a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, 159 Md. 359; 151 AtI. 39, upholding an order of appellee, the State Tax Commission,
which fixed an assessment on the capital stock of appellant, for 1929 taxation, at $6,000,000.
The assessment was made under the provisions of Art.
81, §§ 154, 163, 166 and 166-A of the Maryland Code.
Sections 163, 166 and 166-A impose a tax on the capital
stock of every domestic corporation, which "shall be collected from" the corporation, and which, when paid, may
be charged to stockholders, and is a lien upon their stock.
At the time of the adoption of § 163, corporations were
exempt from taxation on their real and personal property;
but § 163 provided that "in no case shall the stock of any
corporation, in the aggregate, be valued at less than the
full value of the real estate and chattels, real or personal,
held by or belonging to such corporation." Direct taxation of real property of domestic corporations was restored
by Laws, 1896, c. 120, § 1 (2); and by § 166-A, supra, it
was provided that in assessing the stock of corporations for
taxation, the taxable value should be ascertained by deducting the assessed value of the corporation's real estate
from the aggregate value of all its stock.
Appellant is a Maryland corporation, and has been
granted a license by the Federal Power Commission. Acting under it, it has constructed a dam on the Susquehanna
River, in connection with which it has established and is
operating a power project. See Susquehanna Power Co. v.
State Tax Commission, No. 368, ante, p. 291. All its
shares of capital stock are owned by the Philadelphia

SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 2.)
297

299

Opinion of the Court.

Electric Power Company, a Pennsylvania corporation,
with its only place of business in that commonwealth.
The report of appellant to the Commission for the assessment of its capital stock showed its gross assets to be
$46,821,885.28, of which its tangible personal property
was not less than $6,000,000; its total liabilities $41,954,998.92, and its net worth $4,866,886.36. The order of the
Commission fixed the aggregate value of the capital stock
at $28,726,132, from which it deducted $22,726,132, the
assessed value of its real estate, leaving $6,000,000 as the
assessed value of the stock.
Appellant challenges the taxing statute, as applied, on
the ground that it violates the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, because the assessed valuation
required by it is arbitrary and excessive, and because it
imposes a tax on intangible shares of stock owned by a
nonresident, which have a situs, for purposes of taxation,
only at the owner's residence. Appellant also assails the
statute on the ground that, as the assessed value of the
capital stock includes a value attributable to the license
granted to appellant by the Federal Power Commission,
the tax is on a federal instrumentality, which the Constitution impliedly forbids.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in upholding the
assessment, pointed out that it did not exceed the value of
appellant's tangible personal property within the State,
and that the tax was in lieu of any direct tax on that
property; and sustained it as an indirect tax on the property. It said, 159 Md. at p. 366, 151 Atl. at p. 42:
"There is in this State no direct tax on the personal
property of the corporation, Code Art. 81 sec. 163, and
the value of the real estate upon which there is a direct
tax, is deducted from the aggregate value of both its real
and personal property before its stock is finally valued for
assessment. So that the final assessment of the shares in

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

so far as it represents tangible property includes no part
of the value of the real estate but is based upon the value
of the personal property alone . . ." ".. . under the
amended law the value of the real property was excluded
for the valuation of its stock, and that valuation represented only the tangible and intangible personal property
of the corporation, without regard to any liens thereon.
And since it could have taxed such property directly
without reference to such liens there is no valid reason
why it may not be taxed indirectly through appellant's
capital stock, on an assessment made without reference to
liens or debts, for in neither case would the corporation
be called upon to pay taxes upon more than the assessable
value of its property. And there is no possible basis for
the contention that the method adopted subjects any of
the corporate property to double taxation. For under it
the realty is subjected only to direct taxation, and the personal property only to indirect taxation, based in both
instances on the fair value of the property taxed."
The tax was thus sustained on an adequate state
ground, and it is unnecessary to consider the objections
made to it on constitutional grounds. None of them is
directed at the statute viewed, as the state court has construed it, as imposing a tax on the personal property of
appellant. Nor-is it necessary on this record to consider
how far any objection made may be availed of by the nonresident stockholder, in the event of an attempted enforcement of the provisions of the statute which authorize the
tax to be charged to stockholders, and create a lien upon
the stock.
The objection that the property used by appellant in its
power project is a federal instrumentality, is not specifically raised on this record; but it was considered and rejected in SusquehannaPower Company v. State Tax Commission, supra.
Dismissed.

