OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

PAGEL, ADMINISTRATOR, v. MACLEAN, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 176.

Argued March 5, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

The present value of unpaid instalments of war risk insurance was
paid to the administrator of the insured. Upon an accounting by
the administrator, the state supreme court directed payment of the
insurance money to the mother of the insured rather than to his
creditors. Pending application by the administrator for certiorari,
the mother died, and, after the granting of the writ, her administrator was substituted as respondent. Held, that inasmuch as the
death gave rise to new questions as to the distribution of the fund,
which affected persons not parties and which could not be disposed
of on the present record, the proper course is, not to dismiss the
certiorari, but to vacate the judgment and remand for further
proceedings. P. 268.
179 Minn. 402; 229 N. W. 344, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 819, to review a judgment direct-

ing that the proceeds of war risk insurance be paid by the
administrator of the insured (petitioner here) to the
mother of the insured, in preference over creditors. The
mother died while the application for certiorari was pending. Substitution of the respondent administrator was
ordered after the granting of the writ.
Mr. Charles A. Swenson, with whom Mr. Henry T.
Ronning was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Fred W. Putnam and Orin M. Oulman submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted, 282 U. S. 819, to
review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota,
179 Minn. 402; 229 N. W. 344, awarding to respondent's

PAGEL v. MAcLEAN.
266

Opinion of the Court.

intestate the proceeds of war risk insurance issued to petitioner's intestate. The insured designated, as beneficiary,
his father, who survived him, but who has since died.
The insured was also survived by his mother, respondent's
intestate, and by brothers and sisters.
The installments of insurance, as they fell due, were
paid to the father until his death, when the value of the
remaining installments was paid to petitioner, in accordance with § 303 of the World War Veterans' Act of June
7, 1924, 43 Stat. 625, as amended by the Act of March 4,
1925, 43 Stat. 1310, which provides:
"If no person within the permitted class be designated
as beneficiary . . . by the insured either in his lifetime or

by his last will and testament or if the designated beneficiary does not survive the insured or survives the insured
and dies prior to receiving all

. . .

installments...

there shall be paid to the estate of the insured the present
value of the . . . installments thereafter payable. .. Y

Section 300 declares that it is the policy of the Act to
afford to commissioned officers and enlisted men "protection for themselves and their dependents," and provides
that "the insurance shall be payable only to a spouse,
child, grandchild, parent, brother [or] sister . .

"

Sec-

.

tion 22 states that the "insurance..
payable... shall
not be subject to the claims of creditors of any person to
whom an award is made . .

."

The insurance certificate,

in accordance with § 402 of the Act of October 6, 1917,
40 Stat. 409, under which it was issued, stipulated that,
in the contingency which has arisen, the insurance should
be paid to such members of the permitted class as would
be entitled to the personal property of insured under the
intestacy laws of the State of his residence, and that it
should not be "subject to the claims of the creditors of
the insured or of the beneficiaries."
The question presented on this record and decided by
the state court was whether, under the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM

1930.

Opinion of the Court..

283 U.S.

Act and of the certificate of insurance, the administrator
of the insured received the insurance as an asset of the
estate subject to payment of debts and administration
expenses, or as trustee for the benefit of such of the surviving members of "the permitted class" of beneficiaries
as would be entitled to decedent's personal property under
the laws of Minnesota, where he resided. The court held
that despite the difference in language between § 303 and
its .earlier forms, § 402, Act of October 6, 1917, supra;
§ 15, Act of December 24, 1919, 41 Stat. 376, the members
of the permitted class were to be preferred over creditors
of the insured, and directed judgment for payment of the
insurance to the mother, as the only person in the permitted class entitled to take the personal property of
insured under the intestacy laws of the State.
Pending the application for certiorari, the mother died,
and the suit was revived, after certiorari was granted, by
substitution of her administrator as respondent. By reason of her decease, the question whether the mother alone
of the permitted class is entitled to receive the proceeds
of the insurance, in preference to the creditors of the insured, presented by the record and decided by the state
court, has now become subsidiary to other questions, the
determination of which is necessary to the disposition of
the present suit and may render unnecessary any adjudication of the rights of the mother. Assuming, as the state
court held, that the mother was entitled to the insurance
in her lifetime, it does not follow that respondent, by
virtue of his office as administrator, or claiming in the
mother's right, is entitled to payment of the insurance
under the judgment in her favor. That depends on the
interpretation of § 300, directing that the insurance "shall
be payable only" to members of the permitted class, and
on the question whether, under the provisions of the Act
and of the certificate, the insurance should now go to the
estate of the mother, to the creditors of the insured, or

UNITED STATES v. FELT & TARRANT CO. 269
266

Statement of the Case.

to the surviving brothers and sisters, if any, none of whom
is a party to this suit. That question was not decided by
the state court, for the review of whose judgment certiorari was granted, and is not one which can be disposed
of on this record.
While, in such a situation, the writ may be dismissed,
see Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S. 158, the present is not a
proper case for such disposition, which might leave the
judgment to be enforced by the respondent administrator
without determination of his rights. In order that the
state court may be free to deal adequately with the questions which must be determined in order to make appropriate distribution of the fund involved, the judgment will
be vacated and the cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion. Missouri ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 273 U. S. 126,
131; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 509.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. FELT & TARRANT MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 116. Argued March 3, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Section 1318 of the Revenue Act of 1921, which makes the filing
of a claim for refund a prerequisite to
internal revenue tax, is not complied with
which gives no notice of the amount or
which the suit is brought, and refers to
may be founded. P. 272.
2. Likelihood that the claim, if filed, will
previous rulings of the Treasury on the
not dispense with the necessity of filing it.
69 Ct. Cls. 204; 37 F. (2d) 977, reversed.

suit for recovery of an
by the filing of a paper
nature of the claim for
no facts upon which it
be rejected, because of
question involved, does
P. 273.

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 719, to review a judgment sustaining a claim for repayment of money collected as income
and profits taxes.

