SMITH v. CAHOON.
527

Syllabus.

bank of circulation within a year or two after its passage,"
Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 663-664. In
the face of this decision, and others which might be cited,
there does not seem to be any sure comfort in the suggestion, sometimes made, that this Court may be expected
to intervene whenever the tax reaches the point of destruction.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment below should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.

SMITH v. CAHOON, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 449.

Argued April 22, 1931.--Decided May 25, 1931.

1. When a statute, valid upon its face, requires the issue of a
license or certificate as a condition precedent to carrying on a business or following a vocation, one who is within the terms of the
statute, but has failed to make the required application, is not
at liberty to complain because of his anticipation of improper or
invalid action in administration. P. 562.
2. This principle does not apply to one who is being criminally
prosecuted for failure to procure a license under a statute that,
as concerns him, Winvalid upon its face. Id.
3. A state statute, applicable by its terms (with certain exceptions)
to all who operate motor vehicles in the business of transporting
persons or property "for compensation or as a common carrier"
over public highways in the State, prohibits such persons from so
operating without having first obtained from a state commission
a certificate of public convenience and necessity; application for
such a certificate shall be accompanied by a schedule of tariffs;
no certificate shall be valid without the giving of a bond or an
insurance policy by the applicant for the protection of the .public
against injuries resulting from negligence in the operation of such
vehicles and for the protection of the persons and property carried; it vests the commission with supervisory authority over

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

those to whom it applies, and with authority to fix or approve
their rates, regulate their service, prescribe their methods of keeping accounts, and generally to make rules governing their operations; and it provides that schedules of their rates shall be open
to the public and that all alterations in their tariffs shall be under
the commission's control. The statute also lays a mileage tax, in
part payable upon the issuance of such certificate, and makes violation of any of its provisions a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or
imprisonment, or by both. Held:
(1) Since the statute on its face affixes the same conditions, without discrimination, to all who apply for certificates of public convenience and necessity, and embraces in those conditions a scheme
of supervision and control which constitutionally can be applied
only to common carriers, a private carrier for hire may not constitutionally be arrested under it for failure to procure a certificate
and pay the required tax. P. 562.
(2) A section of the statute declaring that if any of its provisions are held unconstitutional the validity of the others shall
remain unaffected, cannot serve, in advance of judicial decision,
to separate those parts which are constitutionally applicable to
private carriers from those that are not. P. 563.
(3) If the statute be regarded as intending to afford one constitutional scheme for common carriers and another for private
carriers, it fails to define the constitutional obligations of private
carriers with the certainty required of criminal statutes and is therefore void. P. 564.
(4) In a penal prosecution for violation of a state statute, it is
a defense that the statute, as applied to defendant, is unconstitutional on its face; and an arrest cannot be upheld upon the
ground that, later, when the defendant sought relief by habeas
corpus, the statute was relieved of its infirmity by a construction
placed upon it by the state court. Pp. 564, 565.
(5) The unconstitutionality of the statute in this case is not
removed by a decision of the state couit declaring that the statutory provisions are severable and that only th6se that are legally
applicable to private carriers are intended to apply to them,without deciding which are so applicable. P. 565.
4. A state statutory provision which requires those who operate
motor vehicles on the highways in the transportation of goods for
hire to furnish a bond or insurance policy for the protection of
the public against injuries received through negligence in such
operation, but which does not apply to those "engaged exclusively

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Argument for Appellee.

in the transporting agricultural, horticultural, dairy or other farm
products and fresh and salt fish and oysters and shrimp from the
point of production to the assembling or shipping point en route
to primary market, or to motor vehicles used exclusively in transporting or delivering dairy products,"--held repugnant to the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 566.

99 Fla. 1174; 128 So. 632, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment reversing a judgment discharging the appellant in habeas corpus.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. John E.
Mathews and Charles H. O'Connor were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. H. E. Carter argued the cause and Messrs. Cary D.
Landis, Attorney General of Florida, Fred H. Davis, former Attorney General, and Theo. T. Turnbull filed a brief,
for appellee.
The holding of the Supreme Court of Florida is limited
to the proposition that the State had power to require
carriers under special contract, who were not common
carriers, to secure a certificate of public convenience and
necessity, and become subject to regulations appropriate
to that kind of carrier, and to pay a special mileage tax,
in order to have the privilege of using the highways for
the conduct of a private business for compensation.
The State has power to do this, even though it may
not compel such private carrier to become a common
carrier in order to operate as a private carrier. Frost v.
Railroad Comm., 271 U. S. 583; Southern Motorways,
Inc., v. Perry, 39 F. (2d) 145.
The provisions regulating the-business of defendant as
a private carrier are separable and can be enforced.
If the Railroad Commission should attempt to apply
statutory provisions or rules or regulations inconsistent
with the Constitution of the United States to the par-

556-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

ticular business of the defendant, his rights as the holder
of a certificate of public convenience and necessity can be
protected and enforced by appropriate judicial proceedings. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452.
The record does not show that the defendant is being
required to comply with any regulation that would make
him a common carrier, or with any term of the statute
whatsoever other than to procure a certificate of public
convenience and necessity and to pay the tax, neither of
which is a regulation exclusively applicable to common
carriers under the Constitution, Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S.
554.
The State has the undoubted right to impose a mileage
tax on persons using the public highways for gain in the
carriage of goods. Interstate Bus Corp. v. Blodgett, 276
U. S. 245; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163.
The exceptions in the Act do not make it repugnant to
the equal protection clause. One who assails a classification in such law must show that it does not rest upon any
reasonable basis, but is essentially arbitrary.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTIcE

HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellant, a private carrier for hire, was arrested
upon a warrant charging him with operating vehicles upon
the highways in Duval County, Florida, without having
obtained the certificate of public convenience and necessity, and without having paid the tax, required by Chapter 13700, Laws of Florida, 1929. At the preliminary
hearing, the appellant challenged the validity of the
statute, as applied to him, upon the ground that it was
repugnant to the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. The appellant was held for trial.
Upon return to a writ of habeas corpus, the Circuit Court

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

of the county decided that the statute as applied to the
appellant was unconstitutional, and the appellant was
discharged from custody. This judgment was reversed by
the Supreme Court of the State, which upheld the statute.
99 Fla. 1174; 128 So. 632. The case comes here on appeal.
The statute provides for the regulation, through the
State Railroad Commission, of "auto transportation companies." These companies are thus defined in § 1 (h):
"

The term 'auto transportation company' when used

in this Act means every corporation or person, their
lessees, trustees or receivers, owning, controlling, operating or managing any motor-propelled vehicle not usually
operated on or over rails, used in the business of transporting persons or property for compensation or as a
common carrier over any public highway in this State between fixed termini or over a regular route; Provided, That
the term 'auto transportation company' as used in this
Act shall not include corporations or persons engaged exclusively in the transportation of children to or from
school, or any transportation company engaged exclusively in the transporting agricultural, horticultural, dairy
or other farm products and fresh and Salt Fish and
Oysters and Shrimp from the point of production to the
assembling or shipping point enroute to primary market
or to motor vehicles used exclusively in transporting or
delivering dairy products or any transportation company
engaged in operating taxicabs, or hotel busses from a
depot to a hotel in the same town or city ..

Every auto transportation company as thus defined is
prohibited (§ 2) from operating "any motor vehicle for
the transportation of persons or property for compensation on any public highway in this State without first having obtained from the Railroad Commission a certificate
that the present or future public convenience and necessity requires or will require such operation." There is an

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

exception in case of operation exclusively within the limits
of an incorporated city or town.
Application for such "certificate of public convenience
and necessity" (§ 3) must set forth certain information
with respect to the applicant and proposed service. Upon
hearing, the Commission may issue the certificate as
prayed for, "or refuse to issue the same, or may issue the
same with modification, or upon such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require." The Commission may take into
consideration various matters bearing upon the applicant's
previous operation and reliability, as well as the effect
that the granting of the certificate may have upon "other
transportation" facilities and upon "transportation as a
whole" within the territory sought to be served, and
"any other matters tending to qualify or disqualify" the
applicant "as a common carrier." It is further provided,
that, upon hearing, the certificate shall be granted "as a
matter of right" to such auto transportation companies
as were operating in good faith on the nineteenth day of
April, 1929, over the route for which the certificate is
sought, "who shall comply in full with the provisions of
this Act." When application is made for a certificate "to
operate in a territory or on a line already served by a
certificate holder," the Commission shall grant the certificate "only when the existing certificate holder or holders
serving such territory fail to provide service and facilities
to the satisfaction of said Commission."
The following provision as to the giving of a bond in
connection with the application for certificate is found in
§ 4 [pp. 353- 4 ]:
"The Commission shall, at the time of granting a certificate to operate any transportation company for transporting persons or property, fix and determine the amount
of the bond to be given by the applicant for the protection, in case of passenger vehicle, of the passengers

559

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

and baggage carried in said vehicle and of the public
against injury caused by negligence of the person or corporation operating the said vehicle, and in the case of the
vehicle transporting freight, for the protection of the said
freight so carried and of the public against injuries received through negligence of the person or corporation
operating

said

freight

carrying

vehicle;

.

.. The

said bonds shall be conditioned to indemnify passengers
and the public receiving personal injuries by any act of
negligence, and for damages to property of any person
other than the assured; and such bonds shall contain such
conditions, provisions, and limitations as the Commission
may prescribe, and said bonds shall be payable to the
State of Florida, and shall be for the benefit of and subject to action thereon by any person or persons who shall
have sustained an actionable injury protected thereby, notwithstanding any provisions in said bond to the contrary,
and every bond or insurance policy given shall be conclusively presumed to have been given according to and
to contain all of the provisions of this Act. And no certificate shall be valid until such bond has been filed and
approved. .

....

With the approval of the Commission, the applicant
may file an insurance policy in lieu of bond.
The Commission is empowered (§ 5) "to fix or approve
the rates, fares, charges, classifications, rules and regulations for each auto transportation company," to regulate its "service and safety of operations," to prescribe
"a uniform system and classification of accounts to be
used, which among other things shall set up adequate
depreciation charges," to require "the filing of annual
and other reports and all other data," and to supervise
and regulate it "in all other matters" affecting its relationship with the traveling and shipping public.
Under § 6, every auto transportation company, as defined by the Act, must forthwith file, with its application

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

for a certificate, "a schedule of its rates and fares, and a
time schedule of all motor vehicles operated" which are
to be subject to public inspection. Rates and time schedules are to be changed only with the sanction of the Commission, and it is made unlawful for any such company
to receive a greater or less charge for any service rendered
than that shown by the filed schedules.
Violation of any provision of the Act is made a misdemeanor (§ 13) punishable by fine or imprisonment, or

by both.
Section 14 provides for the collection of a tax from
every auto transportation company to which has been
granted a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
This is a mileage tax graded according to the capacity of
the vehicle. The tax is to be paid quarterly in advance,
beginning with the issue of the certificate. Five per
cent. of the moneys collected are to be used to defray the
expense of the administration of the Act, and the remainder is to be distributed among the counties in proportion
to the use of their highways (§ 15).
Other provisions prohibit discrimination and "free
fares" except as stated.
Upon the appeal in this case, the Supreme Court of the
State thus construed the statute [p. 1180]:
"The statute applies to corporations and persons who
use motor propelled vehicles in the business of transporting persons or property for compensation over public
highways in this State between fixed termini or over a
regular route, whether such transportation for compensation is as common carriers or as carriers for particular
persons under special contract; but the statute does not
require private carriers to become common carriers and
the provisions of the statute that are legally applicable
only to common carriers are not intended to be applied
to and are not applicable to corporations or persons who
are not common carriers, though engaged in the transpor-

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

tation to which the statute refers; and the provisions of
the statute that are legally applicable to private carriers
for compensation, are capable of being effectuated, leaving
the provisions that are legally applicable only to common
carriers to be applied to such common carriers as are governed by the statute. . . . The requirements as to procuring certificates of convenience and necessity for doing
the business on the highways and as to the tax imposed
on the business may be reasonably applied to private carriers for compensation for the privilege of transporting
for hire as a business on the public roads of the State, in
the exercise of the police and taxing power of the State to
conserve the proper use of the public highways and to
serve proper sovereign purposes."
The state court gave no indication as to the particular
provisions of the statute which were deemed to be "legally
applicable" only to common carriers, or as to those which
were considered to be legally applicable to private carriers,
except that it was decided that the latter were bound to
procure certificates and to pay the tax.
There is no controversy with respect to the status of the
appellant. The Supreme Court said that "he owned and
operated two motor propelled vehicles in the business of
transporting property for compensation upon the public
highways between fixed termini and over regular routes,
all within the State, not as a common carrier but as a
private carrier under special contract." From the undisputed evidence upon the preliminary hearing, it appears
that the appellant was employed under an exclusive contract with the Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company in hauling
its merchandise from Jacksonville to various places in
Florida. He has never held himself out as a common carrier.
From statements made at the bar, it would appear that
the appellant was engaged in the business above mentioned when the Act was passed and hence that he would
80705 °-31-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

be entitled to a certificate, provided he .complied fully
with the provisions of the Act. By the terms of the Act
such compliance would be necessary. The appellant did
not apply for a certificate, and the principle is well established that when a statute, valid upon its face, requires
the issue of a license or certificate as a condition precedent
to carrying on a business or following a vocation, one who
is within the terms of the statute, but has failed to make
the required application, is not at liberty to complain because of his anticipation of improper or invalid action in
administration. Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 186;
Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53, 55, 56; Hall v. GeigerJones Co., 242 U. S. 539, 553, 554. This principle, however, is not applicable where a statute is invalid upon its
face and an attempt is made to enforce its penalties in violation of constitutional right. In the present instance, the
appellant has been arrested and held for trial. He is in
jeopardy, and the state court, entertaining his application for discharge, has denied the constitutional right asserted. The question of the validity of the statute, upon
which the prosecution is based, is necessarily presented.
The statute on its face makes no distinction between
common carriers and a private carrier such as the appellant. It applies, without any stated exception, to
every auto transportation company within the statutory
definition, and this admittedly included the appellant. It
not only required an application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity but that this should be
accompanied by a schedule of tariffs, and no such certificate was to be valid without the giving of a bond by
the applicant for the protection both of the public against
injuries and of the persons or property carried. The
State Commission was explicitly vested with authority to
supervise "every" auto transportation company that was
embraced within the definition, to fix or approve its rates
and charges, to regulate its service, to prescribe its method

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

of keeping aceounts which should set up adequate depreciation charges, and generally to make rules governing its operations. Schedules of rates of "every such
auto transportation company" were to be open to the
public and all alterations in tariffs were to be subject to
the Commission's control. On the face of the statute,
the scheme was obviosly one for the supervision and
control of those carriers which, by reason of the nature
of their undertaking or business, were subject to regulation by public authority in relation to rates and service.
No separate scheme of regulation can be discerned in the
terms of the Act with respect to those considerations of
safety and proper operation affecting the use of highways
which may appropriately relate to private carriers as well
as to common carriers. All carriers within the Act,
whether public or private, are put by the terms of the
statute upon precisely the same footing. All must obtain
certificates of public convenience and necessity upon like
application and conditions. It is true that the statute
does not in express terms demand that a private carrier
shall constitute itself a common carrier, but the statute
purports to subject all the carriers which are within the
terms of its definition to the same obligations. Such a
scheme of regulation of the business of a private carrier,
such as the appellant, is manifestly beyond the power of
the State. See Michigan Pub. Util. Comm. v. Duke, 266
U. S. 570, 576-578; Frost Trucking Co.v. RailroadComm.,
271 U. S. 583, 592.
If it be said that the statute contemplated the severability of its requirements in providing (§18) that if any
of its provisions were held to be unconstitutional, the
validity of the remaining portions should remain unaffected, the answer is that no line of severance is indicated
in the terms of the Act. The effect of this saving clause
is merely that, if one provision is struck down as invalid,
others may stand. But until such separation has been

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

accomplished by judicial decision, the statute remains
with its inclusive purport, and those concerned in its
application have no means of knowing definitely what
eventually will be eliminated and what will be left. This
was the situation which confronted the appellant when
obedience to ibe statute was demanded and punishment
for violation was sought to be inflicted.
If, ignoring the explicit comprehensiveness of their
requirenients, it could be said that the provisions of the
statute should be severed, so as to afford one scheme for
common carriers and another for private carriers such as
the appellant, the result would be to make the statute,
until such severance was determined by competent authority, void for uncertainty. Either the statute imposed
upon the appellant obligations to which the State had no
constitutional authority to subject him, or it failed to
define such obligations as the State had the right to impose
with the fair degree of certainty which is required of
criminal statutes. Considered as severable, the statute
prescribed for private carriers "no standard of conduct
that it was possible to know." International Harvester
Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221; Collins v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 634, 638; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co.,
255 U. S. 81; Weeds, Inc., v. United States, 255 U. S. 109;
Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391.
It is idle to say that one could take a statute of this sort,
establishing requirements binding upon private and common carriers alike, and divide its terms so as to make a
valid scheme applicable to private carriers. The legislature could not thus impose upon laymen, at the peril
of criminal prosecution, the duty of severing the statutory
provisions and of thus resolving important constitutional
questions with respect to the scope of a field of regulation
as to which even courts are not yet in accord.
The construction placed upon the statute by the Supreme Court of the State does not avoid the difficulty.

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

It should be observed that this is not an action in equity
where the enforcement of a statute awaits the final determination of the court as to validity and scope. There is
no controversy as to the facts and the appellant has been
held liable to the penalties of the Act for his disobedience
to it as it stood when it was enacted. He was entitled at
that time to assert his constitutional right by virtue of
the invalidity of the statute upon its face. Apart from
this consideration, the construction of the statute by the
state court does not determine what terms of the statute
are binding upon private carriers such as the appellant.
The court states that "the provisions of the statute that
are legally applicable only to common carriers are not
intended to be applied to and are not applicable to corporations or persons who are not common carriers," and
that "the provisions of the statute that are legally applicable to private carriers for compensation are capable
of being effectuated, leaving the provisions that are legally
applicable only to common carriers to be applied to such
common carriers as are covered by the statute." But the
court does not point out what provisions are "legally applicable" to private carriers. The decision thus aims to
remove the constitutional objection of invalid application
only by creating another constitutional objection of lack
of appropriate certainty. Had the legislature written into
the statute itself that it was binding upon private carriers
"only so far as the provisions are legally applicable," it
would have transcended the permissible limits of statutory
indefiniteness.
Among the provisions of the statute binding upon those
who apply for and obtain certificates of public convenience and necessity is one that a bond, or insurance policy,
approved by the State Commission, shall be furnished in
order to afford security for the public against injuries as
well as for the protection of persons and property transported. If we leave on one side the requirement that a

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

certificate holder, who is a private carrier, shall give a
bond or policy for the goods carried by him, irrespective
of his contract with his employer whose goods he carries,
and if we consider only the provision for the protection of
the public with respect to the use of the highways, another
constitutional difficulty is encountered, that is, of an unconstitutional discrimination. If the provisions of the
Act were treated as severable, and requirements relating
to the safety of the public are separately considered, we
are brought to the terms of the Act with respect to those
who are required to obtain certificates of public convenience and necessity and thus to supply the stipulated
security. The Act provides that the term auto transportation company, upon which the obligations of the Act
are imposed, shall not include "any transportation company engaged exclusively in the transporting agricultural,
horticultural, dairy or other farm products and fresh and
Salt Fish and Oysters and Shrimp from the point of production to the assembling or shipping point enroute to
primary market or to motor vehicles used exclusively in
transporting or delivering dairy products." The point
with respect to this discrimination is not that a distinction
is made between common carriers and private carriers, but
between private carriers themselves, although they are
alike engaged in transporting property for compensation
over public highways between fixed termini or over a
regular route.
The principle that the State has a broad discretion in
classification in the exervise of its power of regulation is
constantly recognized by the decisions of this Court.
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S.157, 161;
Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 382, 384; Bekins Van
Lines v. Riley, 280 U. S.80, 82; Silver v. Silver, 280 U. S.
117, 123; Carley & Hamilton v. Snook, 281 U. S.66, 73.
But the constitutional guaranty of equal protection of the
laws is interposed against discriminations that are entirely

SMITH v. CAHOON.
553

Opinion of the Court.

arbitrary. In determining what is within the range of
discretion and what is arbitrary, regard must be had to
the particular subject of the State's action. In the present instance, the regulation as to the giving of a bond or
insurance policy to protect the public generally, in order
to be sustained, must be deemed to relate to the public
safety. This is a matter of grave concern as the highways
become increasingly crowded with motor vehicles, and we
entertain no doubt of the power of the State to insist
upon suitable protection for the public against injuries
through the operations on its highways of carriers for hire,
whether they are common carriers or private carriers.
But in establishing such a regulation, there does not appear to be the slightest justification for making a distinction between those who carry for hire farm products, or
milk or butter, or fish or oysters, and those who carry for
hire bread or sugar, or tea or coffee, or groceries in general,
or other useful commodities. So far as the statute was designed to safeguard the public with respect to the use of
the highways, we think that the discrimination it makes
between the private carriers which are relieved of the
necessity of obtaining certificates and giving security, and
a carrier such as the appellant, was wholly arbitrary and
constituted a violation of the appellant's constitutional
right. "Such a classification is not based on anything
having relation to the purpose for which it is made."
Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S.71, 85; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 563, 564; Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S.400, 417; Truax v. Corrigan,257
U. S.312, 332, 333; Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S.32, 37.
For these reasons, we hold that the statute was invalid
as applied to the appellant, and it is unnecessary to consider the questions that have been raised with respect to
the validity of the provision for the mileage tax, separately considered. The judgment is reversed and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

568

Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
NORTHPORT POWER & LIGHT CO. v. HARTLEY,
GOVERNOR OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGIoN.

No. 66.

Argued January. 23, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

A bill to enjoin state officials from bringing an action in the state

courts for the purpose of forfeiting and escheating the plaintiff's
land under a law of the State that the plaintiff attacks as repugnant
to the Federal Constitution, will not lie in a federal court, since
full protection of the plaintiff's rights can be had in the action by
the State, if instituted. P. 569.

35 F. (2d) 199, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill for an injunction.
APPEAL

Mr. 0. C. Moore, with whom Mr. W. Lon Johnson was
on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. John H. Dunbar, Attorney General of Washington, and John A. Homer, Assistant Attorney General,

were on the brief for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity to enjoin the appellees from
bringing or causing to be brought a suit for enforcing

against the appellant Section 33, Article II of the Constitution of the State of Washington and an Act of 1921 in
pursuance of the same, it being alleged that the Section
and Act are repugnant to the commerce and contract

