GROUP NO. 1 OIL CORP. v. BASS.
273

Syllabus.

ton on Bankruptcy, supra. Even though not due until
after the year allowed for proof of claims, if proved in
time, such a claim may be liquidated as are other unmatured claims. In re Buzzini, supra, p. 830. As the
claim is provable, and as notice of dishonor after the petition is filed is necessary only to charge the endorser, in the
event he does not secure his discharge, the claimant need
not give notice of dishonor in order to share in the estate.
See Coleman Co. v. Withoft, supra, p. 253.
The application of respondent to expunge the claims
should be denied in each case. The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
GROUP NO. 1 OIL CORPORATION v. BASS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 425.

Argued February 26, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

Leases by the State of Texas to a private corporation granted, for
a term of years with privilege of renewal, the right to enter on
designated lands of the state public domain for the purpose of
drilling and operating for oil and gas and to erect and maintain
all necessary structures for the production, transportation and
storage of those products. They required the lessee or owner of
the rights conveyed to pay the State the value of one-eighth of
the oil produced and of one-tenth of the gas sold. As construed
by the State Supreme Court, such leases effect present sales to
the lessee of the oil and gas in place. Held, that the profits
derived by the lessee from the sale of oil and gas produced, after
deducting the State's royalties, are not immune from federal taxation upon the ground that the leases are state instrumentalities.
P. 281.
41 F. (2d) 483, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 830, to review a judgment reversing a judgment against the Collector for money collected

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

by him as income taxes.
see 38 F. (2d) 680.

283 U.S.

For the District Court's opinion

Messrs. Homer L. Bruce and James A. Baker for petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Sewall Key,
Hayner N. Larson, Claude R. Branch, and John G. Remey,
Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Erwin N.
Griswold, and Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, and
Ottamar Hamele, Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal
Revenue, were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. James V. Allred, Attorney General of Texas,
and Fred Upchurch, Assistant Attorney General, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the State
of Texas, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner brought suit in the District Court for Western Texas to recover federal income taxes alleged to have
been illegally exacted for its fiscal years 1925 to 1928,
inclusive. It set up that in those years it received income
derived from the sale of oil and gas produced under leases
to it by the State of Texas; that these leases were instrumentalities of the State for the development of its public
domain; and that petitioner's income derived from them
was constitutionally immune from the tax as one imposed
by the Federal Government on an instrumentality of the
State. The District Court gave judgment for petitioner,
38 F. (2d) 680, which the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit reversed, holding that the immunity, if
any, had been waived by the State by § 27 of Chapter 83,
Laws of 1917, which provided that rights acquired under
leases, including the present ones, were to be "subject to
taxation as is other property." 41 F. (2d) 483. This
Court granted certiorari, 282 U. S. 830.

GROUP NO. 1 OIL CORP. v. BASS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner's leases relate to parts of the public domain
of the State, set apart by the legislature for the benefit
of the state university, under a mandate of the State Constitution of 1876, Art. 7, §§ 10-15, inclusive. See Texas
Laws, 1917, c. 83. In terms they "grant and lease" for
a period of ten years, with renewal privileges, the right
to enter on designated lands for the purpose of "drilling
and operating" for petroleum and gas, and to erect and
maintain all necessary structures for the production,
transportation, and storage of petroleum and gas. The
lessee or "owner of the rights

. . .

conveyed" is re-

quired to pay the State the value of one-eighth of the
petroleum produced and of one-tenth of the gas sold. The
challenged tax is measured by the net profits derived by
petitioner from the sale of oil and gas produced, after
making allowed deductions from gross receipts, including
the royalties paid to the State.
Section 12 of Article 7 of the State Constitution, as interpreted by the highest court of the State, "requires the
Legislature to dispose of the University lands by sale
only." Theisen v. Robison, 117 Tex. 489, 502; 8 S. W.
(2d) 646. Leases of university lands like those of petitioner have been held by that court to be in compliance
with this provision of the Constitution as present sales to
the lessees, upon execution of the leases, of the oil and gas
in place. Theisen v. Robison, supra. In so construing
them, the court applied the settled rule of the State with
respect to oil and gas leases. Texas Co. v. Daugherty, 107
Tex. 226; 176 S.W. 717; Stephens County v. Oil & Gas
Co., 113 Tex. 160; 254 S.W. 290; cf. Waggoner Estate v.
Wichita County, 273 U. S. 113. As was said in Theisen v.
Robison, supra, pp. 510, 511:
"They [the leases] do not authorize the purchaser to
take and use seven-eighths or any other mere fractional
part of the oil or gas in the land leased. The purchaser
instead buys all the oil and gas, for a stipulated price, part

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of the price being measured by the value of a certain
fraction of the produced oil and gas, which is a very different thing from the value of that fraction of the oil and
gas in place. The leases convey all the oil and gas in
granting the right to find, produce, and appropriate all
of them, in consideration of the payment of stipulated
sums and also the value of a stated fraction of the oil and
gas produced."
Property sold or otherwise disposed of by the government, either state or national, in order to raise revenue
for government purposes, is in a broad sense a government
instrumentality, with respect to which neither the property itself before sale, nor its sale by one government,
may be taxed by the other. But it does not follow that
the same property in the hands of the buyer, or his use or
enjoyment of it, or the income he derives from it, is also
tax immune. New Brunswick v. United States, 276 U. S.
547; Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762; Tucker v. Ferguson,
22 Wall. 527; see Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 468;
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 547. Theoretically,
any tax imposed on the buyer with respect to the purchased property may have some effect on the price, and
thus remotely and indirectly affect the selling government. We may assume that if the property is subject to
tax after sale, the governmental seller will generally receive a less favorable price than if it were known in advance that the property in the hands of later owners, or
even of the buyer alone, could not be taxed.
But the remote and indirect effects upon the one government of such a non-discriminatory tax by the other
have never been considered adequate grounds for thus aiding the one at the expense of the taxing power of the other.
See Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 231; Educational
Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379; Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523-524. This Court has consistently held that where property or any interest in it has

GROUP NO. 1 OIL CORP. v. BASS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

completely passed from the government to the purchaser,
he can claim no immunity from taxation with respect to it,
merely because it was once government-owned, or because
the sale of it effected some government purpose. New
Brunswick v. United States, supra; Forbes v. Gracey,
supra; Tucker v. Ferguson,supra; see Gromerv. Standard
Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362, 371; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co.
v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531, 537; Central Pacific R. Co. v.
California,162 U. S. 91, 125; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18
Wall. 5, 35-37; Weston v. Charleston,supra, p. 468.
Property which has thus passed from either the national
or a state government to private ownership becomes a
part of the common mass of property and subject to its
common burdens. Denial to either government of the
power to tax it, or income derived from it, in order to
insure some remote and indirect antecedent benefit to the
other, would be an encroachment on the sovereign power
to tax, not justified by the implied constitutional restriction. See Weston v. Charleston, supra, p. 468. The interest which passed to petitioner here, as defined by the
laws of the State, is not distinguishable from the mining
claims, acquired in lands of the United States under its
statutes, which, together with minerals and ores derived
from them, were held subject to state taxation in Forbes v.
Gracey, supra.
True, since restricted, allotted, or tribal lands of Indians are instrumentalities of the Federal Government, it
has been held that neither leases of the lands, Indian Oil
Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; nor gross income derived
from them, Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235
U. S. 292; see Howard v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503;
Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549; Jaybird Mining
Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609; nor net income, Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, may be taxed by a State. But
no case has extended such immunity to property, real or
personal, or income derived from its sale, where it has

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

passed to the buyer by a completely executed act of sale,
without restriction, and no interest in it has been retained
for the benefit of the Indians. Whatever may be the
appropriate limits of the immunity, as applied in this class
of cases, those limits are clearly exceeded by that asserted
Affirmed.
here.
consideration
MR. JusTICE ROBERTS took no part in the
or decision of this case.
STANDARD MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED, v. SCOTTISH METROPOLITAN ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 261. Argued March 13, 16, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. It has long been the accepted rule, in the law of maritime torts
and of maritime insurance, that the recoverable value of cargo lost
or damaged at sea is the value at time and place of shipment, without allowance for increase of value or anticipated profits. P. 288.
2. An insurer against loss of anticipated profits on cargo and an insurer of the cargo are not co-insurers of the same risk, and the
former is not entitled to be subrogated with the latter to the cargo
owner's right of recovery for destruction of the cargo by a maritime
tort. P. 287.
3. Insurance upon "increased value" of cargo is upon the same footing, in this regard, as insurance upon profits, in so far as the former
covers value in excess of the value of the cargo at time and place
of shipment. P. 288 et seq.
39 F. (2d) 436, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 822, to review a decree affirming
a decree of the District Court, 28 F. (2d) 540, in a limitation of liability proceeding, which apportioned the recovery between two intervening insurance companies.

Mr. Russell T. Mount for petitioner.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. James W. Ryan
was on the brief, for respondent.

