OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

is not free from doubt, as is indicated by the fact that
the judges of the court below were not unanimous. The
immediate enforcement of the order if the judgment below were not affirmed here would have resulted in a
serious and unnecessary disturbance of a course of business affecting not alone the parties to this litigation, but
the patrons of the various warehouses, which the court
below found would be irreparable. These considerations,
taken together, were sufficient to call for the exercise of
its discretion. Cf. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States,
272 U. S. 658, 672.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
CUSTER v. McCUTCHEON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 422. Argued April 20, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
A state law limiting the time within which an execution may issue
on a judgment, which has been adopted by standing rule of the
District Court pursuant to R. S. § 916, applies to the United States
as to others having judgments in that court. P. 519.
41 F. (2d) 354, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 826, to review a judgment dismissing a bill to restrain a marshal from executing a
judgment which had been recovered by the United States.

Mr. J. F. Nugent argued the cause and Messrs. James R.
Bothwell and W. Orr Chapmanfiled a brief for petitioner.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,Assistant Attorney General Richardson, and
Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attor-

CUSTER v. McCUTCHEON.
514

Opinion of the Court.

ney General, and E. T. Burke were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent's predecessor, as United States marshal,
on October 9, 1929, levied an execution issued September
21, 1929, out of the District Court of Idaho, against the
petitioner, upon a judgment entered in that court March
7, 1921, in favor of the United States. On October 10,
1929, the petitioner filed a bill in the same court to restrain
the marshal from proceeding further under the execution
process, on the ground that § 6910 of the Idaho Compiled
Statutes of 1919 permitted the issuance of execution only
within five years from the date of rendition of judgment.
The District Court, on motion of the United States, dismissed the bill, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
its judgment.' This Court granted certiorari.'
The question presented is whether the Idaho statute,
which has been adopted as governing execution process in
the United States District Court for that State., is applicable to an execution issued on behalf of the United States
as a judgment plaintiff. The statute follows:
"The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at
any time within five years after the entry thereof, have a
writ of execution issued for its enforcement."
It has become a part of the law of procedure in the
United States court.by virtue of § 916 of the Revised
Statutes,' which provides:
"The party recovering a judgment in any common-law
cause in any district court, shall be entitled to similar
remedies upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to
141 F. (2d) 354.
2282 U. S. 826.

' U. S. C., Title 28, § 727.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

reach the property of the judgment debtor, as are provided in like causes by the laws of the State in which
such court is held, or by any such laws which may subsequently be enacted and adopted by general rules of such
district court; and such courts may, from time to time,
by general rules, adopt such State laws as may be in force
in such State in relation to remedies upon judgments, as
aforesaid, by execution or otherwise; "
and Standing Rule 73 of the District Court which is:
"Subject to the provisions of the acts of Congress in
relation to executions, judgments in actions at law shall
be enforced in the same manner as such judgments in the
State Courts are enforced, and the State laws in relation
to executions, sales, exemptions, rights of purchasers,
right of judgment creditors and judgment debtors, redemptions, liens of judgments and of decrees and proceedings supplementary to execution as said provisions now
exist or as they shall exist at the time in question are
adopted as rules of this Court; and the Marshal of this
Court shall conform his proceedings thereto; .
As a result of § 916 and Rule 73, the Idaho statute is
applicable to proceedings in the District Court as if it
had been passed by Congress. In the language of Rule
73, it has been "adopted" as a rule of the court. While
it is clear that it governs executions issued on judgments
recovered by other litigants, the lower courts held that it
does not apply to those sued out by the United States.
This ruling is based upon the familiar doctrine that in
the absence of specific provision to the contrary statutes
of limitation do not bind the sovereign. The petitioner
insists that this act is not in the ordinary sense of the
term a statute of limitation, that it does not affect the
time within which a suit may be brought upon the judgment, but that on the contrary it grants the right of execution, and the time element is an integral part of the statutory right conferred. Petitioner says that in this aspect

CUSTER v. McCUTCHEON
514

Opinion of the Court.

the United States as plaintiff is on no better footing than
any other litigant availing itself of the provisions of the
statute. A proper decision depends upon the scope and
meaning to be given to R. S. 916, and the rule of court.
Section 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 4 conferred upon
the courts of the United States power to issue writs of
scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs, not specially provided for by statute, which might be necessary
for the exercise of their jurisdiction agreeably to the principles and usages of law. These words comprehended
executions on judgments. Wayman v. Southhord, 10
Wheat. 1, 22.
At the same session an act was passed "To regulate
Processes in the Courts of the United States." I It provided that:
"Until further provision shall be made, and except
where by this act or other statutes of the United States
is otherwise provided, the forms of writs and executions,
except their style, and modes of process . . . in the
circuit and district courts, in suits at common law, shall
be the same in each state respectively as are now used or
allowed in the supreme courts of the same."
This act was to remain in force only until the expiration
of the next session of Congress. It was followed by that
of May 8, 1792;1 and thereafter by other acts,7 the last
of which became R. S. § 916.
Section 916 prohibits the courts of the United States
from adopting, recognizing or giving effect to any form
of execution, except such as was, at the time of the passage
of the act of 1872, from which it was derived, or has subsequently become by adoption of state statutes, a writ
4 c. 20; 1 Stat. 81. U. S. C., Title 28, § 377.
5
Act of September 29, 1789, c. 21; 1 Stat. 93.
6c. 36, § 2; 1 Stat. 276.
7 May 19, 1828, c. 68; 4 Stat. 281. June 1, 1872, c. 255; 17 Stat.
197. The latter became R. S. 916, now U. S. C., Title 28, § 727.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

authorized by the laws of the state. Fink v. O'Neil, 106
U. S. 272, 278.
This Court has twice considered the bearing of these
statutes upon executions issued on judgments in favor of
the United States. In United States v. Knight, 14 Pet.
301, it was held that the Act of 1828, supra, gave to
debtors in prison under executions from the courts of the
United States, at its suit, the privilege of jail limits in the
several States as they were fixed by the laws of those
States at the date of the act. It was asserted that the
statute did not include executions on judgments in favor
of the United States, as the sovereign is never bound by
any statute unless expressly named. The contention was,
however, overruled, and it was held that the obvious
intent to create a conformity between the mode of proceeding in federal courts and state courts ought to be
given effect.
In Fink v. O'Neil, supra, the question was whether the
homestead of a defendant resident in Wisconsin was subject to seizure and sale under an execution issued out of a
federal court on a judgment recovered by the United
States. It was held that the Wisconsin statute exempting
homesteads from such seizure, which admittedly embraced
executions issued on judgments held by private citizens,
applied also to the United States. It was observed that
no distinction is made in any of the successive statutes on
the subject between executions on judgments in favor of
private parties and those in favor of the United States.
The Court added:
"And as there is no provision as to the effect of executions at all, except as contained in this legislation, it
follows necessarily that the exemptions from levy and
sale, under executions of one class, apply equally to all,
including those on judgments recovered by the United
States."

CUSTERt
514

v. McCUTCIIEON.

Opinion of the Court.

The contention of the Government that on grounds of
public policy the sovereign ought not to be subject to
exemptions binding on private suitors was overruled.
It is clear, therefore, that R. S. § 916 and rules of court
adopted pursuant thereto confine the United States to
such executions as may be issued by individuals under
the state statutes, and impose upon it the same restrictions and exemptions as are applicable to other suitors.
and the question here is whether an exception should be
made to this general rule as respects the time fixed by the
state statute within which execution must issue. We see
no valid reason for making such an exception. The time
limited for issuing executions is, strictly speaking, not a
statute of limitations. On the contrary, the privilege of
issuing an execution is merely to be exercised within a
specified time, as are other procedural steps in the course
of a litigation after it is instituted. The plaintiff is not
precluded from bringing an action upon the judgment,
but merely from having an execution in the form provided
by state law.
It is argued on behalf of the United States that the five
year period is not binding upon the State of Idaho, and
therefore the adoption of the statute does not affect the
Federal Government in respect of the time of issuance of
the writ. We find no decision of the supreme court of
Idaho exempting the sovereign from the provisious of the
statute, nor does examination of other cognate sections
of the Idaho Compiled Statutes disclose any meatter which
would indicate such a purpose. We think that in the
interest of uniformity, and in the absence of either express
state decision or provision by Congress to the contrary.
the statute is to be held applicable to all plaintiffs seeking
to avail themselves of the writ of execution therein provided, including the United States.
The judgment must be
Reversed.

