64

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

find no improper classification or discrimination. The
judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
No. 14, original. Argued February 25, 26, 1931.--Decided April 13,
1931.
1. The United States sued the State of Utah to quiet title to land
forming the beds of certain sections of the Colorado River and
tributaries thereof within the State. Utah claimed title upon the
ground that the streams, at the places in question, are navigable
waters of the State. Held:
(1) In accordance with the constitutional principle of the equality
of States, the title to the beds of rivers in Utah passed to that
State when it was admitted to the Union, January 4, 1896, if the
rivers were then navigable; and, if they were not then navigable,
it remained in the United States. P. 75.
(2) The question of navigability is a federal question. Id.
(3) This is so, although it is undisputed that the portions of the
rivers under consideration are not navigable waters of the United
States, that is, they are not navigable in interstate or foreign commerce, and the question is whether they are navigable waters of
the State of Utah. Id.
(4) In view of the physical characteristics of the rivers in question, findings and conclusions as to navigability are properly confined to the particular sections to which the controversy relates.
P. 77.
(5) The crucial question-a question of fact--is whether these
stretches of river in their ordinary condition and at the time of
the admission of the State, were susceptible of use as highways of
commerce. P. 82.
(6) To this question, evidence of actual navigation, after as
well as before the admission of the State, is relevant. Id.
(7) But where the actual navigation of a stream has been infrequent and of limited nature, and this is explained by conditions

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
Statement of the Case.

64

of exploration and settlement, its navigable capacity may be shown
by its physical characteristics and by experimentation, as well as
by the uses to which it has been put. P. 82.
(8) The State is not to be denied title to the beds of such of its
rivers as were navigable in fact at the time of its admission,
either because the location of the rivers and the circumstances of
the exploration and settlement of the country through which they
flowed had made recourse to navigation a late adventure, or
because commercial utilization on a large scale awaits future
demands. P. 83.
(9) The evidence sustains the master's conclusion that certain
sections of the Grand, Green and Colorado Rivers, despite impediments such as sand-bars, floods, driftwood, etc., are navigable; and
his conclusion that another section of the Colorado River is nonnavigable, is likewise sustained, except as to a small part of that
section, which is shown to be navigable. Pp. 84, 89.
2. The inclusion of part of the Colorado River in Utah within the
boundaries of an Indian reservation by an Executive Order which
was made, and pro tanto revoked, before the admission of the
State, is not proof that the river there was non-navigable. P. 88.
3. Where a decree in a suit to quiet title brought by the United
States against a State adjudges that certain stretches of river are
navigable and that their beds belong to the State, and that other
stretches are non-navigable and that their beds belong to the
United States, it is proper, though not necessary, to insert a
proviso that the United States shall in no wise be prevented from
taking any such action in relation to said rivers or any of them
as may be necessary to protect and preserve the navigability of
any navigable waters of the United States. P. 90.

THis was an original suit by the United States to quiet
title to land constitutifig the beds of described portions of
the Colorado River and its tributaries the San Juan,
Green and Grand Rivers, where they flow in Utah. The
hearing was upon exceptions to the findings of the Special
Master with respect to the Green, Grand and Colorado.
His finding that the San Juan is non-navigable, as claimed
by the Government, was not challenged here by the State.
Another finding of non-navigability, covering a stretch of
80705o-31---5

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

283 U.S.

the Colorado below the union of the Grand and Green,
was also acquiesced in by the State save for a length of
4.35 miles immediately below that confluence. (The
Grand River has been re-designated, as the Colorado, by
Congress.)
Mr. Charles M. Blackmar, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Randolph S. Collins and Samuel H.
Moyer were on the brief, for the United States.
The State of Utah was admitted into the Union on
January 4, 1896. If the rivers were not then navigable,
the title to the beds remained in the United States.
The question whether the rivers were navigable is
federal.
In determining the issue of navigability, the history of
a river as to early use by fur traders, emigrants, merchants,
etc., is entitled to great weight. The San Juan, Green,
and Colorado Rivers, in Utah, were not used by the pioneers as highways. Such lack of use in the days of difficult overland travel is weighty evidence of non-navigability. The head of navigation of the Colorado was far
below Lees Ferry, Arizona. For the legal tests of navigability, see The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557-563; The
Montello, 11 Wall. 411-414; s. c., 20 Wall. 430, 441-442;
Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 601; United States v. Cress, 243
U. S. 316; St. Anthony Falls W. P. Co. v. Board of Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; Economy Light & Power Co.
v. United States, 256 U. S. 113; United States v. Holt
State Bank, 270 U. S. 49; United States v. Rio Grande
D. & I. Co., 174 U. S. 690; Leovy v. United States, 177
U. S. 621; Donnelly v. United States, 228 U. S. 708; s. c.,
228 U. S. 243; Harrisonv. Fite, 148 Fed. 781, 784; North
American DredgingCo. v. Mintzer, 245 Fed. 297; Mintzer
v. North American Dredging Co., 242 Fed. 553; Toledo
Liberal Shooting Co. v. Erie Shooting Club, 90 Fed. 680;

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Argument for the United States.

Gulf & I. Ry. Co. v. Davis, 26 F. (2d) 930, affirmed, 31 F.
(2d) 109; Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574; BrewerElliott Oil Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77.
The rule of navigability for rivers is the same whether
the question is one of navigable waters of the United
States, or one of title. This Court has cited the cases
interchangeably, without distinction when the issue was
navigability.
No lake or stream has been declared navigable by this
Court unless it appeared from the evidence that the
stream or lake had actually supported a substantial waterborne commerce. The outstanding thought in all of these
cases was the use of the stream or lake as a highway of
commerce.

In all such cases before this Court there was evidence
of varying degrees of actual operation of boats both privately and for profit. This Court has never held that the
mere operation of small boats, although commercially in
some cases, was sufficient evidence to constitute a river a
highway of commerce. So of decisions of the lower
federal courts.
Physical characteristics of a river are given great weight
and must be considered in determining its navigability.
These rivers can not be used as highways of commerce in
Utah. During most months of the year their stream-flow
changes greatly from day to day; they carry a large
amount of sand and silt which form sand bars; and the
tortuous courses of the rivers, and their changing velocity
and volume, cause the bars to change in size and shape
from day to day. Because of these and other conditions,
these streams are not navigable within the State.
The words "commerce" and "useful commerce," as
used in cases where navigability was the issue, must be
interpreted as meaning the exchange and transportation
of goods and a use of travel by the general public for com-

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Argument for the United States.

283 U.S.

mercial purposes. Personal use without the commercial
element does not satisfy the test. The test can only be
met by showing navigation of such proportions that the
river may be truly said to be a highway of commerce.
Cases arising under the commerce clause of the Constitution and statutes passed pursuant thereto are not helpful in understanding the word "commerce" when used
as a test of navigability. The shipment of goods from one
State to another partly by use of an impracticable river
may be interstate commerce, but considering the difficulties under which it is accomplished, it may not be "useful
commerce," when navigability is the issue.
Distinguishing: Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196, 204; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420,
423; Thornton v. United States, 271 U. S. 414, 424; Federal Trade Comm. v. Pacific States Paper Assn., 273

U. S. 52.
On the rivers in question the uses have been more of a
private nature than of a public commercial one.
Cases decided by this Court, holding rivers to be navigable, may be summarized with the statement that in no
case has a river been held navigable where commercial
navigation by the public upon a substantial scale was not
shown.
On the other hand, no decision suggests or intimates
that proof of navigability may rest upon evidence that the
river was used for floatage for noncommercial purposes,
or for pleasure boats, or by a limited use of small boats
commercially or semi-commercially. In every one of the
cases where the courts have held the streams or lakes to
be non-navigable there has been proof of noncommercial
navigation, and in many of them proof of a limited commercial navigation.
The evidence amply establishes that the commercial
experiments upon the river have resulted in failure and
abandonment. Commerce in boats can hardly be said to

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

be "practical,"

Argument for Utah.

" useful," or of " any service," unless at-

tended with some degree of profit. A river can not become
a "highway of commerce," unless those who operate boats
can accomplish trips with sufficient profit to themselves
to warrant continuance; and this is especially true when
the rivers possess characteristics which will in the future
interfere with river traffic as much as they have in the past.
This Court did not speculate on future commerce in
Oklahoma v. Texas, supra; or in Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v.
United States, supra. And see Gulf & I. Ry. Co. v. Davis,
26 F. (2d) 930, 933, affirmed, 31 F. (2d) 109; United
States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 55; Mintzer v.
North American DredgingCo., 242 Fed. 553, 560, 561.
Mr. P. T. Farnsworth,Jr., with whom Messrs. George P.
Parker, Attorney General of Utah, Waldemar Van Cott,
George D. Parkinson,and William A. Hilton were on the
brief, for the State of Utah.
The United States seeks to avoid the clear and unambiguous statement of the law in The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557, and in succeeding cases by construing cases like
United States v. Rio Grande D. & I. Co., 174 U. S. 690,
and Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574, as in effect holding
that, in order that a river may be navigable, its actual use
in commerce must be frequent-that if navigation is only
occasional, it is not navigable. Those cases stand for no
such proposition. As construed by the United States, the
words "or susceptible of being used," which are always
found in this Court's definition of navigability, are surplusage. An analysis of any decision rendered by this
Court, wherein a river has been declared non-navigable
because of the nature of its use in commerce, will reveal
that the conclusion was based upon the fact that the
river's susceptibility to such use was "exceptional" or
only" occasional."
The evidence conclusively establishes the navigability
in fact and in law of all stretches of river flowing over the

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Argument for Utah.

283 U.S.

beds here in controversy outside Cataract Canyon. The
witnesses have testified without contradiction that they
navigated these streams at all seasons of the year, at flood
and at normal stage, at high and at low water. Some
describe difficulties encountered, but they reached their
destination. Women and children have successfully and
without mishap piloted boats along stretches of the rivers
where some of the plaintiff's witnesses say they encountered most trouble in navigating.
The Red, Arkansas and Rio Grande were held to be
non-navigable because, and only because, the periods during which they were susceptible to navigation were exceptional, temporary periods of high water.
We find no language in any decision of this Court intimating that the only "public" use of a stream is that
by one engaged in transportation for hire, or that the only
commerce on a stream is from a use of the stream which
directly involves barter and sale. Cf. Railroad Co. v.
Fuller, 17 Wall. 560.
The fact that they constitute a present or potential
highway for the "public" gives to them their public
status. The farmer, artisan, fisherman, lumberman, etc.,
have navigation rights equal to those of one engaged in
barter and sale. No single trade has a monopoly of the
use of navigable waters, nor is it necessary that people
engaged in any particular trade use such waters. in
order to make them navigable in law. The Montello, 20
Wall. 430; The Nymph, 18 Fed. Cas. 506; Beall v. Beck,
2 Fed. Cas. 111.
The most important industry of "trade" in Utah is
and has been mining. In the case at bar we have uncontradicted evidence of the actual use of all three of the
rivers in question in mining, beginning at a time long
prior to statehood, and thereafter. There is uncontradicted evidence of like use of the rivers by trappers engaged in the fur trade. There is evidence of use of certain

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

sections in the lumber, oil and other trades. Others have
engaged in the trade or vocation of hauling freight and
passengers for compensation. From the viewpoint of
those living in this sparsely settled section, the use of these
rivers in trade and travel has been very considerable.
Obviously each of the various uses to which these rivers
have been put, is "commerce." We can think of no
lawful commerce that is not " useful commerce."
Even if it appeared from the evidence that the stretches
of river here involved had never been navigated at any
point during all of their history, we submit that those sections would be navigable in law and the beds thereof
would belong to the State of Utah.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The United States brought this suit to quiet its title
to certain portions of the beds of the Green, Colorado and
San Juan Rivers within the State of Utah, as follows:
The Green River, from a point where the river crosses
the line between townships 23 and 24 South, Range 17
East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian (approximately the
mouth of the San Rafael River) down to the confluence
of the Green River with the Colorado River, 95 miles;
The Colorado River from the mouth of Castle Creek
(about 14 miles above the town of Moab) to the boundary
line between Utah and Arizona, 296 miles (including the
portion of the Colorado River above the mouth of the
Green River which had formerly been known as the Grand
River);
The San Juan River from the mouth of Chinle Creek (5
miles below the town of Bluff) to its confluence with the
Colorado River, 133 miles.
The complaint alleges that by the Guadalupe-Hidalgo
Treaty of February 2, 1848,' the United States acquired
19 Stat. 922.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

from the Republic of Mexico the title to all the lands
riparian to these rivers, together with the river beds,
within the State of Utah, and that the United States remains the owner of these lands, with certain stated exceptions of lands granted by it; that the Green, Colorado and
San Juan Rivers throughout their entire length within the
State of Utah are not and never have been navigable, and
that they have not been used, nor are they susceptible of
being used, in their natural and ordinary condition as permanent highways or channels for useful commerce within
the State of Utah or between States or with any foreign
nation; that the United States, as proprietor, has executed
and delivered numerous prospecting permits covering portions of the river beds in question, giving to the permittees
the exclusive right of prospecting for petroleum, oil and
gas minerals, and that the permittees have entered upon
development work; that the State of Utah claims title
adverse to the United States in these river beds, asserting
that the rivers always have been and are navigable and
that title to the river beds vested in the State when it was
admitted to the Union; and that Utah, without the consent or authority of the United States, has executed and
delivered numerous oil and gas leases covering portions of
these river beds and purporting to give exclusive rights and
privileges. The United States asks that the claim of Utah
to any right, title, or interest in the river beds in question
be adjudged to be null and void, that it be determined that
the United States has full and exclusive title thereto, and
that injunction issue accordingly.
By its answer, Utah denies ownership by the United
States of the river beds described in the complaint and sets
up title in the State, alleging the navigability of the rivers.
The Court referred the case to Charles Warren as Special Master to take the evidence and to report it with his
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations
for decree. Hearings have been had before the Master,
voluminous evidence has been received, and the Master

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

has filed his report. The report gives a comprehensive
statement of the facjs adduced with respect to the topography of the rivers, their history, impediments to navigation, and the use, and susceptibility to use, of the rivers
as highways of commerce.
A distinction in descriptive terms should be noted.
When Utah became a State, the Grand River, rising in
Colorado and flowing through that State and within Utah
to the junction with the Green River, was designated on
all government maps and reports as separate from the Colorado River, and the name Colorado River was applied
only to the river formed by the confluence of the Green
River and the Grand River. The Congress, by the Act of
July 25, 1921,2 provided that the river theretofore known
as the Grand River, from its source in Colorado to the
point where it joined the Green River in Utah and formed
the Colorado River, should thereafter be designated as
the Colorado River. Considering that this Act had no
retroactive effect, and as it expressly provided that the
change in name should not affect the rights of Colorado
and Utah, the Master has followed in his report the earlier
designations and thus has dealt with four rivers, the beds
of which are in question instead of three; that is, the Green
River, the Grand River, the Colorado River (below the
junction of the Green and Grand) and the San Juan River.
The Master has made his findings as to navigability as
of January 4, 1896, the date of the admission of Utah
to the Union.8 The Master finds that at that time the
following streams in question were navigable waters of
Utah: the Green River, from a point where the river
crossed the township line between townships 23 and 24
South, Range 17 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian down
to its confluence with the Grand River (about 95 miles);
the Grand River, from the mouth of Castle Creek down
to the confluence of the Grand River with the Green
'42 Stat. 146.
'29 Stat. 876.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

River (about 79 miles); and the Colorado River, from
Mile 176 above Lees Ferry south to the Utah-Arizona
boundary (about 150 miles); and that the following
streams were non-navigable waters of Utah: the Colo-

rado River, south from the confluence of the Green and
the Grand Rivers down to the end of Cataract Canyon at
Mile 176 above Lees Ferry (about 40 miles); and the San
Juan River from the mouth of Chinle Creek at Mile 133
above the confluence of the San Juan River and the Colorado River down to the mouth of San Juan River.
On these findings, the Master has concluded that the
title to the beds of the rivers, where the rivers were found
to be navigable, as above stated, was in the State of Utah,
and, where the rivers were found to be non-navigable,
was in the United States. Accordingly, the Master has
recommended that the Court enter a decree dismissing
the complaint so far as it relates to the bed of the Green
River, to that portion of the bed of the Colorado River
which in 1896 constituted the Grand River, and to that
portion of the bed of the Colorado River from Mile 176
above Lees Ferry south to the Utah-Arizona boundary;
and that the Court decree that the title to the bed of
the Colorado River, from the confluence of the Green
River with the Grand River down to the end of Cataract
Canyon at Mile 176 above Lees Ferry, and to the bed of
the San Juan River, was vested in the United States on
January 4, 1896 (except so far as theretofore granted by
the United States), and that Utah be enjoined from
asserting title or interest therein.
Both parties have filed exceptions to the Master's report.
Neither party excepts to the finding and conclusion
with respect to the non-navigability of the San Juan
River, or of the Colorado River from the first rapid or
cataract at Mile 212.15 above Lees Ferry down to the end
of Cataract Canyon at Mile 176 above Lees Ferry.
The United States has a large number of exceptions to
the findings and conclusions of the Master as to the navi-

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

75

Opinion of the Court.

gability of the Green River, and of the Grand River down
to its junction with the Green River, and of the Colorado
River from Mile 176 above Lees Ferry to the UtahArizona boundary.
Utah excepts to the findings and conclusion of the Master as to the non-navigability of the Colorado River from
the confluence of the Green River and the Grand River at
Mile 216.5 above Lees Ferry down to the first rapid or
cataract at Mile 212.15 above Lees Ferry.
The controversy is with respect to certain facts, and the
sufficiency of the basis of fact for a finding of navigability, rather than in relation to the general principles of
law that are applicable. In accordance with the constitutional principle of the equality of States, the title to the
beds of rivers within Utah passed to that State when it
was admitted to the Union, if the rivers were then navigable; and, if they were not then navigable, the title to
the river beds remained in the United States., The question of navigability is thus determinative of the controversy, and that is a federal question. This is so, although
it is undisputed that none of the portions of the rivers
under consideration constitute navigable waters of the
United States, that is, they are not navigable in interstate
or foreign commerce, and the question is whether they are
navigable waters of the State of Utah.' State laws'
cannot affect titles vested in the United States.'
'Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 26, 27; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S.
229, 242, 243; Donnelly v. United States, 228 U. S. 243, 260; Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574, 583; United States v. Holt State Bank,
270 U. S. 49, 55; Massachusetts v. New York, 271 U. S. 65, 89.
'See The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563; The Montello, 11 Wall.
411,415.
"In 1927, the Utah legislature passed an act declaring "the Colorado River in Utah and the Green River in Utah" to be navigable
streams. Laws of Utah, 1927, p. 8.
'Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 260 U. S.77, 87;
United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S.49, 55, 56.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The test of navigability has frequently been stated by
this Court. In The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563, the
Court said: "Those rivers must be regarded as public
navigable rivers in law which are navigable in fact. And
they are navigable in fact when they are used, or are
susceptible of being used, in their ordinary condition, as
highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are
or may be conducted in the customary modes of trade
and travel on water." In The Montello, 20 Wall. 430,
441, 442, it was pointed out that "the true test of tlie
navigability of a stream does not depend on the mode by
which commerce is, or may be, conducted, nor the difficulties attending navigation," and that "it would be a
narrow rule to hold that in this country, unless a river
was capable of being navigated by steam or sail vessels,
it could not be treated as a public highway." The principles thus laid down have recently been restated in
United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 56, where
the Court said:
"The rule long since approved by this Court in applying the Constitution and laws of the United States is
that streams or lakes which are navigable in fact must be
regarded as navigable in law; that they are navigable in
fact when they are used, or are susceptible of being used,
in their natural and ordinary condition, as highways for
commerce, over which trade and travel are or may be
conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel
on water; and further that navigability does not depend
on the particular mode in which such use is or may be
had-whether by steamboats, sailing vessels or flatboats-nor on an absence of occasional difficulties in navigation, but on the fact, if it be a fact, that the stream in
its natural and ordinary condition affords a channel for
useful commerce." 8
'See also Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 667; St. Anthony Falls
Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349,
359; United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

In the present instance, the controversy relates only to
the sections of the rivers which are described in the complaint, and the Master has limited his findings and conclusions as to navigability accordingly. The propriety of this
course, in view of the physical characteristics of the
streams, is apparent. Even where the navigability of a
river, speaking generally, is a matter of common knowledge, and hence one of which judicial notice may be taken,
it may yet be a question, to be determined upon evidence,
how far navigability extends.' The question here is not
with respect to a short interruption of navigability in a
stream otherwise navigable," or of a negligible part, which
boats may use, of a stream otherwise non-navigable. We
are concerned with long reaches with particular characteristics of navigability or non-navigability, which the Master's report fully describes.
The Green River has its source in the mountains of
western Wyoming and has a total length of about 700
miles. After passing through a series of canyons, the rock
walls of which are of great height, it enters the Green
River valley in which the town of Green River, Utah, is
situated, about 117 miles above the river's mouth. The
drop in elevation between the town of Green River, Wyoming, and Green River, Utah, is from 6067 to 4046 feet,2021 feet in 387 miles, causing many difficult and dangerous rapids. For the first 23 miles below the town of Green
River, Utah, to the point where the San Rafael River enters from the west, the country is more or less open. From
690, 698; Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621, 627; Donnelly v.
United States, 228 U. S. 243, 260, 708, 709; United States v. Cress,
243 U. S. 316, 321; Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States,
256 U. S. 113, 122, 123; Oklahoma v. Texas, supra; Brewer-Elliott
Oil & Gas Co. v. United States. suipra.
'United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 698.
St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water Commissioners, supra; Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the mouth of the San Rafael River (approximately the beginning of the section to which the controversy relates)
to the junction of the Green and Grand Rivers, there is a
very gradual slope, there being a drop of 111 feet in the 94
miles. In this section the river flows through Labyrinth
and Stillwater Canyons, the rock walls of which in many
places rise almost vertically from the water's edge, and in
other places are over a thousand feet apart, with heights
of 600 to 1300 feet. The average width of the river is
from 500 to 700 feet. In four or five places there are bottom lands along the side in the Canyons. The course of
the river is tortuous, the distance (in this section) in a
straight line being less than one-half that by the river.
The Government maintains gauging stations to measure
the depth, the velocity and the amount of discharge of
water. On the Green River the gauge was located at or
near the town of Green River, Utah. From these measurements the Master finds that the depth of the Green
River ranged from between 1 and 3 feet for 53 days in
the year to between 7 and 12 feet for 60 days, and that
for 312 days in the year there was a depth of 3 feet or
over. For 290 days in the year there was a discharge of
over 2000 cubic feet per second, and, for 149 days, of over
4200 cubic feet per second.
The Grand River rises in north-central Colorado and
flows to its junction with the Green River in Utah, approximately about 423 miles. Its course is through a
succession of long, narrow, fertile valleys, alternating with
deep canyons, with walls, in places, of over 2,000 feet in
height. There are many difficult and dangerous rapids.
The total drop from Grand Junction, Colorado, to Castle
Creek, Utah (where the section in controversy begins) is
from 4,552 feet in elevation to 3,993 feet, a drop of 559
feet in 94 miles. From Castle Creek to the town of Moab,
14 miles, the slope averages 3.5 feet per mile, and there
are slight rapids or riffles and rocks in the stream. At

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

Moab there is an open valley, leaving which the Grand
River flows 65 miles largely through rock canyons having walls 600 to 2,100 feet in height. The course of the
Grand River in this section is slightly more tortuous than
that of the Green River; the width of the river averages
about 500 feet and the slope below Moab is only a little
over 1 foot per mile. The Government's gauge was located at Cisco, about 17 miles above Castle Creek. From
readings at that point the Master finds that the depths of
the river vary from 2.9 to 3 feet for 16 days in the year
to over 7 feet for 61 days, and that for 349 days in the
year there is a depth of 3 feet or over. There is a discharge
of over 2,000 cubic feet per second for 351 days in the
year, and for 169 days of over 4,200 cubic feet per second.
The Master finds that on the Grand River, in the 79
miles between Castle Creek and the junction with the
Green River, there is a stretch of about three miles out
of the first fourteen miles between Castle Creek and Moab
Bridge in which there are three small rapids, and that, in
this stretch, the river is less susceptible of practical navigation for commercial purposes than in the remainder of
the river. But the Master finds that, even in this three
mile stretch, the river is susceptible of being used for the
transportation of lumber rafts and that there has been in
the past considerable use of the river for that purpose.
The Colorado River, that is, treating the river as beginning at the junction of the Green and Grand Rivers, flows
southwesterly and finally reaches the Gulf of California.
The distance from the confluence of the Green and Grand
Rivers in Utah to the Utah-Arizona boundary, is about
189 miles, the boundary being about 27 miles above the
point known as Lees Ferry in Arizona. The table of distances gives the junction of the Green and the Grand
Rivers as being 216.5 miles above Lees Ferry. The Master finds that the Colorado River is non-navigable from
this junction down to the end of Cataract Canyon at Mile

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

176 above Lees Ferry. The State of Utah contests the
finding of the Master with respect to the first 4.35 miles
of this stretch of the river, that is, to a point 212.15 miles
above Lees Ferry (a question to which we shall return in
dealing with Utah's exceptions), where it is said that the
first rapid or cataract of Cataract Canyon begins. But
there is no controversy as to the non-navigability of the
stream from this point through Cataract Canyon down to
Mile 176 above Lees Ferry. Through this canyon, with
rock walls from 1500 to 2700 feet in height, the river has
a rapid descent or slope of about 399 feet, a drop of 11
feet per mile, with a long series of high and dangerous
rapids.
The Master's finding of navigability relates to the section of the river from Cataract Canyon to the Utah-Arizona boundary. At the end of Cataract Canyon (the end
of the portion of it known as Dark Canyon), the country
becomes more open, the river somewhat wider, and the
canyon walls not over 600 feet in height, this stretch being known as Glen Canyon. Two rivers enter from the
west, the Fremont and the Escalante, and one from the
east, the San Juan. As the Colorado River approaches
the Utah-Arizona boundary, the canyon walls increase
in height and'average 1300 to 1600 feet. There are various points at which bottom lands are cultivated in the
river beds. The width of the river averages from 600 to
700 feet. Its slope through this section is gentle, being
less than 2 feet per mile. As to the 90 miles of Glen
Canyon, that is, from Mile 176 above Lees Ferry to the
mouth of the San Juan River, the Master states that
there are no gauging station figures of any discharge, flow
and depth which are applicable, but the Master finds
that as the waters of the Green and the Grand Rivers
join and form the Colorado River, there must be a discharge of water in the Glen Canyon stretch equal to the
combined discharge of the other two rivers and hence at

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

all times sufficient water for navigation so far as dis-

charge alone is concerned. As to depth, the Master finds
that the Colorado River in this stretch should have a
depth at least equal to that of the Green or the Grand
River. Between the mouth of the San Juan River and
the Utah-Arizona boundary, figures. were obtained from
the Lees Ferry gauging station from which it appears
that the average depths range from between 3 and 4 feet
for 17 days in the year to over 8 feet for, 124 days in the
year, and that the discharge varies from less than 4000
cubic feet per second for 13 days in the year to over
6000 feet per second for 352 days in the year.
The question thus comes to the use, and the susceptibility to use, for commerce of the sections of these rivers
which the Master has found to be navigable.
The United States, in support of its exceptions, stresses
the absence of historical data showing the early navigation
of these waters by Indians, fur traders, and early explorers,
that is, uses of the sort to which this Court has had occasion to refer in considering the navigability of certain
other streams." The Master has made an elaborate review of the history of the rivers from the year 1540 to
1869, and reaches the conclusion that neither " the limited
historical facts put in evidence by the Government [nor]
the more comprehensive investigation into the history of
these regions" tend to support the contention that the
non-use of these rivers in this historical period "is weighty
evidence that they were non-navigable in 1896 in fact and
in law." The Master points out that the non-settlement
of eastern Utah in these years, the fact that none of the
trails to western Utah or to California were usable to advantage in connection with these rivers, and many other
facts, are to be considered in connection with that of
non-use.
' E. g., The Montello,. supra; Economy Light & Power Co. v.
United States, supra.
80705"-81----

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Coming to the later period, that is, since 1869, the
Master has set forth with much detail the actual navigation of the rivers with full description of the size and
character of boats, and the circumstances of use. It appears that navigation began in 1869 with the expedition
of Major John W. Powell down the Green and the Colorado Rivers, and this was followed by his second trip in
1871. It is said that there were no further attempts at
navigation for seventeen years. There was a survey by
Robert Brewster Stanton in 1889, and in the succeeding
years there were a large number of enterprises, with boats
of various sorts, including row-boats, flat-boats, steamboats, motor-boats, a barge and scows, some being used
for exploration, some for pleasure, some to carry passengers and supplies, and others in connection with prospecting, surveying and mining operations. Much of this evidence as to actual navigation relates to the period after
1896, but the evidence was properly received and is reviewed by the Master as being relevant upon the issue of
the susceptibility of the rivers to use as highways of commerce at the time Utah was admitted to the Union.
The question of that susceptibility in the ordinary condition of the rivers, rather than of the mere manner or
extent of actual use, is the crucial question. The Government insists that the uses of the rivers have been more of
a private nature than of a public, commercial sort. But,
assuming this to be the fact, it cannot be regarded as controlling when the rivers are shown to be capable of commercial use. The extent of existing commerce is not the
test. The evidence of the actual use of streams, and especially of extensive and continued use for commercial purposes, may be most persuasive, but where conditions of
exploration and settlement explain the infrequency or limited nature of such use, the susceptibility to use as a highway of commerce may still be satisfactorily proved. As
the Court said, in Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 667: "It

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

is, indeed, the susceptibility to use as highways of commerce which gives sanction to the public right of control
over navigation upon them, and consequently to the exclusion of private ownership either of the waters or soils
under them." In Economy Light & Power Co. v. United
States, 256 U. S. 113, 122, 123, the Court quoted with
approval the statement in The Montello, supra, that "the
capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation and commerce affords the true criterion of the navigability of a river, rather than the extent and manner of
that use."
It is true that the region through which the rivers flow
is sparsely settled. The towns of Green River and Moab
are small, and otherwise the country in the vicinity of the
streams has but few inhabitants. In view of past conditions, the Government urges that the consideration of
future commerce is too speculative to be entertained.
Rather is it true that, as the title of a State depends upon
the issue, the possibilities of growth and future profitable
use are not to be ignored. Utah, with its equality of right
as a State of the Union, is not to be denied title to the beds
of such of its rivers as were navigable in fact at the time of
the admission of the State either because the location of
the rivers and the circumstances of the exploration and
settlement of the country through which they flowed had
made recourse to navigation a late adventure, or because
comnmercial utilization on a large scale a-waits future demands. The question remains one of fact as to the capacity of the rivers in their ordinary condition to meet the
needs of commerce as these may arise in connection with
the growth of the population, the multiplication of activities and the development of natural resources. And this
capacity may be shown by physical characteristics and
experimentation as well as by the uses to which the
streams have been put.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The controversy as to navigability is largely with respect to impediments to navigation in the portions of the
rivers found by the Master to be navigable, and as to
these impediments there is much testimony and a sharp
conflict in inferences and argument. The Government describes these impediments as being logs and debris, ice,
floods, rapids and riffles in certain parts, rapid velocities
with sudden changes in the water level, sand and sediment which combined with the tortuous course of the rivers produce a succession of shifting sand bars, shallow
depths, and instability of channel.
The Master states that while there is testimony that in
floods and periods of high water these rivers carry a considerable quantity of logs and driftwood, the evidence as
to actual trips made by witnesses discloses little danger
thereby incurred except in the case of paddle-wheel boats.
The Master's finding, which the evidence supports, is that
this condition does not constitute a serious obstacle to
navigation. With respect to ice, it is sufficient to say,
as the Master finds, that ice periods on these rivers do not
prevail in every winter and that they are shorter than on
most of the rivers in the northern and northeastern States
of the country. As to floods, it appears that there are
months of extreme high water caused by the melting of
snows in the mountains and also local floods of short duration caused by rain-storms. From the testimony of the
witnesses who have actually boated on these rivers, the
Master is unable to find that this element of variation in
flow, or of rapidity of variation, has constituted any
marked impediment to the operation of boats except possibly in one or two instances. In relation to rapids, riffles,
rapid water and velocity of current, the Master uses the
classifications of an engineer presented by the Government and finds that in the portions of the Green River
involved in this suit there are no rapids, riffles or rapid
water, and that the slope of the bed is only a little over

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

one foot per mile; that there is a stretch on the Grand
River (above Moab Bridge) where there are three small
rapids, already mentioned, and also two and one-half
miles of rapid water, but that this is a stretch of only six
miles in all and is not characteristic of the whole section
of the Grand River here in controversy. It appears that
neither the current nor the velocity of the Green and
Grand Rivers impedes navigation to any great extent except in the days of extreme or sudden flood, and that
motor boats of proper construction, power and draft can
navigate upstream without trouble, so far as current or
velocity alone is concerned. The slope of the section of
the Colorado River which the Master has found to be
navigable is for the most part slight, as already stated;
there are four drops in elevation which may be called
small rapids, but it appears that these do not ordinarily
make necessary any portage of boat or cargo.
The principal impediment to navigation is found in
shifting sandbars. As the rivers carry large amounts of
fine silt, sandbars of various types are formed. The Master's report deals with this matter at length. Referring
to the Green and the Grand Rivers, the Master states that
the most constant type of sandbar forms on the sides of
the rivers on the convex curves or inside of the bends;
that changes in discharge and in velocity, and floods
caused by sudden heavy rains, may affect the size, shape
and height of these side sandbars, but, in general, after
the spring high-water has receded, these sandbars have
constant and fixed locations. There is a second type of
bar which forms at the mouth of tributary streams, creeks
or washes, usually at times of sudden floods caused by
heavy summer rains, and these generally are of short duration. A third type consists of what is termed "crossing bars" which are formed below the places where the
rivers cross from one side to the other in following the
curves or bends; wherever these crossing bars occur there

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

is generally more or less difficulty in ascertaining the
course of the channel, as the stream may divide into several channels, or it may distribute itself over the full
length of the bar so as greatly to lessen the depth of the
water from that prevailing in the well-defined channels
which follow the bends. There are frequent and sudden
variations in these bars resulting in changes in the course
of the channel. The bed of the Colorado River above the
mouth of the San Juan is found to be more gravelly than
that of the' Green and Grand Riveis. There are, however, long high side-bars of sand and gravel on which
placer mining has been done and also a few sandbars or
bottoms which have been cultivated. Crossing bars
occur, but not as frequently as on the Green and Grand
Rivers, and they cause less trouble. After the recession
of the water at the end of the high water season, the channel remains more or less stable during the rest of the year,
although there are temporary changes. In general the
channel is less shifting than on the Green and Grand
Rivers, and the river is less tortuous.
Recognizing the difficulties which are thus created, the
Master is plainly right in his conclusion that the mere
fact of the presence of such sandbars causing impediments to navigation does not make a river non-navigable.
It is sufficient to refer to the well-known conditions on
the Missouri River and the Mississippi River. The presence of sandbars must be taken in connection with other
factors making for navigability. In The Montello, supra,
the Court said [p. 443]: "Indeed, there are but few of
our fresh-water rivers which did not originally present
serious obstructions to an uninterrupted navigation. In
some cases, like the Fox River, they may be so great
while they last as to prevent the use of the best instrumentalities for carrying on commerce, but the vital and
essential point is whether the natural navigation of the
river is such that it affords a channel for useful commerce. If this be so the river is navigable in fact, although its navigation may be encompassed with difficul-

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

ties by reason of natural barriers such as rapids and
sandbars."
The Government invites a comparison with the conditions found to exist on the Rio Grande in New
Mexico, and the Red River and the Arkansas River,
above the mouth of the Grand River, in Oklahoma,
which were held to be non-navigable, but the comparison does not aid the Government's contention. Each determination as to navigability must stand on its own
facts. In each of the cases to which the Government
refers it was found that the use of the stream for purposes of transportation was exceptional, being practicable
only in times of temporary highwater.1 In the present
instance, with respect to each of the sections of the rivers
found to be navigable, the Master has determined upon
adequate evidence that "its susceptibility of use as a
highway for commerce was not confined to exceptional
conditions or short periods of temporary high water, but
that during at least nine months of each year the river
ordinarily was susceptible of such use as a highway for
commerce."
' In the case of the Rio Grande in New Mexico, the Court said
(United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690,
699): "Its use for any purposes of transportation has been and is
exceptional, and only in times of temporary high water. The ordinary flow of water is insufficient. It is not like the Fox River, which
was considered in The Montello, in which was an abundant flow of
water and a general capacity for navigation along its entire length,
and although it was obstructed at certain places by rapids and rocks,
yet these difficulties could be overcome by canals and locks, and
when so overcome would leave the stream in its ordinary condition
susceptible of use for general navigation purposes." In Oklahoma v.
Texas, 258 U. S. 574, 587; the Court, describing the Red River in
the western part of Oklahoma, said that "Only for short intervals,
when the rain-fall is running off, are the volume and depth of the
water such that even very small boats could be operated therein.
The rises usually last from one to seven days and in the
aggregate seldom cover as much as forty days in the year"; and, in
relation to the eastern part of the river, it was found (id. p. 591)

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The Government invokes an Executive Order of May
17, 1884, withdrawing lands from sale and settlement in
order to provide a reservation for Indian purposes in Utah,
in which the boundary of the reservation was described as
running "up and along the middle of the channel" of the
Colorado and San Juan Rivers. This is said to have included the Colorado River from the Utah-Arizona boundary to the mouth of the San Juan River. This Executive
Order was revoked by another Executive Order of November 19, 1892, so far as it affected lands west of the 110th
degree of west longitude and within the Territory of Utah,
thus excluding the lands in question along the Colorado
River. The earlier Executive Order did not constitute a
grant such as that which was under consideration in
Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 260 U. S.
77, 80, 85, and it does not appear that the question of the
navigability of the rivers was considered when that order
was made. The Government also refers to proceedings
since Utah became a State, with respect to governmental
investigations, operations under placer claims, and withdrawals for power and reservoir sites. It is not necessary
to review these transactions in detail, as nothing that has
been done alters the essential facts with respect to the
navigability of the streams, and the United States could
that "Its characteristics are such that its use for transportation has
been and must be exceptional, and confined to the irregular and short
periods of temporary highwater." In Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co.
v. United States, 260 U. S. 77, 86, the Court accepted the findings of
the two courts below as to the non-navigability of the Arkansas River
above the mouth of the Grand River in Oklahoma, and the District
-Court, to whose findings the Circuit Court of Appeals referred, had
said that "The use of that portion of the river for transportation
boats has been exceptional and necessarily on high water, was found
impractical and was abandoned. The rafting of logs or freight has
been attended with difficulties precluding utility. There was no
practical susceptibility to use as a highway of trade or travel." 249
Fed. 609, 623; 270 Fed. 100, 103.

UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
64

Opinion of the Court.

not, without the consent of Utah, divest that State of title
to the beds of the rivers which the State had acquired.
Nor has Utah taken any action which could be deemed to
estop the State from asserting title.
We conclude that the findings of the Master, so far as
they relate to the sections of the Green, the Grand, and
the Colorado Rivers, found by him to be navigable, are
justified by the evidence and that the title to the beds of
these sections of the rivers vested in Utah when that State
was admitted to the Union. The exceptions of the Government are overruled.
The State of Utah excepts to the finding of the Master
as to non-navigability so far as it relates to the first 4.35
miles of the stretch of the Colorado River south from the
confluence of the Green River with the Grand River. In
the Master's report, this short stretch is included, without
separate or particular characterization, in the section of
the Colorado River found to be non-navigable through
Cataract Canyon to Mile 176 above Lees Ferry. Utah
contends that the portion of the Colorado River immediately below the junction of the Green and the Grand
Rivers, at Mile 216.5 above Lees Ferry, does not differ in
its characteristics, with respect to navigability, from these
streams as they reach the point of confluence, save that
there is more water and a slightly increased gradient, and
that no difficulties in navigation appear until the first
rapid in Cataract Canyon is reached at Mile 212.15 above
Lees Ferry. In the classification made by the government engineer with respect to rapids and rapid water, to
which reference has been made, 4.2 miles of this stretch
(to Mile 212.3 above Lees Ferry) are described as quiet
water, and the Government has not called our attention
to any facts which would substantially differentiate this
portion of the Colorado River, immediately below the
confluence of the Green and Grand Rivers, from those
parts of these rivers found by the Master to be navigable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

On the assumption that there is no basis for such a differentiation as to navigability in fact, the exception of Utah
in this respect should be sustained. In this view, however, the exact point at which navigability may be deemed
to end, in the approach to Cataract Canyon, should be
determined precisely. This determination may be left,
for the present, to the agreement of the parties and, if
they are unable to agree, they may submit their views in
connection with the settlement of the decree.
Utah also excepts to the recommendation of the Master
that the decree contain a proviso that the United States
"shall in no wise be prevented from taking any such action in relation to said rivers or any of them as may be
necessary to protect and preserve the navigability of any
navigable waters of the United States." While a statement to that effect is not necessary, as the United States
would have this authority in any event, the provision is
not inappropriate in a decree determining the right, title
or interest of the United States and of Utah, respectively,
in relation to the beds of the rivers in question, and its
inclusion may avoid misapprehension of the effect of the
decree. This exception and the remaining exception of
Utah, which does not require separate examination, are
overruled.
Decree will be entered dismissing the complaint of the
United States so far as it relates to the beds of the portions of the Green, Grand and Colorado Rivers found to
be navigable, as above stated, and adjudging that title to
such beds was vested in Utah on January 4, 1896, except
so far as the United States may theretofore have made
grants thereof; and also adjudging that, on that date, (except as to lands theretofore granted) title to the beds of
the portion of the Colorado River and of the San Juan
River, where these rivers are found to be non-navigable,
was vested in the United States. The decree shall also
contain the proviso above mentioned. Each party will

HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Counsel for Parties.

64

pay its own costs, one-half of the expenses incurred by the
Master, and one-half of the amount to be fixed by the
Court as his compensation.
The Government will prepare a form of decree in accordance with this decision, and furnish a copy to the
State of Utah. within fifteen days; and within ten days
after such submission, the draft decree, together with
suggestions on behalf of the State of Utah, if any, will be
submitted to the Court.
HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 131.

Submitted March 2, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. The provision of the constitution of Arizona (Art. 18,  5) that
"The defense of contributory negligence ... shall, in all cases
whatsoever, be a question of fact and shall, at all times, be left to
the jury," is not binding on the federal court sitting in that State.
P. 92.
So held in an ordinary common law action for personal injuries
suffered in a railway crossing accident.
2. The function of the trial judge in a federal court is not a local
matter, and state statutes or constitutional provisions which would
interfere with the appropriate exercise of that function are not
binding, either under the Conformity Act or the Rules of Decision
Act, U. S. C., Title 28,  724, 725. P. 94.
ANSWERS to questions certified by the court below upon
an appeal from a judgment on a directed verdict, in a
personal injury case.

Messrs. P. H. Hayes, M. J. Dougherty, and J. A. Walsh
were on the brief for Herron.
Messrs. Charles H. Bates, Alexander B. Baker, and
Louis B. Whitney were on the brief for the Southern
Pacific Co.

