SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 1.)

291

Counsel for Parties.

SUSQUEHANNA POWER COMPANY v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.

(No. 1.)

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 368. Argued March 19, 20, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. A hydro-electric. power company, acting under a license from the
Federal Power Commission, erected a dam across the Susquehanna
River (here assumed to be navigable) and established an adjacent
power plant. As part of the project, it acquired the lands, partly
in the river bed and partly adjoining upland, which were submerged
by the pool created by the dam. Held, that the company and its
property are not such agencies or instrumentalities of the Federal
Government that the lands are immune from State taxation. P. 293.
2. The exemption of an instrumentality of one government (state or
federal) from taxation by the other must be given such practical
construction as will not unduly impair the taxing power of the
government imposing the tax or the appropriate exercise of its
functions by the other government. P. 294.
3. Where a privilege or franchise is granted by the Federal Government to a private corporation to effect some governmental purpose,
the property owned and used by the grantee in the exercise of the
privilege, but for its private business advantage, is subject to
state taxation. P. 294.
4. In taxing submerged lands of a licensee under the Federal Water
Power Act, the State may extend the assessment to the increased
value that they have acquired as part of the licensed project,
though this is made possible only by the federal license and the
use of the water of a navigable stream. P. 295.
159 Md. 334; 151 Atl. 29, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an assessment of
lands by the Tax Commission.
Mr. Wm.Clarke Mason, with whom Messrs. Stevenson
A. Williams, Frederick R. Williams, and A. Allen Woodruff were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Win. L. Marbury, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of Maryland, and Robert H. Archer, with whom Mr.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Win. P. Lane, Jr., Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on appeal, ยง 237 Jud. Code, as amended
by the Act of January 31, 1928, from a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Maryland, 159 Md. 334; 151 Atl. 29,
which upheld an order of appellee, the State Tax Commission, assessing 2110 acres of appellant's submerged
lands, for 1929 taxation, at $2,349,300.
Appellant is a licensee of the Federal Power Commission, created under the Act of June 10, 1920, c. 285, 41
Stat. 1063. Acting under the license, it has constructed a
dam across the Susquehanna River which, for present purposes, we assume to be navigable, and has established an
adjacent power plant at a point within the State. As a
part of the power project, it acquired by purchase from
private owners, and by grant from the State, large areas
of land, including the bed of the river and adjoining upland. On completion of the dam, the waters of the Susquehanna were backed up, forming a pool about fourteen
miles in length, and submerging a large area formerly
upland, including a town site, and land previously occupied and used as a canal. The lands assessed by appellee
lie under the pool created by appellant's dam, and are
used, and derive their chief value, as a part of the power
project.
In the present suit, brought to review the order of the
Commission fixing the assessment, appellant assailed its
action, taken under Laws of Maryland, 1914, c. 841;
Bagby, Ann. Code (1924), Art. 81, ยง 249 (2), directing
assessment of property for taxation, as in conflict with the
Federal Constitution. Appellant urges, as principal
grounds for reversal, first, that in constructing and operating its power plant under the federal license, it, and its
lands and property used in the power project, are agencies

SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 1.)
291

293

Opinion of the Court.

or instrumentalities of the Federal Government, state taxation of which is impliedly prohibited by the Constitution,
and, second, that in assessing the lands for taxation, appellee has assigned to them a value attributable to appellant's license, likewise immune from taxation, and to the
river waters, not appellant's property, in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
1. The Federal Power Commission is authorized to
grant to licensees permission to construct dams on navigable waterways, and to make use of surplus water not
necessary for navigation. Act of June 10, 1920, supra.
The Act contemplates the use of such surplus water in the
development of power, and, for that purpose, the construction and operation of works and transmission lines. See
Ford & Son v. Little Falls Co., 280 U. S. 369. It provides
(ยง 14) that after the expiration of a license, the Government shall have the right to take over and operate the
licensed project upon payment of just compensation as
defined by the Act. The Commission is given extensive
regulatory and supervisory powers over the construction,
maintenance, operation, financing, rates, and service of
licensed projects, and over the system of accounting maintained by licensees. The Act does not deal directly with
state taxation, but ยง 8, forbidding voluntary transfers of
licenses, provides that "tax sales shall not be deemed
voluntary transfers
Appellant is a business corporation, operating its power
plant for profit. The challenged tax is imposed, not on
the license, but on the private property of the licensee
used in its business. Lands privately owned are subject
to state taxation although lying under navigable waters,
Central R. R. Co. v. Jersey City, 209 U. S. 473; Leary v.
Jersey City, 248 U. S. 328, as is private property in which
the Federal Government may have an interest, Baltimore
Shipbuilding& Dry Dock Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375;
New Brunsuick v. United States, 276 U. S. 547; Shaw v.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Oil Co., 276 U. S. 575, or which is subject to its control in
the exercise of its power over navigable waters. Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150; Keokuk &
Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626. Hence,
the present lands are subject to the taxing power of the
State unless they are to be regarded as instrumentalities
of the Federal Government because of their use as a part
of the project which it has licensed.
Assuming, for present purposes, that.the license of the
Power Commission is a federal instrumentality, immune
from taxation or other direct interference by the State, it
does not follow that the property appellant uses in its
power project is clothed with that immunity. The exemption of an instrumentality of one government from taxation by the other must be given such a practical construction as will not unduly impair the taxing power of the
one or the appropriate exercise of its functions by the
other. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523,
524.
With that end in view, the distinction has long been
taken between a privilege or franchise granted by the
Government to a private corporation in order to effect
some governmental purpose, and the property employed
by the grantee in the exercise of the privilege, but for
private business advantage. The distinction was pointed
out by Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 436, and in Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat.
738, 867; see Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 34-37.
It has been followed without departure, and property so
owned and used has uniformly been held to be subject to
state taxation. Thomson v. Pacific Railroad,9 Wall. 579;
Central Pacific R. Co. v. California, 162 U. S. 91; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, supra; Baltimore Shipbuilding &
Dry Dock Co. v. Baltimore, supra; Gromer v. Standard
Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362; Ackerlind v. United States,
240 U. S. 531; Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 509; see Choc-

SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 1.)
291

295

Opinion of the Court.

taw, 0. & G. R. R. Co. v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531; Group
No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, ante, p. 279.
The present case is not only controlled by
the earlier
decisions of this Court, but it would be difficult to suppose any case in which the adverse effect of a tax upon a
governmental purpose would be more remote or attenuated, or in which the asserted immunity would more seriously impair the sovereign power of the State to tax, than
in this one.
Appellant is not aided by Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S.
142, on which it chiefly relies. It was there held that royalties derived from a patent granted upon an invention
by the Federal Government could not be taxed by a State.
But there would be no warrant for extending such immunity to property of the patentee used to manufacture
the patented article, and only a comparable extension
would justify the immunity claimed here for appellant's
lands because used as a part of its licensed power project.
2. No basis is laid in the present record for assailing
the tax on constitutional grounds, either because the Commission has placed a higher value on appellant's lands
than on others having a similar location and use, or because it has directly taxed appellant's license. The contention urged is that the lands are assessed at a higher
value than they were before they were submerged, and
higher than farm uplands in the neighborhood, and that
since their use as a part of appellant's power project is
rendered possible only by the federal license and by the
water in the river, the assessment at the higher value, in
effect, involves a forbidden tax on the license, and taxation
of appellant for the value of the waters of a navigable
stream.
Accepting, as we must on this record, the valuation of
the Commission as neither excessive nor discriminatory,
we can perceive no basis, either legal or economic, for
relieving appellant from the burden of the tax by attempt-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

ing the segregation of a part of that value and attributing
it to independent legal interests, not subject to taxation,
because those interests have a favorable influence on the
value of the property.
An important element in the value of land is the use to
which it may be put. That may vary with its location
and its relationship to the property or legal interests of
others. See Manufacturing Co. v. Gilford, 64 N. H. 337;
10 Atl. 849. Its proximity to means of transportation,
highways, railroads or tidewater, see New York, L. E. &
W. R. Co. v. Yard, 43 N. J. L. 632; Trask v. Carragan,37
N. J. L. 264; cf. Hersey v. Barron County, 37 Wis. 75; or
its location in the vicinity of water power belonging to
another but available for use upon it, State v. Flavell, 24
N. J. L. 370, may increase its utility and hence its taxable
value. A dock on New York harbor may have a greater
value than one on non-navigable waters, cf. Leary v. Jersey
City, supra; Central R. R. Co. v. Jersey City, supra,even
though the advantages of the former may be terminated
through the exercise of the superior power of the Federal
Government over navigable waters, see United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53.
A large part of the value of property in civilized communities has been built up by its inter-related uses; but
it is a value ultimately reflected in earning capacity and
the price at which the property may be sold, and hence is
an element to which weight may appropriately be given
in determining its taxable value. It has never been
thought that the taxation of such property at its enhanced
value is in effect taxation of its owner for the property of
others. Nor can we say that the present tax, based upon
what must be taken to be the fair value of appellant's
lands profitably used in the business of developing and
selling power, is forbidden because that use would not
have been possible without the control which appellant
has acquired over navigable waters through the grant of

SUSQUEHANNA CO. v. TAX COMM. (No. 2.)
291

297

Counsel for Parties.

its license. Those considerations which lead to the recognition of the power of a State to tax the property used
by the grantee in the enjoyment of a federal license require recognition of the power to tax it on the basis of
accepted standards of value, customarily applied in the
taxation of other forms of property. See Railroad Co. v.
Peniston,supra.
We have examined other objections to the tax, made in
brief and argument; but we do not discuss them, as they
are unsubstantial, and as the objections, on federal
grounds, were not presented by the record or passed upon
by the state court.
Affirmed.
SUSQUEHANNA POWER COMPANY v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.

(No. 2.)

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.
No. 369.

Argued March 20, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

A state tax on the capital stock of a corporation based on an assessment equal to the value of its personal property within the State

without regard to liens or debts, was construed and upheld by the
state court as an indirect tax on the personalty, which was not
taed otherwise. Held an adequate state ground of decision,
obviating consideration of constitutional objections directed to a
different construction of the statute. P. 300.
Dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a capital stock tax.
Reported below: 159 Md. 359; 151 Atl. 39.

Mr. William Clarke Mason, with whom Messrs. Stevenson A. Williams, Frederick R. Williams, and A. Allen
Woodruff were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. William L. Marbury, Jr., Assistant Attorney
General of Maryland, and Charles H. MacNabb, with

