BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO.

191

Argument for the Realty Co.

183

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs is of opinion

that the

judgment should be affirmed.

BUCK

ET AL.

v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY
COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 138 and 139. Argued March 3, 4, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
The acts of a hotel proprietor, in making available to his guests,
through the instrumentality of a radio receiving set and loud speakers installed in his hotel and under his control and for the entertainment of his guests, the hearing of a copyrighted musical composition
which has been broadcast from a radio transmitting station, constitute a performance of such composition within the meaning of
§ 1 (e) of the Copyright Act of March 4, 1909. P. 196, et seq.
QUESTION certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals
upon appeals from decrees of the District Court, 32 F.
(2d) 366, which dismissed suits to enjoin infringement of
copyright and for damages.

Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Nathan
Burlcan, Louis D. Frohlich, E. S. Hartman, and Maurice
J. O'Sullivan were on the brief, for Buck et al.
Mr. Charles M. Blackmar, with whom Mr. Kenneth E.
Midgley was on the brief, for Jewell-LaSalle Realty
Company.
Radio receiving cannot be held to be performing. That
would prohibit the operation of receiving sets in public
places; it would grant to every copyright owner autocratic power to exact tribute from every person operating
a receiving set in public regardless of the merit of the
copyrighted work and regardless of whether the composition was in fact ever broadcast.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for thc Realty Co.

283 U.S.

That the mere act of receiving is not performing by the
one operating the receiving set, see Buck v. Duncan,32 F.
(2d) 366; Buck v. DeBaum, 40 F. (2d) 734; Dunbar v.
Spratt-Snyder Co., 226 N. W. 22. See Davis, Law of
Radio Communication, p. 116. Messager v. British
BroadcastingCo., Ltd., 137 L. T. Rep. 810; (1927) 2 K. B.
543.
Plaintiffs' rights are limited by the copyright statute,
which is construed to protect the public against financial
loss and damage unexpectedly and unwittingly incurred.
As the one operating a receiving set has no control over
the performance heard through the set, it is not necessary
that copyright owners have control of the use of receiving
sets; and the rights claimed by plaintiffs are, therefore,
not granted by the statute. Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus,
210 U. S. 339, 346; Remick & Co. v. Automobile Acc. Co.,
5 F. (2d) 411; Fromont v. Aeolian Co., 254 Fed. 592, 594;
Scribner v. Straus, 210 U. S. 352, 355; Bridge Proprietors
v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 148; Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457, 459.
The scientific theory of radio telephoning demonstrates
with mathematical certainty that the operator of a receiving set is in no sense the performer of the compositions the set picks up. There is no analogy between this
and playing a phonograph record.
No "profit " was received by the defendant by reason
of the hearing of the copyrighted composition over its receiving set, therefore there was no performance within the
meaning of the Act.
The broadcaster is held to be a performer only when he
actually performs the selections he broadcasts. It is begging the question to argue that receiving is performing because broadcasting is performing. Witmark & Sons v.
Bamberger, 291 Fed. 776; Remick v. Automobile Acc. Co.,
5 F. (2d) 411; Messager v. British Broadcasting Co., Ltd.,
137 L. T. Rep. 810; (1927) 2 K. B. 543; Chappell & Co.,

BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO.
191

193

Argument for Amicus Curiae.

Ltd., v. Associated Radio Cos., 50 Victoria App. Law-Rep.
350; Remick & Co. v. General Elec. Co., 4 F. (2d) 160;
16 F. (2d) 829.
Defendant is not chargeable, on any theory of agency,
with the broadcaster's infringing actions; and cannot be
held liable as a contributory infringer, because its acts in
installing and maintaining a receiving set cannot be held
to be a proximate, direct, or legal cause of or contribution
to the infringing performance.
Messrs. Louis G. Caldwell and Philip G. Loucks, by special leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the National
Association of Broadcasters, Inc., as amicus curiae.
The proper construction of the word "perform," with
reference to the operation of a receiving set, depends on
the physical acts constituting the alleged performance, and
is independent of whether the receiving set is operated in
public or in private, and of whether the broadcasting station is, or is not, licensed by the copyright owner.
The broadcasting of a musical composition involves only
one actual performance of that composition, i. e., the performance by the musician; the apparatus constituting a
broadcasting station and the apparatus constituting a receiving set, like a telephone system, merely serve to communicate the musician's performance to listeners.
The consequences, viewed either practically or from the
standpoint of the orderly development of the law, require
that radio reception be held not to constitute performance.
Adoption of the multiple performance theory will necessarily effect some reduction in the radio audience by
making hazardous the operation of receiving sets in hotel
lobbies and hotel rooms, restaurants, retail radio stores,
railroad club cars, dance halls, theaters, moving picture
houses, hospitals and other public places. The copyright
owners will be given power to impose burdensome, arbitrary, and discriminatory license fees on persons operating
receiving sets in such places,
80705°-31-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument, for Amicus Curiae.

283 U.S.

The receiving set owner has no control over what will
be broadcast by the many broadcasters to whose stations
he may tune, and cannot be expected to ascertain each
broadcaster's program in detail in advance. The broadcaster himself frequently does not know what musical
compositions will be performed before his microphone,
as in the case of a college band during a football game.
If the operation of a receiving set is a performance, so
also is the operation of an amplifier in a public hall, or
one connected with a public hall and located in other
rooms in the same building. Under the "multiple performance" theory, if in a large auditorium there are
twenty amplifiers, twenty performances of the musical
composition will take place in addition to that of the
musician, and the proprietor will be liable for at least
twenty-one times the minimum statutory damages.
Broadcasting frequently involves much more complicated processes than those where the broadcaster transmits the musician's performance directly from his studio
to receiving sets. The three important situations are
those of remote control broadcasting; network or chain
broadcasting; international or relay broadcasting.
If the copyright owner is to be given rights against those
who merely communicate a performance, let it be done
not by a strained judicial construction of the word "perform," but by legislation in which to "communicate" a
copyrighted work is specifically made an infringement.
If appellant's theory is correct, every person operating
a receiving set "performs," the only audience consists
of persons listening to loud speaker performances, and
therefore the broadcaster's "performance" is not public.
If the analogy between broadcasting and phonograph
record is correct, then it is clear that the broadcaster
does not publicly perform the musical composition; he
merely manufactures a fleeting record by modulating radio
waves.

BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO.
191

195

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These suits were brought in the federal court for western Missouri by the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers, and one of its members, against
the Jewell-LaSalle Realty Company, which operates the
LaSalle Hotel at Kansas City. The hotel maintains a
master radio receiving set which is wired to each of the
public and private rooms. As part of the service offered
to its guests, loud-speakers or head-phones are provided
so that a program received on the master set can, if desired, be simultaneously heard throughout the building.
Among the programs received are those transmitted by
Wilson Duncan who operates a duly licensed commercial
broadcasting station in the same city. Duncan selbcts his
own programs and broadcasts them for profit. There is
no arrangement of any kind between him and the hotel.
Both were notified by the plaintiff society of the existence
of its copyrights and were advised that unless a license
were obtained, performance of any copyrighted musical
composition owned by its members was forbidden. Thereafter, a copyrighted popular song, owned by the plaintiffs,
was repeatedly broadcast by Duncan and was received by
the hotel company and made available to its guests.
Suits were brought for an injunction and damages for the
alleged infringements.1 After a hearing on stipulated
facts, relief against the hotel company was denied on the
ground that its acts did not constitute a "performance"
within the Copyright Act. Buck v. Duncan, 32 F. (2d)
366. Plaintiffs appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
which certified the following question:
"Do the acts of a. hotel proprietor, in making available
to his guests, through the instrumentality of a radio reIIn No. 138, Duncan was joined as a defendant and a decree pro
confesso for failure to answer was entered against him. In No. 139, the
hotel company was the only defendant. See also No. 140, post, p. 202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

ceiving set and loud speakers installed in his hotel and
under his control and for the entertainment of his guests,
the hearing of a copyrighted musical composition which

has been broadcast from a radio transmitting station, constitute a performance of such composition within the
meaning of 17 USC Sec. 1 (e)?"
The provision referred to is § 1 of the Copyright Act of
March 4, 1909, c. 320, 35 Stat. 1075, which provides that:
"Any person entitled thereto, upon complying with
the provisions of this Act, shall have the exclusive
right: . . . (e) To perform the copyrighted work publicly for profit if it be a musical composition and for the
purpose of public performance for profit."
The parties agree that the owner of a private radio
receivipg set who in his own home invites friends to hear
a musical composition which is being broadcast, would not
be liable for infringement. For even if this be deemed a
performance, it is neither public nor for profit. Compare
Herbert v. Shanley Co., 242 U. S. 591. The contention
that what the hotel company does is not a performance
within the meaning of the Copyright Act is urged on three
grounds.
First. The defendant contends that the Copyright Act
may not reasonably be construed as applicable to one who
merely receives a composition which is being broadcast.
Although the art of radio broadcasting was unknown at
the time the Copyright Act of 1909 was passed, and the
means of transmission and reception now employed are
wholly unlike any then in use,' it is not denied that such
Station KDKA, erected in Pittsburgh in 1920, was the pioneer
commercial broadcasting station in the world. The Radio Industry,
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration Lectures,
1927-28, pp. 195-209. The latest amendment of the Copyright Act
which added new classes of copyrights was that of August 24, 1912,
c. 356, 37 Stat. 488.
2

BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO.
191

197

Opinion of the Court.

broadcasting may be within the scope of the Act.' Compare Kalem Co. v. HarperBros., 222 U. S. 55; Gambart v.
Ball, 14 C. B. (N. S.) 306, 319. The argument here urged,
however, is that since the transmitting of a musical composition by a commercial broadcasting station is a public
performance for profit, control of the initial radio rendition exhausts the monopolies conferred-both that of
making copies (including records) and that of giving public performances-for profit (including mechanical perform-

ances from a record); and that a monopoly of the reception, for commercial purposes, of this same rendition is
not warranted by the Act. The analogy is invoked of
the rule under which an author who permits 'copies of his
writings to be made cannot, by virtue of his copyright,
prevent or restrict the transfer of such copies. Compare
Bobbs-Merrill v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339. This analogy is
inapplicable. It is true that control of the sale of copies
is not permitted by the Act,' but a monopoly is expressly
granted of all public performances for profit.
The defendant next urges that it did not perform, because there can be but one actual performance each time
8 See M. Witmark & Sons v. L. Bamberger Co., 291 Fed. 776;
Remick & Co. v. American Automobile Accessories Co., 5 F. (2d)
411; Remick & Co. v. General Electric Co., 16 F. (2d) 829. See also
Messager v. British Broadcasting Co., Ltd., [1927] 2 K. B. 543,
reversed [1928] 1 K. B. 660, affirmed, [1929] A. C. 151; Chappell &
Co., Ltd., v. Associated Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd., [1925] Vict.
L. R. 350.
4The rule of the Bobbs-Merrill case was enacted into the Copyright Act of March 4, 1909, c. 320, § 41, 35 Stat. 1075, 1084. See
H. Rep. No. 2222, 60th Cong., 2d Sess., February 22, 1909, p. 19.
It is applicable only where there is no relation between the manufacturer of the copy and the purchaser which might make the latter
liable as a contributory infringer. Compare Scribner v. Straus, 210
U. S. 352, 355. In the case at bar, the stipulated facts show that
there was no relation whatever between the broadcaster and the
hotel company so that even if the broadcasting constituted an infringement, there would be no question of contributory infringement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

a copyrighted selection is rendered; and that if the broadcaster is held to be a performer, one who, without connivance, receives and distributes the transmitted selection
cannot also be held to have performed it. But nothing in
the Act circumscribes the meaning to be attributed to the
term "performance," or prevents a single rendition of a
copyrighted selection from resulting in more than one
public performance for profit. While this may not have
been possible before the development of radio broadcasting, the novelty of the means used does not lessen the duty
of the courts to give full protection to the monopoly of
public performance for profit which Congress has secured
to the composer. Compare Kalem Company v. Harper
Broa., 222 U. S. 55, 63. No reason is suggested why there
may not be more than one liability. And since the public
reception for profit in itself constitutes an infringement,
we have no occasion to determine under what circumstances a broadcaster will be held to be a performer, or the
effect upon others of his paying a license fee.
The defendant contends further that the acts of the
hotel company were not a performance because no detailed choice of selections was given to it. In support of
this contention it is pointed out that the operator of a
radio receiving set cannot render at will a performance
of any composition but must accept whatever program is
transmitted during the broadcasting period. Intention to
infringe is not essential under the Act. Compare Hein
v. Harris, 175 Fed. 875, affirmed, 183 Fed. 107; Stern v.
Remick & Co., 175 Fed. 282; Haas v. Leo Feist, Inc., 234
Fed. 105; M. Witmark & Sons v. Calloway, 22 F. (2d)
412, 414. And knowledge of the particular selection to
be played or received is immaterial. One who hires an
orchestra for a public performance for profit is not relieved from a charge of infringement merely because he
does not select the particular program to be played.
Similarly, when he tunes in on a broadcasting station, for
his own commercial purposes, he necessarily- assumes the

BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO.
191

199

Opinion of the Court.

risk that in so doing he may infringe the performing rights
of another. Compare Harms v. Cohen, 279 Fed. 276, 278;
M. Witmark d Sons v. Pastime Amusement Co., 298 Fed.
470, 475, affirmed, 2 F. (2d) 1020; M. Witmark & Sons v.
Calloway, 22 F. (2d) 412, 413. It may be that proper
control over broadcasting programs would automatically
secure to the copyright owner sufficient protection from
unauthorized public performanoes by use of a radio receiving set,5 and that this might justify legislation denying
relief against those who in using the receiving set innocently invade the copyright,' but the existing statute
makes no such exception.
Second. The defendant contends that there was no
performance because the reception of a radio broadcast
is no different from listening to a distant rendition of the
same program. We are satisfied that the reception of a
5 If the copyrighted composition had been broadcast by Duncan with
plaintiffs' consent, a license for its commercial reception and distribution by the hotel company might possibly have been implied. Compare Buck v. Debaum, 40 F. (2d) 734. But Duncan was not licensed;
and the position of the hotel company is not unlike that of one who
publicly performs for profit by the use of an unlicensed phonograph
record.
6 See the so-called Vestal Copyright bill, which failed of passage in
the Seventy-first Congress. H. R. 12549, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., § 15 (d).
Compare Note 10, infra. See also arguments concerning the broadcasting of copyrighted selections as set forth in Joint Hearings before
the Committees on Patents, on S. 2328 and H. R. 10353,69th Cong., 1st
Sess., April 5-9, 1926; Hearings before the Senate Committee on Patents, on H. R. 12549, 71st Cong., 3d Sess., January 28-29, 1931, pp.
52, et seq.; Sen. Rep. No. 1732, id., February 17, 1931, p. 29.
7 This argument is based upon an elaborate discussion of the theory
of radio transmission and reception. Defendant's hypothesis is that
the energy which actuates the receiving apparatus-that is, which
varies the currents in the receiver to produce audible sound-is part of
the original energy exerted upon the air by the performer. Hence it is
urged that the radio receiving set is no more than a mechanical or electrical ear-trumpet for the better audition of a distant performance.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

radio broadcast and its translation into audible sound is
not a mere audition of the original program. It is essentially a reproduction. Aq to the general theory of radio
transmission there is no disagreement. All sounds consist of waves of relatively low frequencies which ordinarily

pass through the air and are locally audible. Thus music
played at a distant broadcasting studio is not directly
heard at the receiving set. In the microphone of the radio
transmitter the sound waves are used to modulate electrical currents of relatively high frequencies which are
broadcast through an entirely different medium, conventionally known as the "ether." These radio waves are
not audible. a In the receiving set they are rectified; that
is, converted into direct currents which actuate the loudspeaker to produce again in the air sound waves of audible
frequencies. The modulation of the radio waves in the
transmitting apparatus, by the audible sound waves is
comparable to the manner in which the wax phonograph
record is impressed by these same waves through the
medium of a recording stylus." The transmitted radio
waves require a receiving set for their detection and trans8

Sound waves, which can pass through air, water, or solids, and
radio or other electromagnetic waves, which operate in the "ether,"
behave similarly in many respects. Yet not only are the latter inaudible but they travel at relatively tremendous speeds. Sound
waves travel, at ordinary temperatures, approximately 1100 feet a
second, electromagnetic waves with the speed of light, or about
186,000 miles per second. This velocity is dependent solely upon the
particular medium through which the various kinds of waves travel.
See Morecroft, Principles of Radio Communication, a. IV. Thus,
broadcast time-signals can be heard practically simultaneously on
receiving sets hundreds of miles apart; ordinary sound signals cannot.
Compare as to the general theory of radio communication, Radio
Corp. of America v. Twentieth Century Radio Corp., 19 F. (2d)
290, 291; Chappell & Co., Ltd., v. Associated Radio Co. (1925), 50
Victoria Law Reports 350, 357-8.
9 The impressions on the phonograph disc are of course permanent,
whereas the modulations of the carrier radio -waves, continually
emitted by the sending station, are ephemeral. But in both cases the

BUCK v. JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY CO. 201
191

Opinion of the Court.

lation into audible sound waves, just as the record requires
another mechanism for the reproduction of the recorded
composition. In neither case, is the original program
heard; and, in the former, complicated electrical instrumentalities are necessary for its adequate reception and
distribution. Reproduction in both cases amounts to a
performance. Compare Buck v. Heretis, 24 F. (2d) 876;
Irving Berlin, Inc., v. Daigle, 31 F. (2d) 832, 833. In
addition, the ordinary receiving set, and the distributing
apparatus here employed by the hotel company, are
equipped to amplify the broadcast program after it has
been received. Such acts clearly are more than the use of
mere mechanical acoustic devices for the better hearing of
the original program. The guests of the hotel hear a
reproduction brought about by the acts of the hotel in
(1) installing, (2) supplying electric current to, and (3)
operating the radio receiving set and loud-speakers.
There is no difference in substance between the case where
a hotel engages an orchestra to furnish the music and that
where, by means of the radio set and loud-speakers here
employed, it furnishes the same music for the same purpose. In each the music is produced by instrumentalities
under its control.10
means used to transmit the selection being played are wholly different from the musical sounds themselves, and require an additional
mechanism, not under the control of the performer, for the re-creation
of the original music.
'10 At the present time there are renewed proposals for the revision
of the Copyright Act in the light of new conditions. See summaries
in the Annual Report of the Register of Copyrights (1928), pp. 6-13;
id. (1929), pp. 16-24; id. (1930), pp. 8-13. See also the so-called
Vestal Bill, the most recent of these, introduced in the Seventy-first
Congress on May 22, 1930. H. R. 12549, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., § 1
(d), (g); Sen. Rep. No. 1732, id., 3d Sess., Feb. 17, 1931, pp. 4-5,
29. Compare Hearings before the Senate Committee on Patents on
H. R. 12549, id., January 28-29, 1931, pp. 25, passim. This measure
was debated at length in the Senate, but was not reached on the final

calendar. See 74 Cong. Rec., Pt. IV, pp. 6213-6849; id., Pt. V, p. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

202

Statement of the Case.

283 U.S.

Third. The defendant contends that there was no performance within the meaning of the Act because it is not
shown that the hotel operated the receiving set and loudspeakers for profit. Unless such acts were carried on for
profit, there can, of course, be no liability. But whether
there was a performance does not depend upon the existence of the profit motive. The question submitted does
not call for a determination whether the acts of the hotel
company recited in the certificate constitute operation for
profit.
The question certified is answered: Yes.

JEWELL-LASALLE REALTY COMPANY v. BUCK
ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 140. Argued March 3, 4, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. In a case disclosing infringement of a copyright covering a musical
composition, there being no proof of actual damages, the court is
bound by the minimum amount of $250 set out in the so-called "no
other case" clause of § 25 (b) of the Copyright Act, reading, "and
such damages shall in no other case exceed the swm of $5,000 nor
be less than the sum of $250, and shall not be regarded as a penalty." P. 203.
2. Where more than twenty-five infringing performances of a copyrighted musical composition have been proved and there is no showing of actual damages, the court must allow the statutory minimum
of $250 and may, in its sound discretion, employ the rate of ten
dollars a performance, which is scheduled in subdivision "Fourth"
of § 25 (b), as a basis for assessing additional damages. P. 208.

certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals
upon an appeal from a decree of the District Court, 32 F.
(2d) 366, 368, enjoining an infringement of copyright and
awarding damages.
QUESTIONS

