WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

501

Syllabus.

494

See Simmons v. Fish, supra. There should be a new trial
of all the issues raised by the counterclaim.
Reversed.
MERCHANTS WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.

MERCHANTS WAREHOUSE CO. ET AL. v. SAME.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v, MERCHANTS WAREHOUSE CO. ET AL.

PENNSYLVANIA WAREHOUSING & SAFE DEPOSIT CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
PENNSYLVANIA WAREHOUSING & SAFE DEPOSIT CO. ET AL. V. SAME.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. PENNSYLVANIA WAREHOUSING & SAFE DEPOSIT CO. ET AL.
PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSING & COLD STORAGE CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSING & COLD STORAGE CO. ET AL. V. SAME.

UNITED STATES ET AL. V. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSING & COLD STORAGE CO. ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 635-643.

Argued April 21, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The credibility of witnesses and the weight of evidence in matters
before the Interstate Commerce Commission are for the Commission to determine; and its findings of fact will not be reviewed
by the courts if supported by evidence. P. 508.
2. The evidence in this case (which involves the validity of certain
allowances made by railroads to certain warehouses) supports the
conclusion of the Commission that the warehouses are not in fact
public freight stations, as designated by the railroads; that the
service performed by the warehouses do not differ from those

502

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U. S.

performed by their. competitors in the same place; and that their
designation as freight stations was nominal only, the real purpose
being to compensate them for soliciting freight shipments over the
lines of the carriers. P. 508.
3. Payments made by a carrier to a warehouse for the service of
assembling and loading package freight for shipment in individual
carload consignments and of unloading and distributing like incoming consignments, amount to unlawful rebates, where, under the
carrier's tariff, such service results in securing carload rates for less
than carload shipments for the patrons of the warehouse and could
not lawfully be performed by the carrier itself. Pp. 509, 510.
4. Where carriers extend, in the form of money allowances to favored
warehousemen, 48 hours free time, during which carload freight is
unloaded at their warehouses, stored, and distributed in less than
carload lots, all at the expense of the carriers, and this privilege
is withheld from other competing warehousemen and from shippers
who maintain their own private warehouses on industrial tracks or
private sidings, the discrimination violates § 2 of the Interstate
Commerce Act. P. 511.
5. Where a forbidden discrimination is made, the mere fact that it
has been long continued and that the machinery for making it is
in tariff form, cannot clothe it with immunity. Id.
6. Warehouse companies who ship and receive freight for their patrons and are themselves the consignors and consignees where
"package" freight moves in carloads at carload rates, are "persons " authorized to lodge complaints with the Interstate Commerce Commission, § 13 (1), and "persons" within the meaning
of that word as used in §§ 2 and 3 of the Act. P. 512.
7. The evil of discrimination was the principal thing aimed at by the
Act, and its language is broad enough to embrace all discriminations of the sort described which lay within the power of Congress
to condemn. Id.
8. Since the discrimination here involved could not be overcome without extending the allowances to all shippers of carloads at carload
rates and without changes in the carriers' tariffs, the Commission
rightly ordered the carriers to cease employing the means by which
it was accomplished. P. 513.
9. Nothing herein is to be taken as indicating that a carrier may not
designate a warehouse as a public freight station and select an agent
for its management, where a forbidden discrimination is not effected.
Cf. Arbuckle Case, United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 231
U. S. 274. Id.

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

503

Opinion of the Court.

10. Order of the District Court staying an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission pending disposition of appeals from a
decree refusing to set it aside, held a proper exercise of discretion
in the circumstances. P. 513.

44 F. (2d) 379, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees dismissing bills by which several
warehousing corporations sought to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. The cross-appeals
were froim an order of the court staying the order of the
Commission pending disposition of the main appeals.

Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. H. Edgar
Barnes, Allen S. Olmsted, 2d, and M. Hampton Todd were
on the briefs, for Merchants Warehouse Co. et al.
Mr. John P. Connelly for Philadelphia Warehousing &
Cold Storage Co.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, Assistant Chief Counsel, Interstate Commerce Commission, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian,
and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, and Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Couiisel, Interstate Commerce Commission, were on the brief,
for the United States et al.
Mr. John J. Hickey for Gallagher et al.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These are appeals under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
from a decree of a District Court of three judges for Eastern Pennsylvania, dismissing the bills of complaint by
which appellants, warehousing corporations doing business in Philadelphia, sought to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. 44 F. (2d) 379.
The order required the Reading Company and the Pennsylvania and Baltimore & Ohio railroads, interstate rail
carriers, to cancel such provisions in their tariffs as pur-

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

ported to make the warehouses of appellants in Philadelphia a part of the station facilities of the carriers, and directed that they cease and desist from making allowances
to appellants in connection with the loading and unloading
of package freight at the latter's warehouses. There are
also cross-appeals from an order of the District Court
staying the order of the Commission pending disposition
of the appeals in this Court.
The three railroads load and unload package freight at
their stations in Philadelphia. The Pennsylvania and
Baltimore & Ohio railroads have designated some of appellants' warehouses as parts of their station facilities
there. All three have contracts of long standing with one
or more appellants, under which the latter, at their warehouses, afford facilities and perform services, in connection
with the loading and unloading of package freight, which
they denominate terminal facilities and services, and for
which the railroads pay them a stipulated compensation.
In the case of the Pennsylvania, provision is made for this
allowance in its published tariff.
Six warehouse companies, appellees, which also maintain warehouses in Philadelphia with private railroad
sidings connected with one or another of the three railroads, and are competitors of appellants, instituted proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, in
which they assailed the terminal service contracts referred
to as unjustly discriminatory and unduly preferential, and
the payments made under them as unlawful rebates.
Numerous merchants' organizations of Philadelphia intervened in the proceedings, which were consolidated and
heard as a single cause, and resulted in the order before
us. 160 . C. C. 563.
The Interstate Commerce Commission and the court
below found the facts as already stated and also the following: Carload freight, carried at carload rates, is customarily loaded and unloaded by the owner or consignee,
as required by Rule 27 of the Consolidated Freight Classi-

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

505

Opinion of the Court.

fication, filed under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
with the binding force of a tariff schedule. By exceptions
to the classification, the railroads undertake, as a part of
the transportation service covered by their tariffs, to load
and unload carload package freight at their Philadelphia
freight stations, except when handled directly to or from
cars on team tracks. At their warehouses appellants load
and unload cars and perform other services presently to
be referred to, for which the railroads compensate them
by ihe challenged allowances. These services do not differ
in substance from those which the competing warehouses
render. Both handle the same classes of freight and procure its shipment to or from them by advertising in trade
publications and in circulars to prospective customers.
Shippers using public warehouse facilities generally select
the company offering the lowest aggregate charge for the
distribution of their goods, and, by reason of the allowances made, the contract warehouses are able to quote
lower prices than their competitors, thus securing business
which would otherwise go to the latter. The primary
motive for the payment of the allowances to the contract
warehouses is to gain traffic, and the allowances are compensation to appellants for their solicitation of freight
movements over the lines of the carriers.
The Commission and court also found as follows:
Appellants' warehouses, while nominally open to the
general public as railroad freight stations, are not in fact
public stations, but are confined to the warehousing of
merchandise for their-patrons. The services which they
perform in connection with loading and unloading of
freight, including the sending of arrival notices to their
patrons after receipt of notice of arrival from the railroad, the collection of freight charges, and other incidental
matters, are in fact performed for the owners of the merchandise rather than for the railroads. While the contract warehouses are not owners of goods received or
shipped, the dealings of the railroads are with them and

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

not with the owners of the goods; and as to many of the
inbound carload shipments, the contract warehouses are
the only parties to whom delivery of the goods could be
made as carload shipments, the real owners being concerns which ship carload merchandise to appellants for
distribution by them in less than carload lots. The contract warehouses, being given dominion over the merchandise for transportation purposes, are to be deemed
consignors of shipments from, and consignees of shipments to, their warehouses.
Appellants do not seriously contend that the challenged
allowances are not discriminatory in fact, but maintain
that the discriminat'on is one which the law permits.
While conceding that the contract warehouses and their
patrons, by virtue of the contracts and allowances, gain
important business advantages over their competitors,
they insist that the advantages are those which flow exclusively from the fact that the contract warehousemen
are agents of the carriers in the performance of transportation services, and that since the railroads may properly
perform such services at their own stations and include
charges for them in their filed tariffs, they may likewise
select the warehouses of appellants as stations, perform
the services there, and employ and compensate the warehousemen for doing them. As these contentions do not
comport with the findings of the Commission and the
court below that the contract warehouses are not in fact
open public freight stations, and that the services rendered
are not transportation services, those findings are sharply
challenged as without support in the evidence.
We may assume that the railroads, in order to carry
on their business as interstate carriers, are not bound to
maintain their own freight stations, but may contract
with others to supply them and to perform there the
transportation services which they are under a duty to
perform. Arbuckle Case (United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co.), 231 U. S. 274. If appellants' warehouses
were held out to the public by the carriers, and used

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

507

Opinion of the Court.

exclusively, as freight stations, and the services rendered there were exclusively transportation services
which the carriers were either bound or permitted to
render, the case would lack those elements which appellees urge as challenging the right of the carriers to make
the allowances to appellants. They say that the warehouses of appellants are devoted to their private business
activities in the storage, distribution and assembling of
freight for their patrons before or after its rail transportation, and that the alleged transportation services are but
a part of these activities, not differing from those performed by other warehouses for their patrons as a part
of their warehousing business. Appellees contend that
the designation of them as transportation services, only
when performed at warehouses of appellants, enables the
carriers to discriminate in favor of appellants, at the expense of their competitors, by compensating for them in
that guise, or, what is the same thing, by extending to
appellants at their warehouses the benefit of transportation services withheld from their competitors.
We think, as the court below held, that the Commission's
finding that appellants' warehouses are not in fact public
freight stations, is supported by the evidence. As already
indicated, they are owned or controlled by appellants and
used by them, as storage and distribution warehouses
located on private premises, served by private side tracks.
They are not leased to the railroads. There is no provision in' the contracts between the carriers and the warehousemen which suggests that the warehouses were regarded or intended to be treated by either as freight
stations. There was evidence that apart from the designation of the warehouses as stations in the tariffs, they
were neither held out nor treated as such by carriers or
appellants, nor known as such generally to shippers or
to representative trucking companies engaged in the business of handling freight in Philadelphia. Pamphlet instructions by the railroads to their employees list their

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

public freight stations in Philadelphia, but list appellants'
warehouses as private industries served by private side
tracks. None of the appellants acted as freight agents
for the carriers or issued bills of lading. While there was
evidence of shipment from appellant's warehouses of
freight delivered to them by truck or previously stored
there, it did not appear that any shipments were made
except for those who were patrons of the warehouses.
There were instances where freight brought by truck to
contract warehouses and tendered by non-patrons for
shipment over the road serving them were rejected on the
sole ground that the warehouses were not freight stations,
and the intending shippers were instructed by those in
charge to tender the shipment at a "freight station" of
the carrier.
This and other evidence, which it is unnecessary to review at length, support. the conclusion of the Commission
that appellants' warehouses are not in fact public freight
stations, that the services performed there by appellants
do not differ from those performed by their competitors;
and that their designation as freight stations was nominal
only, the real purpose being the compensation of appellants for soliciting freight shipments over the lines of the
carriers. See O'Keefe v. United States, 240 U. S. 294, 303.
This evidence distinguishes the present case from the Arbuckle Case, supra, on which appellants rely; cf. Terminal
Warehouse Co. v. United States, 31 Fed. (2d) 951. The
credibility of witnesses and weight of evidence are for the
Commission and not for the courts, and its findings will
not be reviewed here if supported by evidence. See Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 92, 100; United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320; Assigned Car Cases, 274
U. S. 564, 580, 581.
Even though appellants' warehouses are not public
freight stations, the questions remain whether the services

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

509

Opinion of the Court.

for which the allowances are made are transportation services for which the carriers may lawfully compensate, and
if they are, whether the carriers may discriminate by granting such compensation to appellants and not to others. Under the contracts those services begin with the receipt for
shipment of outgoing freight (the contract with the Reading Company applies only to inbound freight) and with
the unloading of the cars of inbound freight. They end
with loading for shipment of outgoing freight and, in the
case of inbound freight, with the expiration of the fortyeight hour period of free time during which the carrier
allows freight to remain at its freight stations, without
charge, before delivery to the consignee, or with the delivery, during the period, of the freight on the truck platform of the warehouse. From the expiration of that
period, freight not delivered is held by appellants either
under such warehousing agreements as they may make
with owners or consignees or, in the absence of such agreements, as undelivered freight stored with them by the carriers for the account of the owners.
During this period, they perform three important items
of service, not to mention minor ones which, for present
purposes, may be disregarded, but for all of which together the allowances are made. They load and unload
cars; they may store the freight or some of it; and, what
is of vital importance, so far as the present issues of discrimination and rebating are concerned, they may assemble package freight of less than carload' lots and ship
it in carloads at carload rates, and distribute or reship, in
less than carload lots, a large amount of package freight,
carried in carloads at carload rates.
Addressing ourselves first to the nature of this third
item of service, we note that the rates of the three railroads for transportation of freight in carloads are substantially lower than for package freight in less than car-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

load lots. By Rule 23 of the Consolidated Freight Classification, the carriers may not distribute carloads of freight
in less than carload lots, nor assemble smaller lots into
carloads. By Rule 14, the carriers confine their service
with respect to carload shipments to one consignor and
one consignee. The service rendered by appellants'
warehouses in distributing and assembling package carload freight is thus one which a carrier is not authorized
or permitted to render, even at its own public freight stations, and if performed by it would nullify its published
rates for carload transportation service. See New York,
N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 200
U. S. 361.
But it is a service which inures to the benefit of shippers by securing delivery to them or their customers in
less than carload lots of package freight which is transported at carload rates. When rendered, as it largely is,
within the forty-eight hours free time, that benefit is
without expense to appellants or their patrons since it is
included in the service for which the carriers pay. A substantial part of the inbound freight, varying from 35%
to 80% at the different contract warehouses, is delivered
or shipped from them within the forty-eight hours free
time. The amount of the allowances paid during the four
years preceding the hearing aggregated more than $809,000; and the conclusion is inescapable that a very large
part of the total is for .the service of breaking up and
distributing carloads in less than carload lots, which the
carriers could not lawfully perform at their own public
freight stations. Examination of the evidence can leave
no doubt that it is the performance of this service, free
of charge, to shippers, featured in appellants' advertising
and solicitation of patronage, which induces the consignment of freight by shippers to them over the lines of the
carriers and withdraws the business from competing
warehouses. Such allowances are forbidden, even though

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

511

Opinion of the Court.

paid to appellants and their competitors alike, since, as
to both, they would be departures from carload rates of
the published tariffs of the carriers and amount to rebates
forbidden by §§ 2 and 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
See Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444,
446; United States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S.
286, 307.
Apart from this consideration, the practical effect of
the arrangement with appellants is that the carriers extend, in the form of money allowances to the favored
warehousemen, forty-eight hours free time, during which
carload freight is unloaded at their places of business,
stored, and distributed in less than carload lots, all at the
expense of the carriers-a privilege which they withhold
from other competing warehousemen and from shippers
who maintain their own private warehouses on industrial
tracks or private sidings. Granted that the carriers
might lawfully undertake to perform or pay for some of
these services at warehouses served by private side tracks,
they may not extend the privilege to some and withhold
it from others. Section 2 forbids the carrier to discriminate by way of allowances for transportation services
given to one, in connection with the delivery of freight at
his place of business, which it denies to another in like
situation. Union Pacific R. Co. v. Updike Grain Co., 222
U. S. 215, 220. Appellants rely on Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, but it is distinguishable from both the present and the Updike case in
that it did not involve discrimination among shippers or
oonsignees, which was condemned in the latter.
Where a forbidden discrimination is made, the mere
fact that it has been long continued and that the machinery for making it is in tariff form, cannot clothe it with
immunity. See Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 282 U. S 740. In that case we
held that a carrier may not haul private cars of some of

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

its passengers free of charge and deny the privilege to
others on the theory that it is using the cars which it
carries free, as instrumentalities of transportation. The
very selection of the cars of some passengers and not
others for the favored treatment was held to be a forbidden discrimination. The order of the Commission
upheld there would be futile if discrimination could still
be effected by filing an exception to the carrier's tariffs
for hauling private cars, designating some private cars as
transportation facilities, and then granting allowances to
the owners for their use. That, in substance and practical operation, is the effect of the tariff exceptions and
the allowances which the present order forbids.
Only a word need be said of the objection that appellants and their competitors are not shippers and that the
relationship between them and the carriers is not one
subject to control by the Commission. The warehouse
companies are "persons" authorized to lodge a complaint
with the Commission by § 13 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act, and they are "persons" within the meaning
of that word as used in § 2 and 3 of the Act. The relationship between persons and rail carriers, with which the
Commission is authorized to deal, is not formal, and is not
to be determined exclusively by reference to bills of lading.
In point of substance the warehousemen were consignors
and consignees of merchandise, and they alone could act
as such in the case of carload shipments which they
assembled or distributed. In this respect they do not
differ from freight forwarders who render a like service,
so far as concerns their relations with the carriers. Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. United States, supra; see Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S.
235; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor,232 U. S. 508.
The evil of discrimination was the principal thing aimed
at by the Act, see Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 749, and its language is certainly broad

WAREHOUSE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
501

513

Opinion of the Court.

enough to embrace all discriminations of the sort described
which it was within the power of Congress to condemn.
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.342, 356. Section 3 makes it
unlawful for any rail carrier "to make or give any undue
or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular
person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any
particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever. ....
For reasons already indicated, the case is rot one in
which, as appellants argue, the carriers should be left
free to remove the discrimination by extending the benefit of the allowances to the competing warehouses. Since
the allowances are for services which include the assembling and distribution of carloads from or into less than
carload lots, the objections to them would not be removed
by extending them to some additional shippers of carloads
at carload rates, but not to all, nor even to all under existing tariffs and classifications for the handling of carloads. As the Commission found that appellants' warehouses are not public freight stations in fact but are
such in name only, it rightly secured the discontinuance of the discrhnination by ordering the carriers to
cease employing the means by which it had been accomplished. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm., supra, p. 404. But nothing said here
is to be taken as indicating that a carrier may not designate a warehouse as a public freight station and select
an agent for its management where a forbidden discrimination is not effected.
The court below was within the limits of its discretionary power in staying the Commission's order pending
the appeal. The practice complained of was of long
standing, entered into, so far as appears, in good faith,
at a time when the discrimination, if it existed, was much
less serious than at present, and before the present prohibitions against such discriminations. Its legality now
80705-8-33

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

is not free from doubt, as is indicated by the fact that
the judges of the court below were not unanimous. The
immediate enforcement of the order if the judgment below were not affirmed here would have resulted in a
serious and unnecessary disturbance of a course of business affecting not alone the parties to this litigation, but
the patrons of the various warehouses, which the court
below found would be irreparable. These considerations,
taken together, were sufficient to call for the exercise of
its discretion. Cf. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States,
272 U. S. 658, 672.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
CUSTER v. McCUTCHEON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 422. Argued April 20, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
A state law limiting the time within which an execution may issue
on a judgment, which has been adopted by standing rule of the
District Court pursuant to R. S. § 916, applies to the United States
as to others having judgments in that court. P. 519.
41 F. (2d) 354, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 826, to review a judgment dismissing a bill to restrain a marshal from executing a
judgment which had been recovered by the United States.

Mr. J. F. Nugent argued the cause and Messrs. James R.
Bothwell and W. Orr Chapmanfiled a brief for petitioner.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,Assistant Attorney General Richardson, and
Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attor-

