OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

yield more. If a sum equal to the value thus ascertained
had been invested in an annuity contract, payments thereunder would have been free from income tax until the
owner had recouped his capital investment. We think
a like rule should be applied here. The statute definitely
excepts bequests from receipts which go to make up taxable income. See Burnet v. Whitehouse, ante, p. 148.
The judgments below are

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. McLENNAN v. WILBUR,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
UNITED STATES Ex REL. SIMPSON v. WILBUR,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
UNITED STATES EX REL. BARTON v. 'WILBUR,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
UNITED STATES Ex REL. PYRON v. WILBUR, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 618, 676, 704, 743. Argued April 15, 16, 1931 -Decided May 18,
1931.
1. The provisions of the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920,
plainly indicate that Congress held in mind the distinction between
a positive mandate to the Secretary and permission to take certain
action in his discretion; also, the difference between applicants for
mere privileges and those persons who, because of .expenditures, or
otherwise, deserved special consideration. P. 418.
2. Section 13 of this Act, by which the Secretary is "authorized" to
grant prospecting permits looking to the discovery and exploitation
of oil deposits belonging to the United States, is susceptible of the
construction that it leaves the Secretary a discretion to reject, or
refuse to receive, all applications for such permits, by a general
order made in pursuance of a policy of the President to conserve
such deposits. P. 419.

UNITED STATES v. WILBUR.
414

415

Counsel for Parties.

So held in view of the words of the section; the belief, widely
accepted when the Act was passed, that decline of petroleum production in the United States was imminent; the enormous increase
that actually occurred and the present surplus; the general powers
of the Secretary over the public lands, and the right of the President to withdraw them from private appropriation.
3. Mandamus will issue only where the duty to be performed is
ministerial and the obligation to act peremptory, and plainly
defined. P. 420.
46 F. (2d) 217, 224, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 811, to review judgments reversing
judgments for mandamus, in suits brought against the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office by applicants for permits to prospect
for oil and gas.
Messrs. Lewis Edwin Hoffman and Chester I. Long
for McLennan.
Mr. Homer Hendricks, with whom Messrs. Donald V.
Hunter and James C. Sheppard were on the brief, for
Simpson.
Mr. James Conlon, with whom Mr. Charles F. Breen
was on the brief, for Barton.
Mr. James G. Leovy, with whom Messrs. John W.
Fisher, A. W. Gregg, and Weston Vernon, Jr., were on
the brief, for Pyron.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, Messrs. Claude R. Branch and
Aubrey Lawrence, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, and Paul D. Miller were on the brief, for
respondents.
Messrs. James A. Greenwood, Attorney General of
Wyoming, and Clarence L. Ireland, Attorney General of

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Colorado, with whom Mes8rs. L. A. Foot, Attorney General of Montana, George P. Parker, Attorney General of
Utah, E. K. Neumann, Attorney General of New Mexico,
and Peter Q. Nyce were on the brief, as amici curiae, by
special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
All these causes turn on the same point of law; the
records disclose facts not materially different; one opinion
will suffice.
The Act of Congress approved February 25, 1920, 41
Stat. 437, intended to promote certain mining operations,
contains thirty-eight sections.
Section 1. "That deposits of coal, phosphate, sodium,
oil, oil shale, or gas, and lands containing such deposits
owned by the United States, . . . shall be subject to
disposition in the form and manner provided by this
Act . .. ."
"Sec. 13. That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby
authorized, under such necessary and proper rules and
regulations as he may prescribe, to grant to any applicant
qualified under this Act a prospecting permit, which shall
give the exclusive right, for a period not exceeding two
years, to prospect for oil or gas upon not to exceed two
thousand five hundred and sixty acres of land wherein
such deposits belong to the United States and are not
within any known geological structure of a producing oil
or gas field upon condition that the permittee shall begin
drilling operations within six months from the date of the
permit, and shall, within one year from and after the date
of permit, drill one or more wells for oil or gas to a depth
of not less than five hundred feet each, unless valuable
deposits of oil or gas shall be sooner discovered, and shall,
within two years from date of the permit, drill for oil or

UNITED STATES v. WILBUR.
Opinion of the Court.

414

gas to an aggregate depth of not less than two thousand
feet unless valuable deposits of oil or gas shall be sooner
discovered . .
"Sec. 14. That upon establishing to the satisfaction of
the Secretary of the Interior that valuable deposits of oil
or gas have been discovered within the limits of the land
embraced in any permit, the permittee shall be entitled
to a lease for one-fourth of the land embraced in the prospecting permit: . .
Section 9 authorizes the Secretary to lease lands containing deposits of phosphates under such general regulation as he may adopt. By ยง 17 unappropriated deposits
of oil or gas situated within the known geologic structure
of a producing oil or gas field "may be leased by the Secretary of the Interior to the highest responsible bidder, . . ." such leases to be conditioned upon the payment
by the lessee of such bonus as may be accepted and of
such royalty as may be fixed in the lease, etc. Section 21
authorizes the Secretary to lease deposits of oil shale under
such regulations as he may prescribe, for indefinite periods.
Section 2 declares that the Secretary "is authorized to,
and upon the petition of any qualified applicant shall,
divide any of the coal lands or the deposits of coal, classified and unclassified, owned by the United States, outside
of the Territory of Alaska, into leasing tracts of forty
acres each, . .. " and thereafter "shall, in his discretion, upon the request of any qualified applicant or on his
own motion, from time to time, offer such lands or deposits of coal for leasing, and shall award leases thereon
by competitive bidding or by such other methods as he
may by general regulations adopt, to any qualified applicant.
"Sec. 22. That any bona fide occupant or claimant
of oil or gas bearing lands in the Territory of Alaska, who,
or whose predecessors in interest, prior to withdrawal had
80705 -31-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

complied otherwise with the requirements of the mining
laws, but had made no discovery of oil or gas in wells and
who prior to withdrawal had made substantial improvements for the discovery of oil or gas on or for each location or had prior to the passage of this Act expended
not less than $250 in improvements on or for each location shall be entitled, upon relinquishment or surrender
to the United States within one year from the date of
this Act, or within six months after final denial or withdrawal of application for patent, to a prospecting permit or permits, lease or leases, under this Act covering
such lands, . . ."
Section 23. That the Secretary "is hereby authorized
and directed, under such rules and regulations as he may
prescribe, to grant to any qualified applicant a prospecting permit which shall give the exclusive right to prospect
for chlorides, sulphates, carbonates, borates, silicates, or
nitrates of sodium .
These provisions quite plainly indicate that Congress
held in mind the distinction between a positive mandate
to the Secretary and permission to take certain action in
his discretion. Also, the difference between applicants
for mere privileges and those persons who because of expenditures, or otherwise, deserved special consideration.
The petitioners, acting separately and as directed by
the general rules and regulations, either filed or sought to
file applications for permits to prospect for oil and gas
under ยง 13. In order to effectuate the conservation policy
of the President, the Secretary of the Interior by a general order either rejected or refused to receive their applications. Thereupon, these proceedings were begun in
the Supreme Court, District of Columbia. They seek
writs of mandamus to compel the Secretary to receive or
reinstate the applications and act upon each according to
its merits.

UNITED STATES v. WILBUR.
414

Opinion of the Court.

Answering, the Secretary admitted issuance of the general order and action thereunler. All this he claimed was
done in pursuance of the authority vested in him by law.
The Supreme Court of the District held against him and
ordered receipt or reinstatement of petitioner's applications followed by definite action thereon. The Court of
Appeals reached a different conclusion and reversed the
judgments.
The answers aver "that under the Act, [1920] the
granting of a prospecting permit for oil and gas is discretionary with the Secretary of the Interior, and any application may be granted or denied, either in part or in
its entirety as the facts may be deemed to warrant." Having examined the Act we cannot say that by any clear
and indisputable language it refutes his position. Certainly, there is ground for a plausible, if not conclusive,
argument that so far as it relates to the leasing of oil lands
it goes no further than to empower the Secretary to execute leases which, exercising a reasonable discretion, he
may think would promote the public welfare.
It is unnecessary now to declare the precise meaning of
the relevant provisions of the Act. It was passed when
according to a widely accepted view decline of petroleum
production in the United States was imminent. In fact,
there has been an enormous increase and a consequent
troublesome surplus. Looking only at its words one may
interpret 1ยง 13 as the Secretary says he did. And this
conclusion is aided by consideration of his general powers
over the public lands as guardian of the people. 1ยง441,
R. S.; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Williams
v. United States, 138 U. S. 514; Knight v. U. S. Land
Assn., 142 V. S. 161; also the right of the President to
withdraw public lands from private appropriation.
United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459; Withdrawal Act, 1910, 36 Stat. 847.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Under the established rule the writ of mandamus cannot be made to serve the purpose of an ordinary suit. It
will issue only where the duty to be performed is ministerial and the obligation to act peremptory, and plainly
defined. The law must not only authorize the demanded
action, but require it; the duty must be clear and indisputable. U. S. ex rel. International Contracting Co. v.
Lamont, 155 U. S. 303, 308; Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234
U. S. 627, 633; Work v. Rives, 267 U. S. 175.
The judgments under review must be
Affirmed.
CARBICE CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. AMERICAN PATENTS DEVELOPMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 54. Reargued April 27, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
Patent No. 1,595,426, for a refrigerating transportation package,
consisting of an outer, insulating container, with the food substance
to be refrigerated (e. g. ice cream) so packed therein as to surround
a quantity of solid carbon dioxide in its separate insulating container and thus to act, with the evolved gaseous dioxide, as a protection for the solid dioxide against exterior heat, the gas also
serving to displace air from the food and refrigerate it,-held void
for want of novelty and invention.
REHEARING of

the cause reported ante, p. 27, limited

to the validity of the patent.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Neave for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the patent valid and
infringed. 38 F. (2d) 62. In our opinion delivered

