OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WHITEHOUSE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued March 11, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. Where an annuity is bequeathed as a definite sum payable annually and at all events during the donee's life and charged upon
the testator's whole estate, the payments received by the donee,
whether taken from the income or the corpus of the estate, are
not part of the donee's gross income under the Revenue Act of
1921, but by § 213 (b) (3) are excepted from gross income as
property acquired by gift or bequest. Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S.
161, distinguished. P. 151.
2. Section 219 of the Revenue Act of 1921, which declares that
the tax imposed by §§ 210, 211, shall apply to the income of
estates, including income which is to be distributed to the beneficiaries periodically, applies only to income paid as such to the
beneficiary. Id.
3. The plain exemption of § 213 should not be destroyed by any
strained construction of general language in § 219. Id.
38 F. (2d) 162, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 818, to review a judgment affirming a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 7 B. T. A.
600, which overruled a demand made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for payment of an income
tax on receipts from an annuity.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key, J.
Louis Monarch, and Miss Helen R. Carloss, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, Erwin N. Griswold,
Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, and Stanley
Suydam, Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue,
were on the brief, for petitioner.

BURNET v. WHITEHOUSE.
148

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Marion N. Fisher argued the cause, and Messrs.
John W. Davis, Spotswood D. Bowers, and Marsden B.
Candler filed a brief, for respondents.
Mm JUSTICE McRzYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 233, 237,
246, provides-"Sec. 210. That .

.

.there shall be levied, collected,

and paid for each taxable year upon the net income of
every individual a normal tax of 8 per centum of the
amount of the net income.
"Sec.

211. That . . . in addition to the normal tax

imposed by section 210 of this Act, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid for each taxable year upon the net income of every individual . . . a surtax . . .

"Sec. 212. (a) That in the case of an individual the
term 'net income' means the gross income as defined in section 213, less the deductions allowed by
section 214....
"Sec. 213. That for the purposes of this title . . .the

term 'gross income '--(a) Includes gains, profits, and income derived . . . (b) Does not include the following

items, which shall be exempt from taxation under this
title: . . . (3) The value of property acquired by gift,

bequest, devise, or descent (but the income from such
property shall be included in gross income); . .."
James Gordon Bennett died May 24, 1918. His will
provided for payment of twenty or more annuities.
Among other items, it contained the following:
Item "Tenth. I also give and bequeath to the said
Sybil Douglas, wife of William Whitehouse, an annuity of
five thousand dollars."
Item "Twenty-eight

....

All annuities hereby given

shall commence at the time of my death and be payable

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

in equal parts half-yearly, except as hereinabove specifically mentioned."
Item Twenty-nine directed the executors to establish
a Memorial Home and to that end gave them the residue
of the estate.
Item "Thirtieth. . . I authorize and empower said
executors or executor to retain and hold any personal
property which may belong to me at the time of my death
and to set aside and hold any part thereof to provide for
the payment and satisfaction of any annuity given by me."
The annuity for Mrs. Whitehouse was satisfied from
the corpus of the estate prior to November 14, 1920;
afterwards, out of income derived therefrom. December
30, 1920, the executors permanently set aside for the
Memorial Home a large amount of interest-bearing
securities "but subject to taxes, annuities, and other
charges."
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue demanded of
Mrs. Whitehouse income tax for the year 1921 on the
semi-annual payments received during that period. She
petitioned the Board of Tax Appeals for relief. It held
that the bequest to her was within paragraph (b), item
(3), § 213, Revenue Act of 1921, and therefore exempt.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, First Circuit, approved
that conclusion. 38 F. (2d) 162.
The most plausible argument submitted for the Commissioner is this: An annuity given by will is payable primarily out of the income from the estate. The residuary
estate of Bennett produced enough during 1921 to meet
all bequeathed annuities. The payments received by Mrs.
Whitehouse during that year were, in fact, made from
such income. Consequently, it cannot be said that the
bequest was one of corpus; and the payments were taxable under Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161.

BURNET v. WHITEHOUSE.
148

Opinion of the Court.

As held below, the bequest to Mrs. Whitehouse was not
one to be paid from income but of a sum certain, payable
at all events during each year so long as she should live.
It would be an anomaly to tax the receipts for one year
and exempt them for another simply because executors
paid the first from income received and the second out of
the corpus. The will directed payment without reference
to the existence or absence of income.
Irwin v. Gavit is not'applicable. The bequest to Gavit
was to be paid out of income from a definite fund. If
that yielded nothing, he got nothing. This Court concluded that the gift was of money to be derived from income and to be paid and received as income by the donee.
Here the gift did not depend upon income but was a
charge upon the whole estate during the life of the legatee
to be satisfied like any ordinary bequest.
An attempt is made to strengthen the position of the
Commissioner by reference to § 219, Act of 1921, which
declares that the tax imposed by §§ 210 and 211 shall
apply to the income of estates, including-" Income which
is to be distributed to the beneficiaries periodically,
." But clearly enough, we think, this section applies
only to income paid as such to a beneficiary. And, as
above shown, the sums received by Mrs. Whitehouse were
not gifts to be derived from and paid out of income, nor
were they received as such by her.
The exemption in § 213 is plain and should not be destroyed by any strained construction of general language
found in § 219.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.

