ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO. v. POWE.

401

Statement of the Case.

398

North Western Ry. Co. v. Lindell, 281 U. S. 14, 17. We
see no reason to doubt the constitutionality of the present
application of the state law. The policy of it is embodied
in equity rule 30. See Aldrich v. Blatchford, 175 Mass.
369; 56 N. E. 700.
The case is within the jurisdiction of the District Court
in all other respects if the respondent has been served with
process effectively. We are of opinion that the service
was good and that the case should not have been dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v. POWE,
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 600. Argued May 1, 1931.--Decided May 18, 1931.
1. In an action under the Employers' Liability Act for death of a
switchman, killed while on the outside of a moving car by being
brought into contact with a semaphore near the track, there is no
ground to charge negligence in placing the semaphore too near the
track when the distance exceeds the minimum permitted by the
state railroad commission, and when it does not appear that to
make the place safe by increasing the distance would have been
practicable for the railroad company. P. 402.
2. The question in such cases is not whether a reasonable insurance
of employees against injury should be thrown upon the traveling
public through the railroads, but whether the railroad is liable
under the statute according to the principles of the common law
regarding tort. P. 403.
3. The denial of a writ of certiorari imports no expression of opinion
upon the merits of the case. Id.
159 S. E. 473, reversed.

282 U. S. 836, to review a judgment affirming a judgment for the present respondent in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
CERTIORARI,

80705-31-

26

402

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Mr. Arthur R. Young, with whom Messrs. Thomas W.
Davis and V. E. Phelps were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John P. Grace, with whom Mr. W. Turner Logan
was on the brief, for respondent. Mr. Lionel K. Legge
also submitted a brief for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act for causing the death of Marshall, the respondent's deceased. It has been before the Court after an earlier trial, Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Tyner, 278 U. S.
565, and now is brought here again to review a judgment
of the Supreme Court of South Carolina affirming a judgment for the plaintiff. 159 S. E. 473. The petitioner contends that it was entitled to have a verdict directed in its
favor on the grounds that there was no evidence that it
was negligent and that Marshall must be taken to have
assumed the risk of the supposed cause of his death.
It may be assumed that Marshall, a switchman, was
killed while on the outside of a moving car by being
brought into contact with a semaphore near the railroad
track. The only ground for charging the Company with
negligence that we regard as material is the suggestion
that the semaphore was too near the track. The-general
principles laid down with regard to mail cranes in Southern Pacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415, and Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Leitch, 276 U. S. 429, apply
equally to semaphores. It is impracticable always to set
such structures so far away as to leave no danger to one
leaning out, and in dealing with a well known incident of
the employment, adopted in the interest of the public
and of the employees, it is unreasonable to throw the risks
of it upon those who were compelled to adopt it.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO. v. POWE.
401

403

Opinion of the Court.

The semaphore in this instance was four feet and ten
inches at its base from the outer edge of the track and
probably a little more at four feet above the top of the
rail. An order of the South Carolina Railroad Commission, made, as it states, in consideration of the safety of
the public and employees of the road and of the necessity
for employees to give and receive signals, provides that
no structure be allowed nearer than four feet from the
outer edge of the main or side track, measurement being
made four feet above the top of the rail. It will be seen
that the Railroad, Company in this case more than complied with the order. It is true that four feet was a minimum distance, but it satisfied the requirement of the Commission, and it would be going far to say that the Railroad
Company was not warranted in supposing that it had
done its duty, so far as the Commission was concerned,
when it put the semaphore four feet and ten inches away.
Marshall from his previous experience probably knew of
the semaphore as he was required to do by the rules of
the road. It was shown that some other semaphores
were farther from the track, but the circumstances do not
appear, and there is nothing to show that in this case
the petitioner could have made the position safer than it
was, except by changing the place of the track. As remarked in Southern Pacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S.
415, 417, the question is not whether a reasonable insurance against such misfortunes should be thrown upon the
travelling public through the railroads, but whether the
railroad is liable under the statute according to the principles of the common law regarding tort. No negligence
is proved against the petitioner. It is urged that a certiorari was denied in Central of GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Davis,
7 F. (2d) 269, which seemed to qualify the doctrine of the
Berkshire case. But 'The denial of a writ of certiorari
imports no expression of opinion upon the merits of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

283 U. S.

case, as the bar has been told many times."
v. Carver,260 U. S. 482, 490.

United States

Judgment reversed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. LOGAN.
SAME v. BRUCE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 521 and 522.

Argued April 29, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. Prior to March, 1913, the taxpayer held shares in one of several
steel companies, owners of the stock of a company engaged in mining
ore under a long term lease. The lease did not require production
of maximum or minimum tonnage or any definite payments. By
agreement among themselves, the steel companies were entitled to
share the ore extracted according to their stock holdings in the
mining company. In 1916, the taxpayer and her co-shareholders
sold their shares to another steel company, which thus became
entitled to participate in the ores thereafter taken from the leased
mine. The consideration for the sale was part cash and in part
the purchaser's agreement to pay annually thereafter for distribution among the selling stockholders 60 cents for each ton of ore
apportioned to it. Held, that until the receipts by the taxpayer
under this contract shall have equalled the value of her shares in
March, 1913, they are return of capital and are not taxable in part
as income. P. 412.
2. Another of the vendor stockholders died in 1917, bequeathing her
interest in the payments to be made by the purchaser. Held that,
prior to return of the amount at which the bequest was valued
for federal estate tax purposes, the payments received by the legatee
are not income. P. 413.
42 F. (2d) 193; id. 197, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U.

S. 833, to review judgments revers-

ing orders of the Board of Tax Appeals determining in.
come tax deficiencies.

12 B. T. A. 586.

