776

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.
ALABAMA

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT"OF ALABAMA.

No. 513. Argued April 28, 1931.-Decided June 1, 1931.

Order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing intrastate rates
on fertilizers to correspond with interstate rates, sustained over the
objections that the action taken was arbitrary; that there was not
a full hearing; that the issue determined was not the issue pleaded or
heard; that there was no finding showing a competitive relationship
of any rates interstate with any rates intrastate and no definite finding justifying the regulation of all intrastate rates; that there was no
evidence to sustain any such findings, and none to sustain the finding
and order which prescribed like rates for joint and single line hauls;
and, finally, that the rates prescribed intrastate are not in harmony
with the interstate rates. Cf. Georgia Public Service Commission
v. United States, ante, p. 765. P. 779.
42 F. (2d) 469, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree dismissing a bill to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing intrastate rates on fertilizers. See also, 279 U. S. 229.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Messrs. Thomas E.
Knight, Jr., Attorney General of Alabama, Hugh White,
President, Alabama Public Service Commission, and Mac
Asbill were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate
Commerce Commission, with whom Mr. E. M. Reidy,
Assistant Chief Counsel, was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellee.
Mr. Frank W. Gwathmey, with whom Messrs. W. N.
McGehee and W. A. Northcutt were on the brief, for
Alabama Carriers, appellees.
Solicitor General Thacher submitted for the United
States.

ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES.
776

Opinion of Ihe Court.

MR. JUSTWICE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought under the Act of June 18, 1910.
c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, as amended by Urgent Deficiencies
Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, in the
federal court for the northern district of Alabama. That
State and its Public Service Commission seek to set aside
the order of the Interstate Commerce Comnmission issued
October 3, 1927, and modified on December 22, 1927, by
which the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad and other steam
carriers were required to establish and maintain intrastate rates in Alabama for fertilizers and fertilizing material not lower, for corresponding distances, than the interstate rates theretofore prescribed by the Commission.
Fertilizers and Fertilizer Materials Between Southern
Points, 113 I. C. C. 389; 123 I. C. C. 193; 129 I. C. C.
215. The United States and the carriers were made defendants. The Commission intervened. The decree of
the District Court denying an application for a preliminary injunction was affirmed by us, at the October Term,
1928, on the ground that the order was within the general powers of the Commission; that it had been made
upon full enquiry; and that the court was not shown to
have abused its discretion in denying interlocutory relief.
We accordingly remanded the case to the lower court for
final disposition on the merits, 279 U. S. 229. The case
was then heard on final hearing by three other judges on
precisely the same evidence; and they dismissed the bill,
42 F. (2d) 469. The case is now here on direct appeal
from the final decree.
The order complained of was entered in an extensive investigation, instituted by the Interstate Commerce Commission on its own motion in 1924, into the rates on fertilizers and fertilizer material in the southern territory.,
With that proceeding there was consolidated, among
others, a complaint theretofore filed by steam railroads

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

operating in Alabama, charging that the State Commission had entered an order which required them to establish intrastate rates on fertilizers and fertilizer material
lower than those permitted or required by the interstate
traffic; and that the observance by the carriers of the
order of the Alabana Commission would result in unjust
discrimination against interstate commerce and in undue
prejudice to persons and localities in interstate commerce.2 The Alabama Commission refused to permit the
intrastate rates to be increased to the level which the
federal Commission found to be necessary to prevent
such discrimination, whereupon the order challenged was
entered.8 It is contended that this action was arbitrary;
1 Both the interstate and intrastate rates on these commodities,
of which two-thirds of the total United States production is used in
the southern territory (113 I. C. C. 392), had theretofore been before
the Commission in a great many cases. See Royster Guano Co. v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 31 I. C. C. 458; 38 I. C. C. 190; 50
I. C. C. 34; Freight Adjustment Steering Committee v. Same, 53
I. C. C. 506; Goldsboro Chamber of Commerce v. Same, 91 I. C. C.
315. Compare Mount Pleasant Fertilizer Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 50 I. C. C. 253; Meridian Traffic Bureau v. Southern
Ry. Co., 60 I. C. C. 5, 24; Meridian Rate Case, 66 I. C. C. 179, 186;
Fertilizer to Montezuma, 74 I. C. C. 657; Fertilizers from New
Orleans, 100 I. C. C. 64. See also Fertilizer Rates in South Carolina,
147 I. C. C. 178.
2 Similar petitions were filed by the carriers seeking relief from
intrastate rates prescribed by the South Carolina and Georgia commissions on these commodities. 113 I. C. C. 391. Compare Fertilizer
Rates in South Carolina, 147 I. C. C. 178, 179.
3The procedure was substantially the same as that in Georgia
Public Service Comm. v. United States, ante, p. 765. No order concering intrastate rates was entered in the original proceedings
because it was "believed that the respective State commissions will
cooperate in authorizing such revisions as may be necessary." 113
I. C. C. 435. Thereafter the railroads operating in Alabama petitioned the state Commission to establish intrastate rates in harmony
with the interstate rates established by the federal Commission.
This relief was denied on July 18, 1927. On September 3, 1927,

ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES.
776

Opinion of the Court.

that there was not a full hearing; that the issue determined was not the issue pleaded or heard; that there was
no finding showing a competitive relationship of any rates
interstate with any rates intrastate and no definite finding justifying the regulation of all intrastate rates; that
there was no evidence to sustain any such findings; and
none to sustain the finding and order which prescribed
like rates for joint and single line hauls; and, finally, that
the rates prescribed intrastate are not in harmony with
the interstate rates.
The findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission
are definite; they afford a sufficient basis for the order;
and they are supported by evidence. None of the objections of the appellant is well taken. The comprehensive
investigation of the Interstate Commerce Commission
appears to have been conducted with great care and thoroughness.' The Alabama Commission, as well as the regthese same carriers requested the federal Commission to enter an
order raising the intrastate rates on these commodities in Alabama.
On the basis of its former hearings and findings, the Commission
issued, without further hearing, the order here attacked. It was also
stipulated that a general petition for rehearing was filed by Ihe
Alabama Commission after the announcement of the findings in the

original investigation.
4The present case differs from Georgia Public Service Cornmm. v.
United States, supra Note 3, in that the question of discrimination
against interstate commerce was examined only in the initial hearing
and not also in a supplemental hearing. In the original hearing and
report, the percentage of intrastate as against interstate traffic, the
similarity in transportation conditions, the location of interstate and
intrastate shippers, and the reasons for and against the allowance of
joint-line differentials were thoroughly canvassed. Whether such differentials should not be allowed in rates on fertilizers, a relatively
high value commodity, even though they are permitted, as in the

Georgia case, on low value commodities, is a matter wholly within the
informed discretion of the Commission, provided the question was
considered and appropriate findings, supported by evidence, were
made. Georgia Public Service Comm. v. United States, supra

780

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

ulatory bodies of five contiguous States, were represented
at the hearings and took an active part in developing the
record. A report proposed by the Examiner was served
upon their counsel who took exceptions which were considered by the Commission. Some modification was made
in the report. All the objections to the order now urged
were twice presented to, and passed upon by, the District
Court. They were, in part, considered by this Court on
the appeal from the decree denying an interlocutory injunction. Nothing could be gained by further discussion.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

