CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.

209

Syllabus.

202

Inasmuch as the plaintiffs did not ask for more than
the minimum statutory damages of $250, and did not
appeal from the decree awarding only this sum, the question whether the court might have awarded more than the
maximum of $5,000 is not properly raised upon the facts
presented in this certificate. We have no occasion to consider it. Dillon v. StrathearnS.S. Co., 248 U. S. 182, 184;
Reinecke v. Gardner,277 U. S. 239, 245; White v. Johnson,
282 U. S. 367, 371.
As to Question IV, the certificate is dismissed.
Question II, Yes.
Question III, Yes.
Question IV, not answered.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MARTIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 155.

Argued March 4, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. The question whether a provision in an interstate bill of lading
limiting the time for filing claim for loss of property has been complied with is a federal question, to be determined by the application
of federal law. P. 212.
2. Where a bill of lading for an interstate shipment provides that
claim, in case of failure to make delivery, must be made in writing
to the carrier within six months after a reasonable time for delivery
has elapsed, the reasonable time meant is such time as is necessary
to transport and make delivery of the shipment in the ordinary
course of business, in the circumstances and conditions of the
transaction. P. 213.
3. A demurrer to the evidence must be tested by the same rules that
apply in respect of a motion to direct a verdict. In ruling, the
court must resolve all conflicts in the evidence against the defendant; but is bound to sustain the demurrer whenever the facts
established and the conclusions which they reasonably justify are
legally insufficient to justify a verdict for the plaintiff. P. 213.
80705°-31-

14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

4. In ruling on a demurrer to the evidence, the court can not disregard
the testimony of a witness merely because he is an employee of

the defendant. P. 214.
5. The general rule that the credibility of witnesses is a question for
the jury alone, does not mean that the jury is at liberty, under the
guise of passing upon the credibility of a witness, to disregard his

testimony, when from no reasonable point of view is it open to
doubt. P. 216.
6. The fact that the carrier, through misunderstanding or negligence,
made delivery of an interstate shipment contrary to instructions

can not estop it from enforcing -a stipulation in the bill of lading requiring the shipper to make claim within a stated period after a
reasonable time for delivery had elapsed. Georgia, F. & A. Ry. v.

Blish Co., 241 U. S. 190. P. 220.
154 Va. 1; 143 S. E. 629; 152 S. E. 335, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 819, to review a judgment sustaining recovery of damages resulting from failure of the
Railway Company to deliver a shipment of potatoes.

Mr. Meade T. Spicer, Jr., with whom Mr. Walter Leake
was on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion

of the

Court.
This is an action brought by the respondents against
petitioner in a state court to recover damages for the
"nmisdelivery" of a carload of potatoes transported on a
through bill of lading in interstate commerce. On November 6, 1925, the shipment was initiated in Michigan by
another carrier, and transferred to the petitioner for final
transportation to, and delivery in, Richmond, Virginia.
Respondents had arranged for the storage of potatoes with
the Bowman Transfer Company in Richmond, and petitioner had been notified that all potatoes billed to respondents were to be delivered at the warehouse of that
company. The potatoes arrived at petitioner's yards in

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

211

Opinion of the Court.

Richmond six days after shipment from Michigan, and
four days later (November 16th) were inspected by respondents, who thereupon paid all freight and demurrage
charges and became entitled to delivery. To make delivery to the Bowman warehouse it first was necessary to
transfer the car of potatoes to the Southern Railway; and
the usual time required for the entire movement was not
more than forty-eight hours. Petitioner, on November
17th, transferred the car to .th Southern Railway, but by
mistake directed that delivery be made to the warehouse
of D. S. Harwood, where the car was unloaded and the
potatoes were stored in the belief that they belonged to a
customer of Harwood. The same day the Bowman Company mailed to respondents a warehouse receipt acknowledging the receipt and storage of the potatoes in the
warehouse of that company; but a month later advised
respondents by letter that the receipt had been issued in
error, and that the car had been taken to the warehouse
of D. S. Harwood. Notwithstanding this letter, respondents visited the Bowman warehouse and upon inquiry
concluded that the potatoes were there. They made no
inquiry of the petitioner or at the Harwood warehouse.
Harwood did not know the respondents or suspect that
they were the owners of the potatoes, until May 10, 1926,
at which time he informed them that he had the car. The
respondents then identified the potatoes, found them in
a spoiled condition, sold them for a small sum, and brought
this action. No notice of loss was given or claim for
damages made until May 26, 1926, a period of six months
and twenty days after the shipment from Michigan.
The bill of lading contains the following provision:
"Claims for loss, damage, or injury to property must be
made in writing to the originating or delivering carrier or
carriers issuing this bill of lading within six months after
delivery of the property .(or, in case of export traffic,
within nine months after delivery at port of export), or

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

in case of failure to make delivery, then within six months
(or nine months in case of export traffic) after a reasonable time for delivery has elapsed; provided that if such
loss, damage or injury was due to delay or damage while
being loaded or unloaded, or damaged in transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of claim nor filing
of claim shall be required as a condition precedent to
recovery."
Petitioner's freight agent testified that a .reasonable
time after shipment for delivery of the potatoes to the
consignee in Richmond would be about eight days, and
that if any longer time were taken it would be considered
a delayed movement. There was no evidence to the
contrary.
At the conclusion of respondents' case in rebuttal, petitioner demurred to the evidence upon the ground that the
action was barred by the provision of the bill of lading
requiring claims for loss or damage in case of failure to
make delivery to be made "within six months after a reasonable time for delivery has elapsed." The demurrer was
overruled and judgment entered against petitioner upon
verdict for the sum of $1684.39. The trial court said that
the testimony of the freight agent was no part of the
plaintiffs' case; that the misdelivery was made through
his office; that although unimpeached the jury would not
be bound to accept the evidence of the agent as conclusive; and, consequently, that the court was obliged to
disregard it and overrule the demurrer to the evidence.
The judgment was affirmed on appeal. 143 S. E. 629; 154
Va. 1; 152 S. E. 335.
The provision of the bill of lading that claim for loss
in case of failure to deliver must be made within six
months after the lapse of a reasonable time for delivery
is authorized by federal statute* and is valid and appli*

Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 494; U. S. C., Title

49, § 20(11).

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

213

Opinion of the Court.

cable, Georgia,Fla. & Ala. Ry. v. Blish Co., 241 U. S. 190,
197; and, since it was issued in respect of an interstate
shipment pursuant to an act of Congress, the bill of lading
is an instrumentality of such commerce, and the question
whether its provisions have been complied with is a federal question to be determined by the application of federal law. Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240 U. S. 612,
614; Southern Ry. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 635-636;
Georgia, Fla. & Ala. Ry. v. Blish CD., supra, p. 195; St.
Louis, I. Mt. & So. Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592, 595.
The State Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment on
the grounds that the evidence was sufficient to show compliance on the part of respondents with the requirement
of the bill of lading in respect of the time for making
claim; and that, in any event, the petitioner was estopped
from asserting noncompliance with that requirement. We
are of opinion that neither ground is tenable.
First. Since the claim for loss was not made until the
expiration of six months and twenty days after the shipment, the first ground resolves itself into the question
whether twenty days was a reasonable time for the delivery
of the car to the cons'gnee. What constitutes a reasonable
time depends upon the circumstances of the particular
case. As applied to a case like this, it means such time as
is necessary conveniently to transport and make delivery
of the shipment in the ordinary course of business, in the
light of the circumstances and conditions surrounding the
transaction. Hazzard Co. v. Railroad Co., 121 Me. 199,
202-203; 116 Atl. 258. Compare First Nat. Bank v. Pipe
& Contractors'Supply Co., 273 Fed. 105, 107-108.
A demurrer to the evidence must be tested by the same
rules that apply in respect of a motion to direct a verdict.
Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359, 369-370; Merrick's Executor v. Giddings, 115 U. S. 300, 305. In ruling upon
either, the court must resolve all conflicts in the evidence
against the defendant; but is bound to sustain the demur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

rer or grant the motion, as the case may be, whenever the
facts established and the conclusions which they reasonably
justify are legally insufficient to serve as the foundation
for a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. Ibid.; Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521, 524, and cases cited;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472,
476-478. And, in the consideration of the question, the
court, as will be shown, is not at liberty to disregard the
testimony of a witness on the ground that he is an employee of the defendant, in the absence of conflicting proof
or of circumstances justifying countervailing inferences
or suggesting doubt as to the truth of his statement, unless
the evidence be of such a nature as fairly to be open to
challenge as suspicious or inherently improbable. The
agent at petitioner's freight office in Richmond, shown by
twenty years' experience to be qualified to speak, testified,
in part, as follows:
"Q. Mr. Neiss, the bill of lading issued covering this
car shows it was consigned from Wyman, Michigan, on
November 6th, and the yard records at Fulton show it
arrived there on November 12th. Are you in a position
to say whether or not that was a reasonable movement?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Would you say it was a reasonable movement?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Have you had occasion in the course of your experience to handle in-bound shipments?
"A. About twenty years.
"Q. During the course of that time have you become
in a general way familiar with the time required for movements of like character as this?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. What would you say would be a reasonable time
for shipment and delivery to a consignee at Richmond of a
car under those circumstances from that point?
"A. About eight days.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

215

Opinion of the Court.

"Q. Would anything beyond that be considered a delayed movement?
"A. Well, yes, sir, I think it would.
"Q. Mr. Neiss, Mr. Martin has testified that freight
was paid on this car the morning of November 16th, and
order given for disposition to the Bowman Warehouse.
Are you in a position to state how long it would take the
C. & 0. to have that order carried out to the extent of
having the car sent to the interchange track?
"A. Well, if we give the order to the yard any time up
to 4 o'clock in the afternoon, it is usually moved up to
5:15.
"Q. The same day?
"A.Yes, sir, same day.
"Q. Suppose the order is given after 4 o'clock or received after 4 o'clock, at Fulton yards?
"A. It is laid over until next morning between 9 and
1 o'clock.
"Q. So that the time required for the carrying out of
that order by the C. & 0. would be less than 24 hours?
"A. Yes, sir."
It sufficiently appears that the time reasonably necessary for completion of delivery to the Bowman warehouse after the receipt of the shipment at petitioner's
yards would, in no event, exceed forty-eight hours.
Not only is the estimate of the agent reasonable upon
its face and in accordance with probability; and not only
is it wholly unchallenged by other evidence or circumstances; but it is so completely corroborated by the undisputed facts in respect of this very shipment as to put it
beyond the reach of a fair doubt. The movement of the
car from the point of origin to the yards of petitioner in
Richmond actually was made in six days; and if there be
added full forty-eight hours thereafter for completing delivery to the Bowman warehouse, the testimony of the
agent as to time stands verified by indubitable test. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the face of this record the conclusion of the court that it
was still open for the jury to say that not eight days
merely, but twenty days, fell short of being a reasonable
time for delivery is so clearly erroneous as to cause the
ruling of the court, in effect, to rest upon nothing more
substantial than the power of a jury arbitrarily to disregard established facts.
We recognize the general rule, of course, as stated by
both courts below, that the question of the credibility of
witnesses is one for the jury alone; but this does not mean
that the jury is at liberty, under the guise of passing upon
the credibility of a witness, to disregard his testimony,
when from no reasonable point of view is it open to doubt.
The complete testimony of the agent in this case appears
in the record. A reading of it discloses no lack of candor
on his part. It was not shaken by cross-examination; indeed, upon this point, there was no cross-examination.
Its accuracy was not controverted by proof or circumstance, directly or inferentially; and it is difficult to see
why, i3 inaccurate, it readily could not have been shown
to be so. The witness was not impeached; and there is
nothing in the record which reflects unfavorably upon his
credibility. The only possible ground for submitting the
question to the jury as one of fact was that the witness
was an employee of the petitioner. In the circumstances
above detailed, we are of opinion that this was not enough
to take the question to the jury, and that the court should
have so held.
It is true that numerous expressions are to be found in
the decisions to the effect that the credibility of an interested witness always must be submitted to the jury, and
that that body is at liberty to reject his testimony upon
the sole ground of his interest. But these broad generalizations cannot be accepted without qualification. Such
a variety of differing facts, however, is disclosed by the
cases that no useful purpose would be served by an attempt
to review them. In many, if not most, of them, there

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

217

Opinion of the Court.

were circumstances tending to cast suspicion upon the
testimony or upon the witness, apart from the fact that
he was interested. We have been unable to find any decision enforcing such a rule where the facts and circumstances were comparable to those here disclosed. Applied
to such facts and circumstances, the rule, by the clear
weight of authority, is definitely to the contrary. Hauss
v. Lake Erie & W. R. Co., 105 Fed. 733; Illinois Cent. R.
Co. v. Coughlin, 132 Fed. 801, 803; Hull v. Littauer, 162
N. Y. 569; 57 N. E. 102; Second Nat. Bank v. Weston, 172
N. Y. 250, 258; 64 N. E. 949; Johnson v. N. Y. C. & H.
R. R. Co., 173 N. Y. 79, 83; 65 N. E. 946; St. Paul Cattle
Loan Co. v. Housman, 54 S.D. 630, 632; 224 N. W. 189;
M. H.. Thomas & Co. v. Hawthorne (Texas), 245 S.W.
966, 972; Dunlap v. Wright (Texas), 280 S. W. 276, 279;
Still v. Stevens (Texas), 13 S. W. (2d) 956; Marchand v.
Bellin, 158 Wis. 184, 186; 147 N. W. 1033. Of like effect,
although in a different connection, see also Roberts v.
Chicago City Ry. Co., 262 Ill. 228, 232; 104 N. E. 708;
Veatch v. The State, 56 Ind. 584, 587; Marq., Hought. &
Ont. R. R. v. Kirkwood, 45 Mich. 51, 53; 7 N. W. 209;
Berzevizy v. D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 19 App. Div. (N. Y.)
309, 313; 46 N. Y. S.27; Miller's Will, 49 Ore. 452, 464;
90 Pac. 1002.
In Hull v. Littauer, supra, the doctrine that the question of credibility of a witness must be submitted to the
jury was held to be not an inflexible one, even though such
witness be a party to the action. In that case the defendants moved for direction of a verdict in their favor, which
was resisted by plaintiff on the ground that the proof upon
which the motion was based rested upon the evidence of
interested parties. The court, nevertheless, sustained the
motion. On appeal the State Court of Appeals affirmed
this judgment, saying (p. 572):
"It is true that the evidence to establish the entirety
of the contract was given by the defendants; but the rule
which the plaintiff invokes is not applicable to such a case

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

as this. Generally, the credibility of a witness, who is a
party to the action and, therefore, interested in its result,
is for the jury; but this rule, being founded in reason, is
not an absolute and inflexible one. If the evidence is
possible of contradiction in the circumstances; if its truthfulness, or accuracy, is open to a reasonable doubt upon
the facts of the case, and the interest of the witness furnishes a proper ground for hesitating to accept his statements, it is a necessary and just rule that the jury should
pass upon it. Where, however, the evidence of a party to
the action is not contradicted by direct evidence, nor by
any legitimate inferences from the evidence, and it is not
opposed to the probabilities; nor, in its nature, surprising,
or suspicious, there is no reason for denying to it conclusiveness. Though a party to an action has been enabled,
since the legislation of 1857, (Ch. 353, Laws of 1857), to
testify as a witness, his evidence is not to be regarded as
that of a disinterested person and whether it should be
accepted without question, depends upon the situation as
developed by the facts and circumstances and the attitude
of his adversary. In Lomer v. Meeker, (25 N. Y. 361),
where the defense to an action upon a promissory note was
usury and the indorser gave the evidence to establish it,
without contradiction, it was said that 'it was the duty of
the court, in such case, to dismiss the complaint, or nonsuit the plaintiff, or direct a verdict for the defendants.
It is a mistake to suppose that, because the evidence
came from the defendant, after the plaintiff had rested,
the case must go to the jury. . . . The argument is, that
this could not properly be done, because there was a question of credibility raised in respect to the witness Bock,
who proved the usury. But this objection is untenable.
The witness was not impeached or contradicted. His testimony is positive and direct, and not incredible upon its
face. It was the duty of the court and jury to give credit
to his testimony.' More recently, in Kelly v. Burroughs,

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

219

Opinion of the Court.

102 N. Y. 93; 6 N. E. 109, Judge Danforth, after observ-

ing that, as the facts were not disputed, there was no
occasion to present them to the jury, said 'the mere fact
that the plaintiff, who testified to important particulars,
was interested was unimportant in view of the fact that
there was no conflict in the evidence, or any thing or circumstance from which an inference against the fact
testified to by him could be drawn.'"
.In Hauss v. Lake Erie & W. R. Co., supra, a direction
of the trial judge to find for the defendant was sustained,
although the motion rested upon the testimony of the
conductor of the train. The court put aside the objection
that the witness was an employee of the defendant, and
had an interest to show that he had performed his duty
and a motive falsely to represent that he had done so,
saying (p. 735):
"The testimony of the witness was not contradicted by
that of any other witness, nor was it brought in question
by the cross-examination nor by the admitted facts of the
case; and, outside of the suggested interest and motive,
there is not a fact or circumstance in the case which tends
to raise a doubt as to the truth of his testimony."
And, at p. 736:
".. .nor do the facts and circumstances of the case
justify an impeaching presumption against the credibility
of the witness, founded upon his mere relation to the
parties and to the subject-matter of the controversy, which
should overcome the counter presumption that, as an uncontradicted witness, testifying under oath, he spoke the
truth."
In M. H. Thomas & Co. v. Hawthorne, supra, at p. 972,
the rule is thus stated:
"A jury cannot arbitrarily discredit a witness and disregard his testimony in the absence of any equivocation,
confusion, or aberration in it. It is not proper to submit
uncontradicted testimony to a jury for the sole purpose of

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

giving the jury an opportunity to nullify it by discrediting
the witness, when nothing more than mere interest in the
case exists upon which to discredit such witness. The
testimony must inherently contain some element of confusion or contrariety, or must be attended by some circumstance which would render a total disregard of it by a jury
reasonable rather than capricious, before a peremptory
instruction upon the evidence can be said to constitute an
invasion of the right of trial by jury. That it is proper
for a trial court to instruct a verdict upon the uncontradicted testimony of interested parties, when it is positive
and unequivocal and there is no circumstance disclosed
tending to discredit or impeach such testimony, can be
said to be a settled rule in Texas."
Second. The estoppel relied upon seems to be that since
petitioner negligently delivered the shipment to the Harwood warehouse, instead of to the Bowman warehouse,
and respondents made claim for the loss promptly after
discovering the negligent misdelivery, petitioner may not
be heard to complain that the claim was not made at an
earlier day. The court below said [143 S. E. 629, 630]:
"Whatever may be the decisions of the courts elsewhere, we are of the opinion that the doctrine laid down
in Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Rebman &c., 120 Va. 71,
should be adhered to," and then quoted from that case the
following:
"'If it be conceded that plaintiffs were under obligation to give notice of their demand under the circumstances of this anomalous transaction, the evidence shows
that such notice was given without delay as soon as the
negligence of the defendant which occasioned the loss was
discovered.'"
But the vice of this position is that, in following its own
prior decision, the court ignored the decision of this court
to the contrary. This lawfully it could not do, the ques-

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. v. MARTIN.
209

221

Opinion of the Court.

tion, as we have shown, being a federal question to be determined by the application of federal law. The determination by this court of that question is binding upon the
state courts and must be followed, any state law, decision,
or rule to the contrary notwithstanding. And it was distinctly held by this court in Georgia, Fla. & Ala. Ry. v.
Blish Co., supra (p. 197), that the parties to a contract of
interstate shipment by rail, made pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act, could not waive its terms; " nor
could the carrier by its conduct give the shipper the right
to ignore these terms which were applicable to that conduct and hold the carrier to a different responsibility from
that fixed by the agreement made under the published
tariffs and regulations. A different view would antagonize
the plain policy of the Act and open the door to the very
abuses at which the Act was aimed." The provision of
the bill of lading involved there was identical with that
here under consideration; and there, as here, the delivery
was to another in violation of instructions. The Blish
Company insisted that the phrase "failure to make delivery" did not cover a case of misdelivery, but this court
said (p. 195):
"The clause with respect to the notice of clains-upon
which the plaintiff in error relies in its second contention-specifically covers 'failure to make delivery.' It is
said that this is not to be deemed to include a case where
there was not only failure to deliver to the consignee but
actual delivery to another or delivery in violation of instructions. But 'delivery' must mean delivery as required by the contract, and the terms of the stipulation
are comprehensive,-fully adequate in their literal and
natural meaning to cover all cases where the delivery has
not been made as required. When the goods have been
misdelivered there is as clearly a 'failure to make delivery' as when the goods have been lost or destroyed;
and it is quite as competent in the one case as in the other

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

for the parties to agree upon reasonable notice of the claim
as a condition of liability."
Other state courts have correctly interpreted the decision of this court in that case as applying to a situation
like the one here presented, and have followed it, although
in some instances their prior decisions had been to the contrary. See, among others, Bronstein v. Payne, 138 Md.
116, 120; 113 Atl. 648; Metz Co. v. Boston & Maine R.
Co., 227 Mass. 307; 116 N. E. 475. Indeed, the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia itself, in Davis v. Rodgers,
139 Va. 618, 625; 124 S.E. 408, seems to have taken the
same view.
It is held by this court that the shipper may not invoke
the doctrine of estoppel against the right to collect the
legal rate, because to do so would be to avoid the requirement of the law as to equal rates. Pittsburgh, C., C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577, 582; Louisville &
N. R. Co. v. Central Iron Co., 265 U. S.59, 65, and cases
cited. These decisions lend support to our conclusion in
respect of the matter here. Whether under any circumstances the shipper may rely upon that doctrine in avoidance of the time limitation clause of the bill of lading, we
need not now determine. But the Blish Company case
makes clear that the fact that delivery was made contrary
to instructions, due to the misunderstanding or negligence
of the carrier, cannot successfully be set up as an estoppel
against the claim of a failure to comply with the requirement of the bill of lading here involved. To allow it
would be to alter the terms of a contract, made in pursuance of the Interstate Commerce Act and having, in
effect, the quality of a statute of limitation, and thus to
open the door for evasions of the spirit and purpose of the
act to prevent preferences and discrimination in respect
of rates and service. Compare A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. S.662, 667.
Judgment reversed.

