OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

have found her guilty of violating the first clause of the
section, that the district court of appeal did not decide or
consider whether conviction under that clause was or could
lawfully be had, and that the validity of the first clause
was discussed in the concurring opinion only upon the
question whether, if that part of the section were unconstitutional, the other parts must also fail.
4. It seems to me that on this record the Court is not
called on to decide whether the mere display of a flag as
the emblem of a purpose, whatever its sort, is speech within the meaning of the constitutional protection of speech
and press or to decide whether such freedom is a part of
the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment or
whether the anarchy that is certain to follow a successful
(opposition to organized government " is not a sufficient
reason to hold that all activities to that end are outside the
"liberty" so protected. Cf. PrudentialIns. Co. v. Cheek,
259 U. S. 530. Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666.
Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357. Fiske v. Kansas,
274 U. S. 380.
I am of opinion that the judgment below should be
affirmed.
GRANITEVILLE MANUFACTURING CO. v. QUERY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 596. Argued April 27, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
1. A State may constitutionally lay a stamp tax in respect of the
making of promissory notes within her borders. So held where
the notes were made by a domestic corporation and sent to payee
banks in other States under an arrangement whereby notes, when
received and accepted, were to be placed to the maker's credit, the
maker being at liberty, however, to withdraw and revoke any note
until it had been so received and credited by the payee. P. 379.

GRANITEVILLE MFG. CO. v. QUERY.
376

377

Opinion of the Court.

2. Such a tax is an excise, levied in relation to an action done within
the State; it is not a tax on property, nor upon the transfer of
property, situate beyond the State's jurisdiction. P. 379.
44 F. (2d) 64, affirmed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court of three
judges refusing an interlocutory injunction to restrain the

collection of certain stamp taxes in South Carolina.
Mr. P. F. Henderson for appellant.
Messrs. John M. Daniel, Attorney General of South
Carolina, and J. Fraser Lyon were on the brief for

appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The Graniteville Manufacturing Company,
a corporation of South Carolina, brought this suit in the District
Court of the United States to restrain the collection of
certain stamp taxes imposed upon its promissory notes
under Act 574, p. 1089, of the Acts of 1928 of that State.1
1The

statute is as follows: "Section 1. That on and after the
passage of this Act, there shall be levied, collected and paid, for and
in respect of the several bonds, debentures or certificates of stock
and indebtedness, and other documents, instruments, matters, and
things mentioned and described in Schedule A of this Act, or for or
in respect of the vellum,, parchment, or paper upon which such instrument, matters of things, or any of them, are written or printed,
by any person who makes, signs, issues, sells, removes, consigns or
ships the same or for whose benefit or use the same are made, signed,
issued, sold, removed, consigned, or shipped, the several taxes specified
in such schedule.
"ScHEDULE A.
"4. Promissory notes, except bank notes issued for circulation and
executory contracts for the payment of money which are executed
or carried out in an instrument of writing to which documentary

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

A motion for an interlocutory injunction was heard by
three judges, as required by ยง 266 of the Judicial Code
(U. S. C., Title 28, ยง 380). Holding that the plaintiff
had no adequate remedy at law, the court granted an
injunction with respect to notes made outside the State
but denied relief as to notes which were signed within
the State. 44 F. (2d) 64.
There is no controversy as to the facts, which were
stipulated and found by the court substantially as follows:
"These notes were executed at various times from July
24, 1923, to March 12, 1930. The notes were all payable
to banks, at their banking houses, respectively, outside
of South Carolina, none of them being located or doing
any business within that State. The custom and practice
between the plaintiff and each of the banks was that
in each instance, at the office of the bank, a line of credit
was first established; that is, an agreement was made that
the plaintiff's borrowing from the bank should never exceed
a certain amount, each specific loan to be made thereafter
being subject to acceptance by the bank. When a loan
was desired, the bank having been notified that a loan
would be desired at a certain date and an inquiry having
been made of it as to the then existing discount rate, the
note would be signed by the president or other executive
officer of the plaintiff, and forwarded to the bank by mail.
The note was subject to withdrawal and revocation by the
plaintiff until it was actually received and accepted by
the bank and the proceeds actually placed to the credit of
the plaintiff in the bank. . . . Payment of the note
stamps are affixed; nonnegotiable notes; written obligations to pay
money, except as may herein otherwise be provided for; assignment
of salaries, wages or- other compensation; and for each renewal of
same, for a sum not exceeding One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars, four
(4) cents; and for each additional One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars,
or fractional part thereof, four (4) cents."

GRANITEVILLE MFG. CO. v. QUERY.
376

379

Opinion of the Court.

was made to the bank at its banking house by the plaintiff sending checks from its office at Graniteville upon
other banks; and when the note was paid, it was marked
paid, or canceled, and returned to the plaintiff at Graniteville, S. C., and there kept.
"The foregoing facts apply to all of the notes; but with
reference to the place where the notes were signed, they
may be divided into two classes. Prior to December 1,
1924, the plaintiff's executive officers resided in Augusta,
Ga., and all of its notes, up to that time, were signed by
its executive officers in Augusta, Ga., and mailed from
there to banks outside of South Carolina, and those notes
were never in the State of South Carolina until after they
were paid and returned to the plaintiff at its office at
Graniteville, S. C. But after December 1, 1924, plaintiff's executive officers resided at Graniteville, S. C., and
the notes executed subsequent to that time were signed
by those officers at Graniteville, S. C., placed in the mail
there for delivery to the bank outside of South Carolina,
and upon payment, were later returned to the plaintiff
at Graniteville, S. C."
It is only as to the latter class of notes which were
signed in South Carolina that the District Court upheld
the tax. The tax as thus sustained is an excise tax, of a
familiar sort, levied with respect to the creation of instruments within the State. So laid, the tax was not imposed
upon property, or upon the transfer of property, situated
beyond the jurisdiction of the State as was found to be the
case in Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199
U. S. 194; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; Farmers
Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204; Baldwin
v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586; Beidler v. South Carolina Tax
Commission, 282 U. S. 1. It is simply a tax levied in
relation to an act done within the State in making an
instrument. New York ex rel. Hatch v. Reardon, 204

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
283 U.S.

Syllabus.

U. S.'152; Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U. S. 285. See, also,
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 519. We see no reason to
doubt the validity of the tax as thus enforced.
Order affirmed.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA
ET AL.

LOS ANGELES & SALT LAKE RAILROAD CO. v.
SAME.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.

ET AL.

V. SAME.

APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 470, 471, 472.

Argued April 23, 24, 1931.-Decided May 18,
1931.

1. The power of a State to compel interstate carriers to construct a
union passenger station in a city is not superseded by the Interstate Commerce Act, except that the approval of the Interstate

Commerce Commission must first be obtained, and its certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued, with respect to rearrangement, extension and abandonment of tracks, and the use of the
terminal facilities, involved in the proposed plan. P. 390.
2. An Act of Congress regulating a subject of interstate commerce to a
limited extent is not to be taken as impliedly superseding state authority over matters not covered by it unless, fairly interpreted, it
is in conflict with the state regulation. P. 392.
3. The power of the Commission to issue a certificate authorizing construction, acquisition, extension and abandonment of railroads
(Interstate Commerce Act, ยง 1, pars. 18-21), may be invoked not
only by carriers but also by a State seeking to require carriers to
construct a union passenger station terminal involving readjustments of trackage. P. 393.
4. An order of a state commission requiring railroads to construct a
union passenger station in a large city, at large expense, held not
repugnant to the due process or the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, in view of the full hearings given by the
state and federal commissions and facts showing the inadequacy

