332

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

these cases are contrary to the decisions of this Court and
to the great weight of federal authority.
The question is answered "No."

STATE-PLANTERS BANK & TRUST CO.
PARKER

ET AL.,

ET AL. V.

TRUSTEES IN BANKRUPTCY.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 166. Argued March 4, 1931.-Decided April 20, 1931.
Certified questions will not be answered if unnecessarily general, nor
where the certificate does not contain a sufficient statement of the
facts upon which the propositions of law arise and suggests the
existence of facts which might require a different answer from that
which would be given were they absent. P. 334.
CERTIFICATE

of questions arising upon an appeal from

an order of the District Court in bankruptcy.
Messrs. Percy S. Stephenson and Littleton M. Wickham, with whom Messrs. J. Jordan Leake and A. S.
Buford, Jr., were on the brief, for State-Planters Bank &
Trust Co. et al.
Mr. John W. Oast, Jr., with whom Mr. Leon T. SeawelU
was on the brief, for Parker et al.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The facts stated in the certificate follow.
July 1, 1925, Edwards-Slaughter Co., Inc., executed a
deed of trust to State-Planters Bank and Trust Company
to secure $60,000 in bonds, the payment of which was
guaranteed by First National Company. It also executed
and delivered to the bank its promissory note in the sum
of $20,000, secured by a preferred maritime mortgage on

STATE-PLANTERS BANK v. PARKER.
332

Opinion of the Court.

one of its vessels, to be held under the terms of the trust
instrument as security for the bonds. In accordance with
article ten of the deed, which required that, so long as
any of the bonds should be outstanding, the bankrupt
should carry fire and marine insurance on its steamers, endorsed to the trustee, policies upon the vessel in the
amount of $60,000, payable to the bankrupt and to the
bank as trustee, were duly delivered to the latter. Subsequently, when these policies were about to lapse for nonpayment of premiums, the bank paid the same and
renewed the policies with funds furnished to it upon
demand by the guarantor.
The steamship was destroyed by fire on September 18,
1927, and the net sum of $58,256.67 was collected on the
policies. A controversy arose as to whether the whole
fund or only $20,000 thereof was applicable to the bonds
secured by the deed of trust, the bank contending that it
was entitled to apply the entire amount to this purpose,
because of a provision of the deed to the effect that all
proceeds of insurance should be treated in the same manner as those from a sale by foreclosure and should be
applied in payment of bonds. For the purpose of determining this dispute the bank filed its bill in the state
court, against the bankrupt and others, in which it alleged that the holders of the bonds and coupons were
entitled to the entire proceeds of the policies, but that, as
certain claims had been asserted thereagainst by others
than the bond and coupon holders, it desired to have the
guidance and protection of the court, and therefore requested it to supervise the distribution of the fund. The
bankrupt and the guarantor filed answers alleging that
the whole of the insurance moneys should be applied to
the payment of the bonds and coupons, and praying that
they be so used.
The suit was instituted February 8, 1928, and on May
24 was referred to a master in chancery, who filed his re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

port on September 29. Prior thereto, on August 8, Edwards-Slaughter Co., Inc., had been adjudged a bankrupt.
Upon the filing of the master's report the district judge
issued a rule against the bank and its attorneys, Leake
and Buford, to show cause why they should not be enjoined from further prosecuting the suit in the state court.
This rule was made absolute, and an order was entered
directing the bank to pay the fund in its hands into the
bankruptcy court. From this order the bank and its
attorneys appealed. Pursuant to the order the fund was
paid over to the trustees and is now held by them.
First National Company, not having been made a party
to the rule, filed its petition challenging the jurisdiction
of the court to interfere with the state court proceedings,
or summarily to require an adverse claimant of the fund
in controversy to pay the same into court, and praying
that the injunction and order be set aside and the money
returned to the bank. Upon objection by the trustees in
bankruptcy the court declined to permit the guarantor to
intervene or file its petition, and it also has appealed.
Three questions are certified. The first is:
"1. Where a trustee under a mortgage, having in its
possession a fund which it claims to be subject to the mortgage, institutes a suit in a state court of chancery asking
the court to declare the rights of the parties in the fund
and supervise the distribution thereof, and makes parties
thereto and obtains service upon all persons claiming an
interest in the fund, who file answers praying action on
the part of the court, does the state court acquire such
jurisdiction of the res as gives it exclusive jurisdiction to
determine the rights of the parties in the fund and order
the distribution thereof?"
This need not be answered. It is unnecessarily general, and has no reference to any conflict between the
jurisdiction of a court of bankruptcy and a state court.
See White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371, and cases cited.

STATE-PLANTERS BANK v. PARKER.
332

Opinion of the Court.

The second and third questions may be considered together. They are:
"2. Where a state court has acquired jurisdiction of the
res in a suit instituted by a trustee to have the rights of
claimants declared in a trust fund and to have such fund
distributed under direction of the court, does the bankruptcy of one of the claimants of the fund occurring more
than four months after the institution of the suit in the
state court oust the state court of jurisdiction and vest
exclusive jurisdiction in the bankruptcy court to determine
the rights of the parties in the fund?
"3. Where a fund claimed by a trustee in bankruptcy
is held by a trustee under a mortgage executed by the
bankrupt under a bona fide and substantial claim that it
should be applied on bonds secured by the mortgage, has
the court of bankruptcy the power to order its transfer to
the trustee in bankruptcy in a summary proceeding?"
These constitute but one question. The facts stated do
not involve the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to institute a plenary suit against an adverse claimant, or to be
substituted for the bankrupt in a pending proceeding.
The only question is as to the power to proceed summarily
in disregard of an existing action in a state court having
jurisdiction.
We do not answer these questions because the certificate
does not contain a sufficient statement of the facts upon
which the propositions of law arise (Cincinnati,H. & D.
R. Co. v. McKeen, 149 U. S. 259; United States v. City
Bank, 19 How. 385; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60) and
suggests the existence of facts which might require a
different answer from that which would be given were
they absent. See White v. Johnson, supra.
Without expressing an opinion upon their legal effect,
we note the following matters:
The other claims which were made against the fund in
the hands of the mortgage trustee are not defined; if they

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

were claims of liens, the nature, the dates of creation, and
the possible priorities of such liens are not stated. How
the bankruptcy of the debtor might affect them cannot
be determined. It does not appear whether the owners
of these claims were made parties to the proceeding from
which the appeal was taken, or whether they had notice
of it.
We are told that the bankrupt answered in the state
court action and prayed that the fund be applied in payment of bonds and coupons, but the date when this
occurred is not given.
It is not clear whether the only que3tion before the
state court was one of law, namely, the construction of a
clause of the deed of trust, or whether there were other
questions of law or fact involved. It is disclosed that the
guarantor of the bonds, although a defendant in the state
court, was not made a party in the bankruptcy proceeding,
was refused a hearing therein, and is one of the appellants.
Inasmuch as the summary jurisdiction of the district
court is challenged, any of these features of the case may
have an important bearing upon a correct decision. To
answer the questions as framed would, in view of what is
omitted from them, though brought to our notice by the
statement of facts, lead rather to misunderstanding and
confusion than to the clarification of applicable rules of
law.
The certificate willbe
Dismissed.
NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK
No. 16, original.

ET

AL.

Argued April 13, 14, 15, 1931.-Decided May 4,
1931.

The State of New Jersey sued the State of New York and the City

of New York to enjoin them from diverting water from nonnavigable tributaries of the Delaware for the purpose of increasing

