TWIN CITY CO. v. HARDING GLASS CO.

353

Syllabus.

TWIN CITY PIPE LINE CO. ET
GLASS CO.

AL.

v. HARDING

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 330.

Argued March 17, 18, 1931.-Decided May 4, 1931.

1. The principle that contracts in contravention of public policy
are not enforceable should be applied with caution and only in
cases plainly within the reasons on which that doctrine rests.
P. 356.
2. It is only because of the dominant public interest that one who
has had the benefit of performance by the other party will be
permitted to avoid his own promise. Id.
3. In determining whether a contract contravenes the public policy
of Arkansas, the constitution, laws and judicial decisions of that
State, and the principles of the common law, are to be considered.
P. 357.
4. Public utilities may enter into reasonable arrangements with their
customers when warranted by special circumstances. P. 358.
5. In settlement of litigation involving a pipe line company, which
supplied gas to domestic and industrial consumers in Arkansas,
and one of its customers,-a manufacturing concern which consumed much gas at its plant,--it was agreed that the pipe line
company, although it had been adjudged not bound to do so,
would build an additional service line to the manufacturer's plant
and that the manufacturer would take all its requirements of gas
from the pipe line company, so long as that company could
adequately supply them, and would pay the rates then in effect
or thereafter fixed by public authority, and that, in the event of a
shortage of gas, so that there was not enough to supply adequately
the domestic consumers, the pipe line company might discontinup
serving the manufacturer, upon condition that the same character
of service be given to it as was given to other industries. The
pipe line company performed the agreement on its part, but the
manufacturer, after several years, sought to repudiate it as contrary to public policy, having provided other means for obtaining
gas. Held:
That, as the contract was upon adequate consideration and was
not arbitrary or unfair, and was not shown to have any tendency
80705.-81-

28

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

to injure the public, it was enforceable according to its terms.
Pp. 355, 357.
39 F. (2d) 408, reversed.
CERTIoRARI, 282 U. S. 825, to review a decision which
reversed a decree of the District Court for the specific
performance of a contract.
Mr. Harry P. Daily, with whom Mr. John P. Woods
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Joseph R. Brown and James B. McDonough
for respondent.
Mr. JUSTIcE BUTER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Twin City Pipe Line Company is a public utility.
The Industrial Oil & Gas Company is a producer of natural gas in Arkansas. The majority of the stock of these
companies is owned by the same shareholders. The respondent operates a large glass factory at Fort Smith.
The pipe line company takes all the gas produced by the
oil company, transports it by pipe line from the fields to
Fort Smith and there furnishes it at prices fixed by public
authority to industrial consumers and to another utility,
the Fort Smith Light & Traction Company, which distributes it to domestic and commercial consumers.
Three suits, in which all the above-named companies
and one Hale were parties, were commenced in the latter
part of 1925. Two were brought by the pipe line company to recover for gas furnished to the glass company.
The other was a suit in equity in which the glass company
was plaintiff and the other companies and Hale were defendants. At that time gas for the operation of the glass
plant was being furnished from a main of the pipe line
company laid in a street on which the site of the plant
abuts. The plant was the largest consumer of gas in Fort

TWIN CITY CO. v. HARDING GLASS CO.
353

355

Opinion of the Court.

Smith and required a dependable supply of from a million
to a million and a half cubic feet per day. In its complaint the glass company alleged that the petitioners discriminated against it and failed to furnish an adequate
supply; it asserted that the pipe line company was bound
to construct a line about half a mile in length to connect
a main, used to deliver gas to the traction company, with
the glass plant and to drill additional gas wells to provide
an adequate supply. The traction company objected to
the proposed connection on the ground that the pressure
and supply of gas available for the service of its customers thereby would be impaired. The suits were consolidated and tried July 26, 1926, the court entered its decree
denying the glass company the relief sought in its suit,
giving to the pipe line company judgment against the glass
company for $17,155.46, to the latter judgment over
against Hale and to him judgment over against the oil
company for the same amount. The glass company and
the oil company appealed.
By written instrument dated August 30, 1926, the
parties settled all matters involved in the litigation. It
was agreed that all judgments be satisfied and canceled,
that all existing contracts between the parties be abrogated and that the appeals and suits be dismissed. The
pipe line company agreed to build the additional line for
the service of the glass company. The latter agreed to
take all its requirements of gas so long as the pipe line
company could adequately supply them and to pay the
rates then in effect or thereafter fixed by public authority.
The glass company agreed that in the event of a shortage
of gas so that there was not enough adequately to supply
domestic consumers the pipe line company might discontinue serving the glass company upon condition that the
same character of service be given to it that was given to
other industries.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

All the agreements, save that of the glass company to
continue to take its requirements of gas from the pipe line
company, have been fully performed. The cost of the
additional line constructed to serve the glass plant was
$4,489.92. The oil company brought in seven wells while
the suits were pending and twelve more after the contract
was made. The gas from these was made available to
the pipe line company for the service of its customers including the glass company. The latter took gas as agreed
until January 2, 1929. About that time a company controlled by it completed a pipe line from gas fields to the
glass plant. The glass company asserted that the contract was invalid because contrary to public policy and
began to take practically all the gas it needed from its
own subsidiary.
Petitioners brought this suit to enjoin the glass company from taking gas from anyone other than the pipe
line company and to require it specifically to perform
the contract. The district court entered its decree granting the relief prayed. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the case with directions to dismiss
the bill. 39 F. (2d) 408.
The question is whether the contract is unenforceable
because contrary to public policy of Arkansas.
The general rule is that competent persons shall have
the utmost liberty of contracting and that their agreements voluntarily and fairly made shall be held valid
and enforced in the courts. Printing Company v. Sampson, L. R. 19 Eq. 462, 465. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern Ry. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 505. The meaning of the
phrase "public policy" is vague and variable; courts
have not defined it and there is no fixed rule by which
to determine what contracts are repugnant to it. The
principle that contracts in contravention of public policy
are not enforceable should be applied with caution and
only in cases plainly within the reasons on which that

TWIN CITY CO. v. HARDING GLASS CO.
353

357

Opinion of the Court.

doctrine rests. It is only because of the dominant public
interest that one who, like respondent, has had the benefit
of performance by the other party will be permitted to
avoid his own promise. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U. S.
199, 205. B. & W. Taxi. Co. v. B. & Y. Taxi. Co., 276
U. S. 518, 528. Holman v. Johnson, 1 Cowp. 341, 343.
In determining whether the contract here in question
contravenes the public policy of Arkansas, the constitution, laws and judicial decisions of that State and as well
the applicable principles of the common law are to be considered. Primarily it is for the lawmakers to determine
the public policy of the State. Kellogg v. Larkin, 3 Pin.
(Wis.) 123, 136. Buck v. Walter, 115 Minn. 239, 244;
132 N. W. 205. McNamara v. Gargett, 68 Mich. 454,
460-461; 36 N. W. 218. People ex rel. Peabodyv. Chicago
Gas Trust Co., 130 Ill. 268, 294; 22 N. E. 798. The
constitution of Arkansas (Art II, § 19) declares: "Perpetuities and monopolies are contrary to the genius of a
republic, and shall not be allowed.. ." This provision
is a restraint upon the state legislature. Cap. F. Bourland Ice Co. v. Franklin Utilities Co., 180 Ark. 770; 22 S.
W. (2d) 993. No question of perpetuity is presented.
And it is not shown that this contract was made as a part
of a plan to create a monopoly or restrain trade or that it
infringes any statute or regulation made under the authority of the State. Cf. §§ 7368, 7373, Crawford & Moses
Digest.
We need not pause to determine whether the pipe line
company was bound by franchise, statute or regulation
to construct the additional pipe line demanded by the
glass company for the service of its plant. The court
decided against the glass company's claim. The settlement of that matter and the others in controversy constituted adequate consideration for the agreement to take
and pay for the gas in question. Mississippi River Logging Co. v. Robson, 69 Fed. 773. It may not be held

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

invalid in the absence of a clear showing that some definite public detriment will probably result from its performance. Steele v. Drummond, supra, 205. B. & W.
Taxi. Co. v. B. & Y. Taxi. Co., supra, 528. Kellogg v.
Larkin,supra, 136.
The contract was not arbitrarily or unfairly imposed
upon the glass company. It secured the exceptional
means of service which the court held the pipe line company was not bound to furnish. The contract left the
glass company free to obtain its supply elsewhere unless
the pipe line company's service was adequate and bound
the latter to rates-presumably just-fixed by public authority. Public utilities may enter into reasonable arrangements with their customers when warranted by special circumstances. Warmack v. Major Stave Co., 132
Ark. 173, 178; 200 S. W. 799. Hartford Ins. Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91, 99. Mann v. Pere
Marquette R. Co., 135 Mich. 210, 218; 97 N. W. 721.
It is not suggested that, when there is taken into account
the gas made available by the wells brought in after the
glass company's suit was commenced, the performance of
the contract by the pipe line company leaves it without
sufficient gas adequately to supply its other customers or
interferes with the proper discharge of any of its duties
as a public utility. The contract does not subject the
glass company to, or tend in any manner to impose upon
the public, any wrong, disadvantage or evil attributable
to monopoly or restraint of trade.
The glass company has failed to show that the contract
has any tendency to injure the public, and no reason appears why it should not be enforced according to its terms.
The decision of the district court is in principle strongly
supported by the supreme court of Arkansas in Ft. Smith
Light & Traction Co. v. Kelley, 94 Ark. 461; 127 S. W.
975. And see Kimbro v. Wells, 112 Ark. 126, 130; 165

STROMBERG v. CALIFORNIA.
353

350

Syllabus.

S. W. 645. Warmack v. Major Stave Co., supra. Griffin
v. Oklahoma NaturalGas Corp., 37 F. (2d) 545.
Decree reversed.

STROMBERG v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA, FOURTH APPELLATE DISTRICT.

No. 584.

Argued April 15, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

Appellant was charged under California Penal Code, § 403a, which
condemns displaying a red flag in a public place or in a meeting
place (a) "as a sign, symbol or emblem of opposition to organized
government " or (b) "as an invitation or stimulus to anarchistic
action" or (c) "as an aid to propaganda that is of a seditious
character." These three purposes, which are expressed disjunctively in the statute, were alleged conjunctively in the information.
On her general demurrer to the information, which was overruled,
she contended, as was permitted by the California practice, that the
statute was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. At the trial
the jury was instructed, following the express terms of the statute,
that the appellant should be convicted if the flag was displayed for
any of the three purposes. There was a general verdict of guilty.
The appellant accepted this instruction, in the state appellate
court, but insisted that, under the Fourteenth Amendment, the statute was invalid as being an unwarranted limitation on the right of
free speech. The appellate court entertained the contention and
decided adversely, expressing doubt of the validity of the statute
as related to the first of the three clauses defining purpose (" opposition to organized government,") but construing them as disjunctive
and separable, and upholding the statute as to the other two. Held:
1. That the objection of unconstitutionality, made in the court
below, went not only to the statute as a whole, but to each of the
three clauses separately. P. 365.
2. Inasmuch as the case was submitted to the jury as permitting
conviction under any or all of the three clauses, and, inasmuch as
it is impossible to determine from the general verdict upon which
of the clauses the conviction rested, it follows that, if any of the
clauses is invalid under the Constitution, the conviction cannot
be upheld. P. 367.

