KLEIN v. UNITED STATES.
230

Syllabus.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key and
A. H. Conner, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
Erwin N. Griswold, and Clarence M. Charest, General
Counsel, and Allin H. Pierce, Special Attorney, Bureau
of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter Lee Sheppard, with whom Mr. William C.
Alexander, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
William W. Porter was a subscriber in the sum of
$75,000 to the fund described in our opinion handed down
this day in Burnet v. Houston, ante, p. 223. The facts in
the present case are the same except that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue first approved the deduction
and allowed a claim for refund of the proportional part of
the tax, and then some time later reopened the case, disallowed the deduction and redetermined the tax. The
court of appeals sustained the power of the commissioner
upon the authority of McIlhenny v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 39 F. (2d) 356; and was clearly right in
doing so. That court, however, upon the main point, following its decision in the Houston case, reversed the determination of the Board of Tax Appeals in favor of the
government. 39 F. (2d) 360. This is contrary to our
decision in the Houston case, and upon that authority the
judgment is
Reversed.
KLEIN, FORMER ADMINISTRATRIX,
UNITED STATES.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 387.

Argued February 27, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. One of two habendum clauses in a deed conveyed a life estate, reserving the fee, and declaring that it should remain vested in the

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

grantor if the grantee died before him; by the other the grantee
was to take the fee in the event that she survived the grantor, and
in that case only. Held, a grant of a life estate and contingent remainder. P. 233.
2. The estate transfer tax of Revenue Act of 1918, § 402 (c), is constitutionally applicable to a contingent remainder, become vested

by the death of the grantor, which was granted by a deed executed
before the effective date of that Act but while the Act of 1916,
§ 202, containing the same taxing provision, was in force. P. 234.
70 Ct. Cls. 151; 42 F. (2d) 596, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 828, to review a judgment rejecting a claim for refund of money collected as part of a federal estate tax.

Messrs. Benjamin B. Pettus and H. H. Shinnick, with
whom Edward Clifford was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. Fred K. Dyar, Bradley B.
Gilman, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners are the sole surviving heirs of Solomon
Klein and distributees of his estate. He died intestate,
leaving among other property, two parcels of land in Cook
County, Illinois, which, some fifteen months prior to his
death, he had conveyed to his wife, Etta M. Klein, by
deed, the habendum clauses of which are as follows:
"First. To have and to hold the said lands unto the
said grantee for and during the term of her natural life,
and if she shall die prior to the decease of said grantor then
and in that event she shall by virtue hereof take no greater
or other estate in said lands and the reversion -in fee in and
to the same shall in that event remain vested in said
grantor, his heirs, and assigns, such reversion being

KLEIN v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

hereby reserved to said grantor and excepted from this
conveyance.
"Second. Upon condition and in the event that said
grantee shall survive the said grantor, then and in that
case only the said grantee shall by virtue of this conveyance take, have, and hold the said lands in fee sirhple,
unto the sole use of herself, her heirs, and assigns forever."
In auditing the estate tax return of the administratrix,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue included in the
gross estate the value of these two parcels of land, after
deducting therefrom the value of the life estate; and the
tax thereto attributable was assessed against the estate.
This was paid, and a claim for refund was rejected.
Thereupon, petitioners sued in the Court of Claims to
recover the amount. That court rendered judgment
against petitioners. 42 F. (2d) 596.
The case turns upon the meaning and application of
§ 402 of the Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057,
1097, which provides that the value of the gross estate of
the decedent shall be determined by including the value
at the time of his death of all property, etc."(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which the
decedent has at any time made a transfer, or with respect
to which he has at any time created a trust, . . .intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after
his death . . ."

The two clauses of the deed are quite distinct-the first
conveys a life estate; the second deals with the remainder.
The life estate is granted with an express reservation of
the fee, which is to "remain vested in said grantor" in the
event that the grantee "shall die prior to the decease of
said grantor." By the second clause the grantee takes the
fee in the event-" and in that case only "-that she shall
survive the grantor. It follows that only a life estate immediately was vested. The remainder was retained by the
grantor; and whether that ever would become vested in

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the grantee depended upon the condition precedent that
the death of the grantor happen before that of the grantee.
The grant of the remainder, therefore, was contingent.
See 2 Washburn, Real Property (4th ed.), pp. 547-548,
559, par. 1. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, the state where the deed was made and the property
lies, support this conclusion. Haward v. Peavey, 128 Ill.
430, 439; 21 N. E. 503; Baley v. Strahan, 314 Ill. 213,
217; 145 N. E. 359.
It is said that we must consider the deed as a whole;
that since there is nothing in the granting clause to indicate the nature of the estate granted we must go to the
habendum to determine that question; that the habendum
consists of two clauses, one conveying a life estate, and the
other the fee; and that "the greater estate or fee naturally swallows up the lesser or life estate when created
by the same instrument." The principle invoked, however, does not help the petitioners, for certainly here the
estates were not merged during the life of the grantor;
and the deed evinces the clear intention of the grantor
that they should not be. Nothing is to be gained by multiplying words in respect of the various niceties of the art
of conveyancing or the law of contingent and vested remainders. It is perfectly plain that the death of the
grantor was the indispensable and intended event which
brought the larger estate into being for the grantee and
effected its transmission from the dead to the living, thus
satisfying the terms of the taxing act and justifying the
tax imposed. Compare Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S.
497.
The provision of the Revenue Act of 1918, so far as it
seeks to tax the transfer in question, is assailed as unconstitutional because, it is said, the transfer was complete
and irrevocable before the act was passed. In support of
this view Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S.531, and similar
decisions of this court are cited. But the deed under

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
231

235

Syllabus.

review, while made before the enactment of the Revenue
Act of 1918, was made after the Act of 1916, c. 463, 39
Stat. 756, 777, which, with an addition not pertinent here,
contained (§ 202) exactly the same provision; and the
contention, for that reason, other grounds aside, is without merit. Milliken v. United States, ante, p. 15, where
the cases relied upon by petitioners are distinguished.
Judgment affirmed.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY (INDIANA) v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 384. Argued March 20, 1931.--Decided April 13, 1931.
1. The jurisdiction of the District Court "to enjoin, set aside, annul,
or suspend in whole or in part" orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, U. S. C., Title 28, § 41 (27) (28), does not extend to
orders purely negative in character, such as an order dismissing a
shipper's claim for damages based on alleged overcharges by carriers. P. 238.
2. A determination by the Commission of the rate applicable to past
shipments, which involved not merely the legal construction of the
words of a rate tariff, but consideration of matters of fact, expert
knowledge of technical meaning of words and a correct appreciation
of a variety of incidents affecting their use, is not reviewable by the
courts if within the constitutional and statutory powers of the
Commission and not arbitrary or unsupported by evidence. P. 238.
3. Under § 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act, which provides that a
claim for damages against a carrier may be brought before the
Commission, or by action in any federal District Court of competent jurisdiction, but which denies the right to pursue both remedies and requires an election, a District Court has no jurisdiction of
a suit which seeks to enforce a claim, which the Commission has rejected, by obtaining an annulment of its order followed by an adjudication of the merits of the claim and a direction that the Commission allow it and hold a further hearing, if necessary, to determine
the amount to be paid. P. 240.

