NASH-BREYER MOTOR CO. v. BURNET.
473

483

Syllabus.

dumping at places permitted by the supervisor immunity
from liability for damage or injury thereby caused to
others or to deprive one suffering injury by reason of such
dumping of relief that he otherwise would be entitled to
have. There is no reason why it should be given that
effect.
The Master's conclusions of law and recommendations
for a decree are approved.
A decree will be entered declaring that the plaintiff, the
State of New Jersey, is entitled to an injunction as prayed
in the complaint, but that before injunction shall issue a
reasonable time will be accorded to the defendant, the
City of New York, within which to carry into effect its
proposed plan for the erection and operation of incinerators to destroy the materials such as are now being
dumped by it at sea or to provide other means to be
approved by the decree for the disposal of such materials.
And, in as much as the evidence does not disclose what is
such reasonable time the case is referred to the same
Special Master for findings of fact upon that subject. He
is authorized .and directed to hear witnesses presented by
each of the parties, and, should he deem it necessary so
to do, to call witnesses of his own selection and then with
all convenient speed to report to the Court his findings
and a form of decree.
It is so ordered.
NASH-BREYER MOTOR CO., FORMERLY TROY
MOTOR SALES CO., v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 549.

Argued April 29, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The proper venue for review by a Circuit Court of Appeals of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, where the taxpayer is a cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

poration having a principal office in a State where is situate the
office of the Collector to whom it made its return, is the circuit in
which that State is included. Revenue Act 1926, § 1002 (b).
P. 487.
2. In such case § 1002 (d) gives the Commissioner and the taxpayer
the right by stipulation to choose between the Circuit Court of Appeals designated by § 1002 (b) and the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, but not to choose a different Circuit Court of
Appeals. Id.
42 F. (2d) 192, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 835, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing a petition to review a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals.

Messrs. Theodore B. Benson and Arthur H. Deibert,
with whom Messrs. M. F. Mitchell and George G. Witter
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,
J. Louis Monarch, and Morton K. Rothschild, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, and Whitney North
Seymour were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, a Delaware corporation having its principal
office in California, filed federal income and profits tax
returns for its fiscal years 1920 and 1921 with the Collector
of Internal Revenue for its district in that state. Following a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which upheld
respondent's determination of tax deficiencies against petitioner for both years, 14 B. T. A. 546, petitioner and
respondent entered into an agreement, stated to be pursuant to § 1002' of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 110,
I The Revenue Act of 1926 reads in part: "Sec. 1001.

(a) The

decision of the Board [of Tax Appeals] . . .may be reviewed by a

NASH-BREYER MOTOR CO. v. BURNET.
483

485

Opinion of the Court.

that the decision of the Board might be reviewed by the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The petition
for review in that court recited that the parties had so
agreed.
The Court of Appeals, of its own motion, dismissed the
petition for lack of jurisdiction, 42 F. (2d) 192, on the
authority of Massachusetts Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v.
Commissioner, 42 F. (2d) 189, in which it had held that
§ 1002 (d) permits the parties to choose only between the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and the
court of appeals for any circuit in which there is some
ground for saying that venue might lie under subdivisions
(a), (b) or (c). This Court granted certiorari, 282 U. S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia ....
VENUE

"Sec. 1002. Such decision may be reviewed"(a) In the case of an individual, by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the circuit whereof he is an inhabitant, or if not an inhabitant of
any circuit, then by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
"(b) In the case of a person (other than an individual), except
as provided in subdivision (c), by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the circuit in which is located the office of the collector to whom
such person made the return, or in case such person made no return,
then by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
"(c) In the case of a corporation which had no principal place of
business or principal office or agency in the United States, then by
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
"(d) In the case of an agreement between the Commissioner and
the taxpayer, then by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the circuit,
or the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, as stipulated
in such agreement.
JURISDICTION
"See. 1003. (a) The Circuit Courts of Appeals and the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction to review the decisions of the Board ......

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

835, the Government acquiescing because of the importance of the question and the conflict of the decision below
with one of the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
where, however, the point was neither discussed, Simmons Co. v. Commissioner, 33 F. (2d) 75, nor raised in
the petition for certiorari, which was denied. 280 U. S.
588.2
Petitioner contends that under (d) the parties may
stipulate for review in any circuit court of appeals. In
view of the rule of the statutes that venue of the federal courts generally turns upon the geographical location
of the parties and is never within their exclusive control,
it would require plain language in this statute to support an unlimited choice. But the words of (d)-"the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the circuit "-seem to refer,
not to the court of appeals for any circuit, but to some
particular circuit court of appeals previously described,
necessarily that one which could have entertained the
petition, under (a), (b) or (c), in the absence of an
agreement under (d). Only such a construction comports
with the statement of the House Committee on Ways
and Means, that the provisions now in § 1002 ".
prevent undue burden upon those circuits embracing
States in which a vast number of corporations are organized." House Reports, 69th Congress, 1st Session,
Vol. 1, Report No. 1, p. 19. An unlimited choice might
overburden a circuit court of appeals, whose docket was
2 The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has twice assumed
jurisdiction in cases like the present one, without discussion. Greylock Mills v. Commissioner, 31 F. (2d) 655; Fowler v. Commissioner,
42 F. (2d) 837. In the latter case, certiorari was denied, but review was not sought on the question of venue. 282 U. S. 898.
The only other case discussing the question accords with the present. Spring Canyon Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 38 F. (2d) 764
(C. C. A. 8th).

NASH-BREYER MOTOR CO. v. BURNET,
483

487

Opinion of the Court.

already overcrowded, with petitions for review with respect to which it could have had no venue under the
other subdivisions of § 1002.
The Senate Committee on Finance, in proposing the
addition of (d) to 1§1002, stated that the purpose was to
permit parties ". . . to stipulate the court to which the
review will be taken, in order that any doubt as to the
proper court may be removed . .. " Senate Reports,
.69th Congress, 1st Session, Vol. 1, Report No. 52, p. 36.
See also, to the same effect, the conference report in House
Reports, supra, Report No. 356, p. 54. Whatever solution (d) may afford for the difficulties in those cases when
doubts arise as to the proper circuit for review under (a),
(b), or (c), here petitioner had its principal office in
California and filed its return there, so that under (b)
the venue could properly be laid only in the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Hence the parties' right
of choice by stipulation under (d) was restricted to that
court or the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
Section 1003 (a) confers jurisdiction to review decisions
of the Board of Tax Appeals on circuit courts of appeals
and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
Section 1002 is entitled "Venue." Even if the effect of
this distinction is to define venue but not to restrict the
jurisdiction of the court below, it was not bound to exercise jurisdiction in the face of (d), which authorized the
parties to control the venue only by stipulation conforming to its terms. See Kansas City Ry. Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 760. The restriction on the power of
the parties to stipulate as to venue would be meaningless
if they could waive it without the consent of the court.
Affirmed.

