McBOYLE v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 192; Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264; LamAffirmed.
bert v. Yellowley, 272 U. S. 581.
McBOYLE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 552. Argued February 26, 27, 1931.-Decided March 9,1931.
The National Motor Vehicle Theft Act, U. S. C., Title 18, § 408,
which punishes whoever transports, or causes to be transported, in
interstate or foreign commerce a motor vehicle knowing it to have
been stolen, and which defines "motor vehicle" as including "an
automobile, automobile truck, automobile wagon, motor cycle, or
any other self-propelled vehicle not designed for running on rails,"
does not apply to aircraft. P. 26.
43 F. (2d) 273, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 835, to review a judgment affirming a conviction under the Motor Vehicle Theft Act.
Mr. Harry F. Brown for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher,
Assistant Attorney General Dodds and Messrs. Harry S.
Ridgely and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the
United States.

MR. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner was convicted of transporting from Ottawa, Illinois, to Guymon, Oklahoma, an airplane that he
knew to have been stolen, and was sentenced to serve three
years' imprisonment and to pay a fine of $2,000.

The

judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit. 43 F. (2d) 273. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court on the question whether

the National Motor Vehicle Theft Act applies to aircraft.

C'TUBVI

TER., 1930.

Opinion ot the Court.

2M U.S

Act of October 29, 1919, c. 89, 41 Stat. 324; U. S. Code.
Title 18, § 408. That Act provides: "See. 2. That when
used in this Act: (a) The term 'motor vehicle' shall
include an automobile, automobile truck, automobile
wagon, motor cycle, or any other self-propelled vehicle
not designed for running on rails; . .
See. 3. That
whoever shall transport or cause to be transported in
interstate or foreign commerce a motor vehicle, knowing
the same t6 have been stolen, shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $5,000, or by imprisonment of not more
than five years, or both."
Section 2 defines the motor vehicles of which the transportation in interstate commerce is punished in § 3.
The question is the meaning of the word 'vehicle' in the
phrase "any other self-propelled vehicle not designed for
running on rails." No doubt etymologically it is possible to use the word to signify a conveyance working on
land, water or air, and sometimes legislation extends the
use in that direction, e. g., land and air, water being separately provided for, in the Tariff Act, September 22,
1922, c. 356, § 401 (b), 42 Stat. 858, 948. But in everyday speech 'vehicle' calls up the picture of a thing moving on land. Thus in Rev. Stats. § 4, intended, the Government suggests, rather to enlarge than to restrict the
definition, vehicle includes every contrivance capable of
being used "as a means of transportation on land." And
this is repeated, expressly excluding aircraft, in the Tariff
Act, June 17, 1930, c. 997, § 401 (b); 46 Stat. 590, 708.
So here, the phrase under discussion calls up the popular
picture. For after including automobile truck, automobile wagon and motor cycle, the words "any other selfpropelled vehicle not designed for running on rails" still
indicate that a vehicle in the popular sense, that is a vehicle running on land, is the theme. It is a vehicle that
runs, not something, not commonly called a vehicle, that
flies. Airplanes were well known in 1919, when this statute was passed; but it is admitted that they were not
mentioned in the reports or in the debates in Congress.

CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CORP.
25

27

Syllabus.

It is impossible to read words that so carefully enumerate
the different forms of motor vehicles and have no reference of any kind to aircraft, as including airplanes under
a term that usage more and more precisely confines to a
different class. The counsel for the petitioner have
shown that the phraseology of the statute as to motor
vehicles follows that of earlier statutes of Connecticut,
Delaware, Ohio, Michigan and Missouri, not to mention
the late Regulations of Traffic for the District of Columbia, Title 6, c. 9, § 242, hone of which can be supposed to
leave the earth.
Although it is not likely that a criminal will carefully
consider the text of the law before he murders or steals, it
is reasonable that a fair warning should be given to the
world in language that the common world will understand,
of what the law intends to do if a certain line is passed.
To make the warning fair, so far as possible the line should
be clear. When a rule of conduct is laid down in words
that evoke in the common mind only the picture of vehicles moving on land, the statute should not be extended
to aircraft, simply because it may seem to us that a similar
policy applies, or upon the speculation that, if the legislature had thought of it, very likely broader words would
have been used. United States v. Thind, 261 U. S. 204,
209.
Judgment reversed.
CARBICE CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. AMERICAN PATENTS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 54.

FOR THE

Argued January 16, 19, 1931.-Decided March 9, 1931.

1. A patentee can not lawfully exact, as the condition of a license,
that unpatented materials used in connection with the invention
shall be purchased only from himself. P. 31.

