OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283 U.S.

as to the extent of the wrong inflicted upon his opponent.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BALDWIN v. IOWA STATE TRAVELING MEN'S
ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 445.

Argued April 22, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The full faith and credit clause, Constitution, Art. IV, ยง 1, does not
apply to the federal courts. P. 524.
2. No right to litigate the same question twice is guaranteed by the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
3. When a defendant in a federal court appears specially only for the
sole purpose of quashing service for want of jurisdiction over his
person, and is fully heard upon the question, and, upon the overruling of the objection, takes no further part in the case and seeks
no review, a judgment subsequently entered against him on the
merits is res judicata on the question of jurisdiction and is not subject to be collaterally attacked on that same ground when sued on
in another State. P. 524 et seq.
40 F. (2d) 357, reversed.

CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 827, to review a judgment affirm-

ing the dismissal of an action on a judgment.
Mr. Denton Dunn, with whom Messrs. C. W. Prince,
James N. Beery, and F. W. Lehmann, Jr., were on the

brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. M. Parsons, with whom Mr. Earl C. Mills was
on the brief, for respondent.
A special appearance to quash service will not warrant
judgment against the defendant if, in fact, the objections
to jurisdiction are good. Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read, 229
U. S. 31; Hitchman Coal & C. Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.

BALDWIN v. TRAVELING MEN'S ASSN. 523
522

Opinion of the Court.

229; Toledo Ry. & L. Co. v. Hill, 244 U. S. 49; York v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 15; Davis v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R.
Co., 217 U. S. 157; Bank of Jasper v. First Nat. Bank,
258 U. S. 112; Morris v. SkandinavianIns. Co., 279 U. S.
405.
Jurisdiction to render a judgment may always be questioned in a subsequent action on the judgment in another
State. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Goldey v. Morning News Co., 156
U. S. 518.
Presumption that a court rendering judgment has jurisdiction does not apply against a foreign corporation. St.
Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350.
AUt. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the Court.

A writ of certiorari was granted herein I to review the
affirmance by the Circuit Court of Appeals 2 of a judgment
for respondent rendered by the District Court for Southern Iowa. The action was upon the record of a judgment
rendered in favor of the petitioner against the respondent
in the United States District Court for Western Missouri.
The defense was lack of jurisdiction of the person of
the respondent in the court which entered the judgment.
After hearing, in which a jury was waived, this defense
was sustained and the action dismissed. The first suit
was begun in a Missouri state court and removed to the
District Court. Respondent appeared specially and
moved to quash and dismiss for want of service. The
court quashed the service, but refused to dismiss. An alias
summons was issued and returned served, whereupon it
again appeared specially, moved to set aside the service,
quash the return, and dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction of its person. After a hearing on affidavits and
1-282 U. S. 827.

240

F. (2d) 357.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

briefs, the motion was overruled, with leave to plead
within thirty days. No plea having been filed within that
period, the cause proceeded and judgment was entered for
the amount claimed. Respondent did not move to set
aside the judgment nor sue out a writ of error.
The ground of the motion made in the first suit is the
same as that relied on as a defense to this one, namely,
that the respondent is an Iowa corporation, that it never
was present in Missouri, and that the person served with
process in the latter State was not such an agent that service on him constituted a service on the corporation. The
petitioner objected to proof of these matters, asserting
that the defense constituted a collateral attack and a
retrial of an issue settled in the first suit. The overruling
of this objection and the resulting judgment for respondent are assigned as error.
The petitioner suggests that Article IV, Section 1 of the
Constitution forbade the retrial of the question determined on respondent's motion in the Missouri District
Court; but the full faith and credit required by that
clause is not involved, since neither of the courts concerned was a state court. (Compare Cooper v. Newell,
173 U. S. 555, 567; Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythiasv.
Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 33). The respondent, on the other
hand, insists that to deprive it of the defense which it
made in the court below, of lack of jurisdiction over it by
the Missouri District Court, would be to deny the due
process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment; but
there is involved in that doctrine no right to litigate the
same question twice (Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244
U. S. 25; compare York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15).
The substantial matter for determination is whether
the judgment amounts to res judicata on the question of
the jurisdiction of the court which rendered it over the
person of the respondent. It is of no moment that the

BALDWIN v. TRAVELING MEN'S ASSN.
522

525

Opinion of the Court.

appearance was a special one expressly saving any submission to such jurisdiction. That fact would be important upon appeal from the judgment, and would save
the question of the propriety of the court's decision on
the matter even though after the motion had been overruled the respondent had proceeded, subject to a reserved
objection and exception, to a trial on the merits. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Goldey v. Morning News, 156
U. S. 518; Toledo Rys. & Lt. Co. v. Hill, 244 U. S. 49;
Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229;
Morris& Co. v. SkandinaviaIns. Co., 279 U. S. 405. The
special appearance gives point to the fact that the respondent entered the Missouri court for the very purpose
of litigating the question of jurisdiction over its person.
It had the election not to appear at all. If, in the absence of appearance, the court had proceeded to judgment
and the present suit had been brought thereon, respondent could have raised and tried out the issue in the present action, because it would never have had its day in
court with respect to jurisdiction. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Hart
v. Sansom, 110 U. S. 151; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S.
141; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225 U. S. 111;
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90. It had also the right
to appeal from the decision of the Missouri District Court,
as is shown by Harkness v. Hyde, supra, and the other
authorities cited. It elected to follow neither of those
courses, but, after having been defeated upon full hearing in its contention as to jurisdiction, it took no further
steps, and the judgment in question resulted.
Public policy dictates that there be an end of litigation;
that those who have contested an issue shall be bound by
the result of the contest, and that matters once tried shall
be considered forever settled as between the parties. We
see no reason why this doctrine should not apply in every

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

case where one voluntarily appears, presents his case and
is fully heard, and why he should not, in the absence of
fraud, be thereafter concluded by the judgment of the
tribunal to which he has submitted his cause.
While this Court has never been called upon to determine the specific question here raised, several federal
courts have held the judgment res judicata in like circumstances. Phelps v. Mutual Life Assn., 112 Fed. 453;
affirmed on other grounds,. 190 U. S. 147; Moch v. Insurance Co., 10 Fed. 696; Thomas v. Virden, 160 Fed. 418;
Chinn v. Foster-MilburnCo., 195 Fed. 158. And we are
in accord with this view.
Respondent relies upon National Exchange Bank v.
Wiley, 195 U. S. 257, but it is not in point; for there it
was shown, not that the defendant in the judgment of
the Ohio state court on which suit was brought had appeared and contested jurisdiction, but that an attorney
without right or authority had assumed to appear and
confess judgment on its behalf.
Bank of Jasper v. First National Bank, 258 U. S. 112,
cited by respondent, involved a wholly different question
from that here presented. There a suit in equity was
brought in a state court against both resident and nonresident defendants. Pursuant to state law constructive
service upon the nonresidents was made by publication.
One of them, a Georgia bank, appeared specially and
moved to quash the service. Its motion was overruled,
and on appeal the supreme court of the State affirmed,
holding that the purpose of the statute authorizing constructive service by publication was merely to notify nonresidents of the pending suit so that they might, if they
cared to do so, come into the case. It held that there
was no right to quash the notice, but that the nonresident
had its full right to object should the court thereafter
commit an error against it. This Court held that the
special appearance for the purpose of quashing the notice

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.

527

Syllabus.

522

of service did not amount to a general appearance. Subsequent proceedings in the state court, therefore, were
taken without the presence of the bank and were not
binding upon it unless the res to be affected was in Florida
and subject to the control of the state court. That point
was not litigated by the bank-it was not present. This
Court held there was not such res subject to the power of
the state court, and therefore its judgment was not binding upon those who were not actual parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
STATE BOARD OF TAX COMMISSIONERS
INDIANA v. JACKSON.

OF

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 183.

Argued March 5, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. Failure of the District Court to make findings of fact as now
required by Equity Rule 701/2 does not necessitate remanding a
case tried before the rule was adopted. P. 533.
2. In classifying businesses for taxation, the legislature is not confined to the value of the business taxed, but may have regard for
other elements. P. 536.
3. As applied to the fundamental state power of taxation, the equal
protection clause does not compel the adoption of an iron rule of
equal taxation, nor prevent variety or differences in taxation, or
discretion in the selection of subjects, or the classification for
taxation of properties, businesses, trades, callings, or occupations.
P. 537.
4. The fact that a statute discriminates in favor of a certain class
does not make it arbitrary, if the discrimination is founded upon a
reasonable distinction, or if any state of facts reasonably can be
conceived to sustain it. Id.
5. In determining the validity of a tax under the equal protection
clause, it is not for the court to consider the propriety or justice

