OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

were claims of liens, the nature, the dates of creation, and
the possible priorities of such liens are not stated. How
the bankruptcy of the debtor might affect them cannot
be determined. It does not appear whether the owners
of these claims were made parties to the proceeding from
which the appeal was taken, or whether they had notice
of it.
We are told that the bankrupt answered in the state
court action and prayed that the fund be applied in payment of bonds and coupons, but the date when this
occurred is not given.
It is not clear whether the only que3tion before the
state court was one of law, namely, the construction of a
clause of the deed of trust, or whether there were other
questions of law or fact involved. It is disclosed that the
guarantor of the bonds, although a defendant in the state
court, was not made a party in the bankruptcy proceeding,
was refused a hearing therein, and is one of the appellants.
Inasmuch as the summary jurisdiction of the district
court is challenged, any of these features of the case may
have an important bearing upon a correct decision. To
answer the questions as framed would, in view of what is
omitted from them, though brought to our notice by the
statement of facts, lead rather to misunderstanding and
confusion than to the clarification of applicable rules of
law.
The certificate willbe
Dismissed.
NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK
No. 16, original.

ET

AL.

Argued April 13, 14, 15, 1931.-Decided May 4,
1931.

The State of New Jersey sued the State of New York and the City

of New York to enjoin them from diverting water from nonnavigable tributaries of the Delaware for the purpose of increasing

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Syllabus.

the water supply of the City. Pennsylvania intervened to protect
her interest in the river. Held:
1. The case is not governed by a strict application of the
common law rules of private riparian rights, but by the principle
of equitable apportionment applicable between the States of the
Union. P. 342.
2. The mere fact that the proposed diversion is to another watershed is not a bar. P. 343.
3. The objection that the proposed diversion will interfere with
the navigability of the river is m6t, for the purposes of this case, by
proof that navigability Will not be impaired. P. 344.
4. The diversion, however, must remain subject to the paramount
authority of Congress, and the powers of the Secretary of War
and the Chief of Engineers of the Army, in respect of navigation
and navigable waters of the United States. Id.
5. Subject to qualifications mentioned infra, the proposed diversion is reasonably necessary to New York, and not arbitrary or
beyond the freedom of choice that must be left to that State.
Id.
6. The possibility that the diversion may limit development of
water power in New Jersey under future plans for damming the
river, which would need the consent of Congress and of New York
and Pennsylvania, is not such a showing of present interest as
entitles New Jersey to relief. P. 345.
7. The diversion from the tributaries of the amount proposed by
New York will not materially affect the sanitary condition of the
river, its industrial and agricultural uses, its use as a source of
municipal water supply, or its shad fisheries. Id.
8. But it is necessary that the diversion should be curtailed and
regulated, and be accompanied by sanitary treatment of sewage
entering the stream in New York, in order to prevent injury to
the use and reputation of the river for recreational purposes in
New Jersey, and in order to avoid an increase of salinity in the
lower river and in Delaware Bay which would injure the oyster
industry there. Id.
9. The diversion, as limited by the decree, shall not constitute a
prior appropriation or give the defendant State and City any
superiority of right over the other two States in the enjoyment and
use of the river and its tributaries. P. 347.
10. The prayers of Pennsyvlania for a present allocation of water
to it and for appointment of a river master, are denied without
prejudice. Id.
8Too-3-

722

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Plaintiff.

283 U.S.

11. The Court retains jurisdiction to make future orders and
modifications. P. 348.
HEARING on exceptions to the report of the Special
Master, in a suit by New Jersey to enjoin diversion of
water, in New York, from tributaries of the Delaware
River. The State of New York and the City of New
York were the defendants. Pennsylvania became a party
by intervention. See 280 U. S. 528, 533; post, p. 805.

Messrs. Duane E. Minard, Assistant Attorney General
of New Jersey, and James M. Beck, with whom Messrs.
William A. Stevens, Attorney General, and George S.
Hobart were on the brief, for plaintiff.
The common law rule of riparian rights is applicable to
this case for the following reasons:
(a) That rule is in effect in all three States and none
of them has passed any statute authorizing the proposed
diversion.
(b) The proposed diversion will cause substantial damage to the plaintiff and its citizens.
(c) The defendant city has suitable and adequate
sources of water supply within its natural watershed which
can be used without injury to the plaintiff and its
citizens.
There is no necessity for the proposed diversion; at
most it is merely a matter of convenience, which is insufficient to justify a diversion from a foreign watershed
in which other States have natural rights that would be
substantially damaged thereby.
The proposed diversion will substantially affect the
navigation in, and the navigable capacity of, the Delaware River and of the tributaries in question; and the
defendant city has not complied with the conditions precedent prescribed by Congress.
The proposed diversion will cause substantial damage to
the plaintiff and its citizens by impairing property rights

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Argument for Defendants.

that are dependent upon the existence of water power
appurtenant to their riparian lands.
The proposed diversion will cause substantial damage
to the plaintiff and its citizens by increasing the hardness of the water used and usable for industrial purposes, and thereby impair the present and future industrial development of the plaintiff's territory and depreciate the value of the lands of the plaintiff and its citizens.
It will cause substantial damage with respect to use
and value for recreation; to the oyster industry; to fish;
to agriculture; and from the standpoint of sanitation and
water supply.
If the defendant city be entitled to divert waters from
the tributaries in question, it should be required to do
so in the manner that will cause the least damage to
the plaintiff and its citizens.
The conclusion of the Special Master that substantial damage to the plaintiff and its citizens could be removed by reducing the volume of the diversion proposed
by New York and by modifying the plan of release from
impounding reservoirs during periods of low flow, was not
within the issues raised by the pleadings and is unsupported by any evidence.
The decree should be final.
Mr. Thomas Penney, Jr., Special Assistant -Attorney
General of New York, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett,
Jr., Attorney General, was on the brief, for the defendant
State of New York.
The doctrine of riparian rights does not apply.
The Master's limit on quantity of diversion unduly
restricts future needs. The question of taking in excess
of 600 m. g. d. is not before this Court.
The probable basis for the Master's reduction of the
proposed diversion from 600 m. g. d. to 440 m. g. d. was
present need rather than damages.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Argument for Intervener.

283 U.S.

The findings of damage by the Special Master were
not supported by competent evidence, nor the weight
thereof, nor of the magnitude required by this Court
before it will grant an injunction in a suit of this kind.
The operation of the plan would not produce any adverse effect upon any interest of plaintiff or its citizens.
Totaling diverse damages is an erroneous principle.
The decree should be final and not subject to modification.
Mr. Arthur J. W. Hilly, Corporation Counsel of the
City of New York, with whom Messrs. J. Joseph Lilly,
Frank H. Deal, Frank J. Coyle, and David C. Broderick
were on the brief, for defendant City of New York.
The plaintiff State established no damage, of any consequence, to itself or to any interest which it might be
deemed to represent.
The diversion from the non-navigable tributaries of
the Delaware of the equivalent of 600 million gallons
of water per day does not exceed the fair share of the
State of New York in the waters of that river, under the
doctrine of equitable apportionment.
The imposition of the Pennsylvania plan of release
upon the taking by the defendant city of only 440 million
gallons of water per day is inequitable and unjust.
The Special Master erred in recommending that the
decree to be entered herein be not final.
The Delaware is not a navigable stream above Port
Jervis.
Mr. George G. Chandler, with whom Mr. William A.
Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, was on the
brief, for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, intervener.
The interstate common law doctrine of equitable apportionment should govern the diversion and use of the

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Opinion of the Court.

interstate waters of the Delaware and its tributaries; and
under that doctrine the present New York taking is
chargeable against its fair and equitable share in the
waters.
The principle of the Pennsylvania plan of impounding
and release should be adopted and applied to the present
New York taking because it is the best plan and will best
conserve and improve river conditions.
The Pennsylvania plan of impounding and release will
protect all interests against substantial damage from the
New York taking.
This Court should retain jurisdiction over the present
cause in order to permit the future application by
Pennsylvania for an appointment of a River Master and
for an allocation to Philadelphia and Eastern Pennsylvania of 750 m. g. d. from the Pennsylvania tributaries
of the upper Delaware River. Jurisdiction should also
be retained to protect Pennsylvania interests against the
possibility of adverse salinity in the lower Delaware resulting from the New York diversion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity by which the State of New
Jersey seeks to enjoin the State of New York and the City
of New York from diverting any waters from the Delaware River or its tributaries, and particularly from the
Neversink River, Willowemoc River, Beaver Kill, East
Branch of the Delaware River and Little Delaware River,
or from any part of any one of them. The other rivers
named are among the headwaters of the Delaware and
flow into it where it forms a boundary between New York
and Pennsylvania. The Delaware continues its course
as such boundary to Tristate Rock, near 'Port Jervis in
New York, at which point Pennsylvania and New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

are met by New Jersey. From there the River marks the
boundary between Pennsylvania and New Jersey until
Pennsylvania stops at the Delaware state line, and from
then on the river divides Delaware from New Jersey
until it reaches the Atlantic between Cape Henlopen and
Cape May.
New York proposes to divert a large amount of water
from the above-named tributaries of the Delaware and
from the watershed of that river to the watershed of the
Hudson River ifi order to increase the water supply of
the City of New York. New Jersey insists on a strict
application of the rules of the common law governing
private riparian proprietors subject to the same sovereign
power. Pennsylvania intervenes to protect its interests
as against anything that might be done to prejudice its
future needs.
We are met at the outset by the question what rule is
to be applied. It is established that a more liberal answer
may be given than in a controversy between neighbors
members of a single State. Connecticut v. Massachusetts,
282 U. S. 660. Different considerations come in when we
are dealing with independent sovereigns having to regard
the welfare of the whole population and when the alternative to settlement is war. In a less degree, perhaps, the
same is true of the quasi-sovereignties bound together
in the Union. A river is more than an amenity, it is a
treasure. It offers a necessity of life that must be rationed among those who have power over it. New York
has the physical power to cut off all the water within its
jurisdiction. But clearly the exercise of such a power to
the destruction of the interest of lower States could not
be tolerated. And on the other hand equally little could
New Jersey be permitted to require New York to give up
its power altogether in order that the River might come
down to it undiminished. Both States have real and
substantial interests in the River that must be reconciled

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Opinion of the Court.

as best they may be. The different traditions and practices in different parts of the country may lead to varying results, but the effort always is to secure an equitable
apportionment without quibbling over formulas. See
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 520. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 98, 117. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper
Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237. Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S.
419, 465, 470. Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S.
660, 670.
This case was referred to a Master and a great mass of
evidence was taken. In a most competent and excellent
report the Master adopted the principle of equitable division which clearly results from the decisions of the last
quarter of a century. Where that principle is established
there is not much left to discuss. The removal of water
to a different watershed obviously must be allowed at
times unless States are to be deprived of the most beneficial use on formal grounds. In fact it has been allowed
repeatedly and has been practiced by the States concerned.
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 526. Wyoming y. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, 466. Connecticut v. Massachusetts,
282 U. S. 660, 671.
New Jersey alleges that the proposed diversion will
transgress its rights in many respects. That it will interfere with the navigability of the Delaware without the
authority of Congress or the Secretary of War. That it
will deprive the State and its citizens who are riparian
owners of the undiminished flow of the stream to which
they are entitled by the common law as adopted by both
States. That it will injuriously affect water power and
the ability to develop it. That it will injuriously affect
the sanitary conditions of the River. That it will do the
same to the industrial use of it. That it will increase
the salinity of the lower part of the River and of Delaware Bay to the injury of the oyster industry there. That
it will injure the shad fisheries. That it will do the

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

same to the municipal water supply of the New Jersey
towns and cities on the River. That by lowering the level
of the water it will injure the cultivation of adjoining
lands; and finally, that it will injuriously affect the River
for recreational purposes. The bill also complains of the
change of watershed, already disposed of; denies the necessity of the diversion; charges extravagant use of present
supplies, and alleges that the' plan will violate the Federal Water Power Act, (but see U. S. Code, Tit. 16, ยง
821,) interfere with interstate commerce, prefer the ports
of New York to those of New Jersey and will take the
property of New Jersey and its citizens without due
process of law.
The Master finds that the above-named tributaries of
the Delaware are not navigable waters of the United
States at and above the places where the City of New
York proposes to erect dams. Assuming that relief by
injunction still might be proper if a substantial diminution
within the limits of navigability was threatened, United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 709, he called as a witness General George B. Pillsbury, Assistant Chief of Engineers of the United States
Army, who was well acquainted with the River and the
plan, and who, although not speaking officially for the
War Department, satisfied the Master's mind that the
navigable capacity of the River would not be impaired.
Of course in that particular as in some others New York
takes the risk of the future. If the War Department
should in future change its present disinclination to interfere, New York would have to yield to its decision, and
the possible experiences of the future may make modifications of the plan as it now stands necessary in unforeseen
particulars. This will be provided for in the decree. Subject to these considerations and to what remains to be said
the New York plan as qualified here is reasonably necessary. Some plan must be formed and soon acted upon,

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Opinion of the Court.

and taking into account the superior quality of the water
and the other advantages of the proposed site over others,
it at least is not arbitrary or beyond the freedom of choice
that must be left to New York.
With regard to water power the Master concludes that
any future plan. of New Jersey for constructing dams
would need the consent of Congress and of the States of
New York and Pennsylvania and, though possible as a
matter of engineering, probably would not pay. He adds
that there is no such showing of a present interest as to
entitle New Jersey to relief. New York v. Illinois, 274
U. S. 488, 490. New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328.
We have spoken at the outset of the more general qualifications of New Jersey's rights as against another State.
The Master finds that the taking of 600 millions of gallons
daily from the tributaries will not materially affect the
River or its sanitary condition, or as a source of municipal
water supply, or for industrial uses, or for agriculture, or
for the fisheries for shad. The effect upon the use for
recreation and upon its reputation in that regard will be
somewhat more serious, as will be the effect of increased
salinity of the River upon the oyster fisheries. The total
is found to be greater than New Jersey ought to bear,
but the damage can be removed by reducing the draft of
New York to 440 million gallons daily; constructing an
efficient plant for the treatment of sewage entering the
Delaware or Neversink (the main source of present pollution,) thereby reducing the organic impurities 85%, and
treating the effluent with a germicide so as to reduce the
Bacillus Coli originally present in the sewage by 90%;
and finally, subject to the qualifications in the decree,
when the stage of the Delaware falls below .50 c. s. m.
at Port Jervis, New York, or Trenton, New Jersey, by
releasing water from the impounding reservoirs of New
York, sufficient to restore the flow at those points to .50
c. s. m. We are of opinion that the Master's report should

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

be confirmed and that a decree should be entered to the
following effect, subject to such modifications as may be
ordered by the Court hereafter.
1. The injunction prayed for by New Jersey so far as
it would restrain the State of New York or City of New
York from diverting from the Delaware River or its tributaries to the New York City water supply the equivalent
of 440 million gallons of water daily is denied, but is
granted to restrain the said State and City from diverting
water in excess of that amount. The denial of the injunction as above is subject to the following conditions.
(a) Before any diversion shall be made an efficient
plant for the treatment of sewage at Port Jervis, New
York, shall be constructed and the sewage of Port Jervis
entering the Delaware or Neversink Rivers shall be treated
to such an extent as to effect a reduction of 85% in the
organic impurities. And the effluent from such plant shall
be treated with a chemical germicide, or otherwise, so
that the B. coli originally present in the sewage shall be
reduced by 90%.
Untreated industrial waste from plants in said town
of Port Jervis shall not be allowed to enter the Delaware
or Neversink Rivers, and the treatment of such industrial
wastes shall be such as to render the effluent practically
free from suspended matter and non-putrescent; and said
treatment of sewage and industrial waste shall be maintained so long as any diversion is made from the Delaware
River or its tributaries.
(b) At any time the stage of the Delaware River falls
below .50 c. s. m. at Port Jervis, New York, or Trenton,
New Jersey, or both (.50 c. s. m. being equivalent to a
flow of 1535 c. f. s. at Port Jervis and 3400 c. f. s. at Trenton), water shall be released from one or more of the impounding reservoirs of New York City in sufficient volume
to restore the flow at Port Jervis and Trenton to .50

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
336

Opinion of the Court.

c. a. m., provided, however, that there is not required to
be released at any time water in excess of 30% of the diversion area yield, and the diversion area yield having been
ascertained to be 2.2 c. s. m., the maximum release required shall be 30% of that amount, or .66 cubic feet per
second per square mile of the areas from which water is
diverted.
In determining the quantity of water to be released
so as to add to the flow of the Delaware River, the Neversink River shall be treated as if it flowed into the Delaware
River above Port Jervis, and the number of second feet of
water released from the impounding reservoir on the
Neversink River shall be added to the number of second
feet of water released from other reservoirs, so as to determine whether the quantity of water, required by this
decree to be released, has been released.
(c) That the State of New Jersey and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, through accredited representatives, shall at all reasonable times have the right to inspect
the dams, reservoirs and other works constructed by the
City of New York and to inspect the diversion areas and
the inflow, outflow and diverted flow of said areas, and to
inspect the meters and other apparatus installed by the
City of New York and to inspect all records pertaining to
inflow, outflow and diverted flow.
2. The diversion herein allowed shall not constitute a
prior appropriation and shall not give the State of New
York and City of New York any superiority of right over
the State of New Jersey and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the enjoyment and use of the Delaware River
and its tributaries.
3. The prayer of the intervener, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, for the present allocation to it of the
equivalent of 750 million gallons of water daily from the
Delaware River or its Pennsylvania tributaries is denied
without prejudice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

4. The prayer of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
for the appointment of a river master is denied without
prejudice.
5. This decree is without prejudice to the United States
and particularly is subject to the paramount authority
of Congress in respect to navigation and navigable waters
of the United States, and subject to the powers of the Secretary of War and Chief of Engineers of the United States
Army in respect to navigation and navigable waters of the
United States.
6. Any of the parties hereto, complainant, defendants
or intervenor, may apply at the foot of this decree for
other or further action or relief and this Court retains
jurisdiction of the suit for the purpose of any order or direction or modification of this decree, or any supplemental
decree that it may deem at any time to be proper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.
7. The costs of the cause shall be divided and shall be
paid by the parties in the following proportions: State
of New Jersey 35 per cent., City of New York 35 per cent.,
State of New York 15 per cent., Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 15 per cent.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SMOOT SAND &- GRAVEL CORPORATION v.
WASHINGTON AIRPORT, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 678.

Argued April 17, 1931.-Decided May 4, 1931.

1. The boundary line between Virginia and the District of Columbia

is at high water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac. Mary-

