654

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283U.S.

Whether the respondent, in what it was doing, was subjecting itself to administrative or other proceeding under
the statute relating to the misbranding of foods and drugs
we need not now inquire for the administration of that
statute is not committed to the Federal Trade Commission.
A proceeding under ยง 5 is not one instituted before
the Commission by one party against another. It is instituted by the Commission itself, and is authorized whenever the Commission has reason to believe that unfair
methods of competition in commerce are being used, and
that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to the
interest of the public. Acting upon its belief, the Commission issues charges and enters upon an inquiry which,
of course, it has jurisdiction to make. But one of the
facts necessary to support jurisdiction to make the final
order to cease and desist, is the existence of competition;
and the Commission cannot, by assuming the existence
of competition, if in fact there be none, give itself jurisdiction to make such an order. If, as a result of the
inquiry, it turn out that the preliminary assumption of
competition is without foundation, jurisdiction to make
that order necessarily fails, and the proceeding must be
dismissed by the Commission. Compare Federal Trade
Comm. v. Klesner, supra, pp. 29-30. That course should
have been followed here.
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
LEWIS-SIMAS-JONES CO. v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
APPELLATE DISTRICT, OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 520. Argued April 28, 29, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. The Interstate Commerce Act applies to so much only of the transportation of a through shipment from a foreign country as takes
place in this country. P. 660.

LEWIS, ETC. CO. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO. 655
654

Statement of the Case.

2. Where it is alleged that the joint through rate exacted for such a
shipment was unreasonable and was charged in violation of the Act,
the Commission has jurisdiction to entertain the complaint and if
it finds that the through charge was unreasonable, and if no other
and reasonable rate for the service performed by the American
carrier was available to the shipper, it may award reparation for
the resulting damage. News Syndicate Co. v. New York Central
R. Co., 275 U. S. 179. Pp. 659, 662.
3. The collection by a common carrier of exorbitant charges is a tort;
and the general rule as to liability of joint tort-feasors applies where
two or more connecting carriers combine to impose excessive charges
over their connecting lines. P. 660.
4. Where a carrier in this country joins with a foreign carrier in exacting an excessive through rate for an international shipment,
while offering no reasonable rate for the domestic part of the service,
it is liable for the damage to a shipper, without regard to the proportion of the charges attributable to the foreign transportation or
paid to the foreign carrier. P. 660.
5. A prior finding by the Commission that the rate charged was unreasonable and of the amount overcharged is a condition precedent
to an action for reparation; but the action is not based on the
Commission's award, as such. P. 660.
6. In the case of an unreasonable joint international rate, the demand for reparation is grounded upon the claim that the maintenance of that rate, participated in by the American carrier, and
its violation of the Act in failing to maintain a just and reasonable
rate for the transportation from the boundary to destination, operated to compel payment of the charges based on the excessive joint
rate. P. 661.
7. To a claim based on an unreasonable charge for a through international carload shipment, it is not a defense that the American
carrier offered a separate, reasonable rate from the international
boundary, if the separate rate was not applicable to the through
carload as brought by the foreign carrier, but only to shipments
originating at the boundary and involving extra terminal service
there. P. 663.
106 Cal. App. 437; 289 Pac. 643, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 833, to review a judgment which
affirmed the dismissal of an action for damages caused by
the exaction of excessive freight charges.

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

Mr. Robert E. Quirk, with whom Messrs. Ernest Clewe
and E. W. Hollingsworthwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. R. Bell, with whom Messrs. G. H. Muckley, H. C.
Booth, James E. Lyons, and Burton Mason were on the
brief, for respondent.
Mr. Robert E. Quirk, by special leave of Court, filed a
brief on behalf of The American Cyanamid Co., as amicus
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner sued respondent in the superior court of the
city and county of San Francisco, California, to recover
damages alleged to have been caused by the exaction of
freight charges which had been found excessive by the
Interstate Commerce Commission in a reparation case.
102 I. C. C. 245. A jury being waived, the court made
findings of fact, stated its conclusions of law and dismissed the case on the ground that the Commission's
findings and order were void for lack of jurisdiction.
The district court of appeal affirmed, 106 Cal. App. 437;
289 Pac. 643; the state supreme court declined to hear
the case, and this court granted a writ of certiorari.
Defendant is an interstate carrier by railroad. Its
lines connect with a line of a Mexican common carrier by
rail extending from Navojoa, Sonora, to the international
boundary at Nogales, Arizona. In 1923 defendant, in
conjunction with the foreign line, transported three carloads of cow peas from Navojoa to San Francisco. The
shipments moved at different times on through bills of
lading issued by the foreign line. The rate charged was
$1.33 per hundred pounds, stated in a tariff joined in
by the carriers and filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the Department of Communications and

LEWIS, ETC. CO. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
654

657

Opinion of the Court.

Public Works of Mexico. The carriers agreed to divide
the rate, 63.175 cents to the foreign line and 69.825 cents
to the defendant.
The cow peas were transported by the foreign line 377
miles to the boundary, thence by defendant 1,036 miles
to destination. The defendant collected from plaintiff
$3,828.74 as freight charges and that amount was divided
in accordance with the divisions agreement. The average yield on these shipments was 90 cents per car mile
and 18.8 mills per ton mile for the entire distance, 1,413
miles. The average yield to the foreign line was $1.60
per car mile and to defendant 64.6 cents.
The trial court found that defendant, by tariff filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, maintained a
rate of $1.14/2 applicable to carload shipments of cow
peas destined to San Francisco "originating at Nogales,"
"originating at the point where the lines" of the foreign
carrier and of defendant touch the boundary or "loaded
into cars at any point upon or adjacent to said international boundary line, within the limits of defendant's railroad yards at Nogales." The court found that the cow
peas were in sacks and readily could have been transported, by means other than a railroad, to Nogales there
to be loaded into cars for transportation over defendant's
lines to San Francisco at the rate of $1.14/2, that the
Commission had made no finding in respect of such rate,
and that it was "reasonable and lawful for application
upon carload shipments of cow peas from Nogales, Arizona, including such shipments as might be loaded at any
and all places within the railroad yard limits at that point,
destined to San Francisco, California."
It was not found, and it does not appear from the
record, that the defendant established or made available
to shippers any rate applicable to the transportation over
its lines from the boundary to San Francisco of cow peas
in car loads originating at Navojoa or elsewhere in Mexico
$0705'

-1--2

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

and delivered to defendant at such boundary point by a
connecting railroad for transportation to San Francisco.
The record does not disclose what, if any, rate was available for the transportation of the cow peas as a local shipment from Navojoa to Nogales. And it may not reasonably be assumed that the charges of the foreign carrier
for such transportation would be less than the amount it
was entitled to have out of the joint through rate under
its agreement with defendant. Indeed, under the principles ordinarily applied in making divisions agreements,
in the absence of a special allowance or arbitrary differential, the foreign carrier's share of the through rate
would be less than its local rate.
If defendant's local rate of $1.141/2 be deemed to be
applicable to the American part of the through transportation and the foreign carrier's proportion, 63.175 cents,
of the joint rate be taken as the local rate from Navojoa
to the boundary, the sum of the locals would amount to
slightly more than $1.77/2 as against the joint through
rate of $1.33. There is nothing in the record to indicate
that there was available for the transportation of such
cow peas any rate or combination of rates less than the
rate of $1.33.
The Commission found that at the time the cow peas
were being transported defendant concurred in a rate of
94 cents per hundred pounds on garbanzos (a kind of
pea) from Navojoa to San Francisco; that the rate of
$1.33 for the transportation of the cow peas was unreasonable to the extent that it exceeded the 94 cent rate;
that the shipments moved as described; that plaintiff
paid and bore the freight charges; that so far as defendant participated in such transportation and rates it was
a tort-feasor and that it should make reparation for the
damage to complainant in the sum of $1,122.72 with
interest. And by its order the Commission authorized
and directed defendant to pay complainant that sum.

LEWIS, ETC. CO. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
654

659

Opinion of the Court.

Defendant having refused to make reparation, plaintiff brought this action and in its complaint alleged the
transportation, the unreasonableness of the rate as found
by the Commission, showed the charges paid by it to
defendant, made the Commission's report and order a
part of the complaint and prayed judgment for the
amount of damages found by the Commission.
Defendant's answer admitted the transportation, the
rate exacted and the charges collected. It alleged that
defendant maintained a rate applicable on cow peas in
carloads from the international boundary at Nogales to
San Francisco but it did not specify that rate or state that
it was reasonable. It averred that the Commission had
not found such rate unjust, unreasonable or otherwise
in violation of law and that the Commission had no jurisdiction to order the defendant to pay any reparation or
damages.
The opinion of the district court of appeal differentiates
this case from News Syndicate Co. v. New York Cent. R.
Co., 275 U. S. 179, on the ground that it there appeared
that the carrier violated the Act by failing to maintain
a rate to cover the transportation from the international
boundary to destination thereby compelling the shipper
to pay the excessive joint through rate and that, for the
determination of damages, it was necessary for the Commission to determine the reasonableness of such rate.
But the court said that in this case defendant published
and maintained a rate on shipments from the boundary
to destination which was not found unreasonable by the
Commission and plaintiff was not compelled to pay the
joint through rate by reason of any violation of the Act
on the part of the defendant.
We are of opinion that the record shows that the Commission had jurisdiction to determine the reasonableness
of the joint through international rate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

The Act does not empower the Commission to prescribe
or regulate such rates. It applies to international commerce only in so far as the transportation takes place
within the United States.* The Act applied to the transportation of the cow peas from the boundary to destination
and required defendant to establish just and reasonable
rates for that service. And defendant was liable to shippers for damages resulting from its failure so to do.
ยง1
(1) (c), (2) and (5), 6 (1), (7) and 8.
The Act prohibits every excessive charge, whether exacted directly or obtained by indirection, and its provisions are designed to prevent evasion of the rule that
every charge for transportation shall be just and reasonable. The collection by a common carrier of exorbitant
charges is a tort (Smith v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co., 49 Wis. 443, 448; 5 N. W. 240) and the general rule
as to liability of joint tort-feasors applies where two or
more connecting carriers combine to impose excessive
charges for transportation over their connecting lines.
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S.
217, 232-233. Defendant is liable for any violation of
the Act by it that caused or contributed to cause damage
to plaintiff without regard to the proportion of the charges
attributable to the foreign transportation or paid to the
foreign carrier. News Syndicate Co. v. New York Cent.
R. Co., supra, 187-188
The Act does not create a cause of action based on the
Commission's findings and reparation order for the recov* The Act does not authorize or forbid the making of joint through
international rates. The Commission, recognizing that they are of
great convenience to carriers and shippers, does not object to their
maintenance if shown, together with the agreed divisions, in tariffs filed
in compliance with requirements prescribed by it. Tariff Circular
18A, Rule 72, adopted November 22, 1909, addition adopted March
7, 1910. Publication of Rates Between United States and Canada,
147 I. C. C. 778.

LEWIS, ETC. CO. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
654

661

Opinion of the Court.

ery of money collected as freight charges based on rates
alleged to be unjust and unreasonable. It makes a determination by the Commission of the unreasonableness of
the rate attacked and the extent that it is, if at all, excessive a condition precedent to suit.
Section 16 (2) provides that, if the carrier shall not
comply with an order for the payment of money within
the time specified, the person for whose benefit it was
made may file in the district court of the United States
"or in any state court of general jurisdiction" a petition
setting forth briefly "the causes for which he claims damages and the order of the Commission," and that the suit
in the United States court shall proceed in all respects
"like other civil suits for damages" except that the findings and order of the Commission shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated. The section contains nothing relating to evidence or procedure in state
courts. It is clear that the action is not on the award as
such. Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 236 U. S.
412, 430. But no action for damages alleged to have
been caused by the exaction of excessive rates for interstate transportation can be maintained in any court, state
or federal, in the absence of a prior finding by the Commission that the rate charged was unreasonable. The
reasons upon which this rule rests have been fully stated
in our decisions. Texas & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 444. Robinson v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506, 510. Cf. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481, 498. Great
Northern Ry. v. Merchants Elev. Co., 259 U. S. 285, 291292.
There is no essential difference in this respect between
a claim arising out of interstate transportation and the
one under consideration. The Act applies to the interstate rate, and an excessive charge for the transportation
covered by it is a direct and immediate violation. While

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

the Act does not govern the joint through international
rate, the demand for reparation is grounded upon the
claim that the maintenance of that rate participated in
by the American carrier and its violation of the Act, in
failing to maintain a just and reasonable rate for the
transportation from the boundary to destination, operated to compel payment of the charges based on the excessive joint rate.
The complaint before the Commission alleged that the
joint through rate was unreasonable and was charged in
violation of the Act. It was undoubtedly sufficient to
invoke the jurisdiction of the Commission. The only
requirement (ยง 13) is that it "shall briefly state the
facts." Reparation proceedings before the Commission
properly may be and frequently are quite informal.
Many claims on account of excessive charges are dealt
with and finally disposed of, without formal pleading or
proof, by means of correspondence carried on by the
Commission with claimants and carriers respectively.
Rule III (b). Defendant did not apply to the Commission for authority to make the reparation claimed. It
moved to dismiss the complaint alleging that the Commission lacked jurisdiction over rates from points in an
adjacent foreign country to points in the United States.
The motion was denied on the authority of International
Nickel Co. v. Director General, 66 I. C. C. 627. The
record does not show the contents or substance of defendant's answer referred to in the order. It does not
appear what, if any, issue was joined as to the facts.
It is the duty of the Commission, if there appears "any
reasonable ground for investigating" the complaint, to
investigate the matters complained of "in such manner
and by such means as it shall deem proper." ยง 13. The
report shows that the case was presented under shortened
procedure and, having regard to the rules of practice,
this implies that there was a formal complaint but no
oral hearing. Rule X-A. The evidence referred to in

LEWIS, ETC. CO. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
654

663

Opinion of the Court.

the report fully sustains the finding that the joint
through rate of $1.33 was unreasonable to the extent that
it exceeded the 94 cent rate contemporaneously applied
to like transportation of garbanzos.
The trial court's findings are not sufficient to show that
at the time the shipments in question moved defendant
maintained a just and reasonable rate applicable to the
transportation of such shipment over its lines from the
international boundary to destination.

The tariff, as described in the findings, does not purport
to apply to the American part of such international transportation. A carload shipment "originating" at Nogales
or at the point where the line of the foreign carrier and
that of the defendant touch the boundary or in defend-

ant's railroad yard adjacent to the boundary clearly must
be distinguished from a through carload shipment brought
to defendant at the boundary by a foreign carrier. The
former covers local transportation only and involves two
terminal services, one at Nogales, the point where received from the shipper, and the other at San Francisco,
the place where delivered to the consignee. The latter
involves the transportation of a through car from the
point of connection and only the one terminal service at
destination. It is manifest that a tariff limited, as is that
described in the findings, to shipments so originating on
defendant's line does not apply to the American part of
the transportation of an international shipment on a
through bill of lading. It is to be presumed that if any
tariff covering that part of the through service existed,
defendant would have produced it; and, in view of the
facts shown, the burden was upon the carrier to bring forward evidence that a rate therefor had been established
as required by the Act. It follows that the lower court
erred in distinguishing this case from the News Syndicate
Co. v. New York Cent. R. Co., supra. That case controls
this one.
Judgment reversed.

