HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA
121

Syllabus.

Patent No. 1,507,439 is for an improvement in starting
cages for racing dogs. The single claim is as follows:
"In a starting cage for racing dogs, a frame comprising
a box-like structure divided into a plurality of compartments and comprising walls formed of wire mesh partially
covered with fabric, individual rear doors for each of the
compartments and a single front door hinged at its upper
end to the top walls of the frame, divergent inclined members secured to the top of the said frame and extending
upwardly and outwardly beyond the face of the front
door and having their outer ends in the plane of the side
walls of the box-like structure, springs secured to the outer
ends of said inclined members and to the door and lying
in the plane of the hinges, and a latch at the bottom of
the cage for coaction with the lower edge of the front
door to hold the front door normally closed against the
tension of said springs, said springs adapted to raise the
front door upon release of the latch."
In the light of the proceedings in the Patent Office upon
the rejection of earlier claims, the claim can have but
a narrow application. We agree with the Circuit Court
of Appeals that the particular sort of spring support and
the wire mesh partitions partially covered with fabric, as
well as the other elements, are but forms of construction
within the range of ordinary mechanical skill. There was
an utter absence of invention justifying the issue of this
patent.
Decree affirmed.
HANS REES' SONS, INCORPORATED, v. NORTH
CAROLINA Ex REL. MAXWELL, COMMISSIONER
OF REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 334.

Argued March 18, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. The State Supreme Court approved a ruling striking out evidence
offered to prove a tax unconstitutional, but adjudged that even if
the evidence were deemed competent the tax was valid. Held that

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

the case may be viewed as though the evidence had been received
and held to have no bearing on the validity of the taxing statute.

P. 126.
2. The method of allocating, for taxation, to a State that part of the
net income of a foreign corporation which bears the same ratio to
its entire net income as the value of its tangible property within
that State bears to the value of all its tangible property, works an
unconstitutional result if, in the particular case, the part of the
income thus attributed to the State is out of all appropriate proportion to the business there transacted by the corporation.

Pp. 129, 135.
So held in the case of a North Carolina tax on income of a New
York corporation, which bought leather, manufactured it in North
Carolina, and sold its products at wholesale and retail in New
York. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlin, 254 U. S. 113;
Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S. 271, and
National Leather Co. v. Massachusetts, 277 U. S. 413, distinguished.
3. The fact that a corporate enterprise is a unitary one, in the sense
that the ultimate gain is derived from the entire business, does not
mean that for the purpose of taxation the activities which are
conducted in different jurisdictions are to be regarded as " component parts of a single unit" so that the entire net income may
be taxed in one State regardless of the extent to which it may be
derived from the conduct of the enterprise in another State. P. 133.
4. When there are different taxing jurisdictions, each competent to
lay a tax with respect to what lies within, and is done within, its
own borders, and the question is necessarily one of apportionment,
evidence may always be received which tends to show that a State
has applied a method, which, albeit fair on its face, operates so as
to reach profits which are in no sense attributable to transactions
within its jurisdiction. P. 134.
199 N. C.42; 153 S.E. 850, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining the dismissal of
proceedings for readjustment of a state income tax
assessment.
Mr. Louis H. Porter, with whom Messrs. F. Carroll
Taylor and Kingsland Van Winkle were on the brief, for
appellant.

HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA
123

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Dennis G. Brammitt, Attorney General of North
Carolina, with whom Mr. FrankNash, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellant, Hans Rees' Sons, Inc., a corporation
organized under the laws of New York, began this action
by an application to the Commissioner of Revenue of the
State of North Carolina for the readjustment of the income tax assessed against the appellant by that State.
The assessment was for the years 1923, 1924, 1925 and
1926, in accordance with the applicable state laws,1 and
the controversy related to the proper allocation of income to the State of North Carolina. The Commissioner
of Revenue made his findings of fact and conclusions of
law, the appellant's exceptions were overruled and the
prayer for revision of the taxes was disallowed. Appeal,
waiving a jury, was taken to the Superior Court of Buncombe County, North Carolina. On the trial in that
court, evidence was introduced by the appellant with respect to the course of business and the amount and
sources of income for the years in question. The appellant admitted that "(a) in assessing the tax the Commissioner of Revenue followed the statutory method . . .;

(b) that the valuation of the real estate and tangible
property of the taxpayer 'both within and without the
State' is correct; (c) that the total net income used as a
basis for the calculation of the tax is correct; (d) that
the allocation of the net income for purposes of taxation
was in full accord with the statute." The contention of
the appellant was that the income tax statute as applied
to the appellant, upon the facts disclosed, was arbitrary
1

Laws of 1923, c. 4, § 201; 1925, c. 101, § 201; 1927, c. 80, § 311.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

and unreasonable, and was repugnant to the commerce
clause and to section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the-Federal Constitution. The Superior Court struck out
the testimony offered by the appellant, as being immaterial, and held that the statute, as applied did not violate
constitutional rights. The judgment dismissing the action was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
199 N. C. 42, 153 S. E. 850. The case comes here on
appeal.
As to the portions of the taxes for the years in question,
which had been paid by the appellant voluntarily and as
to which recovery was denied upon that ground, no question is raised here.
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the ruling
of the trial court in striking out the evidence offered by
the appellant, but held that, if the evidence were deemed
to be competent, it would not change the result. The case
may therefore be viewed as though the evidence had been
received and held to have no bearing on the validity of
the statute. Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274
U. S. 1, 5. The evidence was thus summarized by the

state court:
"This evidence tended to show that the petitioner
(the appellant here) "was incorporated in the State of
New York in 1901 and is engaged in the business of tanning, manufacturing and selling belting and other heavy
leathers. Many years prior to 1923 it located a manufacturing plant at Asheville, North Carolina, and after
this plant was in full operation dismantled and abandoned
all plants which it had heretofore operated in different
states of the union. The business is conducted upon both
wholesale and retail plans. The wholesale part of the
business consists in selling certain portions of the hide
to shoe manufacturers and others in carload lots. The
retail part of the business consists in cutting the hide into
innumerable pieces, finishing it in various ways and man-

HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA
123

Opinion of the Court.

ners and selling it in less than carload lots. In order to
facilitate sales a warehouse is maintained in New York
from which shipments are made of stock on hand to various customers. The tannery at Asheville is used as a
manufacturing plant and a supply house, and when the
quantity or quality of merchandise required by a customer is not on hand in the New York warehouse a requisition is sent to the plant at Asheville to ship to the New
York warehouse or direct to the customer. The sales
office is located in New York and the salesmen report to
that office. Sales are made throughout this country and
in Canada and Continental Europe. Some sales are also
made in North Carolina. Certain finishing work is done
in New York. The evidence further tended to show that
'between forty and fifty per cent of the output of the
plant in Asheville is shipped from the Asheville tannery
to New York. The other sixty per cent is shipped direct
on orders from New York. .

.

. Shipment is made di-

rect from Asheville to the customer.'
"The petitioner also offered evidence to the effect that
the income from the business was derived from three
sources, to-wit: (1) buying profit; (2) manufacturing
profit; (3) selling profit. It contends that buying profit
resulted from unusual skill and efficiency in taking advantage of fluctuations of the hide market; that manufacturing profit was based upon the difference between the
cost of tanning done by contract and tle actual cost
thereof when done by the petitioner at its own plant in
Asheville, and that selling profit resulted from the method
of cutting the leather into small parts so as to meet the
needs of a given customer.
"Without burdening this opinion with detailed compilations set out in the record, the evidence offered by the
petitioner tends to show that for the years 1923, 1924,
1925, and 1926, the average income having its source in
the manufacturing and tanning operations within the
State of North Carolina was seventeen per cent."

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

According to the assessments in question, as revised by
the Commissioner of Revenue and sustained, there was
allocated to the State of North Carolina, pursuant to the
prescribed statutory method, for the year 1923, 83+ per
cent. of the appellant's income; for 1924, 85+ per cent;
for 1925, 66+ per cent; and for 1926, 85+ per cent.
The applicable statutory provisions, as set forth by the
state court, are as follows:
"Every corporation organized under the laws of this
State shall pay annually an income tax, equivalent to four
per cent of the entire net income as herein defined, received by such corporation during the income year; and
every foreign corporation doing business in this State shall
pay annually an income tax equivalent to four per cent of
a proportion of its entire income to be determined according to the following rules:
"(a) In case of a company other than companies mentioned in the next succeeding section, deriving profits
principally from the ownership, sale or rental of real estate or from the manufacture, purchase, sale of, trading in,
or use of tangible property, such proportion of its entire
net income as the fair cash value of its real estate and
tangible personal property in this State on the date of the
close of the fiscal year of such company in the income year
is to the fair cash value of its entire real estate and tangible personal property then owned by it, with no deductions on account of encumbrances thereon.
"(b) In case of a corporation deriving profits principally from the holding or sale of intangible property, such
proportion as its gross receipts in this State for the year
ended on the date of the close of its fiscal year next preceding is to its gross receipts for such year within and
without the State.
"(c) The words 'tangible personal property' shall be
taken to mean corporeal personal property, such as ma-

HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA.
123

Opinion of the Court.

chinery, tools, implements, goods, wares and merchandise
and shall not be taken to mean money deposits in bank,
shares of stock, bonds, notes, credits or evidence of an
interest in property and evidences of debt."
Relying upon the decisions of this Court with respect
to statutes of a similar sort enacted by other States, the
Supreme Court of the State held that the statute of
North Carolina was not invalid upon its face. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S.113, 120,
121; Bass, Ratclifl & Grettan, Ltd., v. State Tax Commission, 266 U. S.271, 280-283; National Leather Co. v.
Massachusetts, 277 U. S.413, 423. In Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, supra, a statute of Connecticut imposed upon foreign corporations doing business
partly within and partly without the State, an annual
tax of two per cent. upon the net income earned during
the preceding year on business carried on within the
State, ascertained by taking such proportion of the whole"
net income on which the corporation was required to pay
a tax to the United States as the value of its real and
tangible personal property within the State bore to the
value of all its real and tangible personal property. All
the manufacturing by the corporation was done in Connecticut, but the greater part of its sales were made from
branch offices in other States. It was contended that the
tax was an unconstitutional burden upon interstate commerce and that it violated the Fourteenth Amendment
in that it imposed a tax on income arising from business
conducted without the State. In support of the latter
objection, the corporation showed that while 47 per cent.
of its real estate and tangible personal property was located in Connecticut, almost all its net profits were received in other States. This Court said: "But this showing wholly fails to sustain the objection. The profits of
the corporation were largely earned by a serie$ of trans80705°-81-O

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

actions beginning with manufacture in Connecticut and
ending with sale in other States. In this it was typical of
a large part of the manufacturing business conducted
in the State. The legislature in attempting to put upon
this business its fair share of the burden of taxation was
faced with the impossibility of allocating specifically the
profits earned by the processes conducted within its borders. It, therefore, adopted a method of apportionment
which, for all that appears in this record, reached, and
was meant to reach, only the profits earned within the
State. 'The plaintiff's argument on this branch of the
case,' as stated by the Supreme Court of Errors, 'carries
the burden of saying that 47 per cent. of its net income is
not reasonably attributable, for purposes of taxation, to
the manufacture of products from the sale of which 80 per
cent. of its gross earnings was derived after paying manufacturing costs.' The corporation has not even attempted to show this; and for aught that appears the
percentage of net profits earned in Connecticut may have
been much larger than 47 per cent. There is, consequently, nothing in this record to show that the method
of apportionment adopted by the State was inherently
arbitrary, or that its application to this corporation produced an unreasonable result." In this view, the validity
of the Connecticut statute was sustained.
In the case of Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd., v. State Tax
Commission, supra, the State of New York imposed an
annual franchise tax at the rate of three per cent. upon the
net income of the corporation. The Court, describing the
statute, said that " if the entire business of the corporation
is not transacted within the State, the tax is to be based
upon the portion of such ascertained net income determined by the proportion which the aggregate value of specified classes of the assets of the corporation within the
State bears to the aggregate value of all such classes of

HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA.
123

Opinion of the Court.

assets wherever located." The corporation in that case
was British, engaged in brewing and selling Bass' ale.
Its brewing was done, and a large part of its sales were
made, in England, but it had imported a portion of its
product into the United States which it sold in branch
offices located in New York and Chicago. The Court regarded the question of the constitutional validity of the
New York tax as controlled in its essential aspect by the
decision in Underwood Typewriter. Co. v. Chamberlain,
supra. And, referring to the facts of that case, the Court
said: "So in the present case we are of opinion that, as
the Company carried on the unitary business of manufacturing and selling ale, in which its profits were earned by
a series of transactions beginning with the manufacture in
England and ending in sales in New York and other
places-the process of manufacturing resulting in no
profits until it ends in sales-the State was justified in
attributing to New York a just proportion of the profits
earned by the Company from such unitary business. .
Nor do we find that the method of apportioning the net
income on the basis of the ratio of the segregated assets
located in New York and elsewhere, was inherently arbitrary or a mere effort to reach profits earned elsewhere,
under the guise of legitimate taxation.

.

.

It is not

shown in the present case, any more than in the Underwood case, that this application of the statutory method
of apportionment has produced an unreasonable result."
In the instant case, the state court, having considered
these decisions and held that the Statute of North Carolina was valid upon its face, sought to justify its view that
the evidence offered by the appellant was without effect,
upon the following grounds:
"The fallacy of this conclusion" (that is, the appellant's contention that the application of the statute had
been shown to be unreasonable and arbitrary, and hence

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

repugnant to the Federal Constitution) "lies in the fact
that the petitioner undertakes to split into independent
sources, income which the record discloses was created and
produced by a single business enterprise. Hides were
bought for the purpose of being tanned and manufactured
into leather at Asheville, North Carolina, and this product
was to be shipped from the plant and sold and distributed
from New York to the customer. The petitioner was not
exclusively a hide dealer or a mere tanner of leather .or.q.a
leather salesman. It was a manufacturer and seller of
leather goods, involving the purchase of raw material and
the working up of that raw material into acceptable commercial forms, for the ultimate purpose of selling the finished product for a profit. Therefore, the buying, manufacturing and selling were component parts of a single
unit. The property in North Carolina is the hub from
which the spokes of the entire wheel radiate to the outer
rim." And, in its final conclusion, the state court said
that, if it were conceded that the evidence offered by the
appellant was competent, still, as it showed that the appellant "was conducting a unitary business as contemplated and defined by the courts of final jurisdiction," it
was "not permissible to lop off certain elements of the
business constituting a single unit, in order to place the income beyond the taxing jurisdiction of this State."
We are unable to agree with this view. Evidence which
was found to be lacking in the Underwood and Bass cases
is present here. These decisions are not authority for the
conclusion that where a corporation manufactures in one
State and sells in another, the net profits of the entire
transaction, as a unitary enterprise, may be attributed,
regardless of evidence, to either State. In the Underwood
case, it was not decided that the entire net profits of the
total business were to be allocated to Connecticut because
that was the place of manufacture, or, in the Bass case,

HANS RPEES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA.
123

133

Opinion of the Court.

that the entire net profits were to be allocated to New
York because that was the place where sales were made.
In both instances, a method of apportionment was involved which, as was said in the Underwood case, "for
all that appears in the record, reached, and was meant to
reach, only the profits earned within the State" The difficulty with the evidence offered in the Underwood case
was that it failed to establish that the amount of net
income with which the corporation was charged in Connecticut under the method adopted was not reasonably
attributable to the processes conducted within the borders
of that State; and in the Bass case the court found a similar defect in proof with respect to the transactions in New
York.
Undoubtedly, the enterprise of a corporation which
manufactures and sells its manufactured product is ordinarily a unitary business, and all the factors in that enterprise are essential to the realization of profits. The difficulty of making an exact apportionment is apparent and
hence, when the State has adopted a method not intrinsically arbitrary, it will be sustained until proof is offered of
an unreasonable and arbitrary application in particular
cases. But the fact that the corporate enterprise is a
unitary one, in the sense that the ultimate gain is derived
from the entire business, does not mean that for the purpose of taxation the activities which are conducted in
different jurisdictions are to be regarded as "component
parts of a single unit" so that the entire net income may
be taxed in one State regardless of the extent to which it
may be derived from the conduct of the enterprise in
another State. As was said in the Bass case with regard
to "the unitary business of manufacturing and selling
ale" which began with manufacturing in England and
ended in sales in New York, that State "was justified in
attributing to New York its proportion of the profits
earned by the Company from such unitary business."

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

And the principle that was recognized in National Leather
Co. v. Massachusetts,supra, was that a tax could lawfully
be imposed upon a foreign corporation with respect to
"the proportionate part of its total net income which is
attributable to the business carried on within the State."
When, as in this case, there are different taxing jurisdictions, each competent to lay a tax with respect to what
lies within, and is done within, its own borders, and the
question is necessarily one of apportionment, evidence
may always be received which tends to show that a State
has applied a method, which, albeit fair on its face, operates so as to reach profits which are in no just sense
attributable to transactions within its jurisdiction.
Nor can the evidence be put aside in the view that it
merely discloses such negligible criticisms in allocation of
income as are inseparable from the practical administration of a taxing system in which apportionment with
mathematical exactness is impossible. The evidence in
this instance, as the state court puts it, "tends to show
that for the years 1923, 1924, 1925, and 1926, the average
income having its source in the manufacturing and tanning operations within the State of North Carolina was
seventeen per cent.," while under the assessments in question, there was allocated to the State of North Carolina
approximately eighty per cent. of the appellant's income.
An analysis has been submitted by the appellant for the
purpose of showing that the percentage of its income
attributable to North Carolina, for the years in question,
did not in any event exceed 21.7 per cent. As pointed out
by the state court, the appellant's evidence was to the
effect that the income from its business was derived from
three sources, buying profit, manufacturing profit, and
selling profit. The appellant states that its sales were
both wholesale and retail; that the profits from the wholesale business were in part attributable to the manufacturing in Asheville and in part to the selling in New York,

HANS REES' SONS v. NO. CAROLINA.
123

Opinion of the Court.

but that the appellant's accountants made no attempt to
separate this, and that the entire wholesale profit was
credited to manufacturing and allocated to North Carolina. Similarly, it is said that no attempt was made to
separate profits from manufacturing in New York from
profits derived from manufacturing in Asheville, and that
all manufacturing profits were allocated to North Carolina. It is insisted that, in the retail part of the business,
the leather is cut into small pieces and finished in particular ways and supplied in small lots to meet the particular
needs of individual customers, and that this part of the
business is essential to the retail merchandising business
conducted from the New York office. The so-called " buying profit" is said to result from the skill with which
hides are bought and the contention is that these buying
operations were not conducted in North Carolina. If as
to the last, it be said that the buying of raw material for
the manufacturing plant should be regarded as incident
to the manufacturing business, and as reflected in the
value at wholesale of the manufactured product as turned
out at the factory, still it is apparent that the amount of
the asserted buying profit is not enough to affect the
result so far as the constitutional question is concerned.
For the present purpose, in determining the validity of
the statutory method as applied to the appellant, it is not
necessary to review the evidence in detail, or to determine
as a matter of fact the precise part of the income which
should be regarded as attributable to the business conducted in North Carolina. It is sufficient to say that, in
any aspect of the evidence, and upon the assumption made
by the state court with respect to the facts shown, the
statutory method, as applied to the appellant's business
for the years in question operated unreasonably and arbitrarily, in attributing to North Carolina a percentage of
income out of all appropriate proportion to the business
transacted by the appellant in that State. In this view,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

the taxes as laid were beyond the State's authority. Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 52, 53, 57.
For this reason the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. HUSSEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342. Argued March 18, 19, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Evidence offered by a litigant and excluded, but preserved in the

record, may be considered upon review in determining his liability.
P. 138.
2. Under an arrangement between two railroad companies a section

of the main line of one was used by coal trains of the other by
means of a switch connection. Due to a defect in the mechanism
for turning the switch signal-light, which could have been discovered by due care, the switch was left open by men operating a
train of the second company at night, leaving the green light showing the main line clear, with the result that a passenger train of
that line was deflected and a passenger injured. Held that the
company owning the main line was responsible to the passenger
for the condition of the signal and liable for his injuries. P. 139.
42 F. (2d) 70, affirmed.

Certiorari, 282 U. S. 826, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a recovery in an action
for personal injuries, which was removed from a state
court on the ground of diversity of citizenship.
Mr. Charles A. Houts, with whom Messrs. Samuel B.
McPheeters and H. N. Quigley were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. William H. Allen, with whom Messrs. Jesse W.
Barrett, Ellison A. Poulton, and Mark D. Eagleton were
on the brief, for respondent.

