TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.

527

Syllabus.

522

of service did not amount to a general appearance. Subsequent proceedings in the state court, therefore, were
taken without the presence of the bank and were not
binding upon it unless the res to be affected was in Florida
and subject to the control of the state court. That point
was not litigated by the bank-it was not present. This
Court held there was not such res subject to the power of
the state court, and therefore its judgment was not binding upon those who were not actual parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
STATE BOARD OF TAX COMMISSIONERS
INDIANA v. JACKSON.

OF

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 183.

Argued March 5, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. Failure of the District Court to make findings of fact as now
required by Equity Rule 701/2 does not necessitate remanding a
case tried before the rule was adopted. P. 533.
2. In classifying businesses for taxation, the legislature is not confined to the value of the business taxed, but may have regard for
other elements. P. 536.
3. As applied to the fundamental state power of taxation, the equal
protection clause does not compel the adoption of an iron rule of
equal taxation, nor prevent variety or differences in taxation, or
discretion in the selection of subjects, or the classification for
taxation of properties, businesses, trades, callings, or occupations.
P. 537.
4. The fact that a statute discriminates in favor of a certain class
does not make it arbitrary, if the discrimination is founded upon a
reasonable distinction, or if any state of facts reasonably can be
conceived to sustain it. Id.
5. In determining the validity of a tax under the equal protection
clause, it is not for the court to consider the propriety or justice

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellee.

283 U.S.

of the tax, or to seek for the motives, or criticize the public policy,
which prompted its adoption by the legislature. P. 537.
6. A legislative classification of occupations for taxation must be sustained if there are substantial differences between them; and the
differences need not be great. Id.
7. An Indiana statute lays an annual license tax on stores, increasing
progressively with the number of stores under the same general
management, supervision or ownership-such that, in the present
case, the owner of a "chain" of some 225 stores selling groceries,
fresh vegetables and meats, was obliged to pay $5,443.00, whereas
the owner of a single store only, though it involved a much greater
investment and income, would pay but $3.00.. Held not violative
of the equal protection clause, in view of the distinctions and advantages which combine and are exerted in a single ownership and
management of a series of like stores in different locations, as compared with mere co6perative associations of independent stores, or
with department stores selling many kinds of goods under the same
roof. Pp. 532, 541.
8. The statute is not repugnant to Art. I, § 23, of the Indiana Constitution, providing: "The General Assembly shall not grant to any
citizen or class of citizens privileges and immunities which upon
the same terms shall not equally belong to all citizens "; nor to
Art. 10, § 1, requiring a uniform and equal rate of assessment and
taxation and just valuations, which, as declared by the State
Supreme Court, applies only to the assessment made under a general levy, and not to occupation or license taxes. P. 542.
38 F. (2d) 652, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree enjoining the Board of Tax Commissioners from instituting prosecutions against the appellee Jackson for failure to pay license taxes.
Messrs. Joseph W. Hutchinson and George W. Hufsmith, Deputy Attorneys General of Indiana, with whom
Messrs. James M. Ogden, Attorney General, Hugh D.
Merrifield, and V. Ed. Funk, Deputy Attorneys General,
were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. William H. Thompson and Martin A. Schenck,
with whom Messrs. Samuel Ashby, Clark McKercher, and
Henry H. Hornbrook were on the brief, for appellee.

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
Argument for Appellee.

527

The Act does not relate to public health, welfare,
morals, or safety, and cannot be sustained as an exercise
of the police power. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137;
Tyson & Bros. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 443; Adams v.
Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
Mere ownership of stores, irrespective of the commodity
sold, is not a business affected with a public interest.
Tyson & Bros. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; Wolff Packing
Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. ,522; Truax v. Raich,
239 U. S. 33; Barbier v. Connally, 113 U. S. 27; Chicago v.
Netcher, 183 Ill. 104; State ex rel. Wyatt v. Ashbrook, 154
Mo. 375; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Doughton,
196 N. C. 145; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Maxwell, 199 N. C. 433; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278
U. S. 235.
The arbitrary discriminations of the statute have no
relationship to any anticipated evil. Fairmont Creamery
Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U. S. 1; Liggett Co. v. Baldridge,
278 U. S. 105; Yu Cong Eng v. Collector, 271 U. S. 500;
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128; Burnes Nat. Bank v.
Duncan, 265 U. S. 17; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150; State v. Loomis, 115 Mo. 307.
" Store" is no unit of value nor is "number of stores
under one ownership" any measure of value. The court
below properly held that the Act as a tax statute rests on
no reasonable classification having any relation to taxation, and in its arbitrary discrimination against a character of store ownership violates the Fourteenth Amendment. Frost v. CorporationComm., 278 U. S. 515, 522-3,
524; Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S.
389; Schlesingerv. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230, 240; Farmers
Loan & Tr. Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, 210, 212;
Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 37-8; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 417; Chalker v.
Birmingham & N. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522, 527; Bethlehem Motors Co. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Hanover Ins.
80705'-31-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494; Kansas City So. Ry. v.
Road Imp. Dist., 256 U. S. 658; Royster Guano Co. v.
Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, 415, 416; Danville v. Quaker
Maid, Inc., 211 Ky. 677; People ex rel. Farrington v.
Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8. Distinguishing: Metropolis
Theatre v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44.
The Act deprives appellee of rights guaranteed him
under the Constitution of the State of Indiana. Shuman
v. Fort Wayne, 127 Ind. 109; Bright Nat. Bank v. Hartman, 61 Ind. App. 440, 447; Cooley, Law of Taxation,
2d ed., p. 235; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678.
This court has taken judicial notice of the fact that
chain stores in great numbers are to be found throughout
the United States and have been in operation for many
years, and has determined that no detriment to the public
will be presumed to have resulted or to be threatened
from the character of their ownership. Liggett Co. v.
Baldridge, 278 U. S. 105.
The unanimous decision of the statutory three judge
court has the factual basis of evidence adduced by both
sides. No evidence of detriment to the public has been
forthcoming. Affirmative evidence disproves any detriment.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from the decree ' of a specially constituted District Court 2 perpetually enjoining the appellants from enforcing against the appellee the provisions
of Act No. 207 of 1929 of the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana. The appellee, by bill filed on behalf of
himself and all others similarly situated, charged that the
1 38 F. (2d) 652.

'Pursuant to U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 380.

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

531

Opinion of the Court.

statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution and two sections of the constitution of
Indiana. It averred, and the answer admitted, that,
unless enjoined, appellants would institute prosecutions
against appellee under certain sections of the act. After
hearing, the District Court entered a perpetual injunction, holding the law offensive to the federal and to the
state constitution.
The statute provides that it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, association or corporation, foreign or domestic, to establish or operate any store' within the State
without first obtaining from the appellants a license,
which must be renewed annually. It makes the operation
of a store without a license a misdemeanor punishable by
a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars nor more than
one hundred dollars for each day it is so operated.
Section 5 of the act provides:
"Every person, firm, corporation, association or copartnership opening, establishing, operating or maintaining one or more stores or mercantile establishments,
within this state, under the same general management,
supervision or ownership, shall pay the license fees hereinafter prescribed for the privilege of opening, establishing, operating or maintaining such stores or mercantile
establishments. The license fee herein prescribed shall
be paid annually, and shall be in addition to the filing fee
prescribed in sections 2 and 4 of this act.
" The license fees herein prescribed shall be as follows:
"(1) Upon one store, the annual license fee shall be
three dollars for each such store;
8 Section 8 defines a store as follows:

"The term 'store' as used in this act shall be construed to mean
and include any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or
establishments which are owned, operated, maintained or controlled
by the same person, firm, corporation, copartnership or association,
either domestic or foreign, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of
any kind, are sold, either at retail or wholesale."

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

"(2) Upon two stores or more, but not to exceed five
stores, the annual license fee shall be ten dollars for each
such additional store;
"(3)Upon each store in excess of five, but not to exceed
ten, the annual license fee shall be fifteen dollars for each
such additional store;
"(4) Upon each store in excess of ten, but not to exceed twenty, the annual license fee shall be twenty dollars
for each such additional store;.
"(5) Upon each store in excess of twenty, the annual
license fee shall be twenty-five dollars for each such additional store."
It is this section which appellee asserts renders the act
unconstitutional as applied to him.
The bill of complaint alleges, and it is admitted, that
the appellee is engaged in the business of selling groceries, fresh vegetables and meats at wholesale and retail
in Indianapolis, and has been so engaged for more than
ten years, has capital invested in his business, in excess
of $200,000, and annual sales of over $1,000,000. He
operates two hundred and twenty-five stores in the said
city, and more than five hundred persons, firms, associations and corporations, foreign and domestic, are engaged
in the operation of two or more stores in the State.
The bill charges that the graduation of the tax per store
according to the number of stores under a single ownership and management is based on no real difference between a store part of such a group and one individually
and separately owned and operated, or between the businesses transacted in them; that the number of stores conducted by one owner bears no relation to the public
health, welfare, or safety, none to the size of the enterprise as a whole, to its capital, its earnings or its value;
that the classification made by the statute is without
basis in fact, is unreasonable and arbitrary, and results

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

Opinion of the Court.

in depriving him of his property without due process, and
denying him the equal protection of the laws.
In the court below appellants defended on the grounds
that the statute was an exercise of the police power and
was also a revenue measure which levied an ordinary
occupation tax. They offered no evidence to sustain the
first ground mentioned, and do not press it here. They
now stand only upon the power of the legislature, in prescribing an occupation tax, to classify businesses, so long
as its action is not unreasonable and arbitrary. They say
that the act fulfills the constitutional requirement that,
in so classifying, the law-making body shall apply the
same means and methods to all persons of the same class,
so that the law will operate equally and uniformly, and
all similarly circumstanced will be treated alike. The
District Court held that the statute failed to conform to
this standard.
The act adopts a different measure of taxation for
stores known as chain stores, from that applied to those
owned and operated as individual units. Evidence was
offered by the appellee intended to demonstrate that there
are no substantial or significant differences between the
business and operation of the two kinds of stores, such as
would justify the classification, and by the appellants to
prove the existence of such differences.
The District Court failed to make findings of fact and
law as now required by Equity Rule 70 , but contented
itself with a partial summary of the facts and certain
general conclusions of law. Had the rule been in force
at the time of the trial, we should feel constrained to
remand the case with directions to make such findings.
We shall, in the circumstances, summarize the proofs.
In addition to the facts averred in the bill, above set
forth, the appellee offered uncontradicted evidence on the
following points. Of the retail stores of the country ap-

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

proximately sixty-three per cent. are independent or community stores, sixteen per cent. are department stores,
twelve per cent. are chain stores, and four per cent. are
mail-order houses. Several department stores in Indianapolis, doing a much larger business than the appellee,
pay a tax of only $3 as contrasted with his tax of $5443,
although their business is highly competitive with that
of chain stores. Persons owning a greater number of
stores, and with -more money invested, in a business
similar to that of appellee, but having only one store in
Indiana, pay $3 because they have but one store in the
State. Large numbers of stores independently owned and
controlled are members of associations or "voluntary
chains under which co~perative buying is conducted for
the group, but each of them is required to pay a license
fee of only $3. The mere addition of a new unit or store
to an existing chain of stores does not increase the sales
more than arithmetically. The additional unit has its
own expenses, and the volume of sales of the former stores
in the chain, to which it constitutes an addition, is not
increased by adding it.
The appellants produced evidence to prove that there
are many points of difference between chain stores and
independently owned units. These consist in quantity
buying, which involves the application of the mass process
to distribution, comparable to the mass method used in
production; buying for cash and obtaining the advantage
of a cash discount; skill in buying, so as not to overbuy,
and at the same time keep the stores stocked with products
suitable in size, style and quality for the neighborhood
customers who patronize them; warehousing of goods and
distributing from a single warehouse to numerous stores;
abundant supply of capital, whereby advantage may be
taken of opportunities for establishment of new units; a
pricing and sales policy different from that of the indi-

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

Opinion of the Court.

vidual store, involving slightly lower prices; a greater
turn-over, and constant analysis of the turn-over to ascertain relative profits on varying items; unified, and therefore cheaper and better advertising for the entire chain
in a given locality; standard forms of display for the
promotion of sales; superior management and method;
concentration of management in the special lines of goods
handled by the chain; special accounting methods; standardization of store management, sales policies and goods
sold.
The appellants' evidence indicated that all of these advantages are interrelated and interdependent in the chain
store business. The witnesses conceded that some of
them may be found in large independent grocery or drug
stores or the like, but they did not, as appellee claims,
state that all of them combined, exist therein, as in chain
stores.
The record shows that the chain store has many features
and advantages which definitely distinguish it from the
individual store dealing in the same commodities. With
respect to associations of individual stores for purposes of
co~perative buying, exchange of ideas as to advertising,
sales methods, etc., it need only be remarked that these
are voluntary groups, and that series of independent units
cannot, in the nature of things, be as efficiently and successfully integrated as a chain under a single ownership
and management.
But the appellee in proof and argument drew a comparison' between the chain store and the department store
which he insists exhibits the classification of the statute as
illusory and arbitrary. He proved that there are two department stores in Indianapolis, each doing a business in
excess of $8,000,000 a year, one having 124 and the other
86 separate departments, and that under the law each
pays a tax of only $3. He uses these facts to give point to

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

his assertion that a store is not a unit of value. This argument ignores the fact that in determining how it shall
classify occupations for taxation, the legislature is not confined merely to the value of the business taxed, but may
have regard to other elements.
While it is true that large department stores reap many
of the advantages and employ many of the methods of a
chain store group, such as large capital, buying in quantity, *and the ability to command the highest type 'of
management, it is, nevertheless, evident that, whereas a department store spreads its efforts over a number of different sorts of shops under one roof, the chain store owner
concentrates its energy upon the conduct of but one kind
of stores located in many neighborhoods. Obviously,
greater specialization in management and methods is possible in the latter type of enterprise than in the former,
whose management, however capable, must after all consist of many separate types each devoted to a single store
similar to an independent retail store. The mass buying
done by a chain store owner for a number of units selling
the same goods, is not comparable to the individuated purchasing of a department store for its grocery, its shoe, its
drug, and each of its other departments. It is not to be
expected that the management problems of stores, essentially separate and differing entirely in the character of
their business, under the aegis of a single department store,
will be the same as those involved in the intensive selling
of a chain store owner operating an equal number of units
all devoted to a single line of business.
Notwithstanding the differences disclosed between
chain and other stores, the court below found that "all
persons engaged in the operation of one or more stores
.

.

. belong to the same class, for occupational tax

purposes, as plaintiff, and should pay the same license fee,
regardless of the number of stores owned and operated
by them," and that any other classification is arbitrary

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

537

Opinion of the Court.

and unconstitutional. It is this holding which the appellants challenge.
The principles which govern the decision of this cause
are well settled. The power of taxation is fundamental
to the very existence of the government of the States.
The restriction that it shall not be so exercised as to deny
to any the equal protection of the laws does not compel
the adoption of an iron rule of equal taxation, nor prevent variety or differences in taxation, or discretion in
the selection of subjects, or the classification for taxation
of properties, businesses, trades, callings, or occupations.
Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114; Brown-Forman
Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563. The fact that a statute
discriminates in favor of a certain class does not make it
arbitrary, if the discrimination is founded upon a reasonable distinction, American Sugar Rfg. Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89, or if any state of facts reasonably can be
conceived to sustain it. Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59.
As was said in Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, supra,
at p. 573:
"A very wide discretion must be conceded to the legislative power of the State in the classification of trades,
callings, businesses or occupations which may be subjected to special forms of regulation or taxation through
an excise or license tax. If the selection or classification
is neither capricious nor arbitrary, and rests upon some
reasonable consideration of difference or policy, there is
no denial of the equal protection of the law."
It is not the function of this Court in cases like the
present to consider the propriety or justness of the tax, to
seek for the motives or to criticize the public policy which
prompted the adoption of the legislation. Our duty is
to sustain the classification adopted by the legislature if
there are substantial differences between the occupations

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

separately classified. Such differences need not be great.
The past decisions of the Court make this abundantly
clear.
In American Sugar Rfg. Co. v. Louisiana, supra, a
license tax imposed upon persons and corporations carrying on the business of refining sugar and molasses, which
excepted planters and farmers grinding and refining their
own sugar and molasses, was held not to work an unconstitutional discriminatiob.
In Cargill v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, a state statute
requiring the proprietors of warehouses situated on the
right of way of a railroad to secure a license from a state
commission, and containing no such requirement with
respect to warehouses not so situated but doing exactly
the same business, was held valid.
In Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226, a North
Carolina statute imposed an occupation tax upon every
meat packing house doing business in that State. The
Armour Company, which was taxed under this statute,
had its packing house at Kansas City and shipped its
packed products to various depots in the State, where they
were sold and delivered in competition with wholesalers
and commission merchants who were not required to pay
the tax. The statute was sustained.
In Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, supra, a statute in Montana imposing a license fee on hand laundries was held
not to constitute a denial of the equal protection of the
laws because it did not apply to steam laundries, and
because it exempted from its operation laundries not
employing more than two women.
In Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477, an ordinance
imposed a tax on the conduct of various businesses and
gave a power of classification to a committee of the
council. That committee classified private bankers, placing a tax of'one amount on certain of them and of a
different amount on others. It appeared that the busi-

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

539

Opinion of the Court.

ness of those in the one class was that of lending money
at high rates upon salaries and household furniture,
while that done by the other class was that of lending
money upon commercial securities. The classification
was held not to offend the constitutional provision for
equal protection of the laws.
In Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, an
ordinance classified theatres for license fees based on and
graded according to the admission charged. It was.shown
that some of the theatres charging a higher admission had
less revenue than those charging a smaller price, and
therefore paying lower license fees. This Court held the
classification valid.
In Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S.
304, there was drawn in question a statute of Alabama
which provided that every person, firm or corporation
selling or delivering sewing machines in person or through
agents should pay a tax of $50 annually for each county
in which they might sell or deliver said articles; and for
each wagon and team used in delivering or displaying
the same an additional sum in each county of $25 annually. It exempted merchants selling sewing machines
at their regularly established places of business. The
Singer Company, a foreign corporation, was engaged in
many counties in the State in selling and renting sewing
machines, in part from regularly established places of
business and in part by means of wagons going from place
to place in counties where its stores were located. It,
attacked the statute on the ground that it involved an
arbitrary discrimination between merchants selling at
their stores and merchants selling by means of wagons.
It was shown that the merchants who sold at their stores
usually delivered the articles sold by wagon. This Court
sustained the tax, saying with respect to the two kinds
of business [p. 3151:

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

288U.S.

"But there is an evident difference, in the mode of
doing business, between the local tradesman and the itinerant dealer, and we are unable to say that the distinction
made between them for purposes of taxation is arbitrarily
made. In such matters the States necessarily enjoy a
wide range of discretion, and it would require a clear case
to justify the courts in striking down a law that is uniformly applicable to all persons pursuing a given occupation, on the ground that persons engaged in other occupations more or less like it ought to be similarly taxed."
In Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., supra, a statute
placing taxes additional to the usual occupations taxes on
persons who offered, with merchandise bargained or sold
in the course of trade, coupons, profit-sharing certificates,
or the like, was attacked as being arbitrary and unreasonable, in that the only difference between the other merchants and those who used trading stamps was a difference in the method of advertising. This Court said,
however [p. 357]:
"The difference between a business where coupons are
used, even regarding their use as a means of advertising,
and a business where they are not used, is pronounced.
Complainants are at pains to display it. The legislation
which regards the difference is not arbitrary within the
rulings of the cases. It is established that a distinction
in legislation is not arbitrary, if any state of facts reasonably can be conceived that would sustain it, . . ."
In Armour & Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 1, the statute
under attack laid a tax on merchants doing business in
the State based on the amount of their purchases during
the license period, including as purchases all goods and
merchandise manufactured by the licensee and sold or
offered for sale in the State. It excluded from its opera,
tion domestic manufacturers, taxed on capital, who offered
for sale at the place of manufacture goods and merchan-

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

541

Opinion of the Court.

dise manufactured by them. It applied alike to citizens
and residents of Virginia and noncitizens and nonresidents
who manufactured in Virginia. The state supreme court
held that it applied to Armour & Co., who manufactured
part of their products without the State and sold them
within it. This Court said [p. 6]:
"In the first place, we are of opinion that the distinction upon which the classification in the statute rests
between a manufacturer selling goods by him made at
their place of manufacture and one engaged as a merchant
in whole or in part in selling goods of his manufacture at
a place of business other than where they were made is so
obvious as to require nothing but a mere statement of
the two classes. All question concerning the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment may therefore be put out of view."
In view of the numerous distinctions above pointed out
between the business of a chain store and other types of
store, we cannot pronounce the classification made by the
statute to be arbitrary and unreasonable. That there are
differences and advantages in favor of the chain store is
shown by the number of such chains established and by
their astonishing growth. More and more persons, like
the appellee, have found advantages in this method of
merchandising and have therefore adopted it. What was
said in Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, supra, [p. 69]
is quite applicable here:
ii... The distinction obtains in every large city of
the country. The reason for it must therefore be substantial, and if it be so universal in the practice of the business
it would seem not unreasonable if it be adopted as the
basis of governmental action."
The court below fell into the error of assuming that the
distinction between the appellee's business and that of
the other sorts of stores mentioned was solely one of own-

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

ership. It disregarded the differences shown by the record. They consist not merely in ownership, but in organization, management, and type of business transacted.
The statute treats upon a similar basis all owners of chain
stores similarly situated. In the light of what we have
said this is all that the Constitution requires. Clark v.
Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Magoun v. Illinois Tr. & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283.
Article 1, § 23 of the constitution of IndianaI which the
court below held the statute violates, seems to us not to
set any different standard than does the Fourteenth
Amendment. No decision of the Indiana courts is cited
in support of the court's conclusion, and those referred
to by appellants demonstrate that the section permits
classification for purposes of taxation and that the same
principles are applicable as under the Fourteenth Amendment. Kersey v. Terre Haute, 161 Ind. 471; 68 N. E.
1027; Gafill v. Bracken, 195 Ind. 551; 145 N. E. 312; 146
N. E. 109. Article 10, § 1,' is declared by the Supreme
Court of the State to be applicable only to the assessment
made under a general levy, and not to occupation or
license taxes. Thomasson v. State, 15 Ind. 449; Bright v.
McCullough, 27 Ind. 223; Gafill v. Bracken, supra. We
cannot, therefore, hold the statute repugnant to the
clauses of the state constitution on which the appellee
relies.
',"The General Assembly shall not grant to any citizen or class
of citizens privileges and immunities which upon the same terms shall
not equally belong to all citizens."
S"The General Assembly shall provide by law for a uniform and

equal rate of assessment and taxation; and shall prescribe such regulations as shall secure a just valuation for taxation of all property,
both real and personal, excepting such only, for municipal, educational, literary, scientific, religious or charitable purposes as may be
especially exempted by law."

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

543

SUTHERLAND, J., dissenting.

The judgment of the District Court must be reversed
and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the

bill

Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting.

By the statute here under review, the operation of any
"store" within the state without a license is made unlawful. The license fees to be paid are graduated according
to the number of" stores " to be operated" under the same
general management, supervision or ownership." Upon
one store, the annual license fee is $3; upon two or more
up to five, $10 for each additional store; in excess of five
but not exceeding ten, $15 for each additional store; in
excess of ten but not exceeding twenty, $20 for each additional store; and in excess of twenty, $25 for each additional store.
Upon the face of the statute the sole differentiation on
which the graduated and rapidly mounting license fees depend consists in the number of stores operated. But the
tax is imposed in respect of a single "store," without regard to kind, value, size, amount invested, amount or
character of business done, income derived, or other distinguishing feature. The number of stores is a collateral
circumstance used only to determine the amount of the
license fee to be exacted in respect of each of them. A
retailer pays the same as a wholesaler; the owner of a
small corner grocery, operated by him alone, the same as
the owner of a large department store employing hundreds
of clerks. To determine that a tax of $25, instead of $3,
$10, $15, or $20, shall be imposed in respect of any store,
it is necessary only to have an affirmative answer to the
inquiry: Is this store operated by a person who already
owns or operates twenty or more stores? These facts are

of controlling importance because they give rise to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
S rrmRAND, J., dissenting.

283 U. S.

point upon which the question of constitutionality
depends.
It is settled that the power of the State to classify for
purposes of taxation is of wide range and flexibility; but
that, while the difference upon which the classification is
based need not be great, mere difference is not enough.
Classification, to be legitimate, must rest upon some
ground of difference having a reasonable and just relation
to the object of the legislation. All persons similarly circumstanced must be treated alike. Louisville Gas Co. v.
Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 37, and cases cited. These principles, repeatedly stated by this Court, are fundamental;
and it reasonably cannot be doubted that their application to the present act, unless saved by certain extrinsic
circumstances to be considered later, necessarily condemns
it as unconstitutional. I am unable to find in any of these
circumstances, or in all of them together, justification for
a classification which results in distributing the burden of
taxation with such evident inequality.
The purpose of the act is to raise revenue, and upon
that theory the decision of this Court is based. The contention that the act constitutes an exercise of the police
power finds no support in the record and was but faintly
urged at the bar. Whether the classification could be
justified if the statute were other than a revenue measure,
is a question, therefore, with which we are not now concerned. The pertinent and only question is whether
between a store constituting one of a series under unified
management, supervision or ownership, and a store under
single and distinct management, supervision or ownership,
there are such differences as to justify putting them in
separate categories with the object of imposing, for the
sole purpose of revenue, a larger tax in respect of one
than in respect of the other. If the differences bear no
just and reasonable relation to that object, the classification cannot be sustained, although the same differences

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

SUTHERLAND,

545

J., dissenting.

might bear such a relation to some other and different
object.
In the State of Indiana there are approximately 44,000
retail stores engaged in the same general lines of business,
only eight per cent. of which are so-called " chain stores."
Among them are single stores each of greater value than
all the stores of appellee combined, and each doing a business in excess of all that done by appellee. For example,
there are two large department stores in the City of Indianapolis each doing a business of more than $8,000,000
per annum, one operating 124 separate departments and
the other, 86 separate departments, but each pays a
license fee under the statute of only $3 per annum; while
appellee, owning 225 separate stores and doing a total
business of approximately $1,000,000 per annum, pays
license fees of $5,443 per annum-eighteen hundred times
as much! Each of several owners of a large number of
stores, (145 in one instance) who happens to have only
one store in Indiana, pays a license fee of $3, contrasted
with the payment of $25 for each store over twenty owned
by appellee. Appellee, upon 205 of his stores, pays the
aggregate sum of $5,125; while the proprietors of 205
stores, held and operated separately, pay in the aggregate only $615, although they or some of them may be
of equal or greater value, equally well or better located,
doing as much or more business, and producing as much
or more income. The evidence further shows that a
"co6perative volunteer chain " consisting of several hundred stores in Indiana paying an annual license fee of
only $3 each, operates under an association called the
Independent Grocers' Alliance. The association carries
on co~perative buying and advertising for the benefit of
the members of the group; and it seems clear that as to
most, if not all, of the advantages said to be enjoyed by
the chain stores the volunteer co~perative group occupies
a position of equality.
80705*°-31---35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
SUTHERi'D, J., dissenting.

283 U.S.

These are obvious and flagrant discriminations which
put upon the act the clear stamp of unconstitutionality,

unless the differences relied upon are germane to, and
reasonably sufficient in substance to sustain, the proposed
imposition of license fees of such unequal amounts upon
different persons following identical occupations.
What, then, are the differences, or so-called advantages,
relied upon to justify the classification? They were, in
their strongest aspect, stated by an expert witness called
by the appellants in support of the act, as follows: The
ability of the chain stores to make large quantity purchases; to pay cash and thus obtain the advantage of discounts; skill in buying so as to avoid either overstocking
or understocking; warehousing in, and distribution from,
a single warehouse for numerous stores; large capital with
the advantages flowing therefrom; certain pricing and
sales policies resulting in slightly lower prices on the part
of the chain stores as compared with single stores; more
rapid turn-over of goods; cheaper and better advertising;
superior management; standardization in the matter of
display; standardization of store management; and similar elements thought to have a beneficial effect upon the
disposition of goods.
But the effect of this enumeration of supposed advantages is completely swept away by the testimony of the
same witness on cross-examination, which stands upon
the record without dispute, that they are not confined to
the chain stores, but are enjoyed as well by such of the
favored taxpayers as are engaged in large business,
whether in a single establishment or in many establishments.
"Every advantage that I have spoken of as relating to
the chain group is that which inheres, primarily, in volume and management without respect to whether it is
involved in a chain group or in a single store. Good
management makes for volume and volume makes for the

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

SuTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

possibility of making or acquiring more capital, and more
capital makes for the possibility of employing the highest
grade of experts, so that there is constant intercommunication or revolving. I would find the same advantage
adhering in a large department store over a small one.
Every quality that I have enumerated as going to the
manner of organization relates itself, primarily, to there
being a sufficient capital structure and volume of business
to permit it to be carried on and I would add management
in that it is an essential part of it.

"Q. So that it does not relate itself to the form of
organization-whether they are administering fifty or a
hundred stores, or administering one store.
"A. No, no.
"Q. The fact that it is administering multiply-owned
stores has nothing to do with it, but it is the fact that it
is administering a large business that develops the situation that you have referred to?
"A. That is true. But I might add that the management of a large number of stores may contribute to the
more rapid increases in the size.
"Q. Just as the manager of a large unit store, with
many departments, may develop the ability to strengthen
and enlarge those departments?
"A. Yes.
"Q. And the problem would be identical, wouldn't it
in the case of Macy or Gimbel--or, taking it locally, in
connection with Ayres, or Block?
"A. Yes, I would say the problem would be the same.
There is no difference in the functions that are performed
here-the function of retailing."
It thus appears that the advantages attributed to the
chain store lie not in the fact that it is one of a number of
stores under the same management, supervision or owner-

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
SuHmmAND,

J., dissenting.

283 U.S.

ship, but in the fact that it is one of the parts of a large
business. In other words, the advantages relied upon
arise from the aggregate size of the entire business, and
not from the number of parts into which it is divided. For
the want of a valid ground upon which to stand, therefore,
the classification should fall, because it is made to depend
not upon size or value or character, amount of capital invested or income received, but upon the mere circumstance-wholly irrelevant so far as any of the advantages
claimed are concerned-that the business of one is carried
on under many roofs, and that of the other under one
only. Reduced to this single detail of difference, what
fairly conceivable reason is there in the policies or objects
of taxation which gives countenance to the requirement
that the former shall make an annual contribution to the
revenues of the state eighteen hundred times as much as
the latter? A classification comparable in principle would
be to make the amount of an income tax depend upon the
number of sources from which the income is derived, without regard to the character of the sources or the amount
of the income itself.
Since the supposed differences thus are reduced to the
one of number only, and, since that turns out to be irrelevant and wholly without substance, it follows that the act
is a "clear and hostile discrimination" against a selected
body of taxpayers, Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232, 237-a mere subterfuge by which the members
of one group of taxpayers are unequally burdened for the
benefit of the members of other groups similarly circumstanced. All of which is to say that the legislature has
misapplied its power to classify with the result of reaching
an end forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.
To this situation the language of Mr. Justice Field in
County of Santa Clara v. Southern Pat,. R. Co., 18 Fed.
385, 399, seems peculiarly applicable.

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

SUTHERIAND,

J., dissenting.

"Unequal taxation, so far as it can be prevented, is,
therefore, with other unequal burdens, prohibited by the
amendment. There undoubtedly are, and always will be,
more or less inequalities in the operation of all general
legislation arising from the different conditions of persons, from their means, business, or position in life,

against which no foresight can guard. But this is a very
different thing, both in purpose and effect, from a carefully devised scheme to produce such inequality; or a
scheme, if not so devised, necessarily producing that result. Absolute equality may not be attainable, but gross
and designed departures from it will necessarily bring the
legislation authorizing it within the prohibition. The
amendment is aimed against the perpetration of injustice,
and the exercise of arbitrary power to this end. The
position that unequal taxation is not within the scope of
its prohibitory clause would give to it a singular meaning.
It is a matter of history that unequal and discriminating
taxation, leveled against special classes, has been the fruitful means of oppressions, and the cause of more commotions and disturbance in society, of insurrections and
revolutions, than any other cause in the world."
It seems plain enough that we have in the present case
"a carefully devised scheme to produce such inequality;
or a scheme, if not so devised, necessarily producing that
result."
In Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,277 U. S.389,
this Court held invalid a Pennsylvania statute which imposed a tax upon the gross receipts of a corporation engaged in the general taxicab business, but not upon like
receipts of individuals and partnerships engaged in the
same business. The differences relied upon as justifying
the tax-are fairly comparable with those relied upon in
the present case. It was said that there were advantages
peculiar to the corporate organization not enjoyed by indi-

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
SUTHER AND,

J., dissenting.

-

283U.S.

viduals or partnerships, such as those pointed out in
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162: "The continuity of the business, without interruption by death or
dissolution, the transfer of property interests by the disposition of shares of stock, the advantages of business controlled and managed by corporate directors, the general
absence of individual liability, these and other things inhere in the advantages of business thus conducted, which
do not exist when the same business is conducted by private individuals or partnerships."
These advantages, although brought sharply to the attention of the Court, were not considered as constituting
differences having a reasonable relation to the object of
the taxing act, and the tax was held unconstitutional as
denying to the corporation the equal protection of the
laws. It is hard to see how that conclusion can be reconciled, in principle, with the present decision. See also
Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S.412, 415; Bethlehem Motors Co. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Kansas City
So. Ry. v. Road Imp. Dist. No. 6, 256 U. S. 658; Air-Way
Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S.71, 83, 85; Louisville Gas Co. v.
Coleman, 277 U. S.32, 37. A long list of illustrative cases
which tend to support the view that the act in question is
violative of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment readily could be added; but nothing would
be gained by doing so.
A large number of decisions are cited in support of the
act. They, as well as those cited above, demonstrate the
impossibility of stating precisely or categorically the distinction between such statutes as fall within, and such as
fall without, the ban of the Constitution. The decisions
have depended not only upon the varying facts which
constituted the background for the particular legislation
under consideration, but also, to some extent, upon the
point of view of the courts or judges who have been called
upon to deal with the question. Some of the cases press

TAX COMMISSIONERS v. JACKSON.
527

SUTHERIAND, J., dissenting.

to the limit fixed by the Constitution; and that fact,
while affording no ground for objection to the cases themselves, admonishes us to use caution in applying them to
other sets of substantially dissimilar circumstances, lest,
by doing so, we pass into the forbidden territory
which lies wholly beyond the verge. I am unable to discover in any of the prior decisions of this Court, including
those cited, anything, which in the light of the facts and
circumstances herein set forth, lends support to the claim
of validity for the classification here under consideration.
To attempt an extended review of the cases thought to
do so is not necessary. It will be enough to refer to those
which seem to be regarded as most strongly in point.
American Sugar Rfg. Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89,
involved the validity of a license tax upon those carrying
on the business of refining sugar and molasses, but exempted planters and farmers grinding and refining their
own sugar and molasses. The classification was upheld
upon the ground that the steps taken by planters and
farmers to perfect their product for the market were an
incident to the original growth of the cane; and that this
distinction saved the classification from being purely arbitrary, oppressive or capricious. It was, as this Court
pointed out in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540, 561, a tax upon the business of refining sugar
and molasses, exempting therefrom those who refined only
their own sugar and molasses.
In Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, the statute
required that the owner of an elevator or warehouse situated on the right of way of a railroad, etc., should procure
a license therefor at a nominal fee. The act was assailed
because it did not apply to elevators and warehouses not
so situated. The Court sustained the classification because the railroad was a public highway, the use of which
could be so regulated as to promote the ends for which the
corporation was created and thus subserve the interests

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
SuTriuND, J., dissenting.

283U.S.

of the general public. Moreover, it was neither alleged
nor proved in that case that there were in the state any
elevators or warehouses not situated upon a railroad right
of way.
In Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, the statute
involved imposed a license fee on hand laundries, but not
upon steam laundries, and exempted from its operation
laundries not employing more than two women. The
-classification was sustained, principally upon the authority
of the two cases referred to immediately above.
In Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, a
classification of theatres for license fees graded according
to the prices of admission was held not to be arbitrary or
unreasonable, because, although there might be exceptional cases, there was a natural relation between the
price of admission and revenue.
While opinions might differ in respect of the wisdom or
fairness of some of the statutes involved, as, for example,
the laundry tax statute which taxed the small hand laundry and exempted the large steam laundry, the differences
were germane to the object and sufficiently substantial to
save the classification in each case from being condemned
as purely arbitrary or capricious.
It may be that here the maximum tax of $25 for each
store, while relatively high, is not, if considered by itself,
excessive; but to sustain it will open the door of opportunity to the state to increase the-amount to an oppressive
extent. This Court frequently has said, and it can not be
too often repeated in cases of this character, that the
power to tax is the power to destroy; and this constitutes
a reason why that power, however moderately exercised in
given instances, should be jealously confined to the limits
set by the Constitution. Compare Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41, 60. In Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, a
tax of ten per cent. imposed on the notes of state banks was
upheld, although it "drove out of existence every state

SMITH v. CAHOON.
527

Syllabus.

bank of circulation within a year or two after its passage,"
Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 663-664. In
the face of this decision, and others which might be cited,
there does not seem to be any sure comfort in the suggestion, sometimes made, that this Court may be expected
to intervene whenever the tax reaches the point of destruction.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment below should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.

SMITH v. CAHOON, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 449.

Argued April 22, 1931.--Decided May 25, 1931.

1. When a statute, valid upon its face, requires the issue of a
license or certificate as a condition precedent to carrying on a business or following a vocation, one who is within the terms of the
statute, but has failed to make the required application, is not
at liberty to complain because of his anticipation of improper or
invalid action in administration. P. 562.
2. This principle does not apply to one who is being criminally
prosecuted for failure to procure a license under a statute that,
as concerns him, Winvalid upon its face. Id.
3. A state statute, applicable by its terms (with certain exceptions)
to all who operate motor vehicles in the business of transporting
persons or property "for compensation or as a common carrier"
over public highways in the State, prohibits such persons from so
operating without having first obtained from a state commission
a certificate of public convenience and necessity; application for
such a certificate shall be accompanied by a schedule of tariffs;
no certificate shall be valid without the giving of a bond or an
insurance policy by the applicant for the protection of the .public
against injuries resulting from negligence in the operation of such
vehicles and for the protection of the persons and property carried; it vests the commission with supervisory authority over

