420

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Under the established rule the writ of mandamus cannot be made to serve the purpose of an ordinary suit. It
will issue only where the duty to be performed is ministerial and the obligation to act peremptory, and plainly
defined. The law must not only authorize the demanded
action, but require it; the duty must be clear and indisputable. U. S. ex rel. International Contracting Co. v.
Lamont, 155 U. S. 303, 308; Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234
U. S. 627, 633; Work v. Rives, 267 U. S. 175.
The judgments under review must be
Affirmed.
CARBICE CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. AMERICAN PATENTS DEVELOPMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 54. Reargued April 27, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
Patent No. 1,595,426, for a refrigerating transportation package,
consisting of an outer, insulating container, with the food substance
to be refrigerated (e. g. ice cream) so packed therein as to surround
a quantity of solid carbon dioxide in its separate insulating container and thus to act, with the evolved gaseous dioxide, as a protection for the solid dioxide against exterior heat, the gas also
serving to displace air from the food and refrigerate it,-held void
for want of novelty and invention.
REHEARING of

the cause reported ante, p. 27, limited

to the validity of the patent.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Neave for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the patent valid and
infringed. 38 F. (2d) 62. In our opinion delivered

CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CO.
420

421

Opinion of the Court.

March 9, 1931, we found it unnecessary to determine the
validity of the patent, because we held that the bill should
be dismissed on the ground that the owner of a patent may
not limit its use so as to require that unpatented materials
employed in practicing the invention shall be purchased
only from the licensor, ante, p. 27. On March 16, 1931.
the Carbice Corporation petitioned that the Court rule
also on the validity of the patent. The reason assigned
was the inauguration by the Dry Ice Corporation of a
campaign of intimidation against customers of the Carbice
Corporation by releasing to the public press a statement
that the validity of the patent as sustained by the Court
of Appeals had not been disturbed; that the true patent
monopoly had in no way been limited by this Court; that
we had indicated that the proper way to enforce the patent monopoly is by directly suing those who use solid carbon dioxide in the patent combination without a license;
and that the Dry Ice Corporation would immediately
bring such a suit. A re-argument, limited to the question
of the validity of the patent, was ordered. The respondents petitioned for a rehearing on the issue determined in
our former opinion. The latter petition was denied.
The refrigerating transportation package which is specified and claimed in the patent in suit is described in the
earlier opinion, ante, p. 27. The alleged invention is
for the locational arrangement of materials within a container. Whether a locational arrangement within a
structure can ever be p~tented as a manufacture need
not be determined. Nor need we consider whether the
patent, as issued, contained a sufficient disclosure of the
alleged invention. For the combination in suit lacks
patentable invention and novelty. Each of the elements-refrigerant, material to be refrigerated, and container-performs its function in a known way. Long
prior to the date of the claimed invention, it was known
that solid carbon dioxide, which has a temperature of 110

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

degrees below zero, is a refrigerant; that when it "melts"
it passes directly into a dry gas heavier than air, of like
low temperature, which may serve as a refrigerant until
its temperature rises to that of the outside air. It was
known also that a frozen article-be it ice cream or solid
carbon dioxide-will remain frozen longer if insulated;
and that paper is an insulator. It was not invention to
conclude that a cake of the solid dioxide wrapped in paper
would remain solid longer if also surrounded by ice cream,
than if placed in more immediate proximity to the walls
of the container and thus to the outer air; or to conclude
that the gas, being heavier than air would, as generated,
drive the air out of the container, and thus serve as an
additional insulator. Compare Hollister v. Benedict &
Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 72-73; Dreyfus v. Searle,
124 U. S. 60. 63; Wilson v. Janes, 3 Blatch. 227.
Moreover, the structural device of surrounding the refrigerant by the article to be refrigerated had been shown
in the Mosler and Ladewig refrigerating butter-box,
United States Patent No. 236,906, issued January 25,
1881; and in Rumpel's portable lunch box, United States
Patent No. 1,130,932, issued March 9, 1915. It is true
that in these prior art structures the refrigerant employed
was not completely surrounded by the refrigerated materials, as the top or bottom of the ice container was
usually left exposed. This was done to permit access to
the ice chamber for the purpose of removing water.
Since carbon dioxide sublimes directly into a dry gas,
such access obviously need not be provided,
and the refrigerant may be surrounded on all four sides. This
difference is unimportant. These references suffice to
render the patent invalid also because of anticipation
without considering the additional defense of prior use.

