STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
231

235

Syllabus.

review, while made before the enactment of the Revenue
Act of 1918, was made after the Act of 1916, c. 463, 39
Stat. 756, 777, which, with an addition not pertinent here,
contained (§ 202) exactly the same provision; and the
contention, for that reason, other grounds aside, is without merit. Milliken v. United States, ante, p. 15, where
the cases relied upon by petitioners are distinguished.
Judgment affirmed.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY (INDIANA) v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 384. Argued March 20, 1931.--Decided April 13, 1931.
1. The jurisdiction of the District Court "to enjoin, set aside, annul,
or suspend in whole or in part" orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, U. S. C., Title 28, § 41 (27) (28), does not extend to
orders purely negative in character, such as an order dismissing a
shipper's claim for damages based on alleged overcharges by carriers. P. 238.
2. A determination by the Commission of the rate applicable to past
shipments, which involved not merely the legal construction of the
words of a rate tariff, but consideration of matters of fact, expert
knowledge of technical meaning of words and a correct appreciation
of a variety of incidents affecting their use, is not reviewable by the
courts if within the constitutional and statutory powers of the
Commission and not arbitrary or unsupported by evidence. P. 238.
3. Under § 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act, which provides that a
claim for damages against a carrier may be brought before the
Commission, or by action in any federal District Court of competent jurisdiction, but which denies the right to pursue both remedies and requires an election, a District Court has no jurisdiction of
a suit which seeks to enforce a claim, which the Commission has rejected, by obtaining an annulment of its order followed by an adjudication of the merits of the claim and a direction that the Commission allow it and hold a further hearing, if necessary, to determine
the amount to be paid. P. 240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S

4. The specially constituted District Court of three judges has no
jurisdiction of an action under § 9 of the Interstate Commerce
Act. P. 241.
41 F. (2d) 836, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed, for want of jurisdiction, a bill
against the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission, and numerous railway carriers.
Mr. John R. Cochran,with whom Messrs. L. L. Stephens
and Harry I. Allen were on the brief, for appellant.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. CharlesH. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Daniel W.
Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate Ccmmerce Commission, and J. Stanley Payne, Assistant Chief Counsel, were
on the brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Louis H. Strasser, with whom Messrs. J. L. Aber,
M. L. Bluhm, D. P. Connell, J. N. Davis, E. J. Halberg,
Herbert S. Harr, Walter McFarland, G. D. Peters, M. B.
Pierce, K. L. Richmond, E. A. Smith, F. H. Towner, and
FredericD. McKenney were on the brief, for the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company et al.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in equity brought in the court below
against the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission, and some fifty interstate railway carriers, under
the provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, abolishing the Commerce
Court and transferring its jurisdiction to the several district courts of the United States. The provisions conferring jurisdiction are found in c. 309, 36 Stat. 539,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
235

237

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. C., Title 28, § 41 (27) (28), and include the following cases:
"First. All cases for the enforcement, otherwise than
by adjudication and collection of a forfeiture or penalty
or by infliction of criminal punishment, of any order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission other than for the
payment of money.
"Second. Cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or
suspend in whole or in part any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission."
Appellant sought to enjoin and annul an order of the
Commission dismissing two complaints filed with that
body to recover damages for numerous alleged overcharges
exacted by the carriers. The petition also prayed that
the Commission be directed by the court to enter an order
"granting the prayer of said complaints, and finding that
petitioner has been overcharged by an amount .which is
equal to the difference between the rates assessed by said
defendant carriers and the rates lawfully applicable to
said petitioner's shipments, and ordering a further hearing, if necessary, for the purpose of determining the
amount of money to be paid by the defendant carriers
to petitioner by way of reparation . . ." The complaints alleged overcharges on about 2,500 shipments of
petroleum products originating at Wood River, Illinois,
or at points west of the Mississippi River, and carried to
various eastern destinations. It is unnecessary, in view of
our conclusions, to state the case at length. It is fully
set out in the reports of the Commission (113 I. C. C. 597;
139 I. C. C. 297) and in the opinion of the court below.
The rates assailed before the Commission were those
charged according to what is called the "Kelley tariff."
Appellant contended that there were in effect specific rates
taking precedence which were lower and should have been
applied. The order of the court below, constituted of
three judges as required by the Urgent Deficiencies Act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court..

283 U.S.

was, in effect, a dismissal of the petition for the want of
jurisdiction, 41 F. (2d) 836; and with that action we
agree.
First. The Commission made two reports, one following
the original hearing, and the other after reargument.
The order based upon these reports simply dismissed the
complaints; that is to say, the Commission refused to
grant any affirmative relief to the appellant. It is plain
that the order is negative both in form and effect. The
jurisdiction of the district courts (transferred from their
predecessor, the Commerce Court), in this class of cases,
embraces (1) those brought for the "enforcement" of
orders of the Commission, and (2) those brought to "enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend in whole or in part"
such orders. It is obvious that this language was not
intended to apply to purely negative orders. A negative
order which denies relief without more compels nothing
requiring enforcement, and contemplates no action susceptible of being stayed by an injunction or affected by a
decree setting aside, annulling, or suspending the order.
The question in the present case depends upon the correct interpretation and application of the second subdivision of the act conferring jurisdiction, referred to and
quoted supra; and necessarily the district court was without jurisdiction under the settled construction of that
provision by which the authority of the court is limited to
the review of affirmative orders, with "power to relieve
parties in whole or in part from the duty of obedience to
orders which are found to be illegal." Procter& Gamble
v. United States, 225 U. S. 282, 292-293; Manufacturers
Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 483; Piedmont &
Nor. Ry. Co. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469, 477.
Second. The case before the Commission did not, as
contended, involve merely the construction of the written
words employed in a rate tariff-a simple question of
law-but required consideration of matters of fact and

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
235

239

Opinion of the Court.

the application of expert knowledge for the ascertainment
of the technical meaning of the words and a correct appreciation of a variety of incidents affecting their use. It is
evident from an inspection of the record, as the Commission in its first report said, that "both cases concern unusually complicated and technical tariff situations," the
proper determination of which called for the exercise of
the trained judgment of that body of experts, "appointed
by law and informed by experience." Illinois Central R.
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 206 U. S. 441, 454.
And to that body, in the interest of uniformity, the determination must be left.
In Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co.,
259 U. S. 285, 291-292, this court held that to determine
whether a rate is reasonable for the future, or whether a
shipper has been wronged by the exaction of an unreasonable or discriminatory rate in the past, preliminary resort
to the Commission is required.
"It is required because the enquiry is essentially one
of fact and of discretion in technical matters; and uniformity can be secured only if its determination is left
to the Commission. Moreover, that determination is
reached ordinarily upon voluminous and conflicting evidence, for the adequate appreciation of which acquaintance with many intricate facts of transportation is indispensable; and such acquaintance is commonly to be found
only in a body of experts. But what construction shall
be given to a railroad tariff presents ordinarily a question
of law which does not differ in character from those presented when the construction of any other document is in
dispute."
Then, after pointing out that resort to extrinsic evidence is sometimes necessary to establish the meaning of
words appearing in a written instrument, in which case
the function of construction is preceded by the determination of a matter of fact, the court said that

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

.where the document to be construed is a tariff
of an interstate carrier, and before it can be construed it
is necessary to determine upon evidence the peculiar
meaning of words or the existence of incidents alleged to
be attached by usage to the transaction, the preliminary
determination must be made by the Commission; and
not until this determination has been made, can a court
take jurisdiction of the controversy. If this were not so,
that uniformity which it is the purpose of the Commerce
Act to secure could not be attained."
There being nothing to suggest that the Commission
acted arbitrarily or without evidence to support its conclusions, or that it transcended its constitutional or statutory powers, Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union
Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547, it follows that, apart
from what is said in support of the grouhd first above
stated, the order of the Commission was not susceptible
of review by the courts. Compare Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, 251;
United States v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320;
East Tennessee, V. & G. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm., 181 U. S.. 1, 27.
Third. But putting the foregoing grounds entirely
aside, and assuming the correctness of appellant's contentions to the contrary, nevertheless, having regard to the
remedy invoked and the relief sought by the petition, we
think the district court was without jurisdiction. Section
9 of the Interstate Commerce Act, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379,
382; U. S. C., Title 49, § 9, provides that a claim for damages against a common carrier may be brought before the

Commission by complaint, or by an action in a federal district court of competent jurisdiction, but that the claimant
or claimants "shall not have the right to pursue both of
said remedies, and must in each case elect which one of

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
235

241

Opinion of the Court.

the two methods of procedure herein provided for he or
they will adopt." Having elected to proceed and having
proceeded to a determination before the Commission, appellant was, by force of this provision, precluded from
seeking reparation upon the same claims by the alternative method of procedure. Compare Geo. A. Hormel &
Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 283 Fed. 915, 918.
It is true that appellant sought to enjoin and set aside
the order of the Commission, but only as a preliminary
step toward obtaining, by a decision upon the merits of
the claims, the same relief it failed to secure from the
Commission. This is made clear by the prayer of the
petition, already quoted, namely, that the Commission be
directed by the court to grant the prayer of the complaints; find that petitioner has been overcharged to the
extent set forth; and order a further hearing, if necessary,
to determine the amount to be paid by way of reparation.
It is of no importance that the adjudication sought is to
take the form of a direction to the Commission to grant
the prayer of the complaints filed before that body, etc.,
instead of a plenary judgment to the same end, for the
prayer in that form is nothing less than an attempt to
avoid the statute by indirection. In substance and in
principle the claim before the Commission and the claim
before the court were the same, and the district court was
without authority to entertain the controversy. It is
hardly necessary to add that, since § 9 contemplates that
the jurisdiction in such cases shall be exercised by the federal district courts as ordinarily constituted, the specially
constituted court is without jurisdiction to dispose of an
action under that section even if brought in the district
court in the first instance.
The order of dismissal is
Affirmed.
8o7o5*3-16

