OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

28 U. S.

For reasons which need not be restated, such individual
expressions are without weight in the interpretation of a
statute. See Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 474;
Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 90; United States v.
FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 318.
Reversed:
GASOLINE PRODUCTS CO., INC., v. CHAMPLIN
REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 362.

Argued April 17, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The Seventh Amendment preserves the substance of jury trial and
not the old form of procedure. P. 498.
2. Where its requirement of a jury trial has been satisfied by a verdict
according to law upon one issue of fact, the Seventh Amendment
does not compel a new trial of that issue even though another and
separable issue must be tried again. P. 499.
3. Where the practice permits a partial new trial, it may not properly
be resorted to unless it clearly appears that the issue to be retried
is so distinct and separable from the others that a trial of it alone
may be had without injustice. P. 500.
4. Petitioner sued for royalties under a contract licensing the use of a
patented process of manufacture. Respondent counterclaimed for
damages alleged to have resulted from failure by petitioner to perform a related contract to construct part of a plant for lack of
which, respondent said, it incurred expenses for storage and suffered
losses from several causes, including loss of anticipated profits.
There was a verdict for the petitioner on its cause of action and
for the respondent on the counterclaim. Held that in reversing the
judgment as to the counterclaim and directing a new trial with
respect to the amount of damages because of error in the instructions concerning the measure of damages under it, it was not necessary to disturb the judgment on the main cause of action; but there
should be a retrial of all the issues raised by the counterclaim, be-

GASOLINE PRODS. CO. v. CHAMPLIN CO. 495
494

Opinion of the Court.

cause the dates of formation and breach, as well as the scope, of the
contract therein relied upon were left in such doubt by the record,
including the verdict, that the question of damages could not be
submitted to a jury independently of the question of liability without confusion and uncertainty.
39 F. (2d) 521, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 824, to review a judgment re-

versing a judgment in an action on a contract and directing a new trial restricted to the amount of damages on
a counterclaim.
Messrs. John B. Marsh and Robert Hale for petitioner.
Mr. Horace G. McKeever, with whom Messrs. Harry
0. Glasser, William S. Linnell, Carl C. Jones, and Emery
0. Beane were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner brought suit in the District Court for Maine,
to recover royalties alleged to be due under a contract by
which it licensed respondent to use two "Cross cracking
units," structures adapted to the use of the "Cross cracking process " for increasing the production of gasoline from
crude oil. Respondent pleaded, by way of counterclaim,
in two separate counts, a contract by petitioner to construct a "Cross vapor treating tower" for treatment of
gasoline, produced by the cracking units, necessary to
rhake it marketable. The consideration for this contract
was alleged to be the execution of the license contract
already referred to and of two related contracts, one by a
third party for the construction of the cracking units, and
another by which petitioner guaranteed that they would
work. Performance of these contracts is admitted.
Both counts of the counterclaim were based on the
same series of transactions. The first alleged a contract
arising from an oral proposal by petitioner's vice-presi-

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

dent in January, 1926, to construct for respondent a
Cross vapor system treating tower, the cost of which was
to be repaid by respondent to petitioner if the tower
functioned in a satisfactory manner. This proposal was
alleged to have been accepted by the execution of the
other contracts. The second count alleged a written proposal of like tenor by petitioner to respondent, accepted
by respondent on February 6, 1926, and confirmed by the
later execution of the other contracts. Both counts
charged that by reason of petitioner's failure to construct
the treating system, and pending the construction of a
substitute system by respondent, the latter was compelled
to store large quantities of the cracked gasoline awaiting
treatment, resulting in four principal items of damage:
the expenses of storage; depreciation of the gasoline by
evaporation and other causes; the loss incident to shutting down respondent's plant because of the lack of treating apparatus; and the loss of anticipated profits from the
sale of gasoline.
The jury returned a verdict on petitioner's cause of
action, and a verdict for respondent on the counterclaim,
leaving a balance in petitioner's favor for which the District Court gave judgment. The Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit reversed because of errors in the charge of
the trial court with respect to the measure of damages on
the counterclaim; but in directing a new trial, it restricted the issues to the determination of damages onlyv,
39 F. (2d) 521, following in this respect its earlier decisions in Farrarv. Wheeler, 145 Fed. 482; Calaf v. Fernandez, 239 Fed. 795; Atteaux & Co. v. Pancreon Mfg.
Corp., 22 F. (2d) 749. See also, adopting the same practice, OriginalSixteen to One Mine v. Twenty-one Mining
Co., 254 Fed. 630; Thorpe v. National City Bank, 274 Fed.
200; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Stephens, 218 Fed.
535; Fentress Co. v. Elmore, 240 Fed. 328; Great Western
Coal Co. v. Raihoay Co., 98 Fed. 274; see Empire Fuel Co.

GASOLINE PRODS. CO. v. CHAMPLIN CO. 497
494

Opinion of the Court.

v. Lyons, 257 Fed. 890, 897. This Court granted certiorari, 282 U. S. 824, to review the single question whether
the court below erred in thus limiting the new trial, upon
a petition setting up a conflict of the decision with that
of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in McKeon
v. Central Stamping Co., 264 Fed. 385. See also Kean v.
National City Blank, 294 Fed. 214, 226.
Petitioner contends that the withdrawal from consideration of the jury, upon the new trial, of the issue of
liability on the contract set up in the counterclaim, is a
denial of its constitutional right to a trial by jury. The
Seventh Amendment provides: "In suits at common law,
where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty
dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and
no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in
any Court of the United States, than according to the
rules of the common law." It is argued that as, by the
rules of the common law in force when the Amendment
was adopted, there could be no new trial of a part only of
the issues of fact, a resubmission to the jury of the issue of
damages alone is a denial of the trial by jury which the
Amendment guarantees.
It is true that at common law there was no practice of
setting aside a verdict in part. If the verdict was erroneous with respect to any issue, a new trial was directed as
to all.' This continued to be the rule in some states after
the adoption of the Constitution; 2 but in many it has not
been followed, notwithstanding the presence in their constitutions of provisions preserving trial by jury. The
Massachusetts courts early modified it to permit a new
1Parkerv. Godin, 2 Strange 813; Swain v. Hall, 3 Wilson 45; Berrington's Case, 3 Salk. 362; Bond v. Spark, 12 Mod. 275.
2Boswell v. Jones, I.Wash. 322 (Va. 1794); Gardner's Admdnistrator v. Vidal, 6 Rand. 106 (Va. 1828); Sawyer v. Merrill, 10 Pick. 16
(Mass. 1830); Tuttle v. Gates, 24 Maine 395 (1844); Knowles v.
Dow, 22 N. H. 387, 411 (1851).
80705'-31---32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

trial of less than all the issues of fact when they were
clearly separable." Bicknell v. Dorion, 16 Pick. 478; see
Simmons v. Fish, 210 Mass. 563, 565; 97 N. E. 102. The
rule as thus modified has been generally accepted in the
New England states, see Zaleski v. Clark, 45 Conn. 397,
404; McKay v. New England Dredging Co., 93 Maine
201; 44 Atl. 614; Lisbon v. Lyman, 49 N. H. 553, 582
et seq.; Clark v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 33 R. I. 83;
80 Atl. 406; Parizo v. Wilson; 101 Vt. 514; 144 Atl. 856,
and consistently followed by the Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit.
Lord Mansfield, in applying the common law rule where
the verdict, correct as to one issue, was erroneous as
to another, said: ". . . for form's sake, we must set
aside the whole verdict . . ." Edie v. East India Co.,
1 W. B1. 295., 298. But we are not now concerned with
the form of the ancient rule. It is the Constitution which
we are to interpret; and the Constitution is concerned,
not with form, but with substance. All of vital significance in trial by jury is that issues of fact be submitted
for determination with such instructions and guidance by
the court as will afford opportunity for that consideration
by the jury which was secured by the rules governing
trials at common law. See Herron v. Southern Pacific
Co., ante, p. 91. Beyond this, the Seventh Amendment
does not exact the retention of old forms of procedure.
See Walker v. Southern Pacific R. Co., 165 U. S. 593, 596.
It does not prohibit the introduction of new methods for
ascertaining what facts are in issue, see Ex parte Peterson,
253 U. S. 300, 309, or require that an issue once correctly
determined, in accordance with the constitutional command, be tried a second time, even though justice demands that another distinct issue, bqcause erroneously
determined, must again be passed on by a jury.
If, in the present case, the jury has found, in accordance with the applicable legal rules, the amount due to

GASOLINE PRODS. CO. v. CHAMPLIN CO. 499
494

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner on the contract for royalties and all the elements
fixing its liability on the treating plant contract, there is
no constitutional requirement that those issues should
again be sent to a jury, merely because the exigencies of
the litigation require that a separable issue be tried again.
Such is not the effect of Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364, which decided only that an appellate federal court may not direct judgment non obstante
veredicto, solely because the verdict given is not sustained
by the evidence, but in that event must order a new trial.
There it was held that the Seventh Amendment does not
permit the entry of judgment on a trial at law before a
jury upon an issue of fact, without the verdict of the jury.
Here we hold that where the requirement of a jury trial
has been satisfied by a verdict according to law upon one
issue of fact, that requirement does not compel a new trial
of that issue even though another and separable issue
must be tried again.
As the issues arising upon petitioner's cause of action
on the royalty contract are clearly separable from all
others and the verdict as to them already given is free from
error, it need not be disturbed. But the question remains
whether the issue of damages is so distinct and independent of the others, arising on the counterclaim, that it can
be separately tried. The verdict on the counterclaim may
be taken to have established the existence of a contract
and its breach. Nevertheless, upon the new trial, the jury
cannot fix the amount of damages unless also advised of
the terms of the contract; and the dates of formation and
breach may be material, since it will be open to petitioner
to insist upon the duty of respondent to minimize damages.
But it is impossible from an inspection of the present
record to say precisely what were the dates of formation
and breach of the contract found by the jury, or its terms.
Different dates are alleged in the counterclaim as that of
the contract-one, February 6, 1926; the other, the date

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of final execution of the related contracts; fixed by some
of the testimony at March 20th. No date was set for
performance, and what the jury, by its verdict, found to
be the reasonable time for performance, is not disclosed
by the record.
The contract alleged was to construct a single treating
tower; but there was a sharp conflict in the testimony as
to whether the oral proposal was for one, two, or three
tocers. To pass on the claim for loss of profits, the jury
must know whether the contract to construct was the
extent of the undertaking, and, if so, the number of
towers to be built, or whether petitioner also agreed that
the plant, whatever the number of towers, was to be adequate to treat all gasoline produced by respondent. In
addition, the jury must know whether there was a guaranty that the treating system would work satisfactorily,
or, if not, whether in fact it would have done so. But the
present verdict, awarding as damages on the counterclaim
less than the total of the items claimed by respondent,
exclusive of alleged loss of profits, cannot be taken as
establishing any of these material facts.
Where the practice permits a partial new trial, it may
not properly be resorted to unless it clearly appears that
the issue to be retried is so distinct and separable from
the others that a trial of it alone may be had without
injustice. See Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. Ferebee, 238
U. S. 269, 274; American Locomotive Co. v. Harris, 239
Fed. 234, 240; Simmons v. Fish, supra, p. 568; McBride
v. Huckins, 76 N. H. 206, 213; 81 Atl. 528; General
Motors Co. v. Shepard Co., 47 R. I. 153, 156; 130 Atl. 593;
LeFebvre's Administrator v. Central Vermont Ry. Co.,
97 Vt. 342, 358; 123 Atl. 211. Here the question of damages on the counterclaim is so interwoven with that of
liability that the former cannot be submitted to the jury
independently of the latter without confusion and uncertainty, which would amount to a denial of a fair trial.

