HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
Counsel for Parties.

64

pay its own costs, one-half of the expenses incurred by the
Master, and one-half of the amount to be fixed by the
Court as his compensation.
The Government will prepare a form of decree in accordance with this decision, and furnish a copy to the
State of Utah. within fifteen days; and within ten days
after such submission, the draft decree, together with
suggestions on behalf of the State of Utah, if any, will be
submitted to the Court.
HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 131.

Submitted March 2, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. The provision of the constitution of Arizona (Art. 18, § 5) that
"The defense of contributory negligence ... shall, in all cases
whatsoever, be a question of fact and shall, at all times, be left to
the jury," is not binding on the federal court sitting in that State.
P. 92.
So held in an ordinary common law action for personal injuries
suffered in a railway crossing accident.
2. The function of the trial judge in a federal court is not a local
matter, and state statutes or constitutional provisions which would
interfere with the appropriate exercise of that function are not
binding, either under the Conformity Act or the Rules of Decision
Act, U. S. C., Title 28, §§ 724, 725. P. 94.
ANSWERS to questions certified by the court below upon
an appeal from a judgment on a directed verdict, in a
personal injury case.

Messrs. P. H. Hayes, M. J. Dougherty, and J. A. Walsh
were on the brief for Herron.
Messrs. Charles H. Bates, Alexander B. Baker, and
Louis B. Whitney were on the brief for the Southern
Pacific Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

92

Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIm HUGHES

283 U.S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This action was brought in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Arizona to recover damages for personal injuries resulting from a collision between the plaintiff's automobile and the defendant's train.
The accident occurred in Phoenix, Arizona. At the close
of the testimony on the part of the plaintiff, the court
directed a verdict for the defendant, upon the ground that
the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence. The
plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. That
court states that, if the court below was at liberty to follow the settled rule in the courts of the United States that
"whenever, in the trial of a civil case, it is clear that the
state of the evidence is such as not to warrant a verdict
for a party, and that if such a verdict were rendered, the
other party would be entitled to a new trial, it is the right
and duty of the judge to direct the jury to find according
to the views of the court" (Barrett v. Virginian Railway
Co., 250 U. S.473, 476), the action of the trial court was
justified. But section 5, article 18, of the constitution of
Arizona provides: "The defense of contributory negligence or of assumption of risk shall, in all cases whatsoever, be a question of fact and shall, at all times, be left
to the jury."
In view of this requirement, the Circuit Court of Appeals has certified the following questions of law for the
decision of this Court:
"First. Is the above provision of the constitution of
the State of Arizona binding and controlling upon a Federal court sitting in that State? Or, putting the question
in another form:
"Second. May a Federal court sitting in the State of
Arizona direct a verdict for the defendant in an action to
recover damages for personal injuries, when it appears as
a matter of law that the plaintiff was guilty of contribu-

HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
91

Opinion of the Court.

tory negligence, notwithstanding the state constitutional
provision to the contrary?"
Construing the constitutional provision, the Supreme
Court of Arizona in Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co.
v. Conwell, 21 Ariz. 480, 486, 487; 190 Pac. 88, 90, 91, said:
"The language of the provision is plain and unambiguous,
and to our minds clearly indicates that the power or duty
to finally and conclusively settle the question of contributory negligence or assumption of risk is, by its terms, transferred from the court to the jury. . . . We think
that the evident purpose and intent of the provision is
to make the jury the sole arbiter of the existence or
non-existence of contributory negligence or assumption of
risk in all actions for personal injuries." 1
It does not appear to be insisted by the appellant, and
it could not be maintained, that this constitutional provision must be followed by the federal courts by virtue of
the Conformity Act. U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 724. The State,
without violating the requirements of due process, may
provide such a rule for its own courts, as it may do away
with the jury altogether (Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Cole, 251 U. S. 54, 56), but in view of its nature
and effect, the rule calnot be regarded as one that relates
merely to practice or to a "form" or "mode of proceeding." The provision "cuts deep into the right, observea1
at common law, by which a defendant can obtain a decision by the court, upon a proven state of facts." Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6 Ry. Co. v. Spencer, 20 F. (2d)
714, 716. Even with respect to the burden of proof -as
to contributory negligence, this Court has said: "But
it is a misnomer to say that the question as to the burden
of proof as to contributory negligence is a mere matter
'See, also, Davis v. Boggs, 22 Ariz. 497; 199 Pac. 116; Wiser v.
Copeland, 23 Ariz. 325; 203 Pac. 565; Varela v. Reid, 23 Ariz. 414;
204 Pac. 1017; Morenci Southern Ry. Co. v. Monsour, 24 Ariz. 49;
206 Pac. 589; Cf. Southern Pacific Co. v. Fisher, 35 Ariz. 87; 274

Pac. 779i

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of state procedure. For, in Vermont, and in a few other
States, proof of plaintiff's freedom from fault is a part of
the very substance of his case. . . . But the United
States courts have uniformly held that as a matter of
general law, the burden of proving contributory negligence is on the defendant. The Federal courts have enforced that principle, even in trials in States which hold
that the burden is on the plaintiff." Central Vermont
Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S.507, 512. See, also, Beutler
v. Grand Trunk Junction Ry. Co., 224 U. S.85, 88.
Nor is the provision applicable, which the appellant
invokes, that "the laws of the several States, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as
rules of decision in trials at common law, in the courts
of the United States, in cases where they apply." U. S.
C. Tit. 28, § 725. The controlling principle governing
the decision of the present question is that state laws
cannot alter the essential character or function of a federal court. The function of the trial judge in a federal
court is not in any sense a local matter, and state statutes
which would interfere with the appropriate performance
of that function are not binding upon the federal court
under either the Conformity Act or the "rules of decision" Act. Thus, a federal court is not subject to state
regulations, whether found in constitutional provisions
or in statutes, providing that the court shall not give an
instruction to the jury unless reduced to writing, or that
written instructions shall be taken by the jury in their
retirement (Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, 441, 442;
Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S.436, 442); or that the court
shall require the jury to answer special interrogatories in
addition to their general verdict (Indianapolis& St. Louis
R. Co. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 300); or that the court
shall not express any opinion upon the facts (Vicksburg
& Meridian R. Co. v. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 553), or
charge the jury with regard to matters of fact (Sb. Louis,

HERRON v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
91

Opinion of the Court.

Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Vickers, 122 U. S.
360, 363); or shall not direct a verdict, where the evidence is such that a verdict the other way would be set
aside (Barrett v. Virginian Railway Co., supra).
In a trial by jury in a federal court, the judge is not a
mere moderator, but is the governor of the trial for the
purpose of assuring its proper conduct and of determining
questions of law. This discharge of the judicial function
as at common law is an essential factor in the process for
which the Federal Constitution provides. As was said by
Mr. Justice Story, in United States v. Battiste, 2 Sumner,
240, 243: "It is the duty of the Court to instruct the jury
as to the law; and it is the duty of the jury to follow the
law, as it is laid down by the Court."
"Trial by jury," said the court in Capital Traction Co.
v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1, 13, 14, "in the primary and usual
sense of the term at the common law and in the American
constitutions, is not merely a trial by a jury of twelve men
before an officer vested with authority to cause them to be
summoned and empanelled, to administer oaths to them
and to the constable in charge, and to enter judgment and
issue execution on their verdict; but it is a trial by a jury
of twelve men in the presence and under the superintendence of a judge empowered to instruct them on the law
and to advise them on the facts, and (except on acquittal
of a criminal charge) to set aside their verdict if in his
opinion it is against the law or the evidence." See, also,
United States v. Philadelphia& Reading R. Co., 123 U. S.
113, 114; Patton v. United States, 281 U. S. 276, 288, 289.
Where, in an action in a federal court to recover damages for personal injuries, contributory negligence or assumption of risk constitutes a defense,2 and, by reason of
Under the Federal Employers Liability Act (U. S. C., Tit. 45,
§ 53) contributory negligence is not a defense but only goes in mitigation of damages. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ward, 252
U. S. 18, 21, 23; Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
42, 49. As to the defense of assumption of risk under that Act, see

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

the facts being undisputed and of the absence of conflicting inferences, the evidence of contributory negligence or
assumption of risk is conclusive and the question is one of
law, the judge has the right and duty to direct a verdict
for the defendant. Railroad Company v. Houston, 95
U. S. 697, 702; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Freeman, 174
U. S. 379, 384; SouthernPacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S.
415, 418, 419; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Goodman. 275
U. S. 66, 69, 70.
The first question is answered, "No "; the second, " Yes."
COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. MILLER, STATE TAX COLLECTOR,
FOR THE USE OF THE MISSISSIPPI LEVEE
DISTRICT.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 195.

Argued March 6, 9, 1931.--Decided April 13, 1931.

1. The protection of the Fourteenth Amendment against state action
is only for the benefit of those who are injured through the invasions of personal or property rights, or through the discriminations, which the Amendment forbids. The constitutional guaranty
does not extend to the mere interest of an official, as such, who
has not been deprived of his property without due process of law
or denied the equal protection of the laws. P. 99.
So held where a state official, suing a railway company in the
state court to collect a tax, which had been reduced by an amendatory law relied on by the company, attacked the amendment upon
the ground that the bill therefor had not been published as required by the state constitution, and where the state supreme
court, ignoring that contention, adjudged the amendment invalid
under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Jacobs v. Southern
Railway Co., 241 U. S. 229, 235; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Ward, supra. See, also, Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers'
Compensation Act (U. S. C., Tit. 33, § 905); Nogueira v. New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 131, 137.

