OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the case.

283U.S.

missible in the taxable year in which the petitioner pays
cash. The petitioner says that it was definitely ascertained in 1925 that the petitioner would sustain the losses
in question. So it was, if the petitioner ultimately pays
his note. So was the tax considered in United States v.
Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9, 12, but it could not be deducted until
it was paid.
Judgment affirmed.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 124. Argued March 4, 1931.--Decided April 13, 1931.
1. The Federal Farm Loan Act (§§ 16 and 13), in empowering joint
stock land banks to invest their funds in the "purchase" of qualified first mortgages on farm lands, means that they may lend on
such security. The loans so made are "securities issued under the
provisions of" that Act, within the meaning of § 213, Title II, of
the Revenue Act of 1921, and the interest upon them is exempt
from taxation under that Title. P. 145.
2. A national bank, in making a consolidated income and profits tax
return for the year 1922, sought to deduct from gross income the
interest paid on bonds of its affiliated joint stock land banks the
principal of which was lent by the land banks on farm mortgages
pursuant to the Farm Loan Act. Held that the deduction was
properly disallowed, since the mortgages are "obligations or securities . . . the interest upon which is wholly exempt from taxation
under this title," within the meaning of § 234, Title II, of the
Revenue Act of 1921, and by that section interest on indebtedness
incurred or continued to purchase or carry tax-exempt obligations
or securities is not deductible from gross income. Pp. 143, 147.
69 Ct. Cls. 312; 38 F. (2d) 925, affirmed.

281 U. S. 719, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims disallowing a deduction in an income and
profits tax return.
CERTIORARI,

FIRST NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
142

143

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Harold V. Amberg for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
Gencral Thacher and Messrs. H. Brian Holland, Erwin N.
Griswold, and Bradley B. Gilman were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. John E. McClure, by special leave of Court, filed a
brief as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The First National Bank of Chicago made a consolidated corporation income and profits tax return for the
year 1922, which, among other things, disclosed results
from operations of two affiliated corporations, the First
Trust Joint Stock Land Banks of Chicago and Dallas, organized under the Federal Farm Loan Act of 1916. It
claimed the right to deduct from total receipts the amounts
paid (or accrued) during the year by the Land Banks for
interest upon their outstanding bonds. The Commissioner refused to allow the deductions. Payment as demanded was followed by suit to recover in the Court of
Claims. Judgment went against the Bank and the matter
is here upon certiorari.
From the findings, based upon a stipulation of facts, it
appears"The First Trust Joint Stock Land Bank of Chicago
and the First Trust Joint Stock [Land] Bank of Dallas,
which were organized under the Federal farm loan act of
July 17, 1916, issued to and/or had outstanding in the
hands of the public in the year 1922 their joint-stock land
bank bonds, respectively, on which interest was paid
and/or accrued in the year 1922, in the aggregate sum of
$78,807.80, part of which was the intercompany transaction in the amount of $5,810.25, leaving a balance paid or

OCTOBER. TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2&3 U.S.

accrued of $72,997.55. As security for the payment of
said joint-stock land bank bonds said joint-stock land
banks, as provided in the Federal farm loan act, deposited with the proper farm loan registrars farmers' promissory notes evidencing loans to said farmers, which in
turn were secured as to payment by said farmers' first
mortgages on their farms.
"The proceeds coming into the hands of said joint-stock
land banks from the issuance and sale of said joint-stock
land bank bonds were used by said joint-stock land banks
to make new additional loans to farmers, which new loans
made from the proceeds of said joint-stock land bank bonds
issued and/or outstanding in 1922, were made in each instance in consideration of the making and delivery by the
borrowing farmers, respectively, of their promissory notes
secured as to payment by first mortgages on their farms.
All of said loans, respectively, and the farmers' notes and
mortgages, respectively, evidencing said loans, were designed to be and were of such a nature as to comply with
(1) all the terms, conditions, restrictions, limitations, and
requirements specified in the Federal farm loan act, as
requisite to qualify said loans, notes, and mortgages, as
'first mortgages' in contemplation of said act, so as to
make them available as collateral security against the
issue of joint-stock land bank bonds; and (2) all terms,
conditions, restrictions, limitations, and requirements,
statutory or otherwise, specified in the laws of the State
in which the farm which was the subject of the particular
loan was located (to wit, the States of Illinois, Iowa,
Texas, and Oklahoma, respectively), as requisite to qualify
said loans, notes, and mortgages as valid and subsisting
first mortgages, in contemplation of such laws. Said notes
and mortgages contain an agreement providing for the
repayment of the loan on the amortization plan, as provided in section 12, second, of the Federal farm loan act,

FIRST NAT. BANK v. UNITED. STATES.
142

145

Opinion of the Court.

and such agreement in respect of each note and/or mortgage was such that the respective note and/or mortgage
was not [to be] extinguished within a period of less than
thirty-three years, except, of course, at the option of the
borrower.
"The interest received by the plaintiff on such farmers'
notes and mortgages was not taxable as income to the
plaintiff and was not so taxed in respect of plaintiff's return for. the year 1922."
Decision of the cause must turn upon the construction
of pertinent portions, Revenue Act 1921, Title II, c. 136,
42 Stat. 227, 237, 238, 252, 254.
Section 213 provides that the term" gross income" does
not include interest upon "securities issued under the provisions of the Federal Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916."
Section 230 imposes a tax at specified rates upon the net
income of every corporation.
Section 234 provides-"(a) That in computing the net
income of a corporation subject to the tax imposed by section 230 there shall be allowed as deductions: . . . (2)
All interest paid or accrued within the taxable year on its
indebtedness, except on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations or securities (other
than obligations of the United States issued after September 24, 1917, and originally subscribed for by the taxpayer) the interest upon which is wholly exempt from
taxation under this title; "
The Federal Farm Loan Act 1916, c. 245, 39 Stat. 360,
372, 374, 380, provides (§ 16) for the formation of joint
stock land banks "for carrying on the business of lending
on farm mortgage security and issuing farm loan bonds,"
which "shall have the powers of, and be subject to all
the restrictions and conditions imposed on, Federal Land
Banks by this Act, so far as such restrictions and conditions are applicable . . ." Section 13 authorizes Federal
80705°-31-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Land Banks: "First. To issue, subject to the approval
of the Federal Farm Loan Board, and to sell farm loan
bonds of the kinds authorized in this Act, to buy the same
for its own account, and to retire the same at or before
maturity. Second. To invest such funds as may be in
its possession in the purchase of qualified first mortgages
on farm lands situated within the Federal land bank
district within which it is organized or for which it is
acting." Section 26; "That every Federal land bank
and every national farm loan association, including the
capital and reserve or surplus therein and the income derived therefrom, shall be exempt from Federal, State, municipal, and local taxation, except taxes upon real estate
held, purchased, or taken by said bank or association under
the provisions of section eleven and section thirteen of
this Act. First mortgages executed to Federal land banks,
or to joint stock land banks, and farm loan bonds issued
under the provisions of this Act, shall be deemed and held
to be instrumentalities of the Government of the United
States, and as such they and the income derived therefrom
shall be exempt from Federal, State, municipal, and local
taxation."
As pointed out by the court below, "Joint-stock land
banks, not being permitted to engage in any business,
except that of making loans to farmers and issuing their
bonds to procure the necessary funds therefor, do not
ordinarily have income subject to taxation, and so long
as such banks operate as individual and separate institutions, it can not make the slightest difference whether they
have or do not have the right to deduct the interest paid
on their bonds. Their income is tax-exempt, and consequently the right to make deductions therefrom means
nothing. When, as in the instant case, joint-stock land
banks are affiliated with banking corporations that do

FIRST NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
142

147

Opinion of the Court.

have taxable incomes, the question assumes importance,
as the interest deduction, if allowed, reduces the tax liability of the affiliated group--even then, however, it in
no way affects the joint-stock land banks included in such
consolidation. They have no taxable income and they
pay no taxes."
Considering the circumstances, we find no reason to
conclude that Congress intended to permit any ordinary
commercial bank, with income subject to taxation, to
secure partial relief therefrom through affiliation with a
Joint Stock Land Bank. That result would follow
approval of the petitioner's position.
In Denman v. Slayton, 282 U. S. 514, we said--" The
manifest purpose of the exception in paragraph 2, § 214
(a), was to prevent the escape from taxation of income
properly subject thereto by the purchase of exempt
securities with borrowed money."
The Federal Farm Loan Act (§§ 16 and 13) empowers
Joint Stock Land Banks to invest their funds "in the
purchase of qualified first mortgages on farm lands."
The obvious meaning is that loans might be made on such
security. Loans, so made, become "securities issued
under the provisions of the" Act and interest upon them
is wholly exempt from taxation under Title II, Revenue
Act of 1921.
Interpreting the language of the exception in § 234 in
view of the legislative purpose, we think that the farm
mortgages owned by the affiliated Joint Stock Land Banks
must be regarded as "obligations or securities .
.
the interest upon which is wholly exempt from taxation
under this title," and that the bonds issued by them constituted indebtedness incurred to purchase or carry such
obligations.
Affirmed.

