GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.

765

Syllabus.

GEORGIA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 555.

Argued April 30, 1931.-Decided June 1, 1931.

1. After a full hearing on the interstate rates on certain commodities,
in connection with a complaint that corresponding intrastate rates
were prejudicial to persons and localities in interstate commerce,
the Interstate Commerce Commission fixed the interstate scale, found
that there was no transportation reason for intrastate rates on a
different basis, and left it to the state rate-fixing body, a party to
the proceedings, to authorize a revision of the intrastate rates in
harmony with the interstate adjustment. This not having been
done, and the carriers having reopened the case before the Commission to determine whether the prescribed intrastate rates would
result in undue prejudice to persons and localities in interstate
commerce and in unjust discrimination against such commerce,-held that it was not necessary, under § 13 (4) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, that the Commission should consider anew the
reasonableness of the interstate rates, in the absence of evidence to
show that conditions affecting them had changed since they were
prescribed. P. 769.
2. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring carriers to establish intrastate rates not lower, distance considered,
than those "contemporaneously applicable" to interstate transportation on the same commodities, etc., construed as referring
to the interstate rates as maintained and applicable at the date
of the order and not to such as might be made by the carriers in
the future. P. 770.
3. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is to be construed in the light of its accompanying report. P. 771.
4. Possible uncertainty of application in isolated instances is not a
sufficient ground for setting aside in its entirety, by judicial process,
a carefully drawn order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
affecting rates, otherwise valid and practicable of operation over a
wide territory. P. 772.
5. The appropriate remedy under such circumstances is an application to the Commission requesting it to suspend the operation of

766

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

the order in so far as it may affect the isolated cases; and, if
necessary, to enter an independent order dealing specifically with
them. P. 772.
6. Such specific order, if appropriate for review under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act, could be dealt with by the courts without interfering with the operation of the order as a whole or with the flexible
administrative processes by which it may from time to time be
modified. Id.
7. Findings of the Commission as to undue disparity between intrastate and interstate rates held sufficient to support an order, statewide in operation, and governing many intrastate rates. P. 773.
8. In a proceeding under § 13 (4) involving the examination and
readjustment of scales of intrastate rates, state-wide in scope and
applicable to shipments between hundreds of points of origin and
destination, general findings may be made from typical instances.
P. 774.
9. Whether the Commission should conform to its own previous
decisions respecting the relation of rates to distance and to single
and joint-line hauls, is a matter of administrative discretion not
reviewable by a court. P. 774.
42 F. (2d) 467, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to enjoin an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. See also, 39 F. (2d) 167.
Mr. John S. Burchmore, with whom Messrs. Luther M.
Walter and Nuel D. Belnap were on the brief, for the
Georgia Public Service Commission et al., appellants.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Mac Asbill was
on the brief, for the State Highway Board et al.,
appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate
Commerce Commission, with whom Mr. E. M. Reidy,
Assistant Chief Counsel, was on the brief, for the
United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
appellees.

GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.

767

Opinion of the Court.

765

Mr. Robert C. Alston, with whom Messrs. Frank W.
Gwathmey and W. N. McGehee were on the brief, for
the Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. et al., appellees.
Messrs. Moultrie Hitt, G. Kibby Munson, and Ben B.
Cain, by special leave of Court, filed a brief as amici
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Rates on Chert, Clay, Sand, and Gravel Within State
of Georgia, 122 I. C. C. 133, was a proceeding under § 13,
paragraphs (3) and (4), of the Interstate Commerce Act
in which the Commission was petitioned to determine
whether certain intrastate carload rates on these products,
prescribed by the Georgia Public Service Commission,
were unduly prejudicial to persons or localities engaged in
interstate commerce. Several related cases, arising out of
complaints concerning interstate rates on like products
between points in the southern territory, were heard on
the same record and dealt with in the same report.!
Therein, the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribed
certain distance scales as a maximum reasonable for interstate single-line and joint-line rates between points in
Georgia and points in other States; and found that there
was no transportation reason for the maintenance of a
different basis of intrastate carload rates for these commodities within the State of Georgia. It did not then
enter an order in respect to the intrastate rates, because it
1

The original report embraced eight cases.

It was followed by a

further report (140 I. C. C. 85) which, after a further hearing, prescribed scales for certain specific points of origin and destination in
Florida. In some respects all these orders are involved in the suit
at bar.

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

believed "that the Georgia commission will cooperate in
authorizing such revisions as might be necessary to bring

their rates into harmony with the interstate adjustment
herein approved."

122 I. C. C. 169-170.2

Thereafter the carriers applied to the Georgia Public
Service Commission for leave to establish the same distance scales for intrastate traffic. The state Commission refused the application and directed them to establish a scale differing from that applicable to interstate
traffic. With that direction the carriers complied; but
they petitioned the federal Commission to re-open its
proceedings and to determine whether the prescribed intrastate rates result, and will result, in undue prejudice
to persons or localities in interstate commerce and in unjust discrimination against such commerce. The petition to re-open the case was granted; the state authorities
were again given due notice; and various parties intervened to oppose or support the contested intrastate rates.
Upon the supplemental hearing, the Interstate Commerce
Commission found that such prejudice and discrimination had resulted, and will result, from the rates prescribed by the Georgia Commission; and ordered the carriers to establish intrastate rates "which shall not be
'In 1917 the Georgia Commission had undertaken to revise all intrastate class and commodity rates, but because of intervening federal
control its order never became effective. After extensive hearings
between 1921 and 1925, intrastate commodity rates for Georgia were
prescribed. On April 1, 1925, these rates were revised on the commodities here involved. As a result of this order, eight carriers filed
the petition which initiated the present proceeding. 122 I. C. C. 140.
In the original hearing, the federal Commission found that the
prescribed 1925 intrastate rates had not theretofore been unjustly discriminatory against interstate traffic, but that existing interstate distance scales were virtually broken down by the maintenance of
so-called depressed rates which were almost wholly unrelated to
distance, and that comprehensive interstate distance scales should be
established. 122 I. C. C. 154, 163, 169.

GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.

769

Opinion of the Court.

765

lower, distance considered, than the rates contemporaneously applicable" to the interstate commerce. 160
I. C. C. 309, 326.
To enjoin and set aside that order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to restrain the carricrs from
establishing intrastate rates pursuant thereto, two suits
(now consolidated) were brought, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219,
in the federal court for northern Georgia. The plaintiffs
are the Public Service Commission and the State Highway Board of Georgia; the defendants, the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission. Carriers operating in Georgia and shippers intervened as defendants.
The cases were heard by the District Court on an application for an interlocutory injunction, the bills and
answers alone being introduced. The injunction was denied. Georgia Public Service Comm. v. United States,
39 F. (2d) 167. After final hearing on the full record of
the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, the consolidated bill was dismissed. 42 F. (2d)
467. This appeal is from the final decree.
First. Appellants contend that the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is void, because it was
entered without the full hearing prescribed by 1§13 (4).
The argument is this. Paragraph 4 prescribes that
"Whenever

. .

. the Commission, after full hearing,

finds" a state rate to be unlawful because it causes undue
prejudice or unjust discrimination, "it shall prescribe the
rate, fare or charge, or the maximum or minimum, or
maximum and minimum, thereafter to be charged." Act
of February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 416, 41 Stat. 456, 484,
amending Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 13, 24 Stat.
379, 383. The claim is that there was no "full hearing"
before entry of the challenged order, because the Commission limited the supplemental hearing to the question of
prejudice and discrimination, and refused to consider anew
80705-31-

9

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the question of the reasonableness of the interstate scales.
It is true that when state rates are assailed on the ground
that they result in undue prejudice to interstate shippers
or discriminate against interstate commerce, the Commission must determine whether the existing interstate
rates are reasonable, as it may not require intrastate rates
to be raised above a reasonable level. State Corporation
Comm. v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co., 136 I. C. C. 173,
180. But the reasonableness of the interstate rates had
already been found when they were established in the
earlier stage of the proceedings; and at those hearings the
Georgia Commission and the Highway Board were represented. Nearly eighteen months had elapsed since the
original order,8 but no evidence was offered at the supplemental hearing to show that conditions had so changed
since the interstate rates were prescribed as to require
reconsideration of the issue. The appellants' objection
to the procedure is unfounded. 4
. Second. Appellants contend that while the order prescribes a minimum and a maximum basis for intrastate
rates, the minimum basis is so vague and uncertain as to
'This order, establishing the so-called 17517 scales, was entered on
January 21, 1927, and rates under it became effective October 1, 1927.
The supplementary order of the Georgia Public Service Commission
was entered March 13, 1928. The proceedings before the federal
Commission were reopened on June 4, 1928.
'The Commission stated: "For the purpose of determining whether
or not this [the alleged discrimination] is the fact, the proceedings
were reopened and the further hearing had. The scope of the further hearing was properly limited to the question indicated. If the
contention made . . . in this regard were sound, then our efforts to
secure co6perative action in situations such as here presented, instead
of bringing about that result, could be made the instrument of burdening this commission with endless investigations covering the same
subject matter and would result in litigation being prolonged indefinitely." 160 I. C. C. 313. Compare RailroadCommission v. Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 591.

GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.
765

771

Opinion of the Court.

render the entire order void. The order requires the
carriers to establish intrastate rates "which shall not be
lower, distance considered, than those contemporaneously applicable to interstate transportation of the same
commodities, in straight or mixed carloads, between
points in the State of Georgia, and from points in other
States in southern territory, except Florida, to points in
the State of Georgia, not exceeding the rates set forth in
the Appendix to this report and heretofore found and
prescribed as reasonable in" No. 17517 for the interstate
transportation of said commodities in straight or mixed
carloads." The claim is that this language leaves it
doubtful whether the word "contemporaneously" refers
only to rates in force at the time of the effective date of
the original order, or also to such rates as may be made
by the carriers from time to time thereafter, thereby raising or lowering future intrastate rates without the full
hearing provided for by § 13 (4). We think it clear from
the terms of the order that the interstate rates referred
to are those now applicable and maintained. Compare
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 346-347; Alabama v.
United States, 279 U. S. 229. When the order is read, as
must be done, in the light of the report, American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 627, this and other
alleged uncertainties are removed.'
'Two other ambiguities are charged. It is urged that the phrase,
"distance considered," is not complete since it does not indicate

whether the distance of joint-line or single-line haul is meant. Under
the original order establishing the 17517 scales, the rate is determined by the distance scale comprised in the shortest route over
which carload traffic can be moved without transfer of lading, ir-

respective of whether such route necessitates a single or joint-line
haul. This formula is readily applicable to intrastate shipments. It
is also argued that since several carriers are charging less than the
17517 scales, the order is uncertain because it does not indicate

whether the minimum intrastate scale is to be determined by the prescribed interstate scale or by the actual departures from it.

772

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The order here challenged is state-wide in operation;
and it governs a vast multitude of rates. Because of
divergent conditions, a doubt may well arise in applying
the rule prescribed to some particular situation. But
possible uncertainty of application in isolated instances
is not a sufficient ground for setting aside in its entirety,
by judicial process, a carefully drawn order, otherwise
valid and practicable of operation over a wide territory.
The appropriate remedy under such circumstances is an
application to the Commissibn requesting it to suspend
the operation of the order in so far as it may affect the
isolated cases; and, if necessary, to enter an independent
order dealing specifically with them. American Express
Co. v. Caidwell, 244 U. S. 617, 627. Such specific order,
if appropriate for review under the Urgent Deficiencies
Act, could be dealt with by the courts without interfering
with the operation of the order as a whole or with the
flexible administrative processes by which it may from
time to time be modified. Compare Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 591; Interstate Commerce Commission Rules of Practice, Rule XV
(c); and the practice in State Corporation Comm. v.
Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co., 136 I. C. C. 173; 161 I. C. C.
273, 286; 165 I. C. C. 31; 169 I. C. C. 728; Southern ClassRate Investigation, 100 I. C. C. 513; 109 I. C. C. 300;
113 I. C. C. 200; 128 I. C. C. 567; Eastern Class-Rate Investigation, 164 I. C. C. 314; 171 I. C. C. 481. It is true
that the Georgia Public Service Commission petitioned
the federal Commission for an interpretation of the order
now challenged. But its petition, which occupies fourteen pages of the printed record, was in effect a petition
for rehearing of the state-wide order.' Compare New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 204.
6 The state Commission requested a rehearing or a further order
that the carriers file, within a definite time, complete intrastate
schedules so that specific objection might be made. Since there were

GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.
765

773

Opinion of the Court.

Third. The appellants contend that the order is void
because there are no adequate findings of undue disparity between the rates charged for intrastate transportation in Georgia and the rates actually in force for interstate transportation; and also because there was no finding that the intrastate rates imposed an undue burden
upon the carriers' interstate revenues or that the alteration
of the intrastate rates would produce additional revenue.
The findings in the report are definite and comprehensive.
There are, moreover, illustrative specific findings which
confirm'the general ones and show that in a real sense,
and to a substantial degree, undue prejudice and discrimination to interstate shippers and localities have resulted
and will result.' The requirement of definiteness, to
which attention was called in Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 74, 86 and in Florida v.
United States, 282 U. S. 194, 208, is also met.
hundreds of shipping and receiving points, every local municipality
and county being a potential customer for these roadbuilding products,
the enforcement of this request would have involved a complete reopening of the proceedings. A few specific difficulties in application
were outlined in the state Commission's petition, but these were
offered, not for definite rulings, but merely by way of illustrating
defects in the order.
7 The findings as to prejudice to interstate shippers embraced
almost all of the commodities considered and included large-scale producers which were able to absorb rate differentials in some parts of
the State but could not compete in all parts. Moreover, rate differences were found to be highly detrimental because the commodities
here involved are among the lowest valued for shipment, and the cost
of transportation is a relatively large, and often conclusive, factor in
the cost to consumers. The Commission compiled from the exhibits a
series of tables which indicated that the rates prescribed by the state
Commission were, within the usual intrastate traffic distances, either
equal to or less than the 17517 scales for single-line hauls, and uniformly less than the interstate scales for joint-line hauls. 160 I. C. C.
314, 316. Similarity of operating and transportation conditions was
clearly established and found.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

Fourth. The appellants contend that the findings are
unsupported by the evidence. When an investigation involves shipments from and to many places under varying
conditions, typical instances justify general findings.
Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257
U. S. 563, 579. Compare Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 282 U. S. 74, 83. While the order relates
only to a few commodities, the scales of rates are statewide in operation; and they apply to shipments between
hundreds of points of origin and destination. To require
specific evidence and separate adjudication in respect to
each would be tantamount to denying the possibility of
granting relief. Compare New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q.
R. Co., loc. cit. supra. The evidence was comprehensive
in scope. It occupies 556 pages of the printed record;
and there were besides 337 exhibits.8 The proof of the
discrimination against interstate commerce was specific
and typical, and was clearly sufficient to establish the undue prejudice to interstate shippers. Compare Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318; United
States v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515.
Fifth. Appellants contend that the order was an arbitrary exercise of the Commission's limited power over
intrastate rates and that it constitutes an invasion of
the sovereign rights of the State. It is urged, among
other things, that while the findings require intrastate
rates no lower, distance considered, than those contemporaneously applicable on interstate traffic, the Commission had theretofore consistently held that distance
is not the sole controlling factor in rates; 0 and also that
gBy stipulation these, and the various tariff schedules, were not
reprinted but were brought here in their original form.
oIt is pointed out that where traffic density varies or transportation
conditions are different, the Commission has recognized that distance

GEORGIA COMM. v. UNITED STATES.
765

775

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission's allowance of higher rates for joint-line
hauls is inconsistent with uniform scales established by
it in other decisions. 0 The argument is, in effect, anj
appeal to this Court to review the exercise of administrative discretion. It is not our province to enquire into
the soundness of the Commission's reasoning, the wisdom
of its decisions, or the consistency of its conclusion with
those reached in similar cases. Western Paper Makers'
Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U. S. 268, 271. The
facts to which our attention is called furnish no support
for the charge of arbitrariness or of invasion of the sovereign rights of the State. Compare Shreveport Case, 234
U. S. 342, 354; American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244
U. S. 617, 625.
Affirmed.
alone should not be a controlling factor. But the cost elements involved in the movement of the low grade commodities here concerned
were adequately considered in the first hearing in which the reasonableness of the 17517 distance scales was determined. Those rates
took "fully into consideration the very low values of these commodities and all characteristics, transportation and otherwise, which entitle them to relatively low rates. It will be a scale, in our opinion,
from which the carriers ought not to depart." 122 I. C. C. 148. In
part as a result of the order then entered and in part by voluntary
extensions by the carriers, these scales were put into force throughout
most of the southern territory, and were also adopted intrastate in
four States. The further finding as to the similarity in transportation
conditions in interstate and intrastate shipments was amply sustained
by the evidence.
"It is argued that the federal Commission has never permitted
dual scales in similar cases; that even where allowed, the two scales
have merged after relatively short distances; and that the evidence
and findings in either report are insufficient to support a higher jointline scale for the class of commodities here in question.

