UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
589

Syllabus.

that Phillips' liability for the tax is limited to a pro rata
share of the assets finally distributed, that is, to one quarter of the unpaid deficiency. But the plain import of the
findings is that there was a single distribution which took
several months to complete; and there is no question
that the entire assets were thereby distributed. Moreover, such argument, urged for the first time here, comes
too late. For while the burden was on the Commissioner
to prove before the Board that Phillips was liable as a
transferee, the facts in the case at bar were stipulated;
and it was agreed that the date of complete liquidation
was September 27, 1919, by which time petitioners' decedent had received his full share of the distributed assets.
Since it was stipulated that the final transfers of assets
were without consideration; that they, completely exhausted the corporate assets; that the balance of the deficiencies, assessed against the corporation, remains unpaid; and that the distributive dividend fceived by
Phillips was in excess of the remaining tax liability, the
burden resting upon the Commissioner was sustained.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 504. Argued April 27, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. A petition for naturalization presents a case for the exercise of the
judicial power, to which the United States is a proper, and always a
possible, adverse party. P. 615.
2. Naturalization is a privilege, to be given, qualified or withheld as
Congress may determine, and which the alien may claim as of
right only upon compliance with the terms which Congress imposes. Id.
3. That admission to citizenship is regarded by Congress as a serious
matter is apparent from the conditions and precautions by which it
has carefully surrounded the subject. Id.

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283U.S.

4. In specifically requiring that the court shall be satisfied that the
applicant, during his residence in the United States, has behaved
as a man of good moral character, attached to the principles of
the Constitution of the United States, etc., it is obvious that Congress regarded the fact of good character and the fact of attachment to the principles of the Constitution as matters of the first
importance. P. 616.
5. The statute specifically requires examination of the applicant and
witnesses in open court and under oath, and authorizes the Government to cross-examine concerning any matter touching or in any
way affecting the right to naturalization, in order that the court
and the Government may discover whether the applicant is fitted
for citizenship; -and to that end, by actual inquiry, ascertain,
among other things, whether he has intelligence and good character;
whether his oath to support and defend the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and to bear true faith and allegiance to the
same, will be taken without mental reservation or purpose inconsistent therewith; whether his views are compatible with the obligations and duties of American citizenship; whether he will upon his
own part observe the laws of the land; whether he is willing to support the Government in time of war, as well as in time of peace,
and to assist in the defense of the country, not to the extent or in
the manner that he may choose, but to such extent and in such
manner as he lawfully may be required to do. These, at least, are
matters which are of the essence of the statutory requirements, and
in respect of which the mind and conscience of the applicant may
be probed by pertinent inquiries, as fully as the court, in the exercise
of a sound discretion, may conclude is necessary. P. 616.
6. The applicant in the case at bar is unwilling to take the oath of
allegiance, except with these important qualifications: That he will
do what he judges to be in the best interests of the country only in
so far as he believes it will not be against the best interests of
humanity in the long run; that he will not assist in the defense of
the country by force of arms or give any war his moral support
unless he believes it to be morally justified, however necessary the
war might seem to the Government of the day; that he will hold
himself free to judge of the morality and necessity of the war, and,
while he does not anticipate engaging in propaganda against the
prosecution of a war declared and considered justified by the
Government, he prefers to make no promise even as to that; and
that he is convinced that the individual citizen should have the
right to withhold his military services when his best moral judgment

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Argument for the United States.

impels him to do so. Held that he cannot be admitted to citizenship under the statute. United States v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S.
644, 649. P. 619.
7. Whether any citizen shall be exempt from serving in the armed
forces of the Nation in time of war is dependent upon the will of
Congress and not upon the scruples of the individual, except as
Congress provides. P. 623.
8. The privilege of the native-born conscientious objector to avoid
bearing arms comes not from the Constitution but from the Acts of
Congress; a naturalized citizen can have no greater privilege.

rd.
9. It is not within the province of the courts to make bargains with
those who seek naturalization. They must accept the grant and
take the oath in accordance with the terms fixed by the law, or
forego the privilege of citizenship. If one qualification of the oath
be allowed, the door is opened for others, with utter confusion as
the probable result. P. 626.
10. The Naturalization Act is to be construed with definite purpose
to favor and support the Government, and the United States is
entitled to the benefit of any doubt which remains in the mind of
the court as to any essential matter of fact. Id.
11. The burden is upon the applicant to show that his views are
not opposed to the principle that it is a duty of citizenship, by
force of arms when necessary, to defend the country against all
enemies, and that his opinions and beliefs would not prevent or
impair the true faith and allegiance required by the Act. Id.
42 F. (2d) 845, reversed; D. C. affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 832, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment denying a petition for naturalization
and directed that the applicant be admitted to citizenship.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Dodds and Messrs. Whitney North Seymour and Harry S. Ridgley were on the brief, for the
United States.
There is no valid distinction between this case and
United States v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S. 644.
The assumption in the opinion of the court below that
the respondent refused to bear arms in defense of this

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for the United States.

283 U.S.

country because of conscientious or religious scruples,
is hardly justified by the record. The stipulated
facts and his answers to questions disclose a willingness to
bear arms if he is able to satisfy himself "that the war was
morally justified." But he insists upon the reserved right
to determine that matter for himself. Thus he is not
opposed to all war or combatant service on the ground of
conscientious or religious scruples. The position of respondent is merely that of a highly educated man with
that deep sense of right and wrong which every applicant
for citizenship is presumed to possess, seeking to transfer
from Congress to himself, the right to determine whether
the defense of this country requires him to bear arms.
According to his own record statements, there is no claim
of conscientious or religious views that sets him apart from
any other applicant for citizenship, and the granting of
the right he claims would seem to require that such right
be accorded every other otherwise qualified applicant. If
this were done, the constitutional power of Congress to
declare war and raise and support armies would be
seriously affected.
It has been repeatedly held that the right of an alien to
acquire citizenship is purely statutory and that citizenship
will not be granted unless there has been strict compliance
with the statutory requirements. Maney v. United
States, 278 U. S. 17, 22; Zartarianv. Billings, 204 U. S.
170, 175; United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U. S. 472, 475;
Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 23; Johannessen v.
United States, 225 U. S. 227, 240; United States v. Ness,
245 U. S. 319.
Under the decisions the sole question to be determined
is whether the respondent has met the requirements of
the statute.
There were two respects in which he failed to do so. He
refused to take the oath of allegiance, as required by the
Act, without qualification or mental reservation. He also

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Argument for the United States.

failed to satisfy the District Court that he was and had
been for five years at least, "attached to the principles of
the Constitution of the United States and well disposed
to the good order and happiness of the same." The oath
required by the Naturalization Act, before an alien can
be admitted to citizenship, is simple and unambiguous.
Congress has not provided that it may be qualified in a
particular case because of conscientious or religious
scruples, or for any other reason. As an oath it must be
taken without mental reservations, for, with them, the
sanction implicit in an oath is gone.
The decision of this Court in Schwimmer v. United
States, 279 U. S. 644, establishes that willingness to bear
arms is an essential qualification for citizenship.
If, as said by this Court in the Selective Draft Law
Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 378, "the very conception of a just
government and its duty to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation of the citizen to render military service
in case of need and the right to compel it," there is no
basis for the contention that a prospective citizen may reserve to himself the right to determine the need or the
moral justification for such military service.
The fact that Congress in enacting the Selective Draft
Law, or in prior legislation, provided that persons who
were already citizens and as members of religious sects
had conscientious scruples against military service should
be given noncombatant duties, does not indicate a legislative intent in the Naturalization Act that aliens who
reserve to themselves the right to determine when military
service should be rendered, or the right to determine when
war shall receive their moral support, shall be admitted to
citizenship. Those conscientious objectors whom we have
among our citizens are dealt with in the best way possible,
but the naturalization statutes afford no ground for inferring that Congress intended to show the slightest toler80705-31

39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283U.S.

ance for the individual views of alien applicants which
might interfere with full and complete performance of the
duties of citizenship. See In re Roeper, 274 Fed. 490.
The Naturalization Act requires that "it shall be made
to appear to the satisfaction of the court admitting any
alien to citizenship" that he has the prescribed qualifications. The District Court was not satisfied with the proof
submitted by the respondent and denied him citizenship.
It may not be said as a matter of law that the respondent
conclusively established his right to admission, and, therefore, the Circuit Court of Appeals was without authority
to substitute its judgment for that of the District Court.
In re Clarke, 152 Atl. 92.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Charles E.
Clark, Allen Wardwell, and W. Charles Poletti were on
the brief, for respondent.
The sole issue is one of law, namely, whether the respondent, in order to satisfy the requirements of the
Naturalization Act, must promise in advance to bear arms
in any and all future wars, even against his conscientious
religious scruples.
The Constitution and laws of the United States do not
require that citizens with conscientious scruples bear
arms. A careful study of statutes and constitutions from
the earliest Colonial times to the present discloses that it
has been the fixed policy of the United States and of the
several States to exempt citizens having religious scruples
from the duty of bearing arms in violation of those
scruples.
It was with the knowledge of the treatment that the
Colonies and the original States, not only by their legislation but also by their constitutions, had accorded to
persons with conscientious religious scruples, that the
delegates to the Constitutional Convention granted to
Congress by Article I, § 8, of the Constitution, the power

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Argument for Respondent.

to raise and support armies. While the constitutional
debates show that an unsuccessful attempt was made to
limit the size of the federal army in time of peace (Elliot,
Debates, Vol. 5, p. 443), and that an amendment was
added to the draft of the Constitution submitted by the
Committee on Detail to the effect that no appropriation
for such purpose should be made for a term longer than two
years (Ibid., pp. 510, 511), the debates contain no discussion of the power of the Federal Government even to compel military service in general. It is, therefore, natural
that the records should be silent as to the privilege of a
citizen religiously scrupulous of bearing arms. Moreover, it was doubted, to say the least, by many members
of the Constitutional Convention at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution that Congress had been
granted the general power to compel military service from
its citizens.
Ratifications of the Constitution, however, by the original States, clearly show that it was considered a privilege
under our form of government that such a citizen should
not be forced to bear arms. In response to the urgent
demand of the States that the more fundamental rights of
the people should be expressly protected by the Constitution, James Madison, on June 8, 1789, presented to the
House a list of amendments including the provision that
"no person religiously scrupulous of bearing arms shall be
compelled to render military service in person." (Annals
of Congress, Gales, First Cong., Vol. 1, p. 434.)
As a result of unavoidable compromise in language and
of a desire for brevity, the suggestions that the Constitution should expressly protect the "unalienable right to
the free exercise of religion, according to 'the dictates of
conscience," "the rights of conscience" and the rights of
a "person religiously scrupulous of bearing arms" were
merged and incorporated in Article I of the Bill of Rights.
Furthermore, it should not be forgotten that Article IX

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283 U.S.

expressly provided that" the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or
disparage others retained by the people."
A review of the legislation and Congressional debates in
regard to the raising of a militia and the conscription of
soldiers further proves that the Constitution and laws of
the United States have always recognized that persons
having religious scruples against bearing arms need not

do so.
While our Constitution gives the Government the right
to compel military service from its citizens (Selective
Draft Cases, 245 U. S. 366,) the Constitution and laws of
the United States recognize that, alongside this general
principle, exists an exception-a privilege that persons
with conscientious religious scruples need not bear arms.
The decisions of this Court interpreting the First
Amendment to the Constitution also support our contention. When Congress incorporated into this Amendment
the provision-" Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; "-and when the various States ratified the
Amendment, free exercise of religion had for the people a
meaning moulded and consecrated by the country's history.
Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 342.
Religion obviously encompasses more than mere belief,
faith, sentiment or opinion. By its very force it embraces human conduct expressive of the relation between
man and God. This was clearly realized by Thomas
Jefferson in the Act Establishing Religious Freedom in
Virginia.
What constitutes free exercise of religion cannot perhaps be dogmatically determined. It is a case where this
Court must pick out a line, between conscience and a
command of the State.
The few adjudicated cases offer reliable guide posts.
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S.145; Davis v. Beason,

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

133 U. S. 333, 342; Mormon Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1; Shapiro v. Lyle, 30 F. (2d) 971; State v. Hutterische Bruder Gemeinde, 46 S. D. 189; Dole v. Allen, 4 Me.
527, 529-30.
A promise to forego a privilege enjoyed by a native-born
citizen under the Constitution and laws of the United
States cannot be exacted of an alien as a condition of his
naturalization.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals accords
with that of this Court in United States v. Schwimmer,
279 U. S.644.
Messrs. Charles P. Howland and Richard W. Hale, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief, as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent was born in the Dominion of Canada.
He came to the United States in 1916, and in 1925 declared his intention to become a citizen. His petition for
naturalization was presented to the federal district court
for Connecticut, and that court, after hearing and consideration, denied the application upon the ground that,
since petitioner would not promise in advance to bear
arms in defense of the United States unless he believed
the war to be morally justified, he was not attached to the
principles of the Constitution, The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the decree and directed the district court
to admit respondent to citizenship. 42 F. (2d) 845.
The Naturalization Act, § 4, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596 (U.
S. C., Title 8, § 372 et seq.), provides that an alien may
be admitted to citizenship in the manner therein provided
and not otherwise. By § 3 of the same act, jurisdiction to
naturalize aliens is conferred upon the district courts of the
United States and other enumerated courts of record.
U. S. C., Title 8, § 357. The applicant is required to make

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U S.

and file a preliminary declaration in writing setting forth,
among other things, his intention to become a citizen of
the United States and to renounce all allegiance to any
foreign prince, etc. Section 4 of the act (U. S. C., Title
8, §§ 381, 382) provides:
"Third. He shall, before he is admitted to citizenship,
declare on oath in open court that he will support the
Constitution of the United States, and that he absolutely
and entirely renounces and abjures all allegiance and
fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty, and particularly by name to the prince, potentate,
state, or sovereignty of which he was before a citizen or
subject; that he will support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States against all enemies,
foreign and domestic, and bear true faith and allegiance
to the same.
"Fourth. It shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court admitting any alien to citizenship that
immediately preceding the date of his application he has
resided continuously within the United States five years
at least, and within the State or Territory where such
court is at the time held one year at least, and that during that time he has behaved as a man of good moral
character, attached to the principles of the Constitution
of the United States, and well disposed to the good order
and happiness of the same. In addition to the oath of
the applicant, the testimony of at least two witnesses,
citizens of the United States, as to the facts of residence,
moral character, and attachment to the principles of the
Constitution shall be required, . .."
Section 9 of the act, 34 Stat. 599, (U. S. C., Title 8,
§ 398), requires that every final hearing upon a petition
for naturalization shall be had in open court; that every
final order upon the petition shall be under the hand of
the court; and that "upon such final hearing of such petition the applicant and witnesses shall be examined under

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

oath before the court and in the presence of the court."
By § 11, 34 Stat. 599 (U. S. C., Title 8, § 399), it is
provided that the United States shall have the right to
appear in the proceeding for the purpose of cross-examining the petitioner and witnesses produced in support of
the petition "concerning any matter touching or in any
way affecting his right to admission to citizenship, and
shall have the right to call witnesses, produce evidence,
and be heard in opposition to the granting of any petition
in naturalization proceedings."
By the petition for naturalization a case is presented
for the exercise of the judicial power under the Constitution, to which the United States is a proper, and always
a possible, adverse party. Tutun v. United States, 270
U. S. 568, 576-577.
Naturalization is a privilege, to be given, qualified or
withheld as Congress may determine, and which the alien
may claim as of right only upon compliance with the
terms which Congress imposes. That Congress regarded
the admission to citizenship as a serious matter is apparent from the conditions and precautions with which
it carefully surrounded the subject. Thus, among other
provisions, it is required that the applicant not only shall
reside continuously within the United States for a period
of at least five years immediately preceding his application, but shall make a preliminary declaration of his intention to become a citizen at least two years prior to
his admission. He must produce the testimony of witnesses as to the facts of residence, moral character and
attachment to the principles of the Constitution, and in
open court take an oath renouncing his former allegiance
and pledging future allegiance to the United States. At
the final hearing in open court, he and his witnesses must
be examined under oath, and the government may appear
for the purpose of cross-examining in respect of "any
matter touching or in any way affecting his right to

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

admission," introduce countervailing evidence, and be
heard in opposition.
In specifically requiring that the court shall be satisfied
that the applicant, during his residence in the United
States, has behaved as a man of good moral character,
attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United
States, etc., it is obvious that Congress regarded the fact
of good character and the fact of attachment to the principles of the Constitution as matters of the first importance. The applicant's behavior is significant to the extent that it tends to establish or negative these facts.
But proof of good behavior does not close the inquiry.
Why does the statute require examination of the applicant and witnesses in open court and under oath, and for
what purpose is the government authorized to cross-examine concerning any matter touching or in any way affecting the right of naturalization? Clearly, it would seem, ifi
order that the court and the government, whose power and
duty in that respect these provisions take for granted, may
discover whether the applicant is fitted for citizenship;and to that end, by actual inquiry, ascertain, among other
things, whether he has intelligence and good character;
whether his oath to support and defend the Constitution
and laws of the United States, and to bear true faith and
allegiance to the same, will be taken without mental reservation or purpose inconsistent therewith; whether his
views are compatible with the obligations and duties of
American citizenship; whether he will upon his own part
observe the laws of the land; whether he is willing to
support the government in time of war, as well as in time
of peace, and to assist in the defense of the country, not
to the extent or in the manner that he may choose, but
to such extent and in such manner as he lawfully may be
required to do. These, at least, are matters which are
of the essence of the statutory requirements, and in respect of which the mind and conscience of the applicant

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSI.
605

Opinion of the Court.

may be probed by pertinent inquiries, as fully as the court,
in the exercise of a sound discretion, may conclude is necessary.
The settled practice of the courts having jurisdiction in
naturalization proceedings has, from the beginning, been
in accordance with this view. In. re Bodek, 63 Fed. 813;
In re Meakins, 164 Fed. 334; In re Madurri, 176 Fed. 465,
466; In re Ross, 188 Fed. 685; United Slates v. Bressi,
208 Fed. 369, 372; Schurmann v. United States, 264 Fed.
917, 920; In re Sigelman, 268 Fed. 217. And it finds support in the decisions of this Court. As early as 1S30, in
Spratt v. Spratt, 4 Pet. 393, 407, Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking for the Court, said:
"The various acts upon the subject submit the decision
on the right of aliens to admission as citizens to courts of
record. They are to receive testimony, to compare it with
the law, and to judge on both law and fact." United
States v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S. 644, 649.
With the foregoing statutory provisions and the scope
of the powers and duties of the courts of first instance in
respect thereof in mind, we come to a consideration of
the case now before us. The applicant had complied with
all the formal requirements of the law, and his personal
character and conduct were shown to be good in all respects. His right to naturalization turns altogether upon
the effect to be given to certain answers and qualifying
statements made in response to interrogatories propounded to him.
Upon the preliminary form for petition for naturalization, the following questions, among others, appear: " 20.
Have you read the following oath of allegiance? [which
is then quoted]. Are you willing to take this oath in
becoming a citizen?" "22. If necessary, are you willing
to take up arms in defense of this country?" In response
to the questions designated 20, he answered "Yes." In
response to the question designated 22, he answered,
"Yes; but I should want to be free to judge of the neces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

sity." By a written memorandum subsequently filed, he
amplified these answers as follows:
"20 and 22. I am willing to do what I judge to be in
the best interests of my country, but only in so far as I
can believe that this is not going to be against the best
interests of humanity in the long run. I do not undertake to support 'my country, right or wrong' in any dispute which may arise, and I am not willing to promise
beforehand, and without knowing the cause for which
my country may go to war, either that I will or that I
will not 'take up arms in defense of this country,' however 'necessary' the war may seem to be to the Government of the day.
"It is only in a sense consistent with these statements
that I am willing to promise to 'support and defend' the
Government of the United States 'against all enemies,
foreign and domestic.' But, just because I am not certain that the language of questions 20 and 22 will bear
the construction I should have to put upon it in order to
be able to answer them in the affirmative, I have to say
that I do not know that I can say ' Yes ' in answer to these
two questions."
Upon the hearing before the district court on the petition, he explained his position more in detail. He said that
he was not a pacifist; that if allowed to interpret the oath
for himself he would interpret it as not inconsistent with
his position and would take it. He then proceeded to say
that he would answer question 22 in the affirmative only on
the understanding that he would have to believe that the
war was morally justified before he would take up arms in
it or give it his moral support. He was ready to give to the
United States all the allegiance he ever had given or ever
could give to any country, but he could not put allegiance
to the government of any country before allegiance to
the will of God. He did not anticipate engaging in any
propaganda against the prosecution of a war which the

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

government had already declared and which it considered
to be justified; but he preferred not to mako any absolute
promise at the time of the hearing, because of his ignorance of all the circumstances which might affect his judgment with reference to such a war. He did not question
that the government under certain conditions could regulate and restrain the conduct of the individual citizen,
even to the extent of imprisonment. He recognized the
principle of the submission of the individual citizen to the
opinion of the majority in a democratic country; but he
did not believe in having his own moral problems solved
for him by the majority. The position thus taken was
the only one he could take consistently with his moral
principles and with what he understood to be the moral
principles of Christianity. He recognized, in short, the
right of the government to restrain the freedom of the
individual for the good of the social whole; but was
convinced, on the other hand, that the individual citizen
should have the right respectfully to withhold from the
government military services (involving, as they probably
would, the taking of human life), when his best moral
judgment would compel him to do so. He was willing
to support his country, even to the extent of bearing arms,
if asked to do so by the government, in any war which he
could regard as morally justified.
There is more to the same effect, but the foregoing
is sufficient to make plain his position.
These statements of the applicant fairly disclose that
he is unwilling to take the oath of allegiance, except with
these important qualifications: That he will do what he
judges to be in the best interests of the country only in
so far as he believes it will not be against the best interests of humanity in the long run; that he will not
assist in the defense of the country by force of arms or
give any war his moral support unless he believes it to
be morally justified, however necessary the war might

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

seem to the government of the day; that he will hold
himself free to judge of the morality and necessity of the
war, and, while he does not anticipate engaging in propaganda against the prosecution of a war declared and
considered justified by the government, he prefers to make
no promise even as to that; and that he is convinced
that the individual citizen should have the right to withhold his military services when his best moral judgment
impels him to do so.
Thus stated, the case is ruled in principle by United
States v. Schwimmer, supra. In' that case the applicant,
a woman, testified that she would not take up arms in
defense of the country. She was willing to be treated
on the basis of a conscientious objector who refused to
take up arms in the recent war, and seemed to regard
herself as belonging in that class. She was an uncompromising pacifist, with no sense of nationalism, and only
a cosmic sense of belonging to the human family. Her
objection to military service, we concluded, rested upon
reasons other than her inability to bear arms because
of sex or age; and we held that her application for naturalization should be denied upon the ground, primarily,
that she failed to sustain the burden of showing that she
did not oppose the principle making it a duty of citizens,
by force of arms when necessary, to defend their country
against its enemies. At page 650 we said:
"That it is the duty of citizens by force of arms to defend our government against all enemies whenever necessity arises is a fundamental principle of the Constitution.
"The common defense was one of the purposes for
which the people ordained and established the ConstituWe need not refer to the numerous statutes
tion. . .
that contemplate defense of the United States, its Constitution and laws by armed citizens. This Court, in the
Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, speaking through
Chief Justice White, said (p. 378) that 'the very concep-

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

tion of a just government and its duty to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation of the citizen to render
military service in case of need . .
"'Whatever tends to lessen the willingness of citizens
to discharge their duty to bear arms in the country's defense detracts from the strength and safety of the Government. And their opinions and beliefs as well as
their behavior indicating a disposition to hinder in the
performance of that duty are subjects of inquiry under the
statutory provisions governing naturalization and are of
vital importance, for if all or a large number of citizens oppose such defense the 'good order and happiness' of the
United States can not long endure. And it is evident that
the views of applicants for naturalization in respect of
such matters may not be disregarded. The influence of
conscientious objectors against the use of military force
in defense of the principles of our Government is apt to be
more detrimental than their mere refusal to bear arms.
The fact that, by reason of sex, age or other cause, they
may be unfit to serve does not lessen their purpose or
power to influence others. It is clear from her own statements that the declared opinions of respondent as to
armed defense by citizens against enemies of the country
were directly pertinent to the investigation of her application."
And see In re Roeper, 274 Fed. 490; Clarke's Case, 301
Pa. 321; 152 Atl. 92.
There are few finer or more exalted sentiments than
that which finds expression in opposition to war. Peace
is a sweet and holy thing, and war is a hateful and an
abominable thing to be avoided by any sacrifice or concession that a free people can make. But thus far mankind has been unable to devise any method of indefinitely
prolonging the one or of entirely abolishing the other;
and, unfortunately, there is nothing which seems to afford

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

positive ground for thinking that the near future will
witness the beginning of the reign of perpetual peace for
which good men and women everywhere never cease to
pray. The Constitution, therefore, wisely contemplating
the ever-present possibility of war, declares that one of
its purposes is to "provide for the common defense." In
express terms Congress is empowered "to declare war,"
which necessarily connotes the plenary power to wage
war with tAll the force necessary to make it effective; and
"to raise . . . armies," which necessarily connotes the
like power to say who shall serve in them and in what
way.
From its very nature, the war power, when necessity
calls for its exercise, tolerates no qualifications or limitations, unless found in the Constitution or in applicable
principles of international law. In the words of John
Quincy Adams,-" This power is tremendous; it is
strictly constitutional; but it breaks down every barrier
so anxiously erected for the protection of liberty, property and of life." To the end that war may not result in
defeat, freedom of speech may, by act of Congress, be
curtailed or denied so that the morale of the people and
the spirit of the army may not be broken by seditious
utterances; freedom of the press curtailed to preserve our
military plans and movements from the knowledge of the
enemy; deserters and spies put to death without indictment or trial by jury; ships and supplies requisitioned;
property of alien enemies, theretofore under the protection of the Constitution, seized without process and converted to the public use without compensation and without due process of law in the ordinary sense of that term;
prices of food and other necessities of life fixed or regulated; railways taken over and operated by the government; and other drastic powers, wholly inadmissible in
time of peace, exercised to meet the emergencies of war.

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

These are but illustrations of the breadth of the power;
and it necessarily results from their consideration that
whether any citizen shall be exempt from serving in the
armed forces of the Nation in time of war is dependent
upon the will of Congress and not upon the scruples of
the individual, except as Congress provides. That body,
thus far, has seen fit, by express enactment, to relieve
from the obligation of armed service those persons who
belong to the class known as conscientious objectors; and
this policy is of such long standing that it is thought
by some to be beyond the possibility of alteration. Indeed, it seems to be assumed in this case that the privilege
is one that Congress itself is powerless to take away.
Thus it is said in the carefully prepared brief of respondent:
"To demand from an alien who desires to be naturalized an unqualified promise to bear arms in every
war that may be declared, despite the fact that he may
have conscientious religious scruples against doing so in
sone hypothetical future war, would mean that such an
alien would come into our citizenry on an unequal footing with the native born, and that he would be forced,
as the price of citizenship, to forego a privilege enjoyed
by others. That is the manifest result of the fixed principle of our Constitution, zealously guarded by our laws,
that a citizen cannot be forced and need not bear arms
in a war if he has conscientious religious scruples against
doing so." "
This, if it means what it seems to say, is an astonishing
statement. Of course, there is no such principle of the
Constitution, fixed or otherwise. The conscientious objector is relieved from the obligation to bear arms in
obedience to no constitutional provision, express or implied; but because, and only because, it has accorded
with the policy of Congress thus to relieve him. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

alien, when he becomes a naturalized citizen, acquires,
with one exception, every right possessed under the Constitution by those citizens who are native born (Luria v.
United States, 231 U. S. 9, 22); but he acquires no more.
The privilege of the native-born conscientious objector
to avoid bearing arms comes not from the Constitution,
but from the acts of Congress. That body may grant
or withhold the exemption as in its wisdom it sees fit; and
if it be withheld, the native-born conscientious objector
cannot successfully assert the privilege. No other conclusion is compatible with the well-nigh limitless extent
of the war powers as above illustrated, which include,
by necessary implication, the power, in the last extremity,
to compel the armed service of any citizen in the land,
without regard to his objections or his views in respect
of the justice or morality. of the particular war or of war
in general. In Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11,
29, this Court, speaking of the liberties guaranteed to the
individual by the Fourteenth Amendment, said:
"... and yet he may be compelled, by force if need
be, -against his will and without regard to his personal
wishes or his pecuniary interests, or even his religious
or political convictions, to take his place in the ranks of
the army of his country and risk the chance of being shot
down in its defense."
The applicant for naturalization here is unwilling to
become a citizen with this understanding. He is unwilling to leave the question of his future military service
to the wisdom of Congress where it belongs, and where
every native born or admitted citizen is obliged to leave
it. In effect, he offers to take the oath of allegiance
only with the qualification that the question whether the
war is necessary or morally justified must, so far as his
support is concerned, be conclusively determined by reference to his opinion.

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

Opinion of the Court.

When he speaks of putting his allegiance to the will
of God above his allegiance to the government, it is
evident, in the light of his entire statement, that he
means to make his own interpretation of the will of God
the decisive test which shall conclude the government
and stay its hand. We are a Christian people (Holy
Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 470-471),
according to one another the equal right of religious freedom, and acknowledgipg with reyerence the duty of obedience to the will of God. But, also, we are a Nation with
the duty to survive; a Nation whose Constitution contemplates war as well as peace; whose government must
go forward upon the assumption, and safely can proceed
upon no other, that unqualified allegiance to the Nation
and submission and obedience to the laws of the land,
as well those made for war as those made for peace, are
not inconsistent with the will of God.
The applicant here rejects that view. He is unwilling
to rely, as every native born citizen is obliged to do, upon
the probable continuance by Congress of the long established and approved practice of exempting the honest conscientious objector, while at the same time asserting his
willingness to conform to whatever the future law constitutionally shall require of him; but discloses a present
and fixed purpose to refuse to give his moral or armed
support to any future war in which the country may be
actually engaged, if, in his opinion, the war is not morally
justified, the opinion of the Nation as expressed by Congress to the contrary notwithstanding.
If the attitude of this claimant, as shown by his statements and the inferences properly to be deduced from
them, be held immaterial to the question of his fitness for
admission to citizenship, where shall the line be drawn?
Upon what ground of distinction may we hereafter reject
another applicant who shall express his willingness to re80705 o-3140

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

spect any particular principle of the Constitution or obey
any future statute only upon the condition that he shall
entertain the opinion that it is morally justified? The
applicant's attitude, in effect, is a refusal to take the oath
of allegiance except in an altered form. The qualifications upon which he insists, it is true, are made by parol
and not by way of written amendment to the oath; but
the substance is the same.
It is not within the province of the courts to make
bargains with those who seek naturalization. They must
accept the grant and take the oath in accordance with the
terms fixed by the law, or forego the privilege of citizenship. There is no middle choice. If one qualification of
the oath be allowed, the door is opened for others, with
utter confusion as the probable final result. As this
Court said in United States v. Manzi, 276 U. S. 463, 467:
"Citizenship is a high privilege, and when doubts exist
concerning a grant of it, generally at least, they should
be resolved in favor of the United States and against the
claimant."
The Naturalization Act is to be construed "with definite purpose to favor and support the Government," and
the United States is entitled to the benefit of any doubt
which remains in the mind of the court as to any essential matter of fact. The burden was upon the applicant
to show that his views were not opposed to "the principle that it is a duty of citizenship, by force of arms when
necessary, to defend the country against all enemies, and
that [his] opinions and beliefs would not prevent or impair the true faith and allegiance required by the Act."
United States v. Schwimmer, supra, 649, 650, 653. We
are of opinion that he did not meet this requirement.
The examiner and the court of first instance who heard
and weighed the evidence and saw the applicant and witnesses so concluded. That conclusion, if we were in

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

doubt, would not be rejected except for good and persuasive reasons, which we are unable to find.
The decree of the court of appeals is reversed and
that of the district court is affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES,

dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the judgment in this case.
It is important to note the precise question to be determined. It is solely one of law, a there is no controversy as to the facts. The question is not whether naturalization is a privilege to be granted or withheld. That
it is such a privilege is undisputed. Nor, whether the
Congress has the power to fix the conditions upon which
the privilege is granted. That power is assumed. Nor,
whether the Congress may in its discretion compel service in the army in time of war or punish the refusal to
serve. That power is not here in dispute. Nor is the
question one of the authority of Congress to exact a
promise to bear arms as a condition of its grant of naturalization. That authority, for the present purpose, may
also be assumed.
The question before the Court is the narrower one
whether the Congress has exacted such a promise. That
the Congress has not made such an express requirement
is apparent. The question is whether that exaction is
to be implied from certain general words which do not,
as it seems to me, either literally or historically, demand
the implication. I think that the requirement should not
be implied, because such a construction is directly opposed
to the spirit of our institutions and to the historic practice
of the Congress. It must be conceded that departmental
zeal may not be permitted to outrun the authority conferred by statute. If such a promise is to be demanded,
contrary to principles which have been respected as fundamental, the Congress should exact it in unequivocal

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

283U.S. '

terms, and we should not, by judicial decision, attempt
to perform what, as I see it, is a legislative function.
In examining the requirements for naturalization, we
find that the Congress has expressly laid down certain
rules which concern the opinions and conduct of the applicant. Thus it is provided that no person shall be
naturalized "who disbelieves in or who is opposed to
organized government, or who is a member of or affiliated
with any organization entertaining and teaching such, disbelief in or opposition to organized government, or who
advocates or teaches the duty, necessity, or propriety of
the unlawful assaulting or killing of any officer or officers,
either of specified individuals or of officers generally, of
the Government of the United States, or of any other
organized government, because of his or their official
character, or who is a polygamist." Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3592, § 7; 34 Stat. 596, 598; U. S. C. Tit. 8, § 364.
The respondent, Douglas Clyde Macintosh, entertained
none of these disqualifying opinions and had none of the
associations or relations disapproved. Among the specific requirements as to beliefs, we find none to the effect
that one shall not be naturalized if by reason of his religious convictions he is opposed to war or is unwilling
to promise to bear arms. In view of the questions which
have repeatedly been brought to the attention of the Congress in relation to such beliefs, and having regard to
the action of the Congress when its decision was of immediate importance in the raising of armies, the omission
of such an express requirement from the naturalization
statute is highly significant.
Putting aside these specific requirements as fully satisfied, we come to the general conditions imposed by the
statute. We find one as to good behavior during the
specified period of residence preceding application. No
applicant could appear to be more exemplary than Macintosh. A Canadian by birth, he first came to the United

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

States as a graduate student at the University of Chicago, and in 1907 he was ordained as a Baptist minister.
In 1909 he began to teach in Yale University and is now
a member of the faculty of the Divinity School, Chaplain of the Yale Graduate School, and Dwight Professor of
Theology. After the outbreak of the Great War, he
voluntarily sought appointment as a chaplain with the
Canadian Army and as such saw service at the front.
Returning to this country, he made public addresses in
1917 in support of the Allies. In 1918, he went again
to France where he had charge of an American Y. M. C. A.
hut at the front until the armistice, when he resumed
his duties at Yale University. It seems to me that the
applicant has shown himself in his behavior and character to be highly desirable as a citizen and, if such a
man is to be excluded from naturalization, I think the
disqualification should be found in unambiguous terms
and not in an implication which shuts him out and
gives admission to a host far less worthy.
The principal ground for exclusion appears to relate
to the terms of the oath which the applicant must take.
It should be observed that the respondent was willing
to take the oath, and he so stated in his petition. But, in
response to further inquiries, he explained that he was
not willing "to promise beforehand" to take up arms,
"without knowing the cause for which my country may
go to war" and that "he would have to believe that the
war was morally justified." He declared that "his first
allegiance was to the will of God "; that he was ready to
give to the United States "all the allegiance he ever had
given or ever could give to any country, but that he could
not put allegiance to the Government of any country .efore allegiance to the will of God." The question then is
whether the terms of the oath are to be taken as necessarily implying an assurance of willingness to bear arms,
so that one whose conscientious convictions or belief of su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

283U.S.

preme allegiance to the will of God will not permit him to
make such an absolute promise, cannot take the oath and
hence is disqualified for admission to citizenship.
The statutory provision as to the oath which is said
to require this promise is this: "that he will support
and defend the Constitution and laws of the United
States against all enemies, foreign and domestic, and
bear true faith and allegiance to the same." Act of
June 29; 1906, c. 3592, § 4, 34 'Stat. 596, 598; U. S. C.
Tit. 8, 1§ 381. That these general words have not been
regarded as implying a promise to bear arms notwithstanding religious or conscientious scruples, or as requiring one to promise to put allegiance to temporal
power above what is sincerely believed to be one's duty
of obedience to God, is apparent, I think, from a consideration of their history. This oath does not stand
alone. It is the same oath in substance that is required
by Act of Congress of civil officers generally (except the
President, whose oath is prescribed by the Constitution).
The Congress, in prescribing such an oath for civil officers,
acts under Article VI, section 3, of the Constitution, which
provides: "The Senators and Representatives before
mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of
the United States and of the several States, shall be bound
by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but
no religious test shall ever be required as a Qualification
to any Office or public Trust under the United States."
The general oath of office, in the form which has been
prescribed by the Congress for over sixty years, contains the provision "that I will support and defend the
Constitution of the United States against all enemies,
foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and
allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion."
(R. S. § 1757, U. S. C., Tit. 5, § 16.) It goes without

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

saying that it was not the intention of the Congress in
framing the oath to impose any religious test. When
we consider the history of the struggle for religious liberty, the large number of citizens of our country, from
the very beginning, who have been unwilling to sacrifice
their religious convictions, and in particular, those who
have been conscientiously opposed to war and who would
not yield what they sincerely believed to be their allegiance to the will of God, I find it impossible to conclude
that such persons are to be deemed disqualified for public office in this country because of the requirement of
the oath which must be taken before they enter upon
their duties. The terms of the promise "to support and
defend the Constitution of the United States against all
enemies, foreign and domestic," are not, I think, to be
read as demanding any such result. There are other and
most important methods of defense, even in time of
war, apart from the personal bearing of arms. We have
but to consider the defense given to our country in the
late war, both in industry and in the field, by workers of
all sorts, by engineers, nurses, doctors and chaplains, to
realize that there is opportunity even at such a time for
essential service in the activities of defense which do not
require the overriding of such religious scruples. I think
that the requirement of the oath of office should be read
in the light of our regard from the beginning for freedom
of conscience. While it has always been recognized that
the supreme power of government may be exerted and
disobedience to its commands may be punished, we know
that with many of our worthy citizens it would be a most
heart-searching question if they were asked whether they
would promise to obey a law believed to be in conflict
with religious duty. Many of their most honored exemplars in the past have been willing to suffer imprisonment or even death rather than to make such a promise.
And we also know, in particular, that a promise to engage

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

283 U.S.

in war by bearing arms, or thus to engage in a war believed to be unjust, would be contrary to the tenets of religious groups among our citizens who are of patriotic purpose and exemplary conduct. To conclude that the general oath of office is to be interpreted as disregarding the
religious scruples of these citizens and as disqualifying
them for office because they could not take the oath with
such an interpretation would, I believe, be generally regarded as contrary not only to the specific intent of the
Congress but as repugnant to the fundamental principle
of representative government.
But the naturalization oath is in substantially the same
terms as the oath of office to which I have referred. I
find no ground for saying that these words are to be
interpreted differently in the two cases. On the contrary,
when the Congress reproduced the historic words of the
oath of office in the naturalization oath, I should suppose
that, according to familiar rules of interpretation, they
should be deemed to carry the same significance.
The question of the proper interpretation of the oath
is, as I have said, distinct from that of legislative policy
in exacting military service. The latter is not dependent
upon the former. But the long-established practice of
excusing from military service those whose religious convictions oppose it confirms the view that the Congress in
the terms of the oath did not intend to require a promise
to give such service. The policy of granting exemptions
in such cases has been followed from colonial times and
is abundantly shown by the provisions of colonial and
state statutes, of state constitutions, and of acts of Congress. See citations in the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in the present case. 42 F. (2d) 845, 847, 848.
The first constitution of New York, adopted in 1777, in
providing for the state militia, while strongly emphasizing the duty of defense, added "That all such of the inhabitants of this state (being of the people called Quakers)

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

as, from scruples of conscience may be averse to the bearing of arms, be therefrom excused by the legislature, and
do pay to the state such sums of money, in lieu of their
personal service, as the same may, in the judgment of
the legislature, be worth." Art. XL. A large number
of similar provisions are found in other States. The
importance of giving immunity to those having conscientious scruples against bearing arms has been emphasized
in debates in Congress repeatedly from the very beginning
of our government, and religious scruples have been recognized in draft acts. Annals of Congress (Gales), 1st
Congress, vol. I, pp. 434, 436, 729, 731; vol. II, pp. 18181827; Acts of February 24, 1864, 13 Stat. 6, 9; January
21, 1903, 32 Stat. 775; June 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 166, 197;
May 18, 1917, 40 Stat. 76, 78. I agree with the statement
in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
present case that "This Federal legislation is indicative
of the actual operation of the principles of the Constitution, that a person with conscientious or religious scruples
need not bear arms, although as a member of society, he
may be obliged to render services of a non-combatant
nature."
Much has been said of the paramount duty to the State,
a duty to be recognized, it is urged, even though it conflicts with convictions of duty to God. Undoubtedly
that duty to the State exists within the domain of power,
for government may enforce obedience to laws regardless
of scruples. When one's belief collides with the power
of the State, the latter is supreme within its sphere and
submission or punishment follows. But, in the forum of
conscience, duty to a moral power higher than the State
has always been maintained. The reservation of that
supreme obligation, as a matter of principle, would unquestionably be made by many of our conscientious and
law-abiding citizens. The essence of religion is belief
in a relation to God involving duties superior to those

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

283U.S.

arising from any human relation. As was stated by Mr.
Justice Field, in Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 342: "The
term 'religion' has reference to one's views of his relations to his Creator, and to the obligations they impose
of reverence for his being and character, and of obedience
to his will." One cannot speak of religious liberty, with
proper appreciation of its essential and historic significance, without assuming the existence of a belief in supreme allegiance to the will of God. Professor Macintosh,
when pressed by the inquiries put to him, stated what
is axiomatic in religious doctrine. And, putting aside
dogmas with their particular conceptions of deity, freedom of conscience itself implies respect for an innate
conviction of paramount duty. The battle for religious
liberty has been fought and won with respect to religious
beliefs and practices, which are not in conflict with good
order, upon the very ground of the supremacy of conscience within its proper field. What that field is, under
our system of government, presents in part a question of
constitutional law and also, in part, one of legislative
policy in avoiding unnecessary clashes with the dictates of
conscience. There is abundant room for enforcing the
requisite authority of law as it is enacted and requires
obedience, and for maintaining the conception of the supremacy of law as essential to orderly government, without demanding that either citizens or applicants for citizenship shall assume by oath an obligation to regard
allegiance to God as subordinate to allegiance to civil
power. The attempt to exact such a promise, and thus
to bind one's conscience by the taking of oaths or the submission to tests, has been the cause of many deplorable
conflicts. The Congress has sought to avoid such conflicts in this country by respecting our happy tradition.
In no sphere of legislation has the intention to prevent
such clashes been more conspicuous than in relation to
the bearing of arms. It would require strong evidence

UNITED STATES v. MACINTOSH.
605

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

that the Congress intended a reversal of its policy in prescribing the general terms of the naturalization oath. I
find no such evidence.
Nor is there ground, in my opinion, for the exclusion
of Professor Macintosh because his conscientious scruples
have particular reference to wars believed to be unjust.
There is nothing new in such an attitude. Among the
most eminent statesmen here and abroad have been those
who condemned the action of their country in entering
into wars they thought to be unjustified. Agreements
for the renunciation of war presuppose a preponderant
public sentiment against wars of aggression. If, while
recognizing the power of Congress, the mere holding of
religious or conscientious scruples against all wars should
not disqualify a citizen from holding office in this country,
or an applicant otherwise qualified from being admitted
to citizenship, there would seem to be no reason why a
reservation of religious or conscientious objection to participation in wars believed to be unjust should constitute
such a disqualification.
Apart from the terms of the oath, it ig said that the
respondent has failed to meet the requirement of "attachment to the principles of the Constitution." Here, again,
is a general phrase which should be construed, not in opposition to, but in accord with, the theory and practice
of our Government in relation to freedom of conscience.
What I have said as to the provisions of the oath I think
applies equally to this phase of the case.
The judgment in United States v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S.
644, stands upon the special facts of that case, but I do
not regard it as requiring a reversal of the judgment
here. I think that the judgment below should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

JUSTICE STONE concur in this opinion.

and MR.

