STORAASLI v. MINNESOTA.

57

Argument for Appellant.

STORAASLI v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 393.

Submitted February 25, 1931.-Decided March 23, 1931.

1. When the question is involved in a claim of right under the Federal
Constitution, this Court must decide for itself whether a state tax
is a property or a privilege tax. P. 62.
2. A Minnesota statute requiring registration of motor vehicles, display of number plates, etc., provides that the "vehicles shall be
privileged to use the public streets and highways upon payment of
specified annual rates, which are in lieu of all other taxes thereon
except wheelage taxes by municipalities, and which are measured
generally by cost of vehicle less allowance for depreciation, a
minimum, however, being fixed for cars of certain weights. Held
that the tax is a privilege tax. P. 62.
3. As applied to an army officer, claiming to be a nonresident of
the State, who resides on a federal military reservation in Minnesota and has registered his car and acquired a license and license
plates therefor under and pursuant to regulations enforced on the
reservation by its commandant, the tax does not violate the equal
protection clause either (a) because the statute exempts residents
from payment of property taxes on their cars or (b) because it
allows residents of other States or countries, whose cars have been
registered at home and bear the home license plates, to operate
them on Minnesota highways for a time without paying the tax.
P. 62.
180 Minn. 241; 230 N. W. 572, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a motor vehicle
tax. The proceeding was begun by a notice of the tax
with demand for payment. Judgment was entered on this
and the taxpayer's answer.

Messrs. Charles Bunn and Pierce Butler, Jr., were on
the brief for appellant.
The automobile in question is not subject to be taxed
as property, yet the tax is a property tax. St. Louis S. W.
Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350; St. Louis Cotton Compress

Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; Quaker City Cab Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Appellee.

283 U. S.

Pennsylvania,277 U. S.'389; Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding,
272 U. S. 494; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647;
Ft. Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Arlington
Hotel Co. v. Fant, 278 U. S. 439. Distinguishing: Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v. New Jersey, 242
U. S. 160.
Even regarded as a privilege tax, the tax denies to the
appellant the equal protection of the laws by imposing on
him a greater burden than is imposed on residents of
Minnesota. Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Travis
v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60; Bethlehem
Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Hanover Ins. Co. v.
Harding, 272 U. S. 494; Terral v. Burke Const. Co., 257
U. S. 529.
It is well settled by the state decisions that as to residents this tax is in part at least a property tax. State v.
Peterson, 159 Minn. 269; State v. Oligney, 162 Minn. 302;
Raymond v. Holm, 165 Minn. 215; American Ry. Ex. Co.
v. Holm, 173 Minn. 72.
Regarded as a privilege tax, it denies to appellant the
equal protection of the laws by imposing on him a greater
burden than is imposed on residents of neighboring States.
A resident of the Reservation who so much as runs his
car across the boundary line into Minnesota and back
again must pay the total tax. The discrimination against
appellant is clear and is not justified by differences of
fact. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v.
New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412; Kansas City So. Ry. v. Road Imp.
Dist., 256 U. S. 658; Air Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71;
Hopkins v. Southern Cal. Tel. Co., 275 U. S. 393; Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32; Quaker City Cab
Co. v. Pennsylvania,277 U. S. 389.
Messrs. Henry N. Benson, Attorney General of Minnesota, James E. Markham, Deputy Attorney General, and
W. K. Montague, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief for appellee.

STORAASLI v. MINNESOTA.
57

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By chapter 57 of the General Laws of Minnesota of
1889, that State ceded to the United States jurisdiction of
the territory constituting the Fort Snelling Military Reservation, which lies entirely within the boundaries of Minnesota, immediately adjacent to the city limits of Minneapolis and St. Paul. Its greatest length from north to south
is three and three-quarters miles, and fromi east to'west
two miles. The cession was upon condition that the public highways across the reservation be kept open for public
traffic. Concurrent jurisdiction to serve process, civil and
criminal, of the State, and to arrest persons charged with
offenses against the laws of the State, was retained. There
was no other limitation.
The reservation is occupied by the military forces of the
United States, and, save as above noted, jurisdiction
therein is exercised by the Federal Government to the
exclusion of the State.
The Constitution of Minnesota provides 1 that a member of the military forces of the United States shall not
be deemed a resident of the State as a consequence of
being stationed within its borders. It also grants' to
the legislature power to tax motor vehicles using the public streets and highways of the State on a more onerous
basis than other personal property, such tax to be in lieu
of all other taxes thereon, except wheelage taxes, so called,
which may be imposed by any borough, city or village.
Any such law may, in the discretion of the legislature, provide for the exemption from taxation of any motor vehicle owned by a nonresident transiently or temporarily
using the streets and highways of the State. The proceeds of such tax are to be paid into the Trunk Highway
Sinking Fund.

'Art. 7, § 4.
'Art. 16, § 3.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

By virtue of this constitutional authority, the legislature enacted a law providing for the imposition of a motor
vehicle registration tax.' Pursuant to the statute, the
Secretary of State filed in the office of the clerk of the
district court of Ramsey County a list of motor vehicles
on which the tax and penalty for 1929 appeared delinquent. The appellant's automobile was included in the
list. Appellant filed answer to the notice, denying that
any tax or penalty was due the State; alleging that he
was the sole owner of the .vehicle, was a nonresident of
the State of Minnesota, a member of the military forces
of the United States quartered and resident upon the
Fort Snelling Reservation, that the vehicle had not been
operated for hire, nor been present within the jurisdiction
of Minnesota upon its roads, highways or streets for any
period of ten days, and was never operated thereon, except
as a visitor for brief periods.
After averring that the reservation is solely under the
control of the United States and that all governmental
functions, including police power, traffic control, and
maintenance of highways, are vested in and exercised by
the commanding officer under the laws of the United
States, to the total exclusion of control by the State, and
that the reservation is no part of the State of Minnesota,
the answer states that the commanding officer has created
and maintains, pursuant to his powers, a complete system
of automobile registration, with rules and regulations, and
that the vehicle in question is duly registered under such
laws and regulations and has license plates and a registration certificate issued by federal authority, which has at
all times been carried. It asserts appellant's willingness
and ability to comply with all the laws of Minnesota applicable to nonresidents who have occasion to use its roads
and streets, and that he has so notified the state officials,
'Mason's Minn. Stat. 1927, §§ 2672-2704, incl., as amended S. L.
1929, c. 335.

STORAASLI v. MINNESOTA.
57

Opinion of the Court.

and has complied with all the traffic laws and regulations
of the State when operating upon its highways.
On appellee's motion, judgment was entered on the
pleadings for the tax and penalty. Upon appeal, the Supreme Court of Minnesota affirmed the judgment.' The
appellant brought the case to this Court, having at all
stages in the courts below asserted rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, which were passed on and determined adversely to his contentions. He claims that the
tax in question is a property tax, and that the State may
not tax property located on the Fort Snelling Reservation.
In the alternative he says, if the act levies a privilege tax,
as applied to him, it deprives him of equal protection of
the laws by imposing upon him a greater burden than that
laid on residents of Minnesota, or residents of neighboring
States.
The argument that the tax is one on property is founded
on the fact that it is measured by the cost of the motor
car (less certain annual allowances for depreciation), and
that it is in lieu of all other taxes thereon except wheelage
taxes levied by municipalities.' It is to be remarked,
however, that a minimum tax is prescribed for cars of
certain weights, irrespective of value; that the act levies
the tax on vehicles "using the public streets or highways
in the State "; and provides that they" shall be privileged
to use the public streets and highways on the basis and at
6
the rates for each calendar year as follows .
The state court held that "the tax is both a property
tax and a privilege tax. It is a property tax in the sense
that it exempts the vehicle licensed from other taxation
as property. It is in lieu of other taxes. But it is equally
clear that it is a privilege tax.

.

.

.

The character of

a privilege tax extends to the whole of the tax."
'180 Minn. 241; 230 N. W. 572.
'Mason's Minn. Stat. 1927, § 2674.
6 Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

This Court, while bound by the state court's decision as
to the meaning and application of the law, decides for
itself the character of the tax, and whether as applied to
the appellant it affects his constitutional rights. We
think it plain that the levy is an excise for the privilege of
using the highways.
It is denominated a privilege tax. The car cannot use
the highways unless it is paid. The statute contains the
usijal provisions for registration, issuance arld display of
number plates, &c.' Residents of other States who desire
to use the highways for more than the period specified in
certain sections extending the privilege, must register their
vehicles and pay the same tax as residents of Minnesota."
The claim that the State is attempting to tax appellant's
property situate without its jurisdiction cannot be sustained.
Viewed as imposing a privilege tax, the statute is alleged
to discriminate against appellant in favor of residents, because it exempts vehicles licensed under it from payment
of property taxes. But the exemption is a proper and
lawful one, and appellant cannot make out a discrimination against him from the mere fact that he is not in a
position to claim it. Doubtless in the case of every taxing
act which creates exemptions there are those who cannot
bring themselves within the exempt class, but this does
not deprive them of the equal protection of the law.
Finally, appellant says the act accords certain privileges
to residents of neighboring States, which are denied to
him, and hence the law operates unequally as against him.
The section of the statute to which he refers provides that
vehicles owned by nonresidents, properly registered in the
country or State of the owner, and carrying license number plates of such State, are authorized to use Minnesota
'Ibid., § 2675.
'Mason's Minn. Stat. 1927, § 2684.

STORAASLI v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

57

highways for ten days without registration or tax, and
upon making proper filing with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles within the ten-day period, are authorized to use
the highways of the State for a total period of ninety days
without any payment whatever.' Appellant says that, as
he is a nonresident of Minnesota, has registered his car
in the Fort Snelling Reservation, as required by the authorities thereof, carries license number plates issued by
such authorities, and has offered to make proper filing in
Minnesota, to refuse him the privilege accorded to other
nonresidents deprives him of the equal protection of the
law.
But, as was pointed out in Kane v. New Jersey, 242
U. S. 160, the absence of any such provision in favor of
nonresidents, would not render the law discriminatory.
A resident of the State who desires to operate his car for
a single day is liable for the entire year's tax. If the
State determines to extend a privilege to nonresidents, it
may with propriety limit the concession to those who
have duly registered their vehicles in another State or
country. The mere fact that appellant has not so registered his car and cannot, therefore, bring himself within
the class benefited by the exemption, does not create a
discrimination against him. The State was not bound
to make a classification with respect to exemptions for
him and those similarly situated. Nothing said in Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, establishes any such
principle. Nor are the authorities which forbid a difference in the method of calculating the amount of the tax
itself depending solely on the fact of residence within or
without the State relevant to the issue in this case.1 We
IIbid.

"0Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60; Bethlehem
Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Hanover Fire Ins. Co. v.
Harding, 272 U. S. 494.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

find no improper classification or discrimination. The
judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. UTAH.
No. 14, original. Argued February 25, 26, 1931.--Decided April 13,
1931.
1. The United States sued the State of Utah to quiet title to land
forming the beds of certain sections of the Colorado River and
tributaries thereof within the State. Utah claimed title upon the
ground that the streams, at the places in question, are navigable
waters of the State. Held:
(1) In accordance with the constitutional principle of the equality
of States, the title to the beds of rivers in Utah passed to that
State when it was admitted to the Union, January 4, 1896, if the
rivers were then navigable; and, if they were not then navigable,
it remained in the United States. P. 75.
(2) The question of navigability is a federal question. Id.
(3) This is so, although it is undisputed that the portions of the
rivers under consideration are not navigable waters of the United
States, that is, they are not navigable in interstate or foreign commerce, and the question is whether they are navigable waters of
the State of Utah. Id.
(4) In view of the physical characteristics of the rivers in question, findings and conclusions as to navigability are properly confined to the particular sections to which the controversy relates.
P. 77.
(5) The crucial question-a question of fact--is whether these
stretches of river in their ordinary condition and at the time of
the admission of the State, were susceptible of use as highways of
commerce. P. 82.
(6) To this question, evidence of actual navigation, after as
well as before the admission of the State, is relevant. Id.
(7) But where the actual navigation of a stream has been infrequent and of limited nature, and this is explained by conditions

