398

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

FRANK L. YOUNG CO. v. McNEAL-EDWARDS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.

No. 490. Argued April 24, 27, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
A Massachusetts statute provides that if an action be brought in the
State by a nonresident, he shall be held to answer any action
brought against him there by the defendant if the demands are of
such nature that judgment or execution in the one case may be set
off against judgment or execution in the other. The writ in such
cross-action may be served on the attorney of record for the plaintiff in the "original action." A resident of Massachusetts sued a
resident of another State for breach of warranty in a sale of fish oil
and attached the drums, belonging to the nonresident, in which the
oil had been shipped. The nonresident then sued the resident, in
Massachusetts, for conversion of the drums; and thereupon the
resident, dismissing the attachment suit, again sued the nonresident,
on the same cause of action for breach of warranty, and served the
summons on the attorney for the nonresident in the suit brought by
the latter. Held:
1. The service was good in personam under the statute mentioned.
P. 400.
2. The statute, by virtue of the Conformity Act, applies in the
federal court; and that court acquired jurisdiction over the nonresident through service on his attorney of record. Id.
3. This application of the state law is constitutional. P. 401.
42 F. (2d) 362; 43 id. 99, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 831, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed the District
Court, in a suit on a contract, and dismissed the cause
for want of jurisdiction. See'also 35 F. (2d) 829.
Mr. W. Barton Leach, with whom Messrs. John G.
Palfrey and Charles F. Albert were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Asa P. French, with whom Mr. Jonathan W. French
was on the brief, for respondent.

YOUNG CO. v. McNEAL-EDWARDS CO.
398

399

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents the question whether under the
Conformity Act, U. S. Code, Title 28, § 724, and the
Massachusetts statute, Gen. Laws, c. 227, §§ 2, 3, the
District Court acquired jurisdiction over the respondent.
The Conformity Act provides that "the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes,
• . . in the district courts, shall conform, as near as may
be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of
proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the courts
of record of the State within which such district courts
are held." By the Massachusetts Laws, § 2, supra, "If
an action is brought by a person not an inhabitant of
the commonwealth . . . he shall be held to answer to any
action brought against him here by the defendant in the
former action, if the demands are of such a nature that
the judgment or execution in the one case may be set
off against the judgment or execution in the other." By
§ 3 "The writ in such cross action may be served on the
attorney of record for the plaintiff in the original action."
In this case the McNeal-Edwards Company, a corporation of Virginia, sold to the Frank L. Young Company
of Massachusetts 1107 drums of Menhaden oil; buyers
to return the drums. The buyers later sued the Virginia
Company for breach of warranty of quality and attached
the drums, but the attachment was inadequate security
for damages and was the limit of the jurisdiction. Later
the Virginia Corporation sued the buyers for the conversion of the drums, and thereupon at a still later date
the buyers brought a second suit against the Virginia
Corporation for the same cause of action as before, had
the writ served upon the attorney of record in the Virginia Corporation's suit, and discontinued its former action. The petitioner, in short, is plainly within the
Massachusetts statute, for although there is some sugges-

OCToBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

tion that by reason of the petitioner's former suit the
suit by the Virginia Corporation was not the 'original
action'within § 3 supra, we regard this as a mere quibble,
and have no doubt that the Massachusetts law applies
if the Conformity Act brings it in. The case was dismissed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for want of jurisdiction.
42 F. (2d) 362; 43 F. (2d) 99. A writ of certiorari was
granted by this Court.
We have to consider the Massachusetts law so far as
it applies to counterclaims arising out of the same contract
that was sued upon by the Virginia Company. If there
should be any objections to a wider application, they do
not affect the respondent and are not open here. Hatch
v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160. Thus limited, the law
is only a slight extension of the doctrine of recoupment
recognized in Massachusetts apart from statute. Home
Savings Bank v. Boston, 131 Mass. 277, 280. We take it
that there is no doubt that the Massachusetts principle
would be applied in the Courts of the United States, Dushane v. Benedict, 120 U. S. 630; and no greater doubt if
the principle were established by a code. Clement v.
Field, 147 U. S.467, 475. Pacific Express Co. v. Malin,
132 U. S. 531. Higgins v. McCrea, 116 U. S. 671. Giving the counterclaim the formality of a separate suit
hardly is a sufficient reason for refusing to apply the local
policy and law. Arkwright Mills v. Aultman & Taylor
Machinery Co., 128 Fed. 195, 196. Mr. Langdell observes
that there is no necessity for such ceremony in the nature of
things "for, the plaintiff being already in court qua plaintiff by his own voluntary act, it is reasonable to treat him
as being there for all the purposes for which justice to the
defendant requires his presence." Langdell, Eq. Pleading, ch. 5, § 119. The characterization of the contrary
doctrine as pernicious by Mr. Justice Miller in Partridge
v. Insurance Co., 15 Wall. 573, is repeated in Chicago &

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO. v. POWE.

401

Statement of the Case.

398

North Western Ry. Co. v. Lindell, 281 U. S. 14, 17. We
see no reason to doubt the constitutionality of the present
application of the state law. The policy of it is embodied
in equity rule 30. See Aldrich v. Blatchford, 175 Mass.
369; 56 N. E. 700.
The case is within the jurisdiction of the District Court
in all other respects if the respondent has been served with
process effectively. We are of opinion that the service
was good and that the case should not have been dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v. POWE,
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 600. Argued May 1, 1931.--Decided May 18, 1931.
1. In an action under the Employers' Liability Act for death of a
switchman, killed while on the outside of a moving car by being
brought into contact with a semaphore near the track, there is no
ground to charge negligence in placing the semaphore too near the
track when the distance exceeds the minimum permitted by the
state railroad commission, and when it does not appear that to
make the place safe by increasing the distance would have been
practicable for the railroad company. P. 402.
2. The question in such cases is not whether a reasonable insurance
of employees against injury should be thrown upon the traveling
public through the railroads, but whether the railroad is liable
under the statute according to the principles of the common law
regarding tort. P. 403.
3. The denial of a writ of certiorari imports no expression of opinion
upon the merits of the case. Id.
159 S. E. 473, reversed.

282 U. S. 836, to review a judgment affirming a judgment for the present respondent in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
CERTIORARI,

80705-31-

26

