1206

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

EDGAR

ET AL. v.

404 U. S.

UNITED STATES

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-95.

Decided July 29, 1971

Stay of Court of Appeals' judgment affirming District Court's order
directing applicants to take affirmative, action to eliminate all
vestiges of discrimination from Texas public schools is denied, as
the order does no more than endeavor to realize the directive of
the Fourteenth Amendment and the decisions of this Court that
racial discrimination in the public schools must be eliminated root

and branch.
See: .321 F. Supp. 1043 and 330 F. Supp. 235.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

Circuit Justice.

The Commissioner of Education of the State of Texas
and the Texas Education Agency make applic-tion for
a stay of the judgment of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirming the order of the
United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Texas, which directed the applicants to take certain
affirmative action to eliminate all vestiges of discrimination from the public schools within the State. The
State of Texas provides for the supervision of state
education and the distribution of state educational funds
through the Texas Education Agency under the direction of the Commissioner of Education. The United
States brought this action against applicants on March 6,
1970, to enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C. ยง 2000d et seq., and the Fourteenth Amenduient of the United States Constitution.
The District Court, on April 20, 1971, issued its order
directing the Commissioner and the Texas Education
Agency to take certain specified steps to withhold funds
and accreditation from school districts which failed to

EDGAR v. UNITED STATES
1206

Opinion in Chambers

meet their constitutional obligation to eliminate remaining vestiges of the dual school system. The District
Court order dealt with the areas of student transfers,
changes in school district boundaries, school transportation, extracurricular activities, faculty and staff practices,
student assignments, curricula and compensatory education. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit, with certain minor alterations, unanimously affirmed the order of the District Court. The Commissioner and the Texas Education Agency then applied to
the Fifth Circuit for a stay of its order pending action by
this Court on the applicants' petition for certiorari yet
to be filed. The Court of Appeals refused the stay. The
application for stay has now been presented to me as
the Circuit Justice for the Fifth Circuit.
It would be very difficult for me to suspend the order
of the District Court that, in my view, does no more
than endeavor to realize the directive of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the decisions of this Court that racial
discrimination in thb public schools must be eliminated
root and branch. Green v. County School Board of New
Kent County, 391 U. S. 430, 437-438 (1968); see Swann
v. Charlotte-MecklenburgBoard of Education, 402 U. S.
1 (1971); United States v. Montgomery County Board
of Education, 395 U. S. 225 (1969).
I cannot say
that four Members of this Court are likely to vote
to hear this case and undo what has been ordered by the
District Court and Court of Appeals below.
My views need not be expressed at length. The question of granting certiorari will have to be decided by this
Court when the petition properly reaches us. For me,
as one Member of this Court, to grant a stay now would
mean inordinate delay and would unjustifiably further
postpone the termination of the dual school system that
the order below was intended to accomplish. The Dis-

1208

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

trict Court's opinion and order are comprehensive and
well reasoned. In my judgment the facts found by the
District Court, which do not appear to be materially
disputed by the applicants, fully justify the order.
Under these circumstances I deny the stay and let
the matter await final decision before the full Court when
the petition for certiorari is properly presented for consideration. The stay is denied.
It is so ordered.

