JEFFERSON PARISH SCHOOL BOARD v. DANDRIDGE

1219

Opinion in Chambers

JEFFERSON PARISH SCHOOL BOARD

ET AL. V.

DANDRIDGE ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-231.

Decided August 30, 1971

There being no more than the normal difficulties incident to the
transition from a dual to a unitary school system, there is no
basis for staying the District Court's order to desegregate the
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, public schools, which have been involved in litigation for seven years.

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, Circuit Justice.

On August 10, 1971, the Federal District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana ordered the Jefferson Parish
School Board to implement, beginning on August 31,
1971, the plan for desegregation of the public schools of
said parish which had been submitted to the court eight
days earlier. Having been denied stays of that order by
the District Court and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the Board seeks a stay here.
Hearing was had in the District Court on the feasibility
of beginning the desegregation process without delay.
The evidence there adduced demonstrated that the parish
would undoubtedly experience those difficulties normally
incident to the transition from a dual to a unitary school
system. Recognizing the existence of these difficulties,
the District Court nonetheless correctly applied the law
as developed by this Court in concluding:
"The fact that a temporary, albeit difficult, burden
may be placed on the School Board in the initial
administration *of the plan or the fact that some
schools may not begin the school year in a routinely
smooth fashion does not justify in these circumstances the continuation of a less than unitary school
system and the resulting denial of an equal educa-

1220

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

tional opportunity to a certain segment of the Parish
school children."
The devastating, often irreparable, injury to those children who experience segregation and isolation was noted
17 years ago in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S.
483 (1954). This Court has repeatedly made it clear
beyond any possible doubt that, absent some extraordinary circumstances, delay in achieving desegregation
will not be tolerated. See, e. g., Alexandqr v. Holmes
County Board of Education, 396 U. S. 19 (1969); Carter
v. West Feliciana Parish School Board, 396 U. S. 226
(1969); Keyes v. Denver School District, 396 U. S. 1215
(1969) (BRENNAN, J., in chambers).
There are no unusual circumstances in this case. The
schools involved have been mired in litigation for seven
years. Whatever progress toward desegregation has
been. made apparently, and unfortunately, derives only
from judicial action initiated by those persons situated
as perpetual plaintiffs below. The rights of children to
equal educational opportunities are not to be denied, even
for a brief time, simply because a school board situates
itself so as to make desegregation difficult.
The stay is accordingly denied.

