GOMPERTS v. CHASE

1237

Opinion in Chambers

GOMPERTS ET AL. V. CHASE ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION PENDING FILING OF A
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI

No. A-245.

Decided September 10, 1971

Although Sequoia Union High School District in San Mateo, California, maintains school facilities for blacks that are inferior to
those that it maintains for whites, in apparent violation of Plessy
v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 539, application for a preliminary injunction pending petition for a writ of certiorari is denied where
school is scheduled to open in three days and where the school
schedule may be imperiled by further delay.
See: 329 F. Supp. 1192.

Circuit Justice.
I have reluctantly concluded to deny the motion for
a preliminary injunction. Though the equities are on
the side of the applicants, the application comes late,
the school year opens Monday next, and the alternative
to the present inadequate plan may be complete confusion. An opinion is being filed in Washington, D. C.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

William 0. Douglas
Yakima, Washington
This case-before me on a motion for a preliminary
injunction which both the District Court and the*Court
of Appeals for the.Ninth Circuit have denied-presents
novel and unresolved issues of constitutional law, which
have been argued at the hearing this day at Yakima,
Washington. The Board of Trustees of Sequoia Union
High School District in San Mateo County, California,
designed and approved a high school integration plan
dated June 24, 1970, to become effective September 13,
1971, when the school year opens. It was designed to
effect the substantial integration of blacks, Chicanos,

1238

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

and whites. The county was divided in opinion on the
matter, and as the result of an election in the spring
of 1971, new school trustees were chosen who helped
make up a new majority which modified the Board's
earlier action. That is the plan of the Board, dated
July 7, 1971. It is argued that the modifications will
substantially restore the prior-existing segregated high
school regime. It is said in reply that the modified
plan is based on voluntary transfers which it is hoped
will mean that some 600 whites will move into black
schools and some 400 blacks will move into white schools.
The mandatory aspect of the June 24, 1970, plan was
suspended for the school year 1971-1972. This action
was brought by blacks and whites under 42 U. S. C.
ยง 1983 and 28 U. S. C. ยง 1343 to end the racially segregated school regime. The case has not been heard on
the merits and, as I have indicated, the new school year
starts in less than a week.
If this were the classical de jure school segregation, the
injunction plainly should be granted. But the precise
contours of de jure segregation have not been drawn by
the Court. Historically, it meant the existence of statecreated dual school systems. That is to- say, de jure
segregation was a mandate by the legislature, carried
into effect by a school board, whereby students were
assigned to schools solely by race. E. g., Gong Lum v.
Rice, 275 U. S. 78; Cumming v. Richmond County Board
of Education, 175 U. S. 528. As I indicated the other day
in my opinion in Guey Heung Lee-v. Johnson, ante, p.
1215, California had such a dual system until recent years.
In the Guey Heung Lee case it was apparent that the
force of that custom had not been spent even though
the statute providing for the establishment of separate
schools had. been repealed, because the San Francisco
School Board continued meticulously to draw racial lines
in spite of the repeal of the statute.

GOMPERTS v. CHASE
1237

Opinion in Chambers

So far as I can tell, a different history has prevailed in
San Mateo County, or at least it is not apparent from
this record that California's earlier dual school system
shaped the existing San Mateo school system. The
main argument now is that other state action created
de jure segregation in San Mateo County:
(1) California's Bayshore Freeway effectively isolated the blacks and resulted in a separate and
predominantly black high school.
(2) State planning groups fashioned and built
the black community around that school.
(3) Realtors-licensed by the State--kept "white
property" white and "black property" black.
(4) Banks chartered by the State shaped the
policies that handicapped blacks in financing homes
other than in black ghettoes.
(5) Residential segregation, fostered by state enforced restrictive covenants, resulted in segregated
schools.
Whether any of these factors add up to de jure segregation in the sense of that state action we condemned
in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, is a question not yet decided.
If I assume, arguendo, that they do not establish de
jure segregation, another troublesome question remains.
There can be de facto segregation without the State's
being implicated in the actual creation of the dual system.' But even when there is de facto segregation, the
problem is not necessarily resolved.
Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, decided in 1896, held
that public facilities could be separate for the races provided they were equal. If San Mateo County maintains a public school for blacks that is not equal to
the one it maintains for whites, is there a remedy?
There is a showing here that the State is maintaining a

1240

1OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

segregated school system for the blacks and Chicanos
that is inferior to the schools it maintains for the whites.
Prior to Brown v. Board of Education, we held over
and again that a black offered inferior public education to that which the State gave the whites must be
admitted to the white school. McLaurin v. Oklahoma
State Regents, 339 U. S. 637; Sweatt v. Painter,339 U. S.
629; Sipuel v. Board of Regents of the University of
Oklahoma, 332 U. S. 631; Missouri ex rel. Gaines v.
Canada, 305 U. S. 337.
Must not a school board fashion a plan that makes the
majority race, and not the minority races alone, share in
the unequal facilities designed by the State for part of
its educational regime and make sure that the minorities,
to the extent feasible, have the opportunity to share the
superior facilities with the majority?
There is evidence in this case that Ravenswood High
School-the one that is predominantly black-is an inferior school. In fact, the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare reported in 1969 that: "The
quality of educational services and opportunities provided at Ravenswood High School does not meet the
level of that provided in the other schools in the District." The California Association of School Administrators, the California School Boards Association, and
the California Teachers Association in May 1969 made
a similar report entitled Sequoia Union High School
District. The plan of June 24, 1970, was designed to
rectify that situation. The plan of July 7, 1971, however, modified the earlier plan and takes, at most, only
minimal steps towards equalizing the educational opportunities at the 4istrict's high schools.
The remedies, if any, that are available where school
segregation is de facto and not de jure are not yet clear.
But Plessy v. Ferguson has not yet beeni overruled on
its mandate that separate facilities be equal. Where

GOMPERTS v. CHASE
1237

Opinion in Chambers

public schools for blacks or Chicanos are not equal to
schools for whites, I see no answer to the argument that
school boards can rectify the situation among the races
by designing a system whereby the educational inequalities are shared by the several races. That seems to me
to be an acceptable alternative to removing the inequalities through an upgrading of the subnormal school.
As I understand this case, the July 7, 1971, plan presumptively collides with tihe basic principle of equal
protection expressed in Plessy v. Ferguson. Under normal circumstances the injunction should therefore issue.
The difficulty is that this is September 10 and the San
Mateo schools open on September 13. No one knows
what plan would be substituted by the school board for
the July 7, 1971, plan should I issue the stay. The
June 24, 1970, plan is no longer a plan of the school
board. The time is so short that further delay may indeed imperil the new school year. I have, therefore,
reluctantly concluded that the lateness of the hour makes
it inappropriate for mne to grant the interim relief.
It is so ordered.

