WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT

1221

Opinion in Chambers

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH COUNTY BOARD
OF EDUCATION v. SCOTT ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO STAY ORDER OF COURT OF APPEALS
PENDING WRIT OF CERTIORARI
No. A-233 (71-274).

Decided August 31, 1971

Following the decision in Swann v. Board of Education, 402 U. S. 1,
the Court of Appeals remanded this school desegregation case to
the District Court with instructions to obtain a new plan from
the School Board to give effect to Swann. The Board, considering
itself required to do so, submitted, under protest, a revised plan
designed "to achieve a racial balance" throughout the system. On
July 26, 1971, the District Court accepted the plan for the school
year commencing August 30, 1971. On August 23 the Board
applied for the instant stay, to which response was received on
August 26. The Board has stated, as to travel time, merely that
the "average time" of travel is one hour. The stay is denied, as
on this inadequate record it cannot be determined with assurance
whether the lower courts correctly read Swann's holdings negating
any constitutional requirements of racial balance or racial quotas
and suggesting limits for student transportation.
See: 444 F. 2d 99.

Circuit Justice.
The Board of Education of the Forsyth County, North
Carolina, school system has applied for a stay of a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit, dated June 10, 1971, and subsequent
orders of the United States District Court for the Middle
District of North Carolina entered pursuant thereto,
pending disposition of the Board's petition for writ of
certiorari to review the decision of the Court of Appeals.
The operative order of the District Court is dated July 26,
1971; it adopts a plan for pupil assignment designed to
desegregate the public schools of Forsyth County.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE BURGER,

1222

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

The affected schools were already scheduled to open
Monday, August 30.
The application for a stay was filed August 23, 1971,
and the response thereto on August 26, 1971, making
that date the earliest possible date for this Court or a
Justice to act on the stay.
The background is of some importance.
Respondents, who are Negro pupils and parents in the
school system, commenced action alleging that the School
Board was operating a dual school system, and seeking
appropriate relief. The school system embraces both
rural and urban areas in a county school system. The
District Court found that in December 1969 there were
67 schools in the system with approximately 50,000 students. The total student population was 72.5% white
and 27.5% Negro. Of the schools, 15 were all-Negro
and seven were all-white. Of the remaining schools, 31
had less than 5% of the minority race. The school system was operated under a geographical attendance zone
system, with freedom-of-choice transfer provisions for all
students regardless of race.
Prior to. this Court's holding in Swann v. CharlotteMecklenburg Board of Education, 402 U. S. 1 (1971),
the plaintiffs submitted a plan devised by their consultant,
Dr. Larsen; it was designed to achieve as closely as possible a mathematical racial balance in all of the schools
of the system equal to that in -the system as a whole. It
employed satellite zoning and extensive cross-busing.
The District Court rejected the plan as not constitutionally required and unduly burdensome.
The School Board then submitted its plan for the
1970-1971 school year to the court for approval. It
retained geographic zoning and freedom-of-choice transfer provisions, but with certain modifications allowing
priority to majority-to-minority transfers and increasing
the racial "balance" of severar schools. The District

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT
1221

1223

Opinion in Chambers

Court in 1970 approved the Board's plan, subject to
alterations which prevented minority-to-majority transfers, made changes affecting three attendance zones, and
added a requirement that the Board create "innovatiqe"
programs designed to increase racial contact of students.
In rejecting the Larsen plan and approving the modified Board plan, the District Court found that the
boundaries of the attendance zones had been drawn in
good faith and without regard to racial considerations,
and to ensure that, so far as possible, pupils attended
the schools nearest their home, taking into account physical barriers, boundaries, and obstacles that might endanger children in the course of reaching their schools.
The District Court at that time was of the view that
the "neighborhood" school concept could not be the basis
of assignment if residence in a neighborhood was denied
or compelled because of race, but went on to find that
the racial concentration of Negroes *as not caused by
public or private discrimination or state action but by
economic factors and the desire of Negroes to live in
their own neighborhoods rather than in predominately
white neighborhoods. That finding has not been reviewed. Finally, the District Court found that the
School Board had acted consistently in good faith, and
was of the view that good faith "is a vital element in
properly evaluating local judgment in devising compliance plans." 317 F. Supp. 453, 476 (1970).
The District Court's order was rendered in the summer
of 1970 and all parties appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. While that appeal was
pending, this Court decided Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, 402 U. S. 1 (1971), and related
cases. See Davis v. Board of. School Commissioners of
Mobile County, 402 U. S. 33 (1971); McDaniel v. Barresi,

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

402 U. S. 39 (1971); North CarolinaState Board of Education v. Swann, 402 U. S. 43 (1971).
In light of the Swann holding, the Court of Appeals by
per curiam opinion en banc remanded this and several
other cases to their respective district courts with instructions to receive from the school boards new plans
"which will give effect to Swann and Davis." 444 F. 2d
99, 100 (1971). In its remand, the Court of Appeals
stated in part:
"It is now clear, we think, that in school systems
that have previously been operated separately as
to the races by reason of state action, 'the district
judge or school authorities should make every effort
to achieve the greatest possible degree of actual desegregation, taking into account the practicalities of
the situation.' Davis, supra, at 37.
"If the district court approves a plan achieving less
actual desegregation than would be achieved under
an alternate proposed plan it shall find facts that
are thought to make impracticable the achieving of
a greater degree of integration, especially if there
remain any schools all or predominately of one race.
"In Winston-Salem/Forsyth County, the school
board may fashion its plan on the Larsen plan with
necessary modifications and refinements or adopt a
plan of its choice which will meet the requirements
of Swann and Davis." 444 F. 2d, at 100-102.
On remand., the District Court interpreted the order
of the Court of Appeals to mean that because the State
of North Carolina formerly had state-enforced dual
school systems, declared unconstitutional in Brown v.
Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954), the pupil

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT
1221

1225

Opinion in Chambers

assignment plan in Forsyth County had to be substantially revised to "achieve the greatest possible degree of
desegregation." It concluded that:
"Despite the substantial difference between the
findings of this Court, which formed the predicate for
this Court's June 25, 1970 opinion in this case, and
the findings which form the predicate of the decision
of the District Court in Swann, it is apparent that
it is as 'practicable' to desegregate all the public
schools in the Winston-Salem/Forsyth County system as in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg system and
that the appellate courts will accept no less. Consequently, this Court can approve no less. .. ."
The District Court then ordered the School Board to
comply with the time schedule set by the Court of Appeals in submitting the required plan. Just why the
District Judge undertook an independent, subjective
analysis of how his case compared factually with the
Swann case-something he could not do adequately
without an examination of a comprehensive record not
before him-is not clear.
The school authorities, declaring that they considered
themselves "required" to do so, adopted a revised pupil
assignment plan which was expressly designed "to
achieve a racial balance throughout the system which
will be acceptable to the Court." (Emphasis added.)
Prior to the adoption of the revised plan, the school
system transported about 18,000 pupils per day in
about 216 buses. The drafters of the revised plan
estimated that it would require at a minimum, with use
of staggered school openings, 157 additional buses to
transport approximately 16,000 additional pupils.
The Board submitted the plan to the District Court
under protest and voiced strong objections to its adoption. A Board resolution submitted with the plan stated

1226

OCTOBER TERM, 1971

404 U. S.

Opinion in Chambers

in conclusion that it was submitted to "accomplish the
required objective of achieving a racial balance in the
public schools . . . [but it] is not a sound or desirable
plan, and should not be required . .

. ."

(Emphasis

added.) On July 26, 1971, the District Court accepted
the plan, noting that it was "strikingly similar" to the
Larsen plan which it had previously refused to implement
as not constitutionally required.
On August 23, the School Board applied to me, as Circuit Justice, for a stay pending disposition by the Court
of its petition for writ of certiorari, filed the same day,
seeking review of the remand order of the Court of
Appeals; the response was received, as previously noted,
August 26, 1971. The Board states that it has not applied previously to either the District Court or the Court
of Appeals for a stay because the language of the decisions and orders of those courts makes it clear that neither
would grant a stay and because there was not time to do
so prior to the opening of the new school year.
In its present posture this stay application, like that
presented to MR. JUSTICE BLACK and acted on by him
August 19, 1971, in Corpus Christi Independent School
District v. Cisneros, ante, p. 1211, "is in an undesirable
state of confusion . ..."
To begin with, no reasons appear why this application
was not presented to me at an earlier date, assuming that
I accept the explanation tendered for failure to present it
to the Court of Appeals. The time available between receipt of the application and response and the opening of
the school term August 30 was not sufficient to deal
adequately with the complex issues presented. The application for stay is further weakened by the absence
of specific allegations as to the time of travel or other
alleged hardships involved in the addgd bus transportation program. Specific reference to the travel time in

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT
1221

1227

Opinion in Chambers

relation to the age and grade of particular categories
of students is not disclosed. To. assert, as the applicants
do, that the "average time" of travel is one hour conveys
very little enlightenment to support an application to
stay the order of a District Court, however reluctantly
entered by that court, especially an order dealing with a
school term opening so soon after the motion was first
presented. The "average" travel time may be generally
relevant but whether a given plan trespasses the limits
on school bus transportation indicated in Swann, 402
U. S., at 29, 30, 31, cannot be determined from a recital of a "one hour average" travel time.'
The Board's resolution reciting that it was adopting
the revised plan under protest, on an understanding
that it was required to achieve a fixed "racial balance"
that reflected the total composition of the school district
is disturbing. It suggests the possibility that there may
be some misreading of the opinion of the Court in the
Swann case. If the Court of Appeals or the District
Court read this Court's opinion as requiring a fixed
racial balance or quota, it would appear to have overlooked specific language of the opinion in the Swann case
to the contrary. Rather than trying to interpret or characterize a. holding of the Court, a function of the Court
itself, I set forth verbatim the issues seen by the Court
1By way of illustration, if the record showed-to take an
extreme example of a patent violation of Swann-that the average
time was three hours daily or that some were compelled to travel
three hours daily when school facilities were available at a lesser
distance, I would not lesitate to stay such an order forthwith
until the Court could act, at least as to the students so imposed
on. The burdens and hardships of travel do not relate to race;
excessive travel is as much a hardship on one race as another.
The feasibility of a transfer program to give relief from such a
patently offensive transportation order as the one hypothesized,
would also be relevant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

in Swann and the essence of the Court's disposition of
those issues:
"The central issue in this case is that of student
assignment, and there are essentially four problem
areas:
"(1) to what extent racial balance or racial quotas
may be used as an implement in a remedial order
to correct a previously segregated system;
"(2) whether every all-Negro and all-white school
must be eliminated as an indispensable part of a
remedial process of desegregation;
"(3) what the limits are, if any, on the rearrangement of school districts and attendance zones, as a
remedial measure; and
"(4) what the limits are, if any, on the use of
transportation facilities to correct state-enforced
racial school segregation." 402 U. S., at 22.
After discussing the problem, the opinion concluded:
"If we were to read the holding of the District Court
to require, as a matter of substantive constitutional
right, any particular degree of racial balance or mixing, that approach would be disapproved and we
would be obliged to reverse. The constitutional
command to desegregate schools does not mean that
every school in every community must always reflect
the racial composition of the school system as a
whole." 402 U. S., at 24. (Emphasis added.)
Nothing could be plainer, or so I had thought, than
Swann's disapproval of the 71%-29% racial composition
found in the Swann case as the controlling factor in
assignment of pupils, simply because that was the racial
composition of the whole school system. Elsewhere in
the Swann opinion we had noted the necessity for a district court to determine what in fact was the racial
balance as an obvious and necessary starting point to

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT
1221

1229

Opinion in Chambers

decide whether in fact any violation existed; we concluded, however, that "the very limited use made of
mathematical ratios was within the equitable remedial
discretion of the District Court." 402 U. S., at 25.
Since the second aspect of this case falls within the
fourth question postulated by the Court in Swann it may
be useful to refer to the Court's response to that question. After noting that 18 million students were transported to schools by bus in this country in 1969-19.70,
the Court concluded:
"The importance of bus transportation as a normal
and accepted tool of educational policy is readily
discernible in this and the companion case, Davis,
supra. The Charlotte school authorities did not purport to assign students on the basis of geographically
drawn zones until 1965 and then they allowed almost
unlimited transfer privileges. The District Court's
conclusion that assignment of children to the school
nearest their home serving their grade would not
produce an effective dismantling of the dual system
is supported by the record.
In these circumstances, we find no basis for
holding that the local school authorities may not be
required to employ bus transportation as one tool of
school desegregation. Desegregation plans cannot
be limited to the walk-in school.
"An objection to transportation of students may
have validity when the time or distance of travel is so
great as to either risk the health of the children or
significantly impinge on the educational process.
District courts must weigh the -soundness of any
transportation plan in light of what is said in subdivisions (1), (2), and (3) above. It hardly needs
stating that the limits on time of travel will vary

1230

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

with many factors, but probably with none more
than the age of the students. The reconciliation of
competing values in a desegregation case is, of course,
a difficult task with many sensitive lacets but fundamentally no more so than remedial measures courts
of equity have traditionally employed." 402 U. S.,
at 29-31.
No prior case had dealt directly with bus transportation
of students in this context or the limits on the use of
transportation as part of a remedial plan, or with racial
balancing.
This case is further complicated by what seems to me
some confusion respecting the standards employed and
the findings made by the District Court and the terms
of the remand order of the Court of Appeals. Under
Swann and related cases of April 20, 1971, as in earlier
cases, judicial power can be invoked only on a showing of
discrimination violative of the constitutional standards
declared in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483
(1954). In findings dated June 25, 1970, the District
Court sent the case back to the School Board for changes
to eliminate the dual school system; it approved the plan
submitted subject to several modifications. The modified plan was before the Court of Appeals when this
Court decided the Swann case. The Court of Appeals in
its remand following the decision in Swann did not reverse the District Court's findings, but, rather, directed
reconsideration in light of Swann. In the circumstances
that was an appropriate step. The present status of the
findings is not clear to me, but the District Court on
reconsideration following the remand seems to have
thought that it was compelled to achieve a fixed racial
balance reflecting the composition of the total county
system. The explicit language of the Court's opinion in
Swann suggests a possible confusion on this point. I do

WINSTON-SALEM/FORSYTH BD. OF ED. v. SCOTT
1221

1231

Opinion in Chambers

not attempt to construe that language, but simply recite
it verbatim: "The constitutional command to desegregate
schools does not mean that every school in every community must always reflect the racial composition of the
school system as a whole." 402 U. S., at 24.
On the record now before me it is not possible to
conclude with any assurance that the District Court in
its order dated July 26, 1971, and the Court of Appeals
in its remand dated June 10, 1971, did or did not correctly read this Court's holding in Swann and particularly
the explicit language as to a requirement of fixed mathematical ratios or racial quotas and the limits suggested
as to transportation of students. The record being inadequate to evaluate these issues, even preliminarily for
the limited purposes of a stay order, and the heavy burden for making out a case for such extraordinary relief
being on the moving parties, I am unwilling to disturb
the order of the District Court dated July 26, 1971, made
pursuant to the remand order of the Court of Appeals
2
which is sought to be reviewed here.
The applicatiop for stay is denied.

In their petition for a writ of certiorari in this Court, the
petitioners have elected to seek review here of the remand order
of the Court of Appeals of June 10, 1971, 'rather than having
the substantive order of the District Court dated July 26, 1971,
first reviewed in the Court of Appeals.
2

