1204

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
GETMAN ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-109.

Decided July 27, 1971

Stay of District Court's order under the Freedom of Information
Act, 5 U. S. C. ยง 552 (a) (3), that National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB) provide respondents with certain records concerning
labor representation elections denied, the Act providing no exception authorizing the NLRB's refusal to produce the requested
records.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, Acting Circuit Justice.

Respondents, two law professors who are undertaking
a study of labor representation elections, applied for and
obtained an order from the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia requiring the National Labor
Relations Board to provide respondents "with names and
addresses of employees eligible to vote in approximately
35 elections to be designated by (respondents)." Respondents base their claim to the information on the
language of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U. S. C.
ยง 552 (a) (3), which requires that a Government agency
''on request for identifiable records . . . shall make the
records promptly available to any person." The Government has filed an application seeking a stay of the order
of the District Court. This application was assigned to
me in the absence of THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
The Government applies for a stay on the ground
that the District Court order requiring the Board to com.ply with the Freedom of Information Act and deliver
the records in question to respondents would interfere
with the representation election procedures under the
National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, as amended.
The Board was created by Congress and Congress has

NLRB v. GETMAN
1204

1205

Opinion in Chambers

seen fit to make identifiable records of the Board and
other Government agencies available to any person upon
proper request. I find no exception in the Freedom of
Information Act which would authorize the Board to
refuse promptly to turn over the requested records. I
deny the application for stay without prejudice to the
Government to present its application to another Member of this Court.
It is so ordered.

