LOPEZ v. UNITED STATES

1213

Opin.ion in Chambers

LOPEZ v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL PENDING APPEAL

No. A-132.

Decided August 23, 1971

Applicant, whose conscientious objector claim matured after receipt
of his induction notice, was convicted for refusing to submit to
induction. He thereafter sought modification of his sentence to
enable him to submit to induction and obtain from the Army a
ruling on his claim. He asserts Army regulations in force at the
time of his induction did not permit such in-service review, and
that the relief he seeks is implicitly authorized by Ehlert v.
United States, 402 U. S. 99. His appeal now pending in the
Court of Appeals concerns the propriety of such a procedure.
Held: Applicant should be released on his own recognizance pending disposition of his appeal.
See: 322 F. Supp. 852.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant Lopez was indicted and convicted for refusing to submit to induction. He claimed at trial that he
was entitled to a hearing before his local board on his
conscientious objector claim which had matured after
receipt of the induction notice. At the time applicant
received his order to report for induction, however, the
law in the Ninth Circuit did not allow the filing of an
application for exemption as a conscientious objector
after an induction notice had been issued.' We noted in
Ehlert v. United States, 402 U. S. 99 (1971), decided
after applicant's conviction, that the Army agreed a
draftee could have a hearing on such a claim after induction; and we held that such a hearing, though postinduction, satisfied the requirements of the Military
'Ehlert v. United States, 422 F. 2d 332 (CA9 1970), aff'd, 402

U. S. 99 (1971), which set forth the Ninth Circuit rule, was decided
Feb. 2, 1970. Applicant received his notice of induction Mar. 3,
1970, and failed to submit Mar. 17, 1970.

1214

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

Selective Service Act of 1967. Relying on this opinion,
the Court of Appeals affirmed Lopez' conviction.
Applicant claims, however, that Army regulations in
force at the time of his induction date did not permit
him the post-induction hearing to which we held Ehlert
was entitled,2 and he now seeks a modification of his
sentence which will enable him to submit to induction
and to obtain thereafter the Army's ruling on his conscientious objector claim. The appeal now waiting argument in the Court of Appeals concerns the propriety of
such a procedure. The question seems to me a substantial one, and applicant has proved himself to be
bailworthy, as he has twice before been ordered released
on his personal recognizance in connection with this
litigation. Pending disposition of the appeal, applicant
Lopez should be released on his personal recognizance in
the form and manner provided at an earlier stage of this
litigation.
It is so ordered.

2 From

Nov. 9, 1962, until Aug. 15, 1970, Army Regulation

AR 635-20, 3 (b), provided that requests for discharge after entering military service would not be favorably considered when based
"solely on conscientious objection which existed, but which was not
claimed prior to induction, enlistment, or entry on active duty or
active duty for training." (Emphasis supplied.)

