OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

are questions not open for discussion here. As defendants'
actions or agreements are not a violation of the act of Congress,
the complainants have failed in iheir case, and the order for the
injunction must be
Reversed and the case remitted to the Circuit Court of the
United Statesfor the District of Kansas, First Diviiion,
with directions to dismiss the bill with costs.
MiR. JUSTICE HARLA-N dissented.
MR. JUSTiCE MOKENNA

took no part in the decision of this

case.

ANDERSON v.. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 181. Argued February 25, 28, 1898.- Decided October 24, 1898.
The Traders' Live Stock Exchange was an unincorporated association in
Kansas City, whose members bore much the same relation to it, and
through it carried on much the same business as that carried on by the
members of the Kansas City Live Stock Exchange, considered and passed
upon in Hopkins v. United States, just decided. The main difference was,
that the members of the Traders' Exchange, defendants in the present
proceedings, were themselves purchasers of cattle on the market, while
the defendants In the former case were commission merchants who sold
cattle upon commission as a compensation for their service. The
articles of association of the Traders' Exchange contained the following preamble: 1. We, the undersigned, for the purpose of organizing and
maintaining a business exchange, not for pecuniary profit or gain, but to
promote and protect all interests connected with the buying and selling of
live stock at the Kansas City Stock Yards, and to cultivate courteous and
manly conduct towards each other, and give dignity and responsibility to
yard traders, have associated ourselves together under the name of
Traders' Live Stock Exchangd, and hereby agree, each with the other,
that we will faithfully observe and be bound by the following rules and
by-laws and such new rules, additions or amendments as may from time to
time be adopted in conformity with the provisions thereof from the date
of organization." The rules objected to in the bill in this case were the
following: "Rule 10. This exchange will not recognize any yard trader
unless he is a member of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange. Rule 11.

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
When there are two or more parties trading together as partners, they
shall each and all of them be members of this exchange. Rule 12. No
member of this exchange shall employ -any person to buy or sell cattle.
unless such person hold a certificate of membership in this exchange.
Rule 13. No member of this exchange shall be allowed to pay any order
buyer or salesman any sum of money as a fee for buying cattle from or
selling cattle to such party." Held:
(1) That this court is not called upon to decide whether the defendants
are or are not engaged in interstate commerce, because if it be
conceded they are so engaged, the agreement as evidenced by the
by-laws is not one in restraint of that trade, nor is there any combination to monopolize or attempt to monopolize such trade within
the meaning of the act;
(2) That, following the preceding case, in order to come within the provisions of the statute the direct effect of an agreement or combination must be in restraint of that trade or commerce which is
among the several States, or with foreign nations;
(3)That where the subject-matter of the agreement does not directly
relate to and act upon and embrace interstate commerce, and
where the undisputed facts clearly show that the purpose of the
agreement was not to regulate, obstruct or restrain that commerce,
but that it was entered into with the object of properly and fairly
regulating the transaction of the business in which the parties to
the agreement were engaged, such agreement will be upheld as not
within the statute, where it can be seen that the character and
terms of the agreement are well calculated to attain the purpose
for which it was formed, and where the effect of its formation
and enforcement upon interstate trade or commerce is in any event
but indirect and incidental, and not iti purpose or object;
(4) That the rules are evidently of a character to enforce the purpose
and object of the exchange as set forth in the preamble, and that
for such purpose they are reasonable and fair, and that they can
possibly affect interstate trade or commerce in but a remote way,
and are not void as violations of the act of Congress.

THis suit is somewhat similar to the Hopkins suit, just decided, and was brought by the United States against the
defendants named, who were citizens and residents of the
Western Division of the Western District of Missouri and members of a voluntary unincorporated association known and
designated as the Traders' Live Stock Exchange, the suit

being brought for the purpose of obtaining a decree dissolving
the exchange and enjoining the members the'eof from enter-

ing into or continuing any sort of combination to deprive
any people engaged in shipping, selling, buying and handling

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the' Case.

live stock (received from other States and from the Territories, intended to be sold at the Kansas City market), of free
access to the markets at Kansas-City, and to the same facilities
afforded by the Kansas City stock yards, to defendants and
their associate members of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange.
The bill was filed under the direction of the Attorney
General of the United States. by the United States District
Attorney for the Western District of Missouri. It alleged in
substance that the exchange was governed by a board of
eight directors, who carried on the business thereof with the
consent and approbation of the defendants, they personally
being members of the exchange. It then made the same
allegations in relation to the stock yards being partly in
Kansas City, Kansas, and partly in Kansas City, Missouri,
that are contained in the bill in the Hopkins case, just decided, and also as to the sales of herds or droves of cattle
which were at the time of the .sale partly in one State and
partly in another. It is further alleged that the Kansas City
stock yards are a public market, and, next to the market at
Chicago in the State of Illinois, the largest live stock market
in the world, and vast numbers of cattle, hogs and other live
stock are received annually at the market, shipped from various
States and from the Territories, and are sold at the market to
buyers who reside in other States and Territories, and who
reship the stock; that the stock is shipped to the market
under contracts by which the shipper is permitted to unload the
stock at the Kansas City stock yards, rest, water and feed
the same, and is accorded the privilege of selling the stock on
the Kansas City market if the prices prevailing at the time
justify the sale, and many head of such stock are so sold;
that prior to the month of March, 1897, as alleged, the defendants herein were engaged as speculators at the Kansas
City stock yards, and were buying upon the market and reselling upon the same market and reshipping to other markets
in other States the cattle so received at the Kansas City stock
yards; that-all the live stock shipped to and received at these
stock yards is consigned to commissioh merchants, who take
charge of the stock when it is received, and who sell the same

ANDERSON v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

to packing houses located at Kansas City, Missouri, and
Kansas City in the State of Kansas, and they sell large numbers of cattle to the defendants herein.
The bill then alleges that the defendants "have unlawfully
entered into a contract, combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce among the several States and
with foreign nations, in this, to wit, that they have unlawfully
agreed, contracted, combined and conspired to prevent all
other persons than members of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange, as aforesaid, from buying and selling cattle upon the
Kansas City market at the Kansas City stock yards as aforesaid; that the commission, firm, person, partnership or corporation to whom said cattle are consigned at Kansas City, as
aforesaid, is not permitted to and cannot sell or dispose of
said cattle at the Kansas City market as aforesaid to any
buyer or speculator at the Kansas City stock yards unless said
buyer or speculator is a member of the Traders' Live Stock
Exchange, and these defendants (and each of them), unlawfully and oppressively refuse to purchase cattle, or in any
manner negotiate or deal with or buy from any commission
merchant who shall sell or purchase cattle from any speculator
at the said Kansas City stock yards who is not a member of
the said Traders' Live Stock Exchange; that by and through
the unlawful agreement, combination and conspiracy of these
defendants the business and traffic in cattle at the said Kansas
City stock yards is interfered with, hindered and restrained,
thus entailing extra expense and loss to the owner, and placing an obstruction and embargo on the marketing of cattle
shipped from the States and Territories aforesaid to the
Kansas City stock yards."
It is further alleged that, acting in .pursnance of the unlawful combination above described, the board of directors of the
exchange have imposed fines upon certain members of the
exchange "who had traded with persons, speculators upon
the markets, who were not members of the said live stock
exchange, and within three months last past have imposed
fines upon members of said live stock exchange who have
traded with commission firms at said Kansas City stock yards

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the- Case.

which said commission firms had bought from, and sold cattle to speculators upon said market who were not members
of the said live stock exchange."
It was further stated in the bill that in carrying out the
purposes and aims of this exchange and by the conduct of its
members engaged in this alleged combination, conspiracy and
confederation, they were acting in violation of the laws of
the United States, and particularly in violation of. section 1
of the act of Congress, approved July 2, 1890, c. 647, entitled
"An act to protect trade and. commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies," 26 Stat. 209, and in the prosecution of this unlawful combination they had agreed to hinder
and delay the business of buying and selling cattle at the
market famed and had confederated together in restraint of
trade and commerce between the States, and that the object
of the defendants in organizing the exchange was to prevent
the sale by any. commission merchant at the Kansas City
stock yards of any cattle to any person who might be a buyer
and speculator upon the market who is not a member of the
exchange.
Accompanying this bill were several affidavits of individuals
not members of the exchange, but who were traders or speculators at the stodk yards, and those persons- said that they
were acquainted with the association in question and with the
officers and members, and that they did everything in their
power to prevent other persons who were not. members from
trading at the stock yards, and a number of instances were
given in which the affiants who were not members of the
exchange were endeavoring to do business with commission
merchants and others at the exchange in question, when the
affiants were notified that they could not continue in business
unless they became members of the association, and where
partnerships were engaged in business where one partner was
a member of the association, the partner who was a member
was notified that he could not continue in the partnership
business with the other unless such other also became a member; that they had attempted to buy cattle from a great many
commission firms and from their salesmen at these stock yards,

ANIDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

but as soon as they went into the yards where the cattle were
that . were consigned to commission firms and attempted to
purchase them, some of the defendants would appear, call the
salesman aside, and, after having a conversation with such
salesman, the latter would invariably return to affiant and
say that he could not price cattle to the affiant or sell the
same to him, as he had been warned by members of the exchange not to c.o so; that the Traders' Live Stock Exchange
would not permit other traders and speculators upon the
market, and that the exchange does not permit commission
firms at -the stock yards to sell cattle consigned to them to
any trader or speculator upon the market who is not a member of the exchange, and that commission firms had been
notified by the officers of the stock exchange not to sell to
speculators on the market who were not members of the Live
Stock Exchange, and where commission firms sold cattle to
traders and speculators upon the market who were not members of the exchange, the association and members thereof
would boycott the commission firm making such sales, and
refuse to.purchase any cattle from them, and refuse to go into
the lots and look at cattle which had been consigned to them.
Upon the bill and affidavits application was made to the
Circuit Court for the Western Division of the Western District of Missouri for an injunction as prayed for in the bill, in
opposition to which application various affidavits were read on
the part of the defendants, and copies of the articles of association and by-laws of the exchange were attached to the
affidavit of the president of the exchange and read on the
motion.
Among other affidavits was that of the general superintendent of the stock yards company, who said that he had known
the organization, the Traders' Live Stock Exchange, since its
formation, and that it had been a benefit to the live stock
market at Kansas City by furnishing constant buyers for cattle
shipped to the market, no matter how large the receipts for
any one day or series of days might be, and also by raising the
standard of business integrity among its members, because it
required every Tnember to comply with his business promises
VOL- CLXxS-39

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

and verbal agreements; that no embargo was placed upon any
one purchasing or desiring to purchase cattle at the yards, but
a free and open market was offered to all buyers and sellers;
that the members of the organization were engaged in the
business of buying and selling cattle on the market, and were
competitors among and against each other; that their organization did not restrain or interfere with interstate or local
commerce, and the members did not monopolize or attempt to
monopolize the business of buying and selling cattle at Kansas
City, nor did the organization in any manner tend to limit or
decrease the number of cattle marketed at Kansas City, but that
it had the contrary effect; that about eighty-five per cent of the
total receipts for the years 1895, 1896 and 1897 at the Kansas
City market of cattle had been billed to the Kansas City
market alone for purposes of sale there.
Other affidavits were presented to the same effect. Also
the affidavit of the president of the exchange. The president
denied all allegations in relation to conspiracies to prevent other
persons than members of the exchange from buying and selling cattle upon the Kansas City market, and on the contrary
alleged that in buying cattle the defendants were in competi-..
tion with each other, with the representative buyers of all the
packing houses, with the representatives of the various commission merchants who- buy constantly on orders from a
distance, and with others who buy on orders on their own account, none of whom .are members of the exchange, and that
with these various classes of buyers the defendants constantly
deal, and that. in selling cattle they compete with each other
and with shippers and commission merchants offering stock
for sale on the market; that the business in which these
defendants are engaged is that of buying and selling cattle
known as "stockers and feeders;" that the business is purely
local to that market; that the defendants do not deal in
quarantine cattle subject to government inspection or cattle
shipped through to other markets, with or without the privilege of the Kansas City market, nor in fat cattle sold on the
local market shipped to other States or to foreign countries;
that except in rare instances. both purchases and sales made

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

by the defendants are made from and to persons not members
of the exchange, and that in the judgment of the president
about ninety-nine per cent of the transactions by the defendants are with persons not members of the exchange.
A copy of the articles of association is annexed to the affidavit, which contains the following preamble:
"We, the undersigned, for the purpose of organizing and
maintaining a business exchange, not for pecuniary profit or
gain, but to promote and protect all interests connected with
the buying and selling of live stock'at the Kansas City Stock
Yards* and to cultivate courteous and manly conduct towards
each other, and give dignity and responsibility to yard traders,
have associated ourselves together under the name of Traders'
Live Stock Exchange, and, hereby agree, each with the other,
that we will faithfully observe and be bound by the following
rules and by-laws and such new rules, additions or amendments
as may from time to time be adopted in conformity with the
provisions thereof from the date of organization."
Rules 10, 11, 12 and 13 are as follows:
"Rule 10. This exchange will.not recognize any yard trader
unless he is a member of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange.
"Rule 11. When there are two or more parties trading
together as partners, they shall each and all of them be
members of this exchange.
"Rule 12. No member of this exchange shall employ any
person to buy or sell cattle unless such person hold a certificate
of membership in this exchange.
I "Rule 13. No member of this exchange shall be allowed to
pay any order buyer or salesmban any sum of money as a fee
for buying cattle from or selling cattle to such party."
These are the rules which are specially obnoxious to the
complainafits, and are alleged to be in their effect in violation
of the Federal statute above mentioned.
Mr. R. E Ball for Anderson and others.
and .Mj. John i. Peake were on his brief.

A7r. I. P. Ryland

Mir. John 1R. Walker for the United States.
General was on his brief.

Mr. Solictor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PEcYXH,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

There is really no dispute in regard to the facts in the case.
Although the bill contains various allegations in regard to
conspiracies, agreements and combinations in restraint of
trade and in violation of the Federal statute, yet there is
no evidence of any act on the part of the defendants pre-venting access to the yards or preventing purchases and sales
of cattle by any one, other than as such sales may be prevented
by the mere refusal on the part of the defendants as "yard
traders" to do business with those who are also yard traders,
but are not members of the exchange, or with commission merchants where such commission merchants themselves do business
with yard traders who are not members of the exchange. In
other words, there is no evidence and really no charge against
the defendants that they have done anything other than to
form this exchange and adopt and eAforce the rules mentioned
above, and the question is whether by their adoption and by
peacefully carrying them out without threats and without
violence, but by the mere refusal to do business with those
who will not respect their rules, there is a violation of the
Federal statute.
This case differs from that of Hoplins v. United States,
stypra, in the fact that these defendants are themselves purchasers of cattle on the market, while the defendants in the
Hopkins case were only commission merchants who sold the
cattle upon commission as a compensation for their services.
Counsel for the Government assert that any agreement or
combination among buyers of cattle coming from other States,
of the nature of the by-laws in qfiestion, is an agreement or
combination in restraint of interstate trade or commerce.
The facts first set forth in the complainants' bill upon which
to base the claim that the business of defendants is interstate
commerce, we have already decided in the Hopkins case to be
immaterial. The particular situation of the yards, partly in
Kansas and partly in Missouri, we there held was a fact without any weigh, and one which did not make businegs inter-

AN DERSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

state commerce which otherwise would not partake of that
character.
There remain in the bill of the complainants the allegations
that the -cattle come from various States and are placed on
sale at these stock yards which form the only available market-for many miles around, and that they are sold by the commission merchants and are bought in large numbers by the
defendants who have 'entered into what the complainants
allege to be a contract, combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce among the several States, which
contract, etc., it is alleged is carried out by defendants unlawfully and oppressively refusing to purchase cattle from a commission merchant who sells or purchases cattle from any
speculator (yard trader) who is not a member of the exchange; and it is further alleged that by- these means the
traffic in cattle at the Kansas City stock yards is interfered
with, hindered and restrained, and extra expense and loss to
the owner incurred, and that thereby the defendants have
placed an obstruction and embargo on the marketing of cattle
shipped from other States. All these results are alleged to
flow from the agreement among the defendants as contained
in the by-laws of their association, particularly those numbered ten, eleven, twelve and thirteen, copies of which are set
forth in the statement of facts herein.
There is no evidence that these defendants have in any
manner other than by the rules above mentioned hindered or
impeded others in shipping, trading or selling their stock, or
that they have in any way interfered with the freedom of
access to the stock yards of any and all other traders and purchasers, or hindered their obtaining the same facilities which
were therein afforded by the stock yards company to the
defendants as members of the exchange, and we think the
evidence does not tend to show that the above results have
flowed from the adoption and enforcement of the rules and
regulations referred to.
In regard to rule 10, the question is whether, without a
violation of the act of Congress, persons who are engaged in
the common business as yard traders of buying cattle at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Kansas City stock yards, which come from different States,
may agree among themselves that they will form an association for the better conduct of their business, and that they
will not transact business with other yard traders who are
not members, nor will they buy cattle from those who also
sell to yard traders who are not members of the association.
It will be remembered that the association does no business
itself. Those who are members thereof compete among themselves and with others who are not members, for the purchase
of the cattle, while the association itself has nothing whatever
to do with transportation nor with fixing the prices for which
the cattle may be purchased or thereafter sold. Any yard
trader can become a member of the association upon complying with its conditions of membership, and may remain such
as long as he comports himself in accordance' with its laws.
A lessening of the amount of the trade is neither the necessary
nor direct effect of its formation, and in truth the amount of
that trade has greatly increased since the association was
formed, and there is not the slightest evidence that the
market prices of cattle have been lowered by reason of its
existence. There is no feature of monopoly in the whole
transaction.
The defendants are engaged in buying what are called
"stockers and feeders;" being cattle not intended for any other
market, and the demand for which is purely local. They have
arrived at their final destination when offered for sale, and
there is free and full competition for their purchase between
all the members of the exchange, as well as between them and
all buyers not members thereof, who are not also yard traders.
With the latter the defendants will not compete, nor will they
buy of the commission men if the latter continue to sell cattle
to such yard traders.
Have the defendants the right to agree to conduct their
own private business in this way ?
Whether there is any violation of the act of Congress by the
adoption and enforcement of the other rules of the association,
above referred to, will be considered hereafter.
It is first contended on the part of the appellants that they

ANDERSON v. UNJITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

are not engaged in interstate commerce or trade, and that therefore their agreement is not a violation of the act. They urge
that the cattle, by being taken from the cars in which they were
transported and placed in the various pens hired by commission
merchants at the cattle yards of Kansas City, and there set up
for sale, have thereby been commingled with the general mass
of other property in the State, and that their interstate commercial character has ceased within the decisions of this court
in Brown v. Houston, 114.U. S. 622, and PiitsburgandSouthern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577.
On the other hand, it is answered that the cases cited involved nothing but the general power of the State to tax all
property found within its limits, by virtue of general laws
providing for such taxation, where no tax is levied upon the

article or discrimination made against it by reason of the fact
that it has come from another State, and it is maintained that
the agreement in question acts directly upon the subject of
interstate commerce and adds a restraint to it which is unlawful under the provisions of the statute.
In the view we take of this case we are not called upon to
decide whether the defendants are or are not engaged in interstate commerce, because if it be conceded they are so engaged, the agreement as evidenced by the by-laws is not one
in restraint of that trade, nor is there any combination to
monopolize or attempt to monopolize such trade within the
meaning of the act.
It has already been stated in the Hopkins case, above mentioned, that in order to come within the provisions of the statute
the direct effect of an agreement or combination must be in
restraint of that trade or commerce which is among the several States, or with foreign nations. Where the subject-mattei
of the agreement does not directly relate to and act upon and
embrace interstate commerce, and where the undisputed facts
clearly show that the purpose of the agreement was not to
regulate, obstruct or restrain that commerce, but that it was
entered into with the object of properly and fairly regulating
the transaction of the business in which the parties to the
agreement were engaged, such agreement will be upheld as

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not within the statute, where it can be seen that the character
and terms of the agreement are well calculated to attain the
purpose for which it was formed, and where the effect of its
formation and enforcement upon interstate trade or commerce
is in any event but indirect and incidental, and not its purpose
or object. As is said in Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465,.
473: "There are many cases, however, where the acknowledged powers of a State may be exerted and applied in such a
manner as to affect foreign or interstate commerce without
being intended to operate as comm.rcial regulations." The
same. is true as to certain kinds of agreements entered into
between persons engaged in the same business for the direct
and bonafide purpose of properly and reasonably regulating
the conduct of their business among themselves and with the
public. If an agreement of that nature,, while apt and proper
for the purpose thus intended, should possibly, though only
indirectly an~d unintentionally, affect interstate trade or commerce, in that event we think the agreement would be good.
Otherwise, there is scarcely any agreement among men which
has interstate or foreign commerce for its subject that may not
remotely be said to, in some obscure way, affect that commerce
and to be therefore void. We think, within the plain and
obvious construction to be placed upon the act, and following
the rules in this regard already laid down in the cases heretofore decided in this court, we must hold the agreement under
consideration in this suit to be valid.
From very early times it has been the custom for men
engaged in the occupation of buying and selling articles of a
similar nature at any particular place to associate themselves
together. The object of the association .has in many cases
been to provide for thb ready transaction of the business of
the associates by obtaining a general headquarters for its
conduct, and thus to ensure a quick and certain market for
the sale or purchase of the article dealt in. Another purpose
has been to provide a standard of business integrity among
the members by adopting rules for just and fair dealing
among them and enforcing the same by penalties for their
violation. The agreements have been voluntary, and the

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

penalties have been enforced under the supervision and by
members of the association. The preamble adopted by the
association in this case shows the ostensible purpose of its
formation. It was not formed for pecuniary profits, and a
careful perusal of the whole agreement fails, as we think, to
show that its purpose was other than as stated in the preamble. In other words, we think that the rules adopted do
not contradict the expressed purpose of the preamble, and
that the result naturally to be expected from an enforcement
of the rules would not directly, if at all, affect interstate trade
or commerce. The agreement now under discussion differs
radically from those of United .tatem v. Jellico Mountain Coal
& Coke Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 432; Uhited States v. Coal Dealers
Association of California,85 Fed. Rep. 252, and United States
v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 271. The agreement in all of these cases provided for fixing the prices of the
articles dealt in by the different companies, being in one case
iron pipe for gas, water, sewer and other purposes, and coal
in the other two cases. If it were conceded that these cases
were well decided, they differ so materially and radically in
their nature and purpose from the case under consideration,
that they form no basis for its decision. This association does
not meddle with prices and itself does no business. In refusing to recognize any yard trader who is not a member of the
exchange, we see no purpose of thereby affecting or in any
manner restraining interstate commerce, which, if affected at
all, can only be in a very indirect and remote manner. The
rule has no direct tendency to diminish or in any way impede
or restrain interstate commerce in the cattle dealt in by defendants. There is no tendency as a result of the rule, directly
or indirectly, to restrict the competition among defendants
for the class of cattle dealt in by them. Those who are selling the cattle have the market composed of defendants, and
also composed of the representative buyers of all the packing
houses at Kansas City, and also of the various commission
merchants who are constantly buying on orders and of those
who are buying on their own account. This makes a large
competition wholly outside of the defendants. The owner of

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cattle for sale is, therefore, furnished with a market at which
the competition of buyers has a broad effect. All yard traders
have the-opportunity of becoming members of the exchange,
and to thus obtain all the advantages thereof.
The design of the defendants evidently is to bring all the
yard traders into the association as members, so that they
may become subject to its jurisdiction and be compelled by its
rules and regulations to transact business in the honest and
straightforward manner provided for by them. If while enforcing the rules those members who use improper methods
oi who fail to conduct their business transactions fairly and
honestly are disciplined and expelled, and thereby the number
of members is reduced, and'to that extent the number of competitors limited, yet all this is done, not with the intent or
purpose of affecting in the slightest degree interstate trade
or commerce, and such trade or commerce can be affected
thereby only most remotely and indirectly, and if, for the
purpose of compelling this membership, the association refuse
business relations with those commission merchants who insist upon buying from or selling to yard traders who are not
members of the association, we see nothing that can be said
to affect the trade or commerce in question other than in the
most roundabout and indirect manner. The agreement relates
to the action of the associates themselves, and it places in
effect no tax upon any instrument or subject of commerce ;
it exacts no license from parties engaged in the commercial
pursuits, and prescribes no condition in accordance with
which commerce in particular articles or between particular places is required to be conducted. Sherlock v. AZling,
93 U. S. 99; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473; Pittsburg and Southern Coal Company v. Louisiana,156 U. S. 590,
598.

If for the purpose of enlarging the membership of the exchange, and of thus procuring the transaction of their business
upon a proper and fair basis by all who are engaged therein,
the defendants refuse to do business with those commission
men who sell to or purchase from yard traders who are not
members of the exchange, the possible effect of such a course

ANDERSON v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of gondnct upon interstate commerce is quite remote, not intended and too small to be taken into account.
The agreement lacks, too, every ingredient of a monopoly.
Every one can become a member of the association, and the
natural desire of each member to do as much business as he
could would not be in the least diminished by reason of membership, while the business done would still be the individual
and private business of each member; and each would be in
direct and immediate competition with each and all of the
other members. If all engaged in the business were to become members of the association, yet, as-the association itself
does no business, it can and does monopolize none. The
amount and value of interstate trade is not at all directly
affected by such membership; the competition among the
members and with others who are seeking purchasers would
be as large as it would otherwise have been, and the only result of the agreement would be that no yard traders would
remain who were not members of the association. It has no
tendency, so far as can be gathered from its object or from
the language of its rules and regulations, to limit the extent
of the demand for cattle or to limit the number of cattle
marketed or to limit or reduce their price or to place any impediment or obstacle in the course of the commercial stream
which flows into the Kansas City cattle market. While in
case all the yard traders are not induced to become members
of the association, and those who are such membeks refuse to
recognize the others in business, we can see no such direct,
necessary or natural connection between that fact and the
restraint of interstate commerce as to render the agreement
not to recognize them void for that reason. A claim that
such refusal may thereby lessen the number of active traders
on the market, and thus possibly reduce the demand for and
the prices of the cattle there set up for sale, and so affect
interstate trade, is entirely too remote and fanciful to be
accepted as valid.
This case is unlike that of Hopkins v. Oxley Stave Company,
83 Fed. Rep. 912, to which our attention has been called. The
case cited was decided without reference to the act of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

gress upon which alone the case at bar is prosecuted, and the
agreement was held void at common law as a conspiracy
to wrongfully deprive the plaintiff of its right to manage its
business according to the dictates of its own judgment. It
was also said that the fact could not be overlooked that
another object of the conspiracy was to deprive the public at
large of the benefits to be derived from a labor-saving machine
whibh seemed to the court to be one of great utility. No
question as to interstate commerce arose and none was decided.
From what has already been said regarding rule 10, it
would seem to follow that the other rules (11, 12 and 13) are of
equal validity as rule 10, and for the same reasons. The rules
are evidently of a character to enforce the purpose and object
of the exchange as set forth in the preamble, and we think
that for such purpose they are reasonable and fair. They can
possibly affect interstate trade or commerce in blit a remote
way, and are not void as violations of the act of Congress.
TWe are of opinion therefore that the order in this case should
be reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United Statesfor the Westen Division qf the Western
Districtof Missouri with directions to dismiss the complainants' bill wiAh costs.MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

M_. J.rsTicE McKENxA took no part in the decision of this
case.

NORTHWESTERN BANK v. FREEMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.

No. 18. Argued April 15,18, 1898. -Decided

OctAler 24, 1898.

A description in a chattel mortgage of a given number of articles or antmals out of a larger number is not sufficient. as to third persons with acquired interests; but such a mortgage is valid against those who know
the facts.

