OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for the Motion.

"or until he shall be discharged by the further order of the
court," was merely intended to retain the power to- discharge
him if the court should thereafter conclude to do so, it being
within his own power to obtain his discharge at any time by
obeying the order. 'Nor is there any force in the objection
that no trial by jury was awarded, for such trial was not demanded, and a jury trial is- not necessary to due process of
law on an inquiry for contempt. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County District Court, 13-1
U.-S. 31; Rapaije on Contempts, ยง 112.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Court of
Criminal Appeals are, severally,

.Aflirmed.

CENTRAL NATIONAL BANK v. STEVENS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Motion to amend mandate.

Submitted May 9, 1898.

Decided May 31, 1898.

The motion to amend the mandate is denied.

THIS was a motion toamend the mandate in this case which
issued on the judgment reported in 169 U. S. 432. The motion
was as follows:
"Come now the defendants in error and move the court
that the annexed mandate be amended so as to command that
the judgment below be reversed only in the particulars described in the opinion of the court."
Mr.Edward Winslow Paige for the motion.
It is the opinion of the counsel who signs this brief that it
is decidedly for the interest of the defendants in error that
the motion be denied.
And for'the following rea~ons:
The whole judgment being reversed, there must inevitably under the laws of New York be a new trial of the

CENTRAL NATIONAL BANK v. STEVENS.

109

Opinion of the Court.

whole action. As the defendants in error might succeed in
the new trial in all matters except those described in the
opinion of the court - as to be reversed - there would be
a general judgment in favor of the defendants in error like
the present judgment, except that it would omit the injunction and the provigion about the plaintiffs in error proving
their certificates. Under that judgment there would of course
be a new sale and the bondholders could then buy through the
medium of a trustee other than Mr. Foster, thus relievin' the
case from the difficulty described by the court in its opinion.
It would also relieve the defendants in error froni paying
the costs of the court, since there is not any. way under the
laws of New York by which a successful plaintiff can be made
to pay costs to the defendant.
And they can also show, although as we submit the present
record shows, that not any of the proceeds of the certificates
went into the property.- nevertheless we make the motion.
Mr. Oharle8 E. Pattersonopposing.
Per C'uriacn: The motion to amend the mandate in the
above case seems to proceed on a misconception of the meaning of the judgment and mandate.The judgment of this court does not undertake to affect or
reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
New York, except in so far as that judgment sought to restrain the Central National Bank of Boston and the other
plaintiffs in error from proceeding under and in accordance
with the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York, and to compel them to
again try in the Supreme Court of New York matters tried
and determined in the Circuit Court. As between the other
parties the judgment of the Supreme Court of New York was,
of course, left undisturbed, and it is not perceived that the
terms of the mandate signify anything else, or imply the consequences suggested by counsel.
The motion is denied.

