BIOWN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The objections to testimony assigned as error in the fourth
and seventh assignments of error were not well taken. The
testimony showed the transactions and the relations of the
parties to them.
-Decreeafflrmed.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.

CURLEY 'v. UNITED STATES.
JEROR TO TEE UNITED STATES COURT IN THE INDIAN TERRITORY.
Nos.249, 250,

Submitted April 25, 1898.-Decided October 24, 1898.

This court has no appellate jurisdiction of capital cases from the United
States court from the Northern District of the Indian Territory, such
appellate jurisdiction being vested exclusively in the United States Court
of Appeals in the Indian Territory.

ORus A. Brown, plaintiff in error in case No. 249, was indicted in the United States court for the Northern District of
the Indian Territory, charged with the crime of niurder,
which indictment was filed in the United States court for the
Indian Territory, Northern District, sitting at Muscogee on
the 10th day of December, A...

1896.

On the 17th day of December, A.D. 1897, he was convicted
of the crime of murder in said court, and the judgment of the
court sentencing him to death was made on the 24th day of
December, A.D. 1897.

On the 1st day of February, .D.

1898, the plaintiff in error filed a petition in said court for a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States,
and filed an assignment of errors. On February 8,A.D.
1898, a writ of error was allowed in said cause, and on the
same day a citation was issued in said cause, service of which
was acknowledged on the 16th day of February, A.D. 1898.
Pursuant to the writ of error in said cause a transcript of the
record in said cause was filed in the office of the clerk of the
Supreme Court of the United States on the 23d day of February,

A.D.

1898.

The government has filed its motion to

"632

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

dismiss the writ of error in said cause, for the reason that the
Sipreme Court of the United States has no jurisdiction under
the law to entertain said writ of error, nor to pass upon any of
the alleged errors in said record, because said court has no
appellate jurisdiction of said cause.
George Curley, alias George Gully, plaintiff in error in case
No. 250, was indicted in the United States court for the
Northern District of the Indian Territory, sitting at Vinita,
charged with the crime of murder, which indictment was filed
in open court on the 21st day of October, A.D. 1897. On the
same day the defendant to6k a change of venue to the United
States court at Muscogee, and a transcript of the record and
the original indictment were forwarded to the clerk of the
United States court at. Muscogee, Indian Territory. On the
13th day of December, A.D. 1897, at the December term of
the United States court for the Northern Districtrof the Indian
Territory, at Muscogee, the indictment heretofore found was
referred to the grand jury, and upon the same day the grand
jury returned into open court at Muscogee, Indian Territory,
a new indictment against the defendant for murder. On the
22d day of December, A.D. 1897, the defendant was found
guilty of the crime of murder, and on the 24th day-of December,. A.D. 1897, judgment of the court was pronounced upon
said defendant, sentencing him to death.
On Februpry i1, 1898, plaintiff in error, through his attorney,.
W. H Twine, filed a petition for a writ of error from the
Supreme Court of the United States, ard also filed his specification of error. A writ of error was allowed, on the 19th
day of February, 1898, and on the 23d day of February, 1898,
service of the citation issued out of this court was acknowledged. A transcript of the entire record was filed in the
office,of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the United
States on March 1, 1898.
The government has filed its
motion to dismiss the writ of error in said case for the reason
that the Supreme Court of the United States has no jurisdiction under the law to entertain said writ of error, nor to
pass upon any of the alleged errors in said record, because
said court has no appellate jurisdiction of said cause.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

XMr. Solicitor General and .Mr. P. L. Soper for the motion.
.7ff. Joh~n -H..Zooglerand .r'. John Watkins on behalf of
Brown, and .Mr. .I. Twine on behalf of Curley, opposing.

INR.

JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the act of Congress approved March 1, 1889, c. 333, 25
Stat. 783, there was established a United States court for the
Indian Territory. The act conferred no jurisdiction over
felonies, but by the fifth section exclusive original jurisdiction was conferred over all, offences against the laws of the
United States committed within the Indian Territory, not
punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard labor. Jurisdiction was conferred in all civil cases between citizens of the
United States who are residents of the Indian Territory where
the value of the thing in controversy shall amount to one
hundred dollars or more. The final judgment or decree of
the court, where the value of the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, exceeds one thousand dollars, may be reviewed and
reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States
upon writ of error or appeal, in the same manner and under
the same regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a
Circuit Court.
On March 1, 1895, Congress passed an act, c. 145, 28 Stat.
693, dividing the Indian Territory into three judicial districts,
and providing for the appointment of two additional judges.
This act extended the jurisdiction of the United States court
in said Territory to capital cases and other infamous crimes,
the jurisdiction over which had theretofore been vested in the
United States courts at Fort Scott, Kansas, Fort Smith,
Arkansas, and Paris, Texas, and provided that all such offences
should be prosecuted in the United States court in the Indian
Territory after the first day of September, 1896.
The eleventh section is as follows:
"That the judges of said court shall constitute a court of
appeals, to be presided over by the judge oldest in commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1858.
Opinion. of the Court.

as chief justic of said court. And said court shall have such
jurisdiction and powers in said Indian Territory and such
general superintending control over the courts thereof as is
conferred upon the Supreme Court. of Arkansas over the courts
thereof by the laws of said State, as provided by chapter forty
of Mansfield's Digest of the Laws of Arkansas, and the provisions of said chapter, so far as they relate to the jurisdiction
and powers of said Supreme Court of Arkansas as to appeals
and writs of error, and as to the trial and decision of cases, so
far as they areapplicable, shall be, and they are hereby, extended over and put in force in the Indian Territory;
"And appeals and writs of error from said court in said districts to said appellate court, in criminal cases, shall be prosecuted under the provisions of chapter forty-six of Mansfield's
Digest, by this act put in force in the Indian Territory."
These enactments clearly provide that writs of error in
criminal cases shall be taken to the appellate court of the
United States for the Indian Territory, and dispose .of the
question before us, unless there are other provisions of the acts
of Congress which prevent such a conclusion.
The counsel for defendants in error contend that the act of
February 6, 1889, c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, gave to the Supreme
Court the right to review. The sixth section of that act is in
the following Words:
"That hereafter, in all cases of conviction of crime the pun-.
ishment of which provided by law is death, tried before any
court of the United States, the final judgment of such court
against the respdndent shall, upon the application of the respondent, be reexamined, reversed or affirmed by the Supreme
Cpdrt of the United States upon a writ of error, under such
rules and regulations as said court may prescribe."
It will be observed that when this law was passed the
United States court for the Indian Territory did not possess
jurisdictioif In capital cases. That jurisdiction was 8ubseguently
conferred. But, even if it be conceded that the provisions of
the act of February 6, 1"889, might have attached or become
applicable to the judgments of the United States court for the
Indian Territory when jurisdiction in capital cases was ex-

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tended to that court, the intention of Congress is manifested
to have been otherwise by the provision above cited fromthe
act of March 1, 1895, whereby it is provided that writs of
error in capital cases shall be taken to the Court of Appeals
of the United States for the Indian Territory.
This court had occasion to consider the effect of the act of'
February 6, 1889, in respect to the judgments of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in capital cases, in the case
of Cross v. United'States,145 U. S.571, and it was there said:
"It is contended on behalf of the Government that the writ
of error will nqt lie because the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia is not a court of the United States, within the
intent and meaning of the section. .MoAZlister v. United States,
141 U. S.174, is cited with the decision referred to therein, as
sustaining that view, but it is to be remembered that that case
referred to territorial courts only; and moreover, if the
disposal of the motion turned on this point, the words, ' any
court of the United States,' are so comprehensive that, used as
tby are in connection with convictions subject to the penalty
of death, the conclusion might be too technical that Congress
intended to distinguish between courts of one class and of the
other. But the difficulty with the section is that it manifestly
does not contemplate the allowance of a writ of error to any
appellate tribunal, but only to review the final judgment of
the court before which the respondent was tried, where such
judgment could not otherwise be reviewed by writ of error or
appeal. It is the final judgment of a trial court that may be
reexamined upon the application of the respondent, and it is to
that court that the cause is to be remanded, and by that court
that the judgment of this court is to be carried into execution.
The obvious object was to secure a. review'by some other
court than that which passed upon the case at nisi ptius.
Such review by two other courts was not within the intention,
as the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, shows. This is made
still clearer by the further provision that no such writ of
error ' sliall be sued out or granted unless a petition therefor
shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the trial
shall have been had during the same term or within such

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

time, not exceeding sixty days next after the expiration of the
term of the court at which the trial shall have been had, as
the court may for cause allow- by. order entered of record.'
This language is entirely inapplicable to the prosecution of a
writ of error to the judgment of an appellate tribunal a'ffirm-.
ing the judgment of the trial court. And the case before us
shows this."
It is true that in the present cases the writs of error were
sued out directly to the trial court, whereas in the case of
Cross the writ of error was taken to the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District .affirming the judgment of the
trial court, and therefore some of the language quoted from
the opinion in the latter case is not strictly applicable. But
the reasoning of the court, showing that it was unlikely that
Congress intended a review by two other courts than the trial
court, is applicable. It is not to be supposed that Congress,
when it provided by the act of March 1, 1895, for a review or
writ of error in the Court of Appeals for Indian Territory,
regarded the sixth section of the act of February 6, 1889, as
also applicable.
The counsel for the defendants in error cite in their briefs
the fifth and thirteenth sections of the act of March 3, 1891,
establishing the United States Circuit Courts of Appeals, providing that appeals or writs of error may be taken from the
District or Circuit Courts direct to -the Supreme Court of the
United States in cases of capital crimes, and providing that
appeals and writs of error may be taken from the decisions of
the United States court in the Indian Territory to the Supreme
Court of the United States, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the Eighth Circuit, in the same manner and under the same
regulations as from the Circuit or District Courts of the United
States.
Of course as, when this act was passed, the United States
court in the Indian Territory had no jurisdiction over capital
crimes, Congress did not contemplate any appeal or writ of
error in such cases. And when, by the act of March 1, 1895,
jurisdiction of the United States court in the'Indian Territory was extended to capital cases, and a court of appeals was

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

established, with power to entertain appeals and writs of
error, the act of March 3, 1891, cannot be regarded as applicable in such cases. Where a statute provides for a writ of
error to a specified court of appeals it must be regarded'as a
repeal of any previous statute which provides for a writ of
error to another and different court.
The decisions of the Court of Appeals of the United States
in the Indian Territory are final except so far as they are
made subject to review by some express provision of law. In
the eleventh section of the act of March 1, 1895, it is provided
that "appeals and writs of error from the final decision of
said appellate court shall be allowed, and may be taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Judicial Circuit
in the same manner and under the same regulations as appeals
are taken from the Circuit Courts of the United States;" but
it is not claimed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that
this provision applies, to capital cases; and see the case of
Folsom v. United States, 160 U. S. 121.
It has been held by this court that the court established in
the Indian Territory, though a court of the United States, is
not a District or Circuit Court of the United States. In 'e
. ills, 135 U. S. 263, 268.
We accept the contention of the Solicitor General on behalf
of the Government, that the Court of Appeals in the Indian
Territory, being a court of the United States, is analogous to
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and bears the
same relation to the trial court in the Indian Territory as the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia bore to the trial
court in the District.
And it was held in Ex yarte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328, 329,
that no appeal could be taken or writ of error sued out to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in a capital case,
the court saying: "1No appeal or writ of error in such case as
that lies to this court. The act of Congress has made the
judgment of that court conclusive, as it had a right to do, and
the defendant, having one review of his trial and judgment,
has nP special reason to complain." In re Heath, 144 U. S.
92; Cro8 v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 81.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.,

Our conclusion is that we have no appellate jurisdiction of
capital cases from the United States court for the Northern
District of the Indian Territory, and that such appellate jurisdiction is vested exclusively in the United States Court of
Appeals in the Indian Territory.
The motion is allowed and the writs of error in these
cases are
__________Disi

sed.

NAEGLIN v. DiE CORDOBA..
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 85. Argued October 18, 189S.-Decided October 24, 1898.
An order signed in vacation by the several members of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of New Mexico cannot be considered an order of the
court.
The statutes of New Mexi.co provide that, in the absence of legitimate children, illegitimate children inherit.
A natural guardian has no power to release the claim of a ward to an inheritance without the sanction of some tribunal.

ON March 29, 1886, the appellees, Doloritas Martin de
Cordoba et al., filed their bill in the district court of the
county of Mfora, fourth judicial district, Territory of New
Mlexico, 'to establish their rights as the children and heirs of
one Frederick Metzger. After answer the case was referred
to a master, who reported findings of fact and conclusions of
law in favor of the plaintiffs. Upon a hearing in the district
court a decree was entered adversely to the conclusions of .the
master and for the defendants. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory that decree-was on August 24, 1895,
reversed, and one entered remanding the case to the district
court, with instructions to enter a-decree in conformity with
the findings and conclusions of the master. Thereupon the
defendants appealed to this court.
At the time of entering the decree, and also of overruling

