OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

THE G. R. BOOTH.
CERTIFICATE

FROM: THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 10.

Argued Decernbei 1, 1892. -Decided

October 12, 1898.

A provision in a bill of lading, that the carrier " shall not be liable for loss
or damage caused by the perils of the sea," or by "accidents of navigation," does not exempt the carrier from liability for damage to part-of
the cargo by sea water under these circumstances: While the ship was
being unloaded at the dock in her port of her destination, a case of detonators in her hold exploded, without fault of any one engaged in carrying
or discharging the cargo, and the explosion made a large hole in the side
of the ship, through which the water rapidly entered the hold, and damaged other goods.

UPoN an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, dismissing a libel in admiralty by the American Sugar Refining
Company against the steamship G. R. Booth, for damage to
cargo (64: Fed. Rep. 878), the Circuit Court of: Appeals certified to this court the following statement of facts and question of law:
COn
July 14, 1891, the steamship G. R. Booth, a large seaworthy steel vessel, was lying at the dock in the waters of
the harbor of New York, discharging a general cargo, which
had been laden on board at Hamburg for transportation to
and delivery at New York City. Part of the cargo laden on
board at Hamburg consisted of twenty cases of detonators.
"Detonators are blasting caps used to explode dynamite or
-gun-cotton, and consist of a copper cap packed with fulminate
of mercury. In use, the cap is placed in contact with dynamite; a fuse is pushed into the cap until it meets the packing;
the fuse is lighted, and when the fire reaches the fulminate it explodes it, thus exploding the dynamite. The deto"nators were.made in Germany, and were packed according to
the regulations prescribed by German law, adopted and enforced for the purpose of eliminating risk. of danger in hand-

THE G. R. BOOTH.
Statement of the Case.

ling and transporting them. When thus packed, the immunity from danger of an accidental explosion is supposed to be
complete, and they are transported and handled like ordinary
merchandise by carriers and truckmen without the use of any
special precautions to avoid risk. They do not explode when
subjected to violent shook, as when thrown from such a
height above the ground as to shatter in fragments the cases
in which they are packed. They were customarily stowed
and transported in vessels like ordinary merchandise, indiscriminately with the other cargo; and until the present occurrence, although millions of cases had been shipped and carried
to all parts of the world, no accident had happened, so far as
is known.
"The detonators were stowed with other cargo in afterhold
No. 4. While the steariiship was being unladen, one of the
cases exploded, making a large hole in the side of the ship, in
the No. 4 hold, besides doing other damage. In consequence
of the opening thus made in the ship's side, sea water rapidly
entered in the No. 4 hold, beyond the control of the capacity
of the pumps, and passed from the No. 4 hold through the
partition into No. 3. hold. In No. 3 hold there was cargo
belonging to the libellant, consisting of sugar, which had not
as yet been discharged. The sea water thus entering the
hold damaged the sugar extensively. The boxes of detonators were stowed and handled in the usual way; and the explosion occurred purely by accident, and without-any fault or
negligence on the part of any person engaged in transporting
them or in discharging the cargo.
"The bill of lading under which the sugar of the libellant
was carried contained the following clause: 'The ship or carrier shall not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by the
perils of the sea or other waters; by fire, from any cause or
wheresoever occurring; by barratry of the master or crew;
by enemies, pirates, robbers or thieves; by arrest and restraint of princes, rulers or people; by explosion, bursting of
boilers, breakage of shafts or any latent defect in hull, machinery or appurtenances; by collision, stranding or other
accidents of navigation, of whatsoever kind.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Upon these facts the court desires instructions upon the
following question of law, viz.: Whether the damage to libellant's sugar caused by the sea water which entered the ship
through the hole made in her side by the explosion, without
her fault, is a ' loss or damage occasioned by the perils of the
sea or other waters,' or by an ' accident of navigation of what.
soever kind,' within the above-mentioned exceptions in the bill
of lading."
-Mr. Harnington .utnam for appellant.
Mr&. J.Parker Hirlin for appellee.
MR. JusTice. GnAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a libel against the steamship G. R. Booth, for
damage done to sugar, part of her cargo, under the following
circumstances: Another part of the cargo consisted of twenty
cases of detonators, being copper caps packed with fulminate
of mercury for exploding dynamite or gun-cotton. While she
was being unladen at the dock in her port of destination, one
of the cases of detonators exploded, purely by accident, and.
without any fault or negligence on the part of any one engaged in carrying or discharging the cargo. The explosioti
made a large hole in the side of the ship, through which the
sea water rapidly entered the hold, and greatly damaged the
sugar.
The bill of lading of the sugar provides that "the ship or
carrier shall not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by the
perils of the sea or other waters," or "by collision, stranding
or other accidents of navigation, of whatsoever kind."
The question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals to
this court is whether the damage to the sugar is within these
exceptions in the bill of lading.
The case turns upon the question whether the damage to
the sugar by the sea water which entered the ship through
the hole made in her side by the explosion, without her fault,
was "occasioned by the perils of the sea" ; or, in other words,

THE G. R. BOOTH.
Opinion of the Court.

whether it is the explosion, or a peril of the sea, that is to be
considered as the proximate cause of the damage, according
to the familiar maxim causaproximanon i'emota speotafur.
The many authorities bearing upon this point, fully cited
and discussed in the learned arguments at the bar, have
been carefully examined. But only a few of them need to be
referred to, because judgnients heretofore delivered by this
court afford sufficient guides for the decision of this case.
In an early case, in which the action was upon a bond,
given under the embargo act of December 29, 1807, c. 5, § 2,
2 Stat. 453, to reland goods in some port of the United
States, "the dangers of the seas only excepted," the vessel
was irresistibly driven by stress of weather into Porto Rico,
and the cargo was there landed and sold by order of the
governor, with which the master was obliged to comply. It
was argued for the United States, that the goods arrived in
Porto Rico in safety, and the party had the full benefit of
them, and probably at a higher price than if he had landed
them in the United States; and that the sea was not the
proximate cause of the loss. But this court held that the case
was within the exception in the bond, because the vessel, as
said by Chief Justice Marshall in delivering judgment, "was
driven into Porto Rico, and the sale of her cargo, while there,
was inevitable. The dangers of the sea placed her in a situation which put it out of the power of the owners to reland
her cargo within the United States. The obligors, then, .were
prevented, by the dangers of the seas, from complying with
the condition of the bond; for an effect which proceeds, inevitably, and of absolute necessity, from a specified cause,
must be ascribed to that cause." Uhited States v. Hall, 6
Cranch, 171, 176.
In Waters v. .Merchants' Ins. Co., 11 Pet. 213, the Circuit
Court certified to this court the question whether a policy of
insurance upon a steamboat on the western waters against the
perils of the rivers and of fire covered a loss of the boat by a
fire caused by the barratry of the master and crew. This
question was answered in the negative, for reasons stated by
Mr. Justice Story as follows: "As we understand the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

question, it assumes that the fire was directly and immediately
caused by the barratry of the master and crew, as the efficient
agents; or, in other words, that the fire was communicated,
and occasioned by the direct act and agency of the master and
crew, intentionally done from a barratrous purpose. In this
view of it, we have no hesitation to say, that a loss by fire,
caused by the barratry of the master or crew, is. not a loss
within the policy. Such a loss is properly a loss attributable to the barratry, as its proximate cause, as it concurs as
the efficient agent, with the element, eo instanti, when the
injury is produced. If the master or crew should barratrously
bore-holes in the bottom of the vessel, ana the latter should
thereby be filled with water and sink, the loss would properly
be deemed a loss by barratry, and not by a peril of the seas
or of rivers, though the flow' of the water should co~perate in
producing the sinking." 11 Pet. 219, 220.
. The maxim has been largely expounded and defined by this
court in cases of insurance against fire.
In lisurance Co. v. Tweed, 7 Wall. 44, cotton in a warehouse was insured against fire by a policy which provided
that the insurers should not be liable for losses which might
"happen or take place by means of any invasion, insurrection,
riot or civil commotion, or any military or usurped power, explosion, earthquake or hurricane." An explosion took place
in one warehouse, resulting in a cohflagration which spread to
a second warehouse, and thence, in the course of the wind
blowing at the time, to a third warehouse containing the insured cotton. This court held that the loss of the cotton was
caused by the explpsion, and therefore the insurer was not
liable; and, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "The only
question to be decided in the case is, whether the fire which
destroyed plaintiff's cotton happened or took place by means
of the explosion; for if it did, the defendant is not liable by
the express terms of the contract. That the explosion was
in some sense the cause of the fire is not denied, but it is
claimed that its relation was too remote to bring the case
within the exception of the policy. And we have cited to us a
general review of the doctrine of proximate and remote causes,

THE G. R. BOOTH.
Opinion of the Court.

as it has arisen and been decided in the courts in a great
variety of cases." "One of the most valuable of the criteria
furnished us by these authorities is to ascertain whether any
new cause has interiened between the fact accomplished and
the alleged cause. If a new force or power has intervened, of
itself sufficient to stand as the cause of the misfortune, the
other must be considered as too remote. In the'present case,
we think there is no such new cause. The explosion undoubtedly produced or set in operation the fire which burned the
plaintiff's cotton. The fact that it was carried to the cotton
by first burning another building supplies no new force or
power which caused the burning. Nor can the accidental circumstances that the wind was blowing in a direction to favor
the progress of the fire towards the warehouse be considered
a new cause." "We are clearly of opinion that the explosion
was the cause of the fire in this case." 7 Wall. 51, 52. In
that case, as has been since observed by Mr. Justice Strong in
delivering judgment in a case to be presently referred to more
particularly, "it was, in effect, ruled that the efficient cause,
the one that set others in motion, is the cause to which the
loss is to be attributed, though the other causes may follow it
and operate more immediately in producing the disaster." Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 11,-131.
In Insurance Co. v. Transportation Co., 12 Wall. 194, a
large steamboat on Long Island Sound was insured against fire,
excepting fire happening "by means of any invasion, insurrection, riot or civil commotion, or of any military or usurped
power." The facts, as found by the Circuit Court and stated in
the report, were as follows: Another vessel came into collision
with the steamboat, striking her on the side, and cutting into
her hull below the water line, in consequence of which she immediately and rapidly began to fill with water. Within ten or
fifteen minutes after the collision, the water reached the floor
of her furnace, and generated steam which blew the fire against
her woodwork, whereby her upper works were enveloped in
flames, and continued to burn for half or three quarters of
an hour, when she rolled over and gradually sank in twenty
fathoms of water. From the effects of the collision alone,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

she would not have sunk below her promenade deck, but would
have remained suspended in the water, and could have been
towed to a place of safety, and repaired at an expense of
$15,000. The sinking of the steamboat below her promenade
deck was the result of the action of the fire in burning off her
upper works, whereby her floating capacity was decreased and
she sank to the bottom, and the amount of the additional damage thereby caused, including the cost of raising her, was $7300.
Upon that state of facts, the court, affirming the judgment of
the Circuit Court, held the insurers liable for the latter sum.
But in the opinion of this court, delivered by Mr. Justice
Strong, the rule was recognized and affirmed, that "when
there is no order of succession in time, when there are two
concurrent causes of a loss, the predominating efficient one
must be regarded as the proximate, when the damage done
by each cannot be distinguished." And it was added, "And
certainly that cause which set the other in motion, and gave
to it its efficiency for harm at the time of the disaster, must
rank as predominant." 12 Wall. 199. The rule was held to
be inapplicable to that case, because the damage resulting
from the fire, and that caused by the collision, apart from
the fire, were clearly distinguished; and because the policy,
exempting the insurers from liability for losses by fire by certain specified causes, covered losses by fire from all other
causes, including collisions. But for those distinctions, the
decision could hardly be reconciled with the earlier opinions
already referred to, or with that delivered by the same able
and careful judge in the later case of Insurance Co. v. Boon,
95 U. S. 117.
In Insurance Co. v. Boon, a policy of insurance against fire,
issued during the war of the rebellion, for one yedr, upon goods
in a store in the city of Glasgow in the State of Missouri, provided that the insurers should not be liable for "any loss or
damage by fire which may happen or take place by means of
any invasion, insurrection, riot or civil commotion, or of any
military or usurped power." The city of Glasgow, being occupied as a military post by the United States forces, was attacked
by a superior armed force of the rebels and defended by the

THE G. R. BOOTH.
Opinion of the Court.

United States forces; and during the battle the commander
of these forces, upon its becoming apparent that the city could
not be successfully defended, and, in order to prevent military
stores, which had been placed in the city hall, from falling
into the hands of the rebels, caused them to be destroyed by
burning the city hall; and the fire, spreading from building to
building, through three intermediate buildings, to that containing the goods insured, destroyed them. This court held
that the loss was within the exception in the policy, because
the rebel military power was the predominating and operating
cause of the fire; and in the opinion of the court, delivered by
"Mr. Justice Strong, and strongly supported by authority, the
true rule and its application to that case were stated as follows:
"The question is not what cause was nearest in time or place
to the catastrophe. That is not the meaning of the maxim
causa.proxima no renota spectatur. The proximate cause is
the efficient cause, the one that necessarily sets the other
causes in operation. The causes that are merely incidental or
instruments of a superior or controlling agency are not the
proximate causes and the responsible ones, though they may
be nearer in time to the result. It is only when the causes
are independent of each other that the nearest is, of course,
to be charged with the disaster." 95 U. S. 130. "The conclusion is inevitable, that the fire which caused-the destruction
of the plaintiffs' property happened or took place, not merely
in consequence of, but by means of, the rebel invasion and
military or usurped power. The -are occurred while the
attack was in progress, and when it was about being successful. The attack, as a cause, never ceased to operate until the
loss was complete. It was the causa causans which set in
operation every agency that contributed to the destruction.
It created the military necessity for the destruction of the
military stores in the city hall, and made it the duty of the
commanding officer of the Federal forces to destroy them.
His act, therefore, in setting fire to the city hall, was directly
in the line of the force set in motion by the usurping power."
95 U. S.132. "The court below regarded the action of the
United States military authorities as a sufficient cause inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

vening between the rebel attack and the destructidn of the
plaintiffs' property, and therefore held it to -be the responsible
proximate cause. With this we bannot concur. The proximate cause, as we have seen, is the dominant cause, not the

one which is incidental to that cause, its mere instrument,
though the latter may be nearest in place and time to the loss.
In Milwaukee. & St. Paul Railway v. -Kellogg,94 U. S. 469,
we said, in considering -what-is the proximate and what the
remote cause of an injury; 'The inquiry must always be
whether there was any intermediate cause, disconnectedfrom
the primary fault, and -self-operating, which produced the
injury.' In the present case, the burning of the city hall and
the spread of the fire afterwards was not a new and independent cause of loss. On the contrary, it was an incident, a
necessary incident and consequence, of the hostile rebel attack
on the town -a military necessity caused by the attack. It
was one of a continuous chain of events brought into being
by the usurped military power - events so linked together as
to form one continuous whole." 95 _U. S. 133.
In general accord with the opinions above quoted are two
cases in this court upon the meaning and effect of the term
"dangers of navigation," or "perils of the sea," in a bill of
lading. The 3lohawk, 8 Wall. 153; The Portsmouth, 9 Wall.
682.
In The _Mohawk, a steamboat, carrying wheat under a bill
of lading containing an exception of "dangers of navigation,"
grounded on the fiats, and, in the effort to get her off, became
disabled by the bursting of her boiler, and afterwards sank.
It was argued, among other things, on the one side, that the
explosion was not a danger incident to navigation; and, on
the other, that the sinking of the vessel was the immediate
cause of the damage to the wheat. The questionat issue was
whether the vessel was entitled to freight pro rata itineris.
This court, speaking by Yr. Justice Nelson, said that "the
explosion of the boiler was not a peril within the exception of
the bill of lading," and therefore the case fell within that class
in which the ship is disabled or prevented from forwarding
the goods to the port of destination by a peril or accident not

THE G. R. BOOTH.

459-

Opinion of the Court.

within the exception in the bill of lading. 8 Wall. 162. Although this statement was perhaps not absolutely necessary
to the decision, it was upon a point argued by counsel, and
shows clearly that the court was of opinion that the explosion,
and not the sinking, was the proximate cause of the loss.
In The Portsmouth,it was decided that a jettison made to
lighten a steamboat, which had been run aground by her captain's negligence, was not within an exception of "the dangers
of lake navigation" in a-bill of lading ; and Mr. Justice Strong,
in delivering judgment, said: "A loss by a jettison occasioned
by a peril of the sea is, in ordinary cases, a loss by perils of
the sea. But it is well 'settled that, if a jettison of a cargo, or
a part of it, is rendered necessary by any fault or breach of
contract of the -master or owners of the vessel, the jettison
must be attributed to that fault, or breach of contract, rather
than to the sea peril, though that may also be present, and
enter into the case. This is a principle alike applicable to
exceptions in bills of lading and in policies of insurance.
Though the peril of the sea may be nearer in time to the
disaster, the efficient cause, without which the peril would not
have been incurred, is regarded as the proximate cause of the
loss. And there is, perhaps, greater reason for applying the
rule to exceptions in contracts of common carriers than to
those in policies of insurance, for, in general, negligence of
the insured does not relieve an underwriter, while a common
carrier may not, even by stipulation, relieve himself from the
consequences of his own fault." 9 Wall. 684, 685.
Generally speaking, the words "perils of the sea" have the
same meaning.in a bill of lading, as in a policy of insurance.
There is a difference,.indeed, in their effect in the two kinds
of contract, when negligence of the master or crew of 'the vessel contributes to a loss by a peril of the sea; in such a case,
an insurer against " perils of the sea"1 is liable, because the
assured does not warrant that his servants shall use due care
to avoid them ; whereas an exception of "perils of the sea"
in a bill of lading does not relieve the carrier from his primary
obligation to carry with reasonable care, unless prevented by
the excepted perils. But when, as in the present case, it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

distinctly found that there was no negligence, there is no
reason, and much inconvenience, in holding that the words
have different meanings in the two kinds of commercial contract. Yhe Portsmouth, above cited; Phcenix Ins. Co. v. Erie
Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312, 322-325; liverpool Steam
Co. v. Phenix "ins.Co., 129 U. S. 397,438,442; Compania La
Fleoha v. Brauer, "68 U. S. 104; The lantho, 12 App. Cas.
503, 510, 514, 517.
In the case at bar, the explosion of the case of detonators,
besides doing other damage, burst open the side of the ship
below the water line, and the sea water rapidly flowed in
through the opening made by the explosion, and injured the
plaintiff's sugar.. The explosion, in consequence of which, and
through the hole made by which, the water immediately entered the ship, must be considered as the predominant, the
efficient, the proximate, the responsible cause of the damage
to the sugar, according to, each of the tests laid down in the
judgments of this court, above referred to. The damage to the
sugar was an effect which proceeded inevitably, and of absolute necessity, from the explosion, and must therefore be ascribed to that cause. The explosion concurred, as the efficient
agent, with the water,' at the instant when the water entered
the ship. The inflow of the water, seeking a level by the mere
force of gravitation, was not a new and independent cause but
was a necessary and instantaneous result and effect of the bursting open of the ship's side by the explosion. There being two
concurrent causes of the damage -!the explosion of the detonators, and the inflow of the water - -without any appreciable
interval of time, or any possibility of distinguishing the amount
of damage done by each, the explosion, as the cause which set
the water in motion, and gave it its efficiency for harm at the
time of the disaster, must be regarded as the predominant
cause. It was the primary and efficient cause, the one that
necessarily set the force of the water in operation ; it was the
superior or controlling agency, of which the water was the
incident or instrument. The inflow of the sea water was not
an intermediate cause, disconnected from the primary cause,
and self-operating; it was not a new and independent cause

THE G. R. BOOTH.
Opinion of the Court.

of 4amage; but, on the contrary, it was an incident, a necessary incident and consequence, of the explosion; and it was
one of a continuous chain of events brought into being by the
explosion - events so linked together as to form one continuous whole.
The damage was not owing to any violent action of winds
or waves, or to the ship coming against a rock or shoal or
other external object; but it was owing to an explosion within
the ship, and arising out of the nature of the cargo, which
cannot be considered, either in common understanding, or according to the judicial precedents, as a peril of the sea.
.As was observed by this court in Insurance Co. v. Boon,
above cited, "Often, in case of a fire, much of the destruction
is caused by water applied in efforts to extinguish the flames;
yet, it is not doubted, all that destruction is caused by the fire,
and insurers against fire are liable for it." 95 U. S. 131. If
damage done by water thrown on by human agency to put
out a fire is considered a direct consequence of the fire, surely
damage done by water entering instantly, by the mere force
of gravitation, through a hole made by an explosion of part
of the cargo, must be considered as a direct consequence of the
explosion.
Upon principle and authority, therefore, our conclusion is
that the explosion, and not the sea water,. was the proximate
cause of the damage to the sugar, and that this damage was
not occasioned by the perils of the sea, within the exceptions
in the bill of lading.
Nor can the damage to the sugar, attributable, not to a
peril of the sea, but to the explosion of part of the cargo after
the ship had ended her voyage, and had been finally and intentionally moored at the dock, there to remain until her
cargo was taken out of her, be considered as "occasioned by
accidents of navigation." Canada Shipping Co. v. B'ritish
Shipowners' Association, 23 Q. B. D. 342; Tke Accomao, 15
Prob. Div. 208; Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v. Ramilton, 12
App. Cas. 481; The .Mohawk, above cited.
Much reliance was placed by the appellee upon a recent
English case, in which the House of Lords, reversing the de-

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

cision of Lord Esher and Lords Justices Bowen and Fry in
the Court of Appeal, and restoring the judgment of Lord
Justice Lopes in the Queen's Bench Division, held that damag e.to goods by sea water which, without any neglect or default on the part of the shipowners or their servants, found
its way into the hold of a steamship through a hole which had
been gnawed by rats in a leadei pipe connected with the bath
room of the vessel, was within the exception of "dangers or
accidents of the seas" in a bill of lading. Ramilton v. Pandorf, 12 App. Cas.. 518; 17 Q. *. D. 670; 16 Q. B. D. 629.
There -is nothing in the report of any stage of that case to
show that the sea water entered the ship immediately upon
the gnawing by the rats of the fiole in the pipe; and any such
inference would be inconsistent with one of the opinions delivered in the House of Lords, in which Lord Fitzgerald said:
"The remote cause was in a certain sense the action of the
rats on the lead pipe; but the immediate cause of the damage
was the irruption of sea water from time to time through the
injured pipe, caused by the rolling of the ship as she proceeded
on her voyage." 12 App. .as. 528. However that may have
been, that case differs so much in its facts from the case now before us, that it is unnecessary to consider it more particularly.
Question certi§ed answered in the negative.

THE SILVIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.5. Argued March 8, 1898-Decde&. October 1, 1898.

A ship, whose port holes between decks are fitted with the usual glass covers
and the usual iron shutters, and have no cargo stowed against them, is
not unseaworthy by reason of beginning a voyage in fair weather with
the glass covers tightly closed, and the Iron shutters left open for the
admission of light, but capable of being speedily got at and closed if
occasion should require; and any subsequent neglect in not closing the
iron covers is a 11fault or error in navigation or in the management

