462

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

cision of Lord Esher and Lords Justices Bowen and Fry in
the Court of Appeal, and restoring the judgment of Lord
Justice Lopes in the Queen's Bench Division, held that damag e.to goods by sea water which, without any neglect or default on the part of the shipowners or their servants, found
its way into the hold of a steamship through a hole which had
been gnawed by rats in a leadei pipe connected with the bath
room of the vessel, was within the exception of "dangers or
accidents of the seas" in a bill of lading. Ramilton v. Pandorf, 12 App. Cas.. 518; 17 Q. *. D. 670; 16 Q. B. D. 629.
There -is nothing in the report of any stage of that case to
show that the sea water entered the ship immediately upon
the gnawing by the rats of the fiole in the pipe; and any such
inference would be inconsistent with one of the opinions delivered in the House of Lords, in which Lord Fitzgerald said:
"The remote cause was in a certain sense the action of the
rats on the lead pipe; but the immediate cause of the damage
was the irruption of sea water from time to time through the
injured pipe, caused by the rolling of the ship as she proceeded
on her voyage." 12 App. .as. 528. However that may have
been, that case differs so much in its facts from the case now before us, that it is unnecessary to consider it more particularly.
Question certi§ed answered in the negative.

THE SILVIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.5. Argued March 8, 1898-Decde&. October 1, 1898.

A ship, whose port holes between decks are fitted with the usual glass covers
and the usual iron shutters, and have no cargo stowed against them, is
not unseaworthy by reason of beginning a voyage in fair weather with
the glass covers tightly closed, and the Iron shutters left open for the
admission of light, but capable of being speedily got at and closed if
occasion should require; and any subsequent neglect in not closing the
iron covers is a 11fault or error in navigation or in the management

THE SILVIA.
Opinion of the Court.
of the vessel," within the meaning of section 3 of the act of Congress
of February 13, 1893, c. 105, known as the-Harter Act.
Section 3 of the Harter Act applies to foreign vessels.

THE case is stated in the'opinion.
MX. Charle8 C. Burngiam and A&. Harrington Putnam
for the Franklin Sugar Refining Company.

MX. J Parer Kirlin for the Silvia.

:MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a libel in admiralty, filed June 14, 1894, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, by the Franklin Sugar Refining Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Pennsyl.vania, against the steamship Silvia, of Liverpool, owned by
the Red Cross Line of Steamers, to recover damages for
injuries to a cargo of sugar, owned -by the libellant, which
bad been shipped on or about February 15, 1894, upon the
Silvia at iMatanzas, Cuba, for Philadelphia, under a bill of lading, by which the sugar was "to be delivered in the like good
order and condition at the port of Philadelphia (the dangers
of the seas only excepted)," upon payment of agreed freight,
"and all other conditions as per charter party dated New
York 31st January, 1894."
The charter party, which had been made and concluded at
New York January 31, 1894, provided that the Silvia, then at
Tucacas, Venezuela, should proceed as soon as possible in ballast to Matanzas for a voyage thence to Philadelphia, New
York or Boston; and contained these provisions: "The vessel shall be tight, staunch, strong and in every way fitted for
such a voyage, and receive on board, during the aforesaid
voyage, the merchandise hereinafter mentioned (the act of
God, adverse winds, restraint of princes and rulers, the
Queen's enemies, fire, pirates, accidents to machinery or
boilers, collisions, errors of navigation and all other dangers and accidents of the seas, rivers and navigation, of
whatever nature and kind soever during the said voyage al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ways excepted). The said party of the second part doth engage
to provide and furnish to the said vessel a full cargo, under
deck, of sugar in bags. The bills of lading to be signed without prejudice to this charter."
The Silvia, with the sugar in her lower hold, sailed from Matanzas for Philadelphia on the morning of February 16, 1894The compartment between decks next the forecastle had been
fitted up to carry steerage passengers, but on this voyage contained only spare sails and ropes, and a small quantity of
stores. This compartment had four round ports on each side,
which were about eight or nine feet above the water line
when the vessel was deep laden. Each port was eight inches
in diameter, furnished with a cover of glass five eighths of an
inch thick, set in a brass frame, as well as with an inner cover
or dummy of iron. When the ship sailed, the weather was fair,
and the glass covers were tightly closed, but the iron covers
were left open in order to light the compartment should it
become necessary to get anything from it, and the hatches
were battened down, but could have been opened in two minutes by knocking out the wedges. In the afternoon of the day
of sailing, the ship encountered rough weather, and the glass
cover of one of the pbrts was broken - whether by the force
of the seas or by floating timber or wreckage, was wholly a
matter of conjecture-and the water came in through the
port, and damaged the sugar.
The decree of the District Court dismissed the libel, and was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 64 Fed. Rep. 607 ;
35 U. S. App. 395. The libellant applied for and obtained a
certiorari from this court.
writ
It of
was adjudged by this court at the last term that
the act
of Congress of February 13, 1893, c. 105, known as the Hlarter
Act, has not released the owner of a ship from the duty of
making her seaworthy at the beginning of her voyage. The
Carib Prince, 170 T.S. 655.
But the contention that the Silvia was unseaworthy when
she sailed from Matanzas is unsupported by the facts. The
test of seaworthiness is whether the vessel is reasonably fit
to carry the cargo which she has undertaken to transport.

THE SILVIA.
Opinion of the Court.

The pqrt holes of the -compartment in question were furnished
both with the usual glass covers and with the usual iron shutters or deadlights; and there is nothing in the case to justify
an inference that there was any defect in the construction of
either. When she began her voyage, the weather being fair,
the glass covers only were shut, and the iron ones were left
open for the purpose of lighting the compartment. Although
the hatches were battened down, they could have been taken
off in two minutes, and no cargo was stowed against the ports
so as to prevent or embarrass access to them in case a change
of weather should make it necessary or proper to close the
iron shutters. Had the cargo been so stowed as to require
much time and labor to shift or remove it in order to get at
the ports, the fact that the iron shutters were left open at the
beginning of the voyage might have rendered the ship unseaworthy. But as no cargo was so stowed, and the ports were
in a place where these shutters would usually be left open for
the admission of light, and could be speedily got at and closed
if occasion should require, there is no ground for holding that
the ship was unseaworthy at the time of sailing. Steel v. State
Line Steamship Co., 3 App. Cas. 72, 82, 90, 91; -edley v.
Pinkney Steamship Co., (1892) 1 Q. B. 58, 65, and (1894) App.
Cas. 222, 227, 228; Gilroy v. Price, (1893) App. Cas. 56, 64.
The third section of the Harter Act provides that "if the
owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or property to
or from any port in the United States oi America shall exerciie due diligence to make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and supplied, neither
the vessel, her ownel' or owners, agent or charterers, shall become or be held responsible for datnage or loss resulting from
faults or errors in navigation or in the management of said
vessel." 27 Stat. 445.
This provision, in its terms and intent, includes foreign vessels carrying goods to or from a port of the United States.
The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 30; The Carib Prince,above cited.
Not only had the owners of the Silvia exercised due diligence to make her seaworthy, but, as has been seen, she was
actually seaworthy when she began her voyage.
VOL. CLXXT-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

This case does not require a comprehensive definition of the
words "navigation" and "management" .of a vessel, within
the meaning. of the act of Congress. They might not include
stowage of cargo, not affecting the fitfiess of the ship to carry
her cargo. But they do include, at the least, the control,
during the voyage, of everything with .which the vessel is
equipped for the purpose of protecting her and her cargo
against the inroad of the seas; and if there was any neglect
in not closing the iron covers of the ports, it was a fault or
error in the navigation or in the management of th6 ship. This
view accords with the result of the English decisions upon the
meaning of these words. - Good v. London Steamshil Owners'
Ae8ociation, L. IR. 6 0. P. 563; The Warkwort, 9 Prob. Div.
20, 145 ; Ca'rmiohaelv. LiveTool Shvpownere' Asociation,"19
Q. B. D. 242; Canada Shiping Co. v. British Shipowner8'
Amsociation, 23 Q. B. D. .342 The .Ferro,(189 ) Prob. 38;
The Glenochil, (1896) Prob. 10.
In. the case, cited by the appellant, of Dobell v. Steamehip
Rosmore Co., (1895) 2 Q. B. 408, 414, the ship was unseaworthy at the time of sailing, by reason of the cargo having
been so stowed against an open port that the port could not
be closed without renloving a considerable part of the cargo;
and Lord Esher, M.R., upon that ground, distinguished that
case from the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
present case.
J

dgment aflnrmed.

BRIGGS v. WALKER.
,REOH TO THE COURT O1 APPEALS OF 'THE STATE OF XENTUCKY.
o. 260. Submitted April 25,1898. -Decided October 1T, 1898.
Under an act of Congress, entitled 'an act for the relief of the estate" of
a certain person deceased, and conferring upon the Court of Claims jurisdiction to hear and determine "the claim of the legal representatives"
of that person for the proceeds in the treasury of his property taken by
the United States, the executor is the legal representative, and any sum
recovered by him by suitin that court is assets of the estqte and subject

