OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

This case does not require a comprehensive definition of the
words "navigation" and "management" .of a vessel, within
the meaning. of the act of Congress. They might not include
stowage of cargo, not affecting the fitfiess of the ship to carry
her cargo. But they do include, at the least, the control,
during the voyage, of everything with .which the vessel is
equipped for the purpose of protecting her and her cargo
against the inroad of the seas; and if there was any neglect
in not closing the iron covers of the ports, it was a fault or
error in the navigation or in the management of th6 ship. This
view accords with the result of the English decisions upon the
meaning of these words. - Good v. London Steamshil Owners'
Ae8ociation, L. IR. 6 0. P. 563; The Warkwort, 9 Prob. Div.
20, 145 ; Ca'rmiohaelv. LiveTool Shvpownere' Asociation,"19
Q. B. D. 242; Canada Shiping Co. v. British Shipowner8'
Amsociation, 23 Q. B. D. .342 The .Ferro,(189 ) Prob. 38;
The Glenochil, (1896) Prob. 10.
In. the case, cited by the appellant, of Dobell v. Steamehip
Rosmore Co., (1895) 2 Q. B. 408, 414, the ship was unseaworthy at the time of sailing, by reason of the cargo having
been so stowed against an open port that the port could not
be closed without renloving a considerable part of the cargo;
and Lord Esher, M.R., upon that ground, distinguished that
case from the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
present case.
J

dgment aflnrmed.

BRIGGS v. WALKER.
,REOH TO THE COURT O1 APPEALS OF 'THE STATE OF XENTUCKY.
o. 260. Submitted April 25,1898. -Decided October 1T, 1898.
Under an act of Congress, entitled 'an act for the relief of the estate" of
a certain person deceased, and conferring upon the Court of Claims jurisdiction to hear and determine "the claim of the legal representatives"
of that person for the proceeds in the treasury of his property taken by
the United States, the executor is the legal representative, and any sum
recovered by him by suitin that court is assets of the estqte and subject

BRIGGS "v. WALKE3 R.
Statement of the Case.
to the debts of the testator; and a decision of the highest court of a
State in favor of creditors against the executor presents a Federal question, as to which it may be reviewed by this court upon a writ of error
sued out by the executor.

THE controversy in this case was between the executor and
two creditors of Charles M. Briggs, and arose as follows:
On April 18j 1862, during the war of the rebellion, Charles
S. Morehead, of Kentucky, executed and delivered to his
nephew, Charles M. Briggs, a bill of sale of cotton in Mississippi, in these -terms:
"For and in consideration of money loaned and advanced
heretofore by 0. M. Bkiggs, and further valuable consideration
by way of suretyship for me by said Briggs, I hereby sell and
transfer to said C. M. Briggs all the cotton on my two plantations in Mississippi near Eggspoint and Greenville. Said cotton so sold embraces all I have, baled and uubaled, gathered
and ungathered. This is intended to cover all cotton that I
have now or may have this year on said two plantations, supposed to be about 2000 bales."
At the same time, Briggs executed and delivered to Samuel
J. Walker, Morehead's son in law, a writing in these terms:
"In consideration of the sale and transfer this day made to
me by C. S. Morehead of all the cotton on his two plantations
near Eggspoint in the State of Mississippi, as specified in said
sale and transfer in writing, I hereby assume and agree to
pay to Samuel J. Walker the sum of forty thousand dollars
due and owing to said Walker by said C. S. Morehead, upon
condition, however, that I realize sufficient. amount from any
cotton on or from said plantations orproceeds of same, together with about twenty-five thousand dollars due me from
said C. S. Morehead for moneys advanced and liability for him
as surety; also about ten thousand dollars, more or less, being
a claim of A. S. Shotwell as he may hereafter establish against
said C. S. Morehead; but in case I should not realize sufficient
to pay all of said claims or amounts above named in full, then
I am to pay or divide the' amount that may be realized from
said cotton, proportionately or pro -ata according to the respective amounts named, to the parties above named, first,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case:

however, paying and refunding any moneys paid by the respective parties for or on account of expenses pertaining to
same; and in case more should be realized than sufficient to
pay said amounts, with interest thereon to the time of realization and payment, then any surplus to be divided, one half to
said Shotwell and C. M. Briggs -jointly for any services, and
the remaining one half to said Samuel J. Walker, but no other
consideration to be paid to said $hotwell -and Briggs for
their service."
Briggs at once took steps to get possession of the cotton,
but was prevented by the Federal forces and the Confederate
forces in the vicinity. This cotton, amounting to four hundred and fifty bales, was finally seized, together with other
cotton, by Captain G. L. Fort, assistant quartermaster general
in the United States Army, in behalf of the United States,
and was by him sold and the proceeds paid into the Treasury
.of the United States.
Briggs died in 1875, after repeated and unsuccessful efforts,
through his attorneys, to obtain the proceeds of the cotton in
question; and his executor continued the efforts, and, through
the same attorneys, procured the passage of the act of Congress of June 4, 1888, c. 348, copied in the margin. 1
1

An act for the relief of the estate of C. M. Briggs, deceased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the UnitedStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Court of Claims is
hereby given, subject to the proviso hereinafter mentioned, like jurisdiction
to bear and determine the claim of the legal representatives of C. M.
Briggs, deceased, for the proceeds of four hundred and fifty-five bales of
cotton, now in the Treasury of the United States, alleged to have been
owned, in whole or in part, by said Briggs, as is given to said court by the
acts of March twelfth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and July second,
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, upon petition to be filed in said court at
any time within two years from the passage of this act, any statute of Ilimitations to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, however, that unless
the said court shall, on a preliminary inquiry, find that said Briggs was in
fact loyal to the United States Government, and that the assignment to him
hereinafter mentioned was bonafide, the court shall not have jurisdiction
of the case, and the same shall, without further proceedings, be dismissed:
And provided further, that if the court shall find that the alleged assignment from one Morehead to said Briggs, of date April eighteenth, eighteen

BRIGGS v. WALKER.
Statement of the Case.

Under the provisions of that act, Briggs's executor brought
suit in the Court of Claims and therein recovered the sum of
$88,000.
See Briggs v. United States, 25 C. Cl. 126; 143
U. S. 346; 27 C. C1. 564. :alf of that sum was paid to the
attorneys, pursuant to a contract between them and Briggs;
and the rest, being the sum of $44,000, came to the hands of
the executor.
Thereupon the executor, in a suit previously brought against
him for the settlement of Briggs's estate, in the chancery division of the circuit court for the county of Jefferson- and State
of Kentucky, set up, by amended answer, that he had collected
this sum of $44,000; and prayed that Walker's widow (to whom
Walker had assigned his claim) and Shotwell's administrator
might be made parties to the suit, and be required to set up
their claims to this sum. And XMrs. Walker and Shotwell's
administrator filed petitions in the cause, claiming the sums
mentioned as due to Walker and to Shotwell, respectively, in
the writing signed by Briggs, April 18,1862, and above set forth.
To these petitions the executor of Briggs filed supplemental
answers, in which, among other things, he set up the act of
Congress of June 4, 1888, and the proceedings in the Court of
Claims; and alleged that "in pursuance to the said act this
defendant, through his said counsel, instituted an action
against the United States in the Court of Claims to recover
the proceeds of sale of the cotton aforesaid, and in and by said
action it was finally determined and adjudged that the said
hundred and sixty-two, under which said Briggs claimed said cotton, was
intended only as security to said Briggs for indebtedness, and against contingent liabilities assumed by him for said Morehead, judgment shall be
rendered for such portion of the proceeds of said cotton as will satisfy the
debts and claims of said Briggs to secure which said assignment was,
given: Provided, said judgment shall not be paid out of the general fund
in the Treasury arising from the sale of captured and abandoned property,
hut shall be paid out of the special fund charged to and accounted for by
Captain G. L. Fort, assistant quartermaster at Memphis, arising from the
sale of the two thousand two hundred and nine bales of cotton, received by
him, with which claimant's cotton was intermingled, said claimant to receive only the proportion which his cotton bears to the net proceeds
-accounted for by said Fort. 25 Stat. 1075.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

testator was loyal to the United States,. and that the assignment made by said Morehead to defendant's testator was bofta
j§de and founded on a valuable consideration; but this defendant was, by the act aforesaid, as well as the final judgment of
the Court of Claims, limited in hi§ recovery to such sum as
would satisfy the debts and claims of his testator, to secure
which the said assignment was given ; and this defendant says
that by the final judgment of said Court of Claims be only
received and recovered from the United States such sum as
was owing. directly to his testator by said Morehead, and
did not recover anything whatsoever for or on account of anything that may have been owing by said Morehead to A. L
Shotwell or Samuel J. Walker;" and further alleged that
"the passage of the act aforesaid was an act of grace on the
part of the United States for the sole benefit of this defendant, and to permit this defendant to assert a claim against the
proceeds of said cotton to the extent. that said Morehead was
indebted to his testator; that long prior thereto all claim that
had existed in favor of said testator as against the United
States for any part of the proceeds of said cotton had been
barred by limitation, and said claim was outlawed and worthless;" and that1"it was not intended by said act that this defendant should recover anything for the benefit, directly or
indirectly, of any other person."
The circuit court of Jefferson County sustained demurrers
of the petitioners to the supplemental answers of the executor; and, upon a hearing, found that there was due to
Walker the sum of $40,000 and to Shotwell the sum of
$6681'.2l; and adjudged that the sum of $44,000, in the hands
of the executor,, after deducting his commissions, be applied
pro rata to the payment of .these two sumg, and of the further
sum of $25,000 due from Morehead to Briggs. The executor
appealed to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, which affirmed
the judgment. 43 SOuthwestern Reporter, 479. Thereupon
he sued out this writ of error.
The case was submitted to this court upon a motion by the
defendants in error to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, or to affirm the judgment.

BRIGGS

.

W-LKER.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James P. RZtm, Mr. 1etm Br ce and

rf. Ramue B.

Vance for the motion.
Mr. William Stone Abert, -Mr. Charles H. Gibson, .Mr. John
.Aarshalland Mr. D. W. Sanders opposing.
XM. JusTICE GR&Y, after stating the -case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss must be overruled. An, executor
represents the person of the testator, and is charged with the
duty of resisting unfounded claims against the fund in his
hands. Co. lit. 209a; McArthur v. Scott, 113 U. S. 340, 396.
The record, therefore,. does present the Federal question
whether the right given by the act of Congress to the "legal
representatives" of Charles M. Briggs was for the benefit of
his next of kin to the exclusion of his creditors.
But we are of opinion that this question, which is the only
Federal question in the case, must be answered in the negative,
and consequently that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky faust be al~rmed.
The primary and ordinary meaning of the words "representatives," or "legal representatives," or "perso n al representatives," when there is nothing in the context to control their
meaning, is "executors or administrators," they being the
representatives constituted by the proper court. I re Crawford's Trust, 2 Drewry, 230; In re Wyndham's Trusts, L. R.
1 Eq. 290; 2 Jarman on Wills, c. 29, § 5, (5th ed.) 957, 966;
Williams on Executors, pt. 3, bk. 3, c. 2, § 2 (7), (9th ed.) 992;
Cox v. Curwen, 118 Mass. 198; Halsey v. Patterson,10 Stew'

(37 N. J. Eq.) 445.
In Stevens v. Bagwell, 15 Yes. 139, 152, a claim by the next
of kin of a naval officer to the share awarded him in a prize
condemned after his death, and ordered by treasury warrant
to be paid to his "representatives," was rejected by Sir William Grant, who said that the intention of the Crown in all
cases of this kind is to put what is in strictness matter of
bounty upon the footing of matter of right, and not to exercise
any kind of judgment or selection wit 1 regard to the persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to be ultimately benefited by the gift; that therepresentatives
to whom the Crown gives are those who legally sustain that
character; but the gift is made in augmentation of -the estate;
and is to be considered as if it had been actually part of the
officer's property at the time of his death.
In this court, it is well settled that moneys received by the
United States from a foreign government by way of indemnity for the destruction of American vessels, and granted by
act of Congress to the owners of those vessels, without directing to whom payment shall be made in case of death or insolvency, pass to the assignees in bankruptcy for the benefit of
the creditors of tsuch owners, although such, assignees have
been appointed before the act of Congress making the grant.
Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193; Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S.
392; William v. leard,140 U. S. 529.
In Emerson v. Hall, 13 Pet. 409, cited by the plaintiff in
error, in which money paid by the United States to the heirs
at law, as "the* legal representatives of William Emerson,"
under the act of March 3, 1831, c. 102, 6 Stat. 464, was. held
not to be assets in their hands for tle payment of his creditors, the act, in its title, was 'expressed to be "for the relief
of the heirs of William Emerson, deceased;" and it granted
the money as a reward for services, meritorious indeed, but
voluntarily 'rendered by Emerson, not under any law or contract, and imposing no obligation, legal or equitable, upon the.
government to compensate him therefor; and the money was
therefore held to have been received by his heirs as a gift or
pure donation.
In the provision of the appropriation act of March 3, 1891,
c. 540, concerning the French Spoliation Claims, the words
"personal representative" and, "legal representative" were
used to designate the executor or administrator of the original sufferer; and money awarded by the Court of Claims to
such a representative was held by this court to belong to the
next of kin, to the exclusion of assignees in bankruptcy, upon
the ground that the act expressly so provided. 26 Stat. 897,
908. Blagge V. Balch, 162 U. S. 439.
The words "legal representatives " or "personal representa-

BRIGGS v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

tives"; have also been used as designating executors or administrators, and not next of kin, in acts of Congress giving
actions for wrongs or injuries causing death. Act of April 20,
1871, c. 22, § 6, 17 Stat. 15 ; Rev. Stat. § 1981; act of February 17, 1885, c. 126; 23 Stat. 307 ; Stewart v. Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad,168 U. S. 445, 449.
The act of June 4, 1888, c. 348, now before the court, is entitled "An act for the relief of the estate of C. M. Briggs,
deceased," and confers upon the Court of Claims "jurisdiction
to hear and determine the claim of the legal representatives of
C. M[. Briggs, deceased," for the proceeds, in the Treasury of
the United States, of cotton owned by him. The only conditions which the act imposes upon the right of recovery are
that the petition shall be filed in the Court of Claims within
two years; that that court shall find that Briggs was in fact
loyal to the United States, and that Morehead's assignment
of the cotton to Briggs was made in good faith; and that if
it shall find that the assignment "was intended only as security to said Briggs for indebtedness, and against contingent
liabilities assumed by him for said Morehead, .judgment shall
be rendered for such portion of the proceeds of said cotton
as will satisfy the debts and claims of said Briggs to secure

which said assignment was given." The "debts and claims,"
in this last clause, manifestly include both classes of debts
previously mentioned, namely, the direct "indebtedness" of
Morehead to Briggs, and the "1contingent liabilities assumed
by him for said Morehead," including the claims of the defendants in error, specified in the written agreement executed
by Briggs contemporaneously with the assignment, and the
amount of each of which has been ascertained by the court
below.
The act of Congress nowhere mentions heirs at law, or next
of kin. Its manifest purpose is not to confer a bounty or gratuity upon any one; but to provide for the ascertainment and
payment of a debt due from the United States to a loyal citizen for property of his, taken by the United States; and to
enable his executor to recover, as part of his estate, proceeds
received by the United States from the sale of that property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement. of the Case..

The act is "for the relief of the estate" of Charles M. Briggs,
and the only matter referred to the Court of Claims is the
claim of his "legal representatives." The executor was the
proper person to represent the estate of Briggs, and was his
legal representative; and as such he brought suit in the
Court of Claims, and recovered the fund now in question, and
consequently held it as.assets of the estate, and subject to the
debts and liabilities of his testator to the defendants in errorJudgment q§Zrmed.

HUBBARD, Assignee, v. TOD.
VERTIOEA

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEA.LS FOR THE EIGHW
CIRCUIT.
1 o. 24. Argued April 22, 25, 1898.-Decided October 17, 1898.

On the hearing of a case, brought by certiqrari from a Circuit Court of
Appeals on petition of one of the parties, in which the judgment of that
court is made otherwise final, this court will pass only upon the errors
assigned by the petitioner, and does not feel at liberty to decide whether
there was error in the decree below, of which the other party might have
complained.
Under the circumstances disclosed in the statement of the case and in theopinien of the court in this case, the Union Trust Company cannot be
allowed to set up its alleged title to the stock and bonds in controversy,
as against third parties taking in good faith and without notice, and the saine principle is applicable to its assignee, and to creditors seeking to
enforce rights in his name; and, so far as this case is concerned, there
is nothing to the contrary in the statute of Iowa regulating assignments
for the benefit of creditors, as expounded by the Supreme Court of that
State.
This court concurs in the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the fact that the- respondents' right to the
securities was superior to that asserted by the petitioner.
The New York statutes against usury cannot be interposed by a corporatfon,
or pleaded by endorsers of its paper.

THE Manhattan Trust Company of New York filed its bill,
on September" 28, 1893, in the Circuit Court of -the United
States for the iNorthern District of Iowa, against the Sioux

City & N"orthern Railroad -Company 'of Iowa, praying for

