SMYTH v. AMES.
Syllabus.

Georgia, 257, that the statute was not applicable where sale
and delivery were without the State.
The act of January 21, 1891, must be regarded, then, as an
act providing for the inspection of fertilizers and fertilizing
materials in order to prevent the practice of impositioni on the
people of the State, and the charge of twenty-five cents per
ton as intended merely to defray the cost of such inspection.
It being competent for the State to pass laws of this character,
does the requirement of inspection and payment of its cost
bring the act into collision with the commercial power vested
in Congress? Clearly this cannot be so as to foreign commerce, for clause two of section ten of article one expressly
recognizes the validity of state inspection laws, and allows
the collection of the amounts necessary for their execution;
and we think the same principle must apply to interstate
commerce.
In-any view, the effect on that commerce is indirect and
incidental, and "the Constitution of the United States does
not secure to any one the privilege of defrauding the public."
Decree afflrred.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

and MR. JusTicE WHITE dissented.

SMYTH v. AMES.
SMYTH v. SMITH.
SMYTHI v. HIGGINSON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
APPLICATION FOR REHEARING AND
Nos. 49, 50, 51.

MODIFICATION OF JUDGMENTS.

Submitted May 9, 1893. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

The decrees in the several cases are modified by striking from them the
words referred to in the application of the appellants, and set forth in
the opinion of the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

THIS case'was decided at the present term, and is reported
in 169 U. S. at page 466 et 8eq. The appellants made application for a modification of the decrees of the Circuit Court
in-the respective cases, as is more fully set forth in the opinion
below.

Mr. C. ,.SmrytA for the applications.
.Mr.
J. 21. Woolworth opposing.
Mn.

JUSTICE

HARLAff

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were determined in this court dhring the
present term and are reported in 169 U. S. 466. The decree
in each case was affirmed. The cases are now before us upon
attorney general of
an application by the appellants -the
:Nebraska and his colleagues constituting the state board of
transportation and its secretaries- for a modification of the
decree of the Circuit Court in the respective cases.
The decree in 5myth v. Ames, No. 49, which this court
affirmed, was as follows:
"That the said railroad companies and each and every of
them, and said receivers, be perpetually enjoined and restrained from making or publishing a schedule of rates to be
charged by them or any or either of them for the transportation of freight on and over their respective roads in this
State from one point to another, therein, whereby suqh rates
shall be reduced to those prescribed by the act of the legislature of this State, called in the bill filed therein, ' House Roll
33,' and entitled 'An act to regulate railroads, to classify
freights, to fix reasonable maximum rates to be charged for
the transportation of freight upon each of the railroads in
the State of Nebraska, and to provide penalties for the violation of this act,' approved April 12, 1893, and below those now
charged by said companies or either of them or their receivers,
or in anywise.obeying, observing or conforming to the provisions, commands, injunctions and prohibitions of said alleged act; and that the Board of Transportation of said

SMYTH v. AMES.

.363

Opinion of the Court.

State and the members and secretaries of said board be in
like manner perpetually enjoined and restrained from entertaining, hearing or determining any complaint to it against
said -ailway companies or any or either of them o) their receivers, for or on account of any act or thing by either of
said companies or their receivers, their officers, agents, servants or empl~ys, done, suffered or omitted, which may be
forbidden or commanded by said alleged act, and from instituting or prosecuting or causing to be instituted or prosecuted
any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, against either of
said companies or their receivers for any act or thing done,
suffered or omitted, which may be forbidden or commanded
by said act, and particularlyfrom reducing its present rates
of chargesfor transportationof freight to those prescribed in
said act, and that. the attorney general of this State be in
like manner enjoined from bringing, aiding in bringing or
causing to be brought, any proceeding by way of injunction,
mandamus, civil action or indictment against said companies
or either of them or their receivers for or on -account of any
action or omission on their part commanded or forbidden by
the said act. And that a writ of injunction issue out of this
cburt and under the seal thereof, directed, to the said. defendants, commanding, enjoining and restraining them as
hereinbefore . set forth, which injunction shall be perpetual
save as is hereinafter provided. And it is further declared,.
adjudged and decreed that the act above entitled is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, forasmuch as by the
provisi6ns of said act the said defendant railroad companies
may not exact for the transportation of freight from one
point to another within this State, charges which yield to the
said companies, or either of them, reasonable compensation
for such services. It is further ordered, adjudged and'decreed
that the defendants, members of the Board of Transportation
of said State, may hereafter when the circumstances have
changed so that the rates fixed in the said act shall yield to
the said companies reasonable compensation for the services
aforesaid, apply to this court by supplemental bill or otherwise, as they may be advised, for a further order in that be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

half. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
plaintiffs recover of the said defendants their costs to be taxed
by the clerk."
The appellants now ask that the decree of the Circuit Court
in that case be modified by striking therefrom the words,
"and below those now charged by said companies or either
of tlem or their receivers," and the words "and particularly
from reducing its present rates of charges for transportation
of freight to those prescribed in said act."
The decree of the Circuit Court in Sm yth v. Smith, No. 50,
and the decree in Smyth v. fliggin.on, No. 51, are substantially the same as the decree in the -case of Smyth v. Ames.
The appellants in Smyth v. Smith now ask that the words in
the decree "and below those now charged by said companies
or either of them," and the words "and particularly from
reducing its present rates of charges for transportation of
freight to those prescribed in said act," be stricken out; and
the appellants in Smyth v. iligginson ask that the words "and
below those now charged by said company," and the words
"and particularly from reducing its present rates of charges
for transportation of freight to those prescribed by said act,"
be stricken from the decree in that case.
The court is. of opinion that the 'present application by the
•appellants in each of the above cases should be granted. The
general question argued before us on the original hearing was,
whether the rates established by the Nebraska statute, looking
at them as an entirety, were so unreasonably low as to pre-,
vent the railroad companies from earning such compensation
as would be just, having due regard to the rights both of the
public and of the dompanies. In our examination of that
question it was appropriate and necessary to inquire as to the
earnings of the respective companies under the rates which
.they had established - looking at those rates, also, as an entirety. In this way we ascertained the probable effect of the
statute in question. We did not intend, by an affirmance of
the several decrees, to adjudge'that the railroad, companies
should not, at any time in the future, if they saw proper,
reduce the rates, or ahy of them, under which they were con-

SMYTH v, AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

ducting business at the time the final decrees *were rendered,
nor that the state Board of Transportation should not reduce
rates on specific or particular articles below the rates which
the companies were charging on such articles when the decrees were entered. It may well be that on some particular
article the railroad* companies may deem it wise to make a'
reduction of the rate, and it may be that .the public interests
will justify the state board of transportation in ordering such
reduction. We have not laid down any cast-iron rule covering each and every separate rate. We only adjudged that
the enforcement of the schedules of rates established by the
state statute, looking at such rates as a whole, would deprive
the railroad companies of the compensation they were legally
entitled to receive. We did not pass judgment upon the reasonableness or unreasonableness of the rates on any particular article prescribed by the statute or by the railroad companies. If the State should by statute, or through its board
of transportation, prescribe a new schedule of rates, covering substantially all articles, and which would materially reduce those charged by the companies respectively, or should
by a reduction of rates on a limited number of articles make
its schedule of rates, as a whole, produce the same result, the
question will arise whether such rates, taking into consideration the rights of. the public as well as the. rights of carriers,
aie consistent with the principles announced by this court
in the opinion heretofore delivered. Of course, the reasonableness of a schedule of rates must be determined by the
facts as they exist when it is sought to put such rates into
operation.
The decrees in the several cases are hereby modified by
striking therefrom the words referred to in the application of
the appellants.
The decree in each case being thus modifed, is afprmed.

