OCTOBER TERM,, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

DETROIT CITIZENS' STREET RAILWAY COMPANY
v. DETROIT RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No.'286. Argued April 26, 27,189.-DeeIded M y 23, 1898.
,At the time when the platfitiff in error received from the city of Detroit
exclusive authority to construct and operate its railways in that city, the
common council of Detroit had no power, either inherent or derived from
the legislature, to confer an exclusive privilege thereto.

THE plaintiff in error is a street railway company of the
State of Michigan, organized, for the purpose of owning and
operating lines in the city of Detroit, and is the successor in
interest of a similar corporation named the Detroit City Railway. The rights asserted by it arise from. an ordinance of the
common council of that city passed upon November 24, 1862.
This provided that the Detroit City Railway was "exclusively
authorized to construct and operate railways as herein provided, on and through" (certain specified streets) "and through
such other streets and' avenues in said city as. may from time
totime be fixed and determined by vote of the common council of The said' city of Detroit and assented to in writing by

said corporation.

.

.

.

And provided the corporation does

not assent in writing, within thirty days after the passage of
said resolution of the council ordering the formation of new
routes, then the common council may give the privilege to
any other companr to build sucli route."
The ordinance provided also that "the powers and privileges conferred by the provisions of-this ordinance shall be
limited to thirty years from and after the date of its passage."
Section 2 of the ordinance is only necessary to be quoted,
and it is inserted in the margin.'
1 SEC. 2. The said grantees are, by the provisions of this ordinance, exclusively authorized to construct and operate railways as herein provided,
on and through Jefferson, Michigan and Woodward avenues, Witherell,
Gratiot, Grind River and Brush or Beaubien streets; and from Jefferson

CITIZENS' ST. RAILWAY v. DETROIT RAILWAY.

49

Statement of the Case.

There is also inserted in the margin sections 33 and 34
of the Tram Railway Act.- ' Howell's Stats. 1882, 'c.94,
Title 16.
By an ordinance passed November 14, 1879, it was provided further that "the powers and privileges conferred and
obligations imposed on the Detroit City Railway Company
by the ordinance passed November 24, 1862, and the amendavenue through Brush or Beaubien streets to Atwater htreet; and. from
Jefferson avenue, at its intersection with Woodbridge street, to Third
street; up Third treet to Fort street and through Fort street to-the western limits of the city; and through such other streets and, avenues in said
city as may from time to time be fixed'and determined by vote of the common council of the said city of Detroit, and assented to, in writing, by said
corporation, organized as provided in section first of this ordinance. And
provided, The corporation does not assent, in writing, within thirty days
after the passage of said resolution of the council ordering the formation
of new routes, then the common council may give the privilege to any other
company to build such route, and such other company shall have the right
to cross any track of rails already laid, at their own cost and expense; Provided, always, that the railways on Grand River street, Gratiot street and
Michigan avenue shall each run into and connect with the Woodward avenue railways, in such direction that said railways shall be continued down
to, and form, each of them, one continuous route to Jefferson avenue; Provided, always, that said railroad down Gratiot street may be continued to
Woodward avenue, through State street,-or through Randolph street, and
r
Monroe'avenue and the Campus Martius, as the grantees, oi
their assigns,
under this ordinance may elect.
1
SEc. 33. It shall be competent for parties to'organize companies under
this act to construct and operate railways in and through the streets of any
tqiwn or city in this State.
SEC. 34. All companies or corporations formed for such'purposes shall
have the exclusive right to use and operate any street railways constructed, owned or held by them; Provided, that no suctr company or corporation shall be authorized to construct a railway under this act through
the streets of any town or city without the consent of the municipal
authorities of ,such town or city and under such regulations and upon such
terms and conditions as said authorities may from time to time prescribe;
Provided, further, that, after such consent shall have been given and ac:
cepted by the company or corporation to which the same is granted, such
authorities shall make no regulations or conditions whereby the rights or
franchises so granted shall be destroyed or unreasonably impaired, or such
company or corporation be deprived of the right of constructing, maintaining and operating such railway In the street in such. consent or grant
named, pursuant to the terms thereof.
VOL. CLXXI--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ments thereto, are hereby extended and limited to thirty years
from this date."
On November 20, 1894-, the common council passed an
ordinance granting to several third parties the right to construct street railways upon portions of certain streets upbn
which the plaintiff in error was maintaining and operating
street railways, and also the right to construct, maintain and
operate railways on certain other streets, alleys and public
places in the city of Detroit, without giving to plaintiff in
error the opportunity to decide whether it would construct
the same. The present suit was brought in the circuit court
for the county of Wayne and State of lichigan, to enjoin the
grantees named in the latter ordinance, and also the city,
from acting thereunder, upon the ground that it impaired the
contract between the city and the plaintiff in error arising
from the ordinances first aforesaid. The bill was dismissed,
and, on appeal to the*Supreme Court of the State, the decree
of dismissal was affirmed. From that decree the present writ
of error has been duly prosecuted to this court.
-There are five assignments of error. They present the contention that the grant to the plaintiff in error was a contract
within the protection' of the provision of the Constitution of
the United States, which prohibits any State from passing any
law impairing the obligation of a contract, and that the subsequent grant to the defendant in error, the Detroit :Railway,
was a violation and an impairment of the obligation of that
contract.
Ar1. John C. Donnelly, .Mr. H. H. Dziffel and -Mr. F'ederie A. Baker for 'plaintiff in error: Mr. il ic/ael Brennan,
.Mr. David'Willcox and Mr. Frank.Sulliban Smith were on
the plaintiff in error's briefs.
_Hr. John B.
ACorlies, ir. Charles Flowers and i'. Joseph
1. Choate for defendants in error. Mr. Philip A. Rollins
was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

CITIZENS' ST. RAILWAY v. DETROIT RAILWAY.

51

Opinion of the Court.

The controversy turns primarily upon the power of the city
of Detroit over its streets, whether original under the constitution of *theState, and hence as extensive as it would be in
the legislature, or whether not original but conferred by the
legislature, and hence limited by the terms of the delegation.
The first proposition is asserted by the plaintiff in error;
the second proposition by the defendants in error.
The provisions of the constitution which are pertinent to
the case are as follows:
"The State shall not be a party to 6r interested in- any work
of internal improvement, nor engaged in carrying on any such
work, excepf in the expenditure of grants to the State of land
or other property.
"There shall be elected annually on the first Monday of
April in each organized township . . . one commissioner
of highways . . . and one overseer of highways for each
highway district.
"The legislature shall not
vacate or alter any
road laid out by the commissioners of highways, or any street
in any city or village, or in any recorded town plat.
"The legislature may confer upon organized townships, incorporated cities and villages, and upon boards of supervisors
of the several counties such powers of a local, legislative and
administrative character as they may deem proper."
The Supreme Court of Michigan, in its opinion, 68 N. W.
Rep. 304, interprets these'provisions adversely to the contention of plaintiff in error, and, reviewing prior cases, declares
their harmony with the views expressed. "The scope of the
earlier decisions," the court said, "is clearly stated by Mr.
Justice Cooley in Park, Commissioners v. Common Council,
28 Michigan, 239. After stating that the opinion in People
v. -lurlbut had been misapprehended, Justice Cooley said:
'We intended in that case to concede most fully that the
State must determine for each of its municipal corporations
the powers it should exercise, and the capacities it should
possess, and that it must also decide what restrictions should
be placed upon these, as well to prevent clashing of action
and interest in the State as to protect individual corporators

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the. Court.

against injustice and oppressibn at the hands of the local
majority. And what we said in that case we here repeat that, while it is a fundamental principle in this State, recognized and perpetuated by expressed provisions of theconstitution, that the people of every hamlet, town and city of the
State ar,&entitled to the benefits of local self-government, the
constitutibn has not pointed out the precise extent of local
powers and capacities, but has left them to be determined in
each case by the legislative authority of the State from considerations of general policy, as well as those which pertain to
the local benefit and local desires. And in conferring those
powers it is not to be disputed that the legislature may give
extensive capacity to acquire and hold property for local purposes or it may confine authority within the narrow bounds;
and what it thus confers it may enlarge, restrict or take away
at pleasure."
This decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan is persuasive if not authoritative; but, exercising an independent judgment, we think it is a correct interpretation of the constitutional .provisions. The common council of Detroit, therefore,
had no inherent power to confer the exclusive privilege
claimed by the plaintiff in error.
Did it get such power from the legislature? It is contended that it did by the act under which the Detroit City
Railway Company, the predecessor of plaintiff in error, was.
organized, and to whose rights and franchises it succeeded.
This -act is the Tram Railway Act, and at the time of .the
adoption of, the first oridinance in 1862, section 34 of that
act provided that "c-all companies or corporations formed
for such. purposes [the railway purposes mentioned in the
act] shall have" the exclusive right to use and operate any
railways constructed, owned or held by them: Provided,
that no such company or corporation shall *be authorized to
construct a-railway, under this act, through the streets of any
town of city, without the consent of the municipal authorities
of such town or city, and under -such regulations and upon
such terms and conditions as said authorities may from time
to time prescribe."

CITIZENS' ST. RAILWAY v.DETROIT RAILWAY.

53

Opinion of the Court.

In 1867 the further proviso was added that, after such consent should be given and accepted, such authorities should
make no regulations or conditions whereby the rights or franchises so granted should be destroyed or dnreasonably impaired, or such company be deprived of the right of constructing, maintaining and operating such railway.
It is clear that the statute did not explicitly and directly
confer the power on the municipality to grant an exclusive
privilege to occupy its streets for railway purposes. It is
urged, however, that' such power is to be inferred from
the provision which requires the consent of the municipal authorities to the construction of a railway under such
terms as they may prescribe, combined with the provisions
of the constitution, which, if they do not confer a power independent of the legislature, strongly provide for and intend
local government. The argument is strong, and all of its
strength has been presented and is appreciated, but there
exist considerations of countervailing and superior strength.
That such power must be given in language explicit and express, or necessarily to be implied from other powers, is now
firmly fixed. There were many reasons which urged to
this -reasons which flow from the nature of the municipal
trust- even from the nature of the legislative trust, and
those which, without the clearest intention explicitly declared- insistently forbid that the future should be committed and bound by the -onditions of the present time, and
functions delegated for public purposes be paralyzed in their
exercise by the existence of exclusive privileges. The rule
and the reason for it are expressed in 31 inturn v. Larue, 23
How. 435; WTright v. NVagle, 101 U. S. 791; State v. Cincinnati Gas Light and Coke Co., 18 Ohio St. 262; Pq rklIurst v.
Salem, 32 Pac. Rep. 304; Saginaw Gas Light Co. v. Saginaw,
28 Fed. Rep. 529, decided by Mr. Justice Brown of this
court; Long v. Duluth, 51 N. W. Rep. 913. See also Grand
Rapids Electric Light and Power Co. v. Grand Rapids &fc.
Co., 33 Fed. Rep. 669, opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Jackson at circuit. As bearing on the rule, see also Oregon R'ailway & lVavigation Co. v. Oregonian Railway Co., 130 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
1; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman Palace Car Co.,
139 U. S. 24.
The powef, therefore, must be granted in express words
or necessarily-to be implied. What does the latter mean?
Mr. Justice Jackson, in Grand Rapid &c. Power Co. v.
Grand Rapid &c. Co., supra,' says: . . . '"that municipal corporations possess and can exercise only such powers
as are 'granted in express words, or those necessarly or
fairly implied, in or incident to the powers expressly conferred, or those essential "to.the declared objects and purposes
of the corporation,not simply convenient, but indispensable."
The italics are his. This would make "necessarily implied"
mean inevitably implied. The Court of Appeals of the. Sixth
Circuit, by Circuit Judge Lurton, adopts Lord Eardwicke's
explanation, quoted by Lord Eldon in Wilkinson v. Adam,
1 Ves. & B. 422, 466, that "a necessary implication means
not natural necessity, but so strong a probability of intention,
that an intention contrary to that, which is imputed to the
testator, cannot be supposed." If this be more than - expressing by circumlocution an inevitable necessity, we need nor
stop to remark; or if it mean less, to sanction it, because we
think that the statute of Michigan, tested by it, does not confer on the common council of Detroit the power it attempted
to exercise in the ordinance of 1862. To refer the right to
occupy the streets of any town or city to the consent of its
local government was natural enough -would have been natural under any constitution not prohibiting it, and the power
to prescribe the terms and regulations of the occupation derive very little if any breadth from the expression of it. But
assuming the power to prescribe terms does acquire breadth
from such expression, surely there is sufficient range for its
exercise which stops short, or which rather does not extend
to granting an exclusive privilege of occupation. Surely there
is not so strong a probability of an intention of granting so
extreme a power that one, contrary to it cannot be supposed,
which - is Lord Hardwicke's test, or that it is indispensable to
the purpose for which the power is given or necessarily to be
implied from it which is the test of the cases. The rule is one

DEL MONTE MIN. CO. v. LAST CHANCE MIN. CO. 55
Syllabus.

of construction. Any grant of power in general terms read
literally can be construed to be unlimited, but it may, notwithstanding, receive limitation from its purpose- from the gen
eral purview of the act which confers it. A municipality is a
governmental agency - its functions are for the public good,
and the powers given to it and to be exercised by it must be
construed with reference to that good and to the distinctions
which are recognized as important in the administration of
public affairs.
Easements in the public streets for a limited time-are different and have different consequences from those given in perpetuity. Those reserved from monopoly are different and
have differeit consequences from those fixed in monopoly.
Consequently those given in perpetuity and in monopoly
must have for their authority explicit permission, or, if inferred from other powers, it is"
not enough that the authority
is convenient to them, but it must be indispensable to them.
-Decreeaflirmed.
MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

DEL MONTE MINING AND MILLING COMPANY
v. LAST CHANCE MINING AND MILLING COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

No. 14T.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Argued December 8, 9, 1S97. -Decided

APPEALS FOR THE

May 23, 1898.

To the first question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals, viz.: "1. May
any of the lines of a junior lode location be laid within, upon or across
the surface of a valid senior location for the purpose of defining for or
securing to such junior location under-ground or extralateral rights not
in conflict with any rights of the senior location ?" this court returns an
affirmative answer, subject to the qualification that no forcible entry is
made.

