OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.,

sions were founded, and by which alone they can be justified,
appears to us to be that each State may, in the exercise of its
police power, without violating the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United States concerning interstate
commerce, make such regulations relating to all sales of
oleomargarine within the State, even in original packages
brought frbm another State, as the legislature of the State
may deem necessary to protect the people from being induced
to purchase articles, either not fit for food, or differing in nature from what they purport to be; that the questions of danger to health, and of likelihood of fraud or deception, and of
the preventive measures required .for the protection of the
people, are questions of fact and of public policy, the deterruination of which belongs to'the legislative department, and
not to the judiciary; and that, if the legislature is satisfied
that oleoinargarine is unwholesome, or that, in the tubs, pots
or packages in which it is comnionly offered for sale, it looks
so like butter, that the only way to protect the people against
injury to health, in the one case, or against fraud or deception,.
in the other, is to absolutely prohibit its sale, it is within the
constitutional power of the legislature to do so.

COLLINS v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ,THE STATE OF NEW HA.IPSHIRE.
lXo. IT. Argued March 23, 24, 19S2.
-Decided

MaV 23, 1898.

Following the deeiion, in Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, ante, 1, the court
holds that the statute of New Hampshire prohibiting the sale of oleomargarine as a substitute for Iutter, unless it is of a pink color, is
invalid, as being, in necessary effect, prbhibitory.

T.HE case is stated in the opinion. It was argued with
Schollenberger v. .Pennsylvania, ante, 1, by the same counsel
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William D. GUiti
ie for plaintiff inerrorr.

. Richard

COLLINS v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

C. Dale, Mr. Henry R. Edmunds and Mr. Albert H. 'Feeder
were on'his brief.
Mr'. John G. Johnson was for the defendant in error in
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, argued with this case; but
there was no appearance for the defendant in error in this case.
Mn.

JusTICE P

KHA-M delivered

the opinion of the court.

This case comes here by virtue of a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the State of New Hampshire, by which we
are called upon to review the judgment of that court sustaining a conviction of the plaintiff in error in the court of first
instance of a violation of the public statutes of the State, prohibiting the sale of oleomargarine as a substitute for butter
unless it is of a pink color. The law is to be found in 'Sections
19 and 20, chap. 127, Public Statutes, 1891. The two sections
are set forth in the margin.'
The plaintiff in errbr was convicted of selling a package of
1 ยง 19. It shall be. unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or keep in possession
ivith intent to sell,' in this State, any substance or compound made wholly
or in part of fats, oils or grease, not produced from milk or cream, in
imitation of, or as a substitute for,. butler or cheese, unless the same is
contained in tubs, firkins, boxes or other packages, each of which has upon
it, to indicate the character of its contents, the words "Adulterated butter," fl Oleomargarine," or "Imitation cheese" as. the case may be, in plain
roman letters not less than one half inch in length, and so placed and made
or attached that they can be readily seen and read and cannot be easily
defaced; and if the substance or compound is a substitute for cheese, unless
the cloth surrounding It has a like inscription; and if it is a substitute for
butter, unless it is of a pink color. When any'such substance or compound
is sold-in less quantities than the original packages contain, the seller shall
deliver to the purchaser with it a .label bearing the words indicating its
character as above, in like letters.
ยง 20. If any person shall sell, or offer for sale, or keep in possession with
intent to sell, in this State, any substance or compound of the kinds described in the preceding section in a manner that is made unlawful by said
section, or shall sell, offer for sale, or keep in possession with intent to 'sell,
any such substance or coimpound without disclosing its true character, he
shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars, or be imprisoned not more
than sixty days, or both.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

oleomargarine not of pink color in violation of the statute
and was sentenced to pay a fine of $100, and to pay the costs
of prosecution and to stand committed until sentence was
performed.
The following are the facts appearing in the record:
"The respondent is agent, at Manchester of Swift & C.,
an Illinois corporation, having its principal place of business
in. Chicago. The corporation manufactures oleomargarine
and puts it up in packages in Chicago, and distributes the
of which is.
packages from there to different places -one
Manchester -where it maintains stores and. sells the article
at wholesale in the original packages. It has paid the special
United States taxes imposed by the act of Congress of August
2, 1886 (Supp. to R. S. of U. S., v. 1, p. 505), and has complied
with all other requirements of that act in respect to the manufacture and sale at wholesale of oleomargarine. The article
has the color of butter, the same coloring matter being used
to color it that is frequently used to color butter, and is made
wholly or in part of fats, oils or grease not produced from
milk- or cream, in imitation of or as a substitute for butter.
It is, not manufactured in this State. The respondent as such
agent sold in Manchester, at wholesale, at the store of
the
company, a package of said 4rticle weighing ten pounds in
the form it was put up in Chicago by his principal. The
provisions of section 19, chapter 127, Public Statutes of this
State, were complied with, so far as the package was concerned, except the color of its contents wa not pink. The
oleomargarine sold was the oleomargarine of commerce as the
same is known and dealt in as an article of food.
"The respondent claimed that upon these facts he was not
guilty, because the statute of this State is in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States and its amendments
and of the laws of Congress; otherwise he *admitted his
guilt. The court ruled against the respondent as to the
above claim, and he excepted."
It was stated on the argument that since the conviction of
the plaintiff in error the statute above cited had been repealed,
but that such repeal did not affect the conviction, because of

COLLINS v. NEW IAM SHIIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

the provision made .in the New Hampshire statutes that "no
uit or prosecution, pending at the time of the repeal of an
act, for any offence committed or for the recovery of a penalty
or forfeiture incurred, under the act so repealed, shall be
affected by such repeal." We are therefore called upon to
determine the validity of the conviction.
The plaintiff in error claims that the statute under which
he was indicted and convicted is void, because in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, which gives
power to Congress "-to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States and with the Indian
tribes."
We think this case comes within the principle of the cases
just decided regarding the statute of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania prohibiting the introduction of oleomargarine
into that Commonwealth. This statute is in its practical effect
prohibitory. It is clear that itis not hn inspection law in any
sense. It provides for no inspection, and it is apparent that
none was intended. The act is a mere evasion of the direct
prohibition contained in the Pennsylvania statute, and yet if
enforced the result, within the State, would be quite as positive in the total suppression of the article as is the case with
the Pennsylvania act.
In a case like this it is entirely plain that if the State has
not the power to absolutely prohibit the sale of 'an article of
commerce like oleomargar'ine in its pure state, it has no
power to provide that such article shall be colored, or rather
discolored, by adding a foreign substance to it, in the manner
described in the statute. Pink is not the color of oleomargarine in its natural state. The act necessitates and provides
for adulteration. It enforces upon the importer the necessity
of adding a foreign substance to .his article, which is thereby
rendered unsalable, in order that he may be permitted lawfully to sell it. If enforced, the result could be foretold. To
color the substance as provided for in the statute naturally
excites a prejudice and strengthens a repugnance up to the
point of a positive and absolute refusal to purchase the article
at any price. The direct and necessary result of a statute
VOL. CLxxI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

must be taken into consideration when deciding as to its
validity; even if that result is not in so many words either
enacted or distinctly provided for. In whatever language a
statute may be framed, its purpose must be determined by its
natural and reasonable effect. Henderson v. Mayor of -Yew
York, 92 U. S. 259 ; .Morgan's Steams p Co. v. Louisiana,
118 U. S. 455, at 462. Although under the wording of this
statute the importer is permitted to sell oleomargarine freely
and to any extent, provided he colors it pink, yet the permission to sell, when accompanied by the imposition of a condition which, if complied with, will effectually prevent any
sale, amounts in law to a prohibition.
* If this provision for coloring the article were a legal condition, a legislature could not be limited to pink in its choice
of colors. The legislative fancy or taste would be boundless.
It might equally as well provide that it should be colored blue
or red. or black. Nor do 'we see that it would be limited to
the use of coloring' matter. It might, instead of that, provide that the article should only be sold if mixed with some
other. article which, while -not deleterious to health, would
nevertheless give out a most offensive smell. If the legislature, have the povwer to direct that the article shall be colored
pink, -which can only be accomplished by the use of some
foreign substance that will have that effect, we do not know
upon what principle it should be confined to discoloration, or
why a provision for an offensive odor would not be just as
valid as one prescribing the particular color. The truth is,
however, as we have above stated, the statute in its necessary
effect is prohibitory, and therefore upon the principle recognized in the Pennsylvania cases it is invalid.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New lltHamshire is
reversed and the case remanded to that courtfor further
proceedingsnot inconsistent Wit this opinion.

MRn,

JUSTcE EARLAw

and Mn. fJusTIcE

GRAY

dissented.

