OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

gress upon which alone the case at bar is prosecuted, and the
agreement was held void at common law as a conspiracy
to wrongfully deprive the plaintiff of its right to manage its
business according to the dictates of its own judgment. It
was also said that the fact could not be overlooked that
another object of the conspiracy was to deprive the public at
large of the benefits to be derived from a labor-saving machine
whibh seemed to the court to be one of great utility. No
question as to interstate commerce arose and none was decided.
From what has already been said regarding rule 10, it
would seem to follow that the other rules (11, 12 and 13) are of
equal validity as rule 10, and for the same reasons. The rules
are evidently of a character to enforce the purpose and object
of the exchange as set forth in the preamble, and we think
that for such purpose they are reasonable and fair. They can
possibly affect interstate trade or commerce in blit a remote
way, and are not void as violations of the act of Congress.
TWe are of opinion therefore that the order in this case should
be reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United Statesfor the Westen Division qf the Western
Districtof Missouri with directions to dismiss the complainants' bill wiAh costs.MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

M_. J.rsTicE McKENxA took no part in the decision of this
case.

NORTHWESTERN BANK v. FREEMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.

No. 18. Argued April 15,18, 1898. -Decided

OctAler 24, 1898.

A description in a chattel mortgage of a given number of articles or antmals out of a larger number is not sufficient. as to third persons with acquired interests; but such a mortgage is valid against those who know
the facts.

NORTHWESTERN BANK v. FREEMAN.
Statement of the Case.
A pprchaser of personal property, which is mortgaged, is charged with
knowledge of every fact shown by the records, and is presumed to know
every other fact which an examination, suggested by the records, would
have disclosed.
Under the rule that the incident covers the principal, a mortgage of domestic animals covers the increase of such animals, though it be silent as to
such increase.

THE appellees recovered judgment in the district court,
which was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, from which an appeal has been taken to this court.
The facts found by the territorial Supreme Court are as
follows:
"On July 10, 1890, Iarry Fulton, one of the defendants in
the court below, executed an alleged chattel mortgage for
$7500, payable in one year, in favor of the Arizona Central
Bank, one of the appellees herein and plaintiffs in the court
below; that the description in said mortgage of the property
purporting to be covered by it is as follows:, '1200 lambs,
marked - ewes -with hole in left ear and split in right;
wethers, hole in right ear and split in left ear; 1600 ewes
marked hole in left ear and split in right ear; 2200 wethers
marked hole in right ear and split in left ear, making 5000
sheep in all with the Fulton brand.'
"That on said day said Fulton executed another alleged
mortgage for $4000, payable in ninety days, in favok of John
Vories, one of the appellees herein and one of the defendants
in the court below; that the description in said alleged mortgage is as follows: ' Wethers and dry ewes to the number of
1000, the wethers marked with a split in the left ear and a
hole in the right; ewes marked with a hole in the left ear
and a split in the right.'
"That on said day said Fulton owned and possessed 6200
sheep that were herded and run together, and this was b11 he
owned, said sheep being marked as follows: 'Ewes and ewe
lambs split in the right ear, hole in the left; wethers and
wether lambs reverse;' and both of. the said appellees had
knowledge of this fact at the time they accepted their alleged
mortgages, the one on 5000 head and the other on 1000 head.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

200 head not being iAoluded in either of said mortgages, all
of said sheep having the same mark and running in the same
herd, and none of them being capable of identification save
only by the ear mark put on them as aforesaid, and that
therefore there was no way by which any of said sheep could
be distinguished from any of the others.
"That said Fulton continued in the ownership and possession of all of said sheep, save only such as died, were sold by
him, copsumed or lost, until the 18th of December,. 1893. At
no time did appellees, or either of them, ever take or ever
have possession of said sheep, or any of 'them, or of the increase thereof, nor were any of said sheep or the increase
thereof ever by any one identified, designated or in any way
segregated, apportioned or substituted to the or on account
of the said pretended mortgages, or of either thereof. From
date of said mortgages (July 10, 1890) to January 4, 1893,
said Fultpn from time to time sold of said sheep as follows:
1700 head, at $3 per head, that were by saidFulton accounted
for, and the proceeds of which he deposited with the appellee
Arizona Central Bank; that both of said appellees knew of
these sales and consented to them.
" On January 4, 1893, said Fulton executed a mortgage for
$8885 in favor of Arizona Lumber and Timber Company, one
of appellants herein. and one of the defendants in the court
below, covering, among other property, the following described'sheep: .'About 3000 ewes, 1000 wethers, and 2000
lambs, same being all the sheep now owned by mortgagor,
and including all wool and increase which may be produced
by said sheep marked-- ewes, split in right ear, hole in left;
wethers reverse. At the instance of appellees said appellant,
Arizona Lumber and Timber Company, permitted the following recital to be inserted in said last-mentioned mortgage,
namely: ' This being subject to a mortgage on 5000 of above
sheep to Arizona Central Bnk, and dne on 1000 head. and
the residence property to John Vories, said number, ah described in mortgages, tW be kept good out of increase.' There
was consideration for the foregoing recital in the mortgage of
January 4, 1893, -namely, that the appellees should forbear

NO0RTHWESTERN. BANK v. FREEMAN.
Statement of the Case.

to foreclose their mortgages, and should release their claim on
the wool clip of 1893, the wool at that time not having been
shorn."That to August 30, 1893, $3000 of the amount claimed to
be due on the mortgage of January 4, 1893, was paid out of
wool proceeds, and that on said day said Fulton, for the purpose of securing a $500 advance, and applying the remainder
as a payment on said mortgage of January 4, 1893, executed
his promissory negotiable note, payable in 90 days, securing
the same by a chattel mortgage for the sum of $6000 to the
Arizona Lumber and Timber Company.
"That said mortgage was a/conveyance, as a security for
the payment of said note, of sheep, the same being in said
mortgage d~scribed as follows, namely: 'About 3200 ewes,
more or less; about 1300 wethers, more or less; about 1400
lambs, more or less, being all the sheep now owned by mortgagor, including all the wool and increase which may be produced. by said sheep -marked, ewes and ewe lambs, split in
right ear, hole in left; wethers and wether lambs, reverse.'
"That in said last-mentioned mortgage no recital or reference was made in any way, nor in any manner, to the
existence of any other mortgage or mortgages whatsoever.
"That on the 29th day of September, 1893, and prior to
the maturity of said last-mentioned note of $6000, said appellant Arizona Lumber and Timber Company, representing that
said mortgage was a first and prior lien on said described
sheep, and by means thereof, sold, assigned, endorsed and
delivered said note and mortgage to .the Northwestern
National Bank, one of the appellants. herein and one of the
defendants in the court below, said Northwestern National
Bank becoming an innocent purchaser for value.
"That on December 18, 1893, said Fulton, being then indebted to Riordan Mercantile Company, one of the appellants
herein and a defendant in the court below, in the sum of $810.91,
it brought its action in said district court against said Fulton
whereby to collect the same, and at the same time caused to
be issued out of -the clerk's office of said court a writ of attachment, which was then levied on the property following,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

namely: 'All the right, title and interest of the defendant
Harry Fulton in and to the following-described sheep: 2926
ewes, marked hole in left ear,-split in right; 900 wether sheep,
marked hole in right ear, split in left ear; 1287 lambs - ewe
lambs marked hole in left ear, split in right; wether lambs
marked hole in right ear, split in left; 118 rams,' same being
all of the sheep then owned by said Fulton.
"That on 16th March, 1894, judgment was rendered in said
suit in favor of said.plaintiff company and against said Fulton,
for said amount, and said attachment lien was foreclosed; that
on the 31st day of March, 1894, the sheriff of said county of
Coconino, by virtue ,of and pursuant to said judgment, sold
said property and delivered the same to the appellant Riordan
Mercantile Company, who then entered into the possession
thereof, was so in the possession thereof when this cause was
tried in the lower court, and are still in possession thereof.
"That by virtue of said writ of attachment the sheriff
attached all the sheep then owned by said Fulton, and that
on said day, to wit, on the 18th day of December, 1893, there
were of said sheep only 1000 head of ewes remaining out of
all the sheep that existed on July .10, 1890, the date of said
alleged mortgages to'apgellees; that the remainder of said
ewes, all the male sheep and the lambs, had by that time died,
been consumed, sold or lost.
"That subsequent to the making of said alleged mortgages
to said appellees, an oral agreement between them and the said
Fulton was made that the securities of appellees were to be
kept good out of the increase by substitution, the consideration therefor being that said Fulton might sell and dispose of
the said sheep without interference from appdllees.
"That Sisson, a witness for appellants in this case, is and
was during all of said transactions the treasurer of both the
Riordan Mercantile Company and the Arizona Lumber and
Timber Company, appellants herein, and that these two 6orporations have practically the same officers.
"That in said district court said Arizona Central Bank
-brought its suit as plaintiff against said Fulton, Vories, Donahue as sheriff, the Arizona Lumber and Timber Company, the

NORTHWESTERN BANK v. FREE]KAN.
Statement of the Case.

Riordan Mercantile Company and the Northwestern National
Bank, as defendants, asking for a foreclosure of its said alleged
mortgage, the same being the above-entitled cause.
"That said action was tried and. judgment was rendered
foreclosing said alleged mortgages of both of appellees herein
and also the said mortgage dated January 4, 1893, of said
Arizona Lumber and Timber Company and the mortgage
owned by said Northwestern National Bank as aforesaid, in
which said judgment said court adjudged that appellees have
a prior and first lien on said property, viz., the Arizona Central Bank upon 5000 sheep of the Fulton mark by reason of
its said mortgage, and the said.Vories on 1000 sheep of the
Fulton mark by reason of his said mortgage; and said court
decreed and ordered that an order of sale issue for the sale of
all of said property to the sheriff of said county, and that the
proceeds arising therefrom be divided by the sheriff and
applied as follows, namely, at the ratio of five dollars to said
Arizona Central Bank and one dollar to said Vories; that in
case anything should be left after the payment of said two
mortgages to said bank and Vories, the same should be
applied to the payment of the judgments of said Northivestern National Bank and said Arizona Lumber and Timber
Company and Riordan IMercantile Company in the order
named."
There are seventeen assignments of errors, which are somewhat confused. They are grouped and presentedby counsel
under seven heads as follows:
"First. In the first assignment of error it is set forth that
the trial court erred in adjudging, and the territorial Supreme
Court erred in affirming said judgment, that the mortgages of
the appellees were prior liens on all of the sheep owned by
defendant Fulton at the time of the ekecution of sai d mortgages, even though said mortgages had been good and prior
liens on the sheep specified therein.
"Second. In the second, third, fifth and eighth assignments of error it is set forth that the trial court, and the territorial Supreme Court in sustaining its holding, erred in
admitting in evidence the mortgages from defendant Fulton
VOL. cLXXI-40

OCTOBER TERM', 1898.
Statement of the Case.

to the appellees, marked Exhibit 'A' and 'B,' against the
objections of the appellants; and in overruling motion of
appellants to strike out of the evidence tlie said mortgages;
and in holding that said mortgages were valid and subsisting
liens on all of said property; and in holding and deciding that
the description of said property in appellees' said mortgages
was a sufficient description.
"Third. In the fourth and seventh assignments it is set
forth that the court erred in admitting, over the objection of
the appellants, testimony concerning a conversation between
J. H. Hoskins, John Vories, F. W. Sisson and Harry Fulton,
and evidence relative to an alleged agreement, and evidence
tending to prove a breach of contract between the appellees
and appellant Arizona Lumber and Timber Company.
"Fourth. The trial court erred, as set forth in the fifteenth
and sixteenth assignments, in adjudging that on the date of
its decree herein the mortgage of said appellee bank covered
five thousand head of sheep of the Fulton herd and mark, such
adjudication attempting to substitute five thousand head of
sheep after the making of said two mortgages to appellees;
the trial court erred in attempting said substitution and then
holding it good as tb appellants Riordan Mercantile Company and Nor*thwestern National Bank.
"Fifth.- The trial court erred, as set forth in the eleventh
assignment, in adjudging that said mortgages of appellees
were mere securities for debts, the legal title to said sheep
remaining in said Fulton notwithstanding said mortgages
and in adjudging that said sheep should be sold and the proceeds paid to said Arizona Central Bank and said Vories, in
the proportion of five dollars to the former and one to the
latter.
"Sixth. The trial court erred, as set forth in the seventeenth
assignment, in adjudging that appellant Northwestern National
Bank was bound by said pretended agreement of substitution
or was bound by said pretended mortgages of appellees, or
that said mortgages were prior liens on said property, or on
any of it to the mortgage owned by said appellant.
"Seventh. In the sixth, ninth, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth

NORTHWESTERNT BANK v. FREEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and fourteenth assignments it is set forth that the court erred
in denying and overruling defendants' motion for a new trial
of said cause; and in deciding that the mortgage to said
appellee the Arizona Central Bank conveyed five thousand
head of sheep, marked: ewes with hole in left ear and split
in right, wethers with hole in right ear and split in left ear,
and that a thousand more of said sheep were conveyed by
mortgage to said appellee Vories, with the same marks; and
in adjudging that the property included in the said attachment lien of the said Riordan Mercantile Company and sold
and delivered to said company thereunder was the same property that is conveyed, or attempted to be conveyed, by the
mortgages of said appellees; and in adjudging that the rights,
title and interests obtained by said Riordan Mercantile Company, by virtue of said attachment lien and sale, was subject
to the alleged rights of said appellees by virtue of their said
pretended mortgages; and in adjudging that appellants Riordan Mercantile Company and Arizona Lumber and Timber
Company had actual notice of the property conveyed by the
said alleged mortgages of said appellees; and in adjudging
that F. W. Sisson, as the treasurer of said Riordan Mercantile
Company, agreed with said appellees that the number of
sheep in said mortgages of appellees should be kept good out
of the increase of said sheep, and that the wool was released
by said agreement to said company, and that the consideration thereof was an alleged forbearance to foreclose said
mortgages of said appellees."
Mrbt. A. B. Browne for appellants. ,r. A. T. Britton and
.Mr. E. E. J!71enwood were with him on the brief.
.Afr. Fred, Herringtonfor appellees.
ton was with him on the brief.
MR. Tusrc, WcKEN-NA,

Mr. Cas E. Herring-

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The contest is for priority. The territorial Supreme Court
awarded it to the-mortgages of the appellees. The appellants

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

contend that this was error because of the fact that the mortgages respectively covered 5000 and 1000 head of sheep, and
that Fulton owned 6200 head, and that hence the mortgages
were invalid on account of insufficient descriptions. The
mortg.ges do not stdte that Fulton owned a greater number
than those he mortgaged, but the fact is found by the court.
The rule is laid. down that, as to third persons who have
acquired interests, 'a description in a mortgage of a given
inumber of articles out of a larger number is not sufficient.
Jones on Chattel Mortgages, see. 56 et seq., and cases cited.
But such a moitgage is valid against those who know the
facts. Cole v.. Green, 77 Iowa, 307; Clavp v. Trowbridge,
4 Iowa, 550.
The mortgage of January 4, 1893, executed by Fulton to
the Arizona Lumber -and Timber Company was undoubtedly
taken' by the latter not only with actual notice, but it was
expressly made subject to the prior ones to appellees. The
finding of the court is:. "At the instance of appellees said
appellant, Arizona Lumber and Timber Company, permitted
the following recital to be inserted in said last-mentioned
mortgage, namely: ' This being subject to a mortgage on
5000 of above sheep to Arizona Central Bank, and'one on 1000
head, and. the residence property to John Vories, said number,
as described in mortgages, to be kept good out of increase.'
There was consideration for the foregoing recital in the mort:.
gage of January 4, 1893, namely, -that the appellees should
forbear to foreclose their mortgages, and should release their
claim on the wool clip of 1893, the wool at that time not
having been shorn."
The court further finds that on August 30,--4893, Fulton
paid to the Arizona Lumber and Timber Company..$3000 out
of the proceeds of the wool from the mortgaged sheep,
secured from the company an advance of $500, and for that
and 'th6 amount due on his note "executed his negotiable
promissory note payable in ninety days, securing the same by
a chattel mortgage for the sum of $6000." In this mortgage
there was no recital or reference to the existence of any other
mortgage. On the 29th of September, 1893, and prior to this

NORT HWESTERN BANK v. FREEMA.
Opinion of the Court.

maturity, the "appellant, the Arizona Lumber and Timber
Company, representing that said mortgage was a first lied,
sold, endorsed and delivered the note and mortgage to the
appellant, the Northwestern National Bank." • It is this note
and mortgage that are in controversy and which are claimed
as prior liens to the mortgages of appellees. The bank is
found to be an innocent purchaser for value. By this is
meant that it had no actual notice of the prior mortgages.
Did the law impute notice to it? Certainly not by the record
of the mortgages to appellees. Did it by the recbrd of the
mortgage of January 4, 1893, to the Arizona Lumber and
Timber Company? If the bank was charged with -notice of
that mortgage it was charged with. notice of its contents.
" Notice of a deed is notice of its whole contents, so far as
they affect the transaction in which notice of the deed is acquired." 2 Sch. & Lef. 315, cited and approved in Boggs v.
Varner, 6 Watts & Sergeant, 469, 473.
A purchaser is charged with notice of every fact shown by
the records, and is presumed to know every other fact which
an examination suggested by the records would have disclosed. Sees. 710 and 710a, Devlin on Deeds, and cases cited.
The mortgage of January 4, 1893, to the Arizona Lumber and
Timber Company was by the same mortgagor as that of
August 30, the one sold to the Northwestern National Bank,
and covered the same sheep, and hence, under the rule announced, the bank was charged with notice of it and of its
recitals. It was not given up or satisfied. It was preserved
as an independent lien.
It was not satisfied, appellants say, because it covered other
property beside the sheep. This is an insufficient reason. If
the debt it secured was paid, there was no reason for retaining
the lien on any property. But whatever the reason, it was
retained and affected the title. That is the material circumstance, and not in whose name it stood. It was in the chain
of the title and affected- it. It would have been found if
looked for, and would have notified the bank of the transactions which conducted to it and caused it to be made subject
to the mor tgages of the appellees. We therefore think the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tritorial courts committed no error when they assigned
priority to those mortgages. Nor was it error to subordinate
the attachment and judgment of the Riordan Mercantile
Company to them. That company had, according to the
inding of the court, actual notice.
The territorial court found that on the 18th of December,
1893, there were one thousand head of ewes remaining out of
all the sheep which existed on July 10, 1890, the date of the
mortgages to appellees; that the remainder of the ewes, all
of the male sheep, and the lambs had died, been consumed,
sold or lost. The findings are absolutely silent as to whether
there were or were not other sheep in existence at that time,
or at the time the' decree was entered. We infer from the
briefs of counsel that there were others - the increase of
those mortgaged -and there is. a contention as to whether
these are covered by the lien of the mortgages.
Under the rule that the incident follows the principal, a
mo.rtgage of domestic animals covers the increase of such
animals, though it is silent as to such increase. This court
said in Arkansas Valley Land and Cattle Co. v. Alann, 130
U. S. 69, by M r.. Justice Harlan "according to the maxim
partus sequitur ventrem, the brood of all tame and domestic
animals belong to the owner of the dam or mother." 2 BI.
Com. 390. See also Pyeatt v. Powell, decided by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 10 U. S. App. 200,.
and cases cited.
But whatever was doubtful or disputabl e in the mortgages
of appellees as to the increase was resolved and settled by
agreement between all who had interests, and was expressed in
the mortgage of January 4, 1893. There is nothing in the
record to show a substitution except by the increase, and
therefore we are not called upon to pass upon some of the
interesting questions argued by appellants. Nor are we embarrassed b:r considerations of the increase being in or having passed out of the" period of nurture." Such considerations
are only important when a subsequent purchaser or mortgagee
.has taken without notice, actual or constructive, which we have
seen the Northwestern National Bank did not.

BIOWN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The objections to testimony assigned as error in the fourth
and seventh assignments of error were not well taken. The
testimony showed the transactions and the relations of the
parties to them.
-Decreeafflrmed.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.

CURLEY 'v. UNITED STATES.
JEROR TO TEE UNITED STATES COURT IN THE INDIAN TERRITORY.
Nos.249, 250,

Submitted April 25, 1898.-Decided October 24, 1898.

This court has no appellate jurisdiction of capital cases from the United
States court from the Northern District of the Indian Territory, such
appellate jurisdiction being vested exclusively in the United States Court
of Appeals in the Indian Territory.

ORus A. Brown, plaintiff in error in case No. 249, was indicted in the United States court for the Northern District of
the Indian Territory, charged with the crime of niurder,
which indictment was filed in the United States court for the
Indian Territory, Northern District, sitting at Muscogee on
the 10th day of December, A...

1896.

On the 17th day of December, A.D. 1897, he was convicted
of the crime of murder in said court, and the judgment of the
court sentencing him to death was made on the 24th day of
December, A.D. 1897.

On the 1st day of February, .D.

1898, the plaintiff in error filed a petition in said court for a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States,
and filed an assignment of errors. On February 8,A.D.
1898, a writ of error was allowed in said cause, and on the
same day a citation was issued in said cause, service of which
was acknowledged on the 16th day of February, A.D. 1898.
Pursuant to the writ of error in said cause a transcript of the
record in said cause was filed in the office of the clerk of the
Supreme Court of the United States on the 23d day of February,

A.D.

1898.

The government has filed its motion to

