OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

offence could be committed by a removal of spirits from the
premises before storage in the distillery warehouse or by concealment of the spirits so removed. And it is this concealment which the indictment charges, and it sufficiently alleges
the existence of a warehouse. It also alleges that the tax 'had
not been paid. The- offence wag purely statutory. In such
case it is generally sufficient to charge the defendant with acts
coming within the statutory description in the substantial
words of tie statute without any further expansion of the
matter.. United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S. 360; United
States v.Britton, 107 U., S. 655.

One of the acts which is made an offence by section 3296 is
the concealment of distilled spirits on which the tax has not
been paid, removed to a place other than the distillery warehouse pr6vide d by law. The indictment charges in the
language of the statute the performance of that act at a particular time and place. It was therefore sufficiently certain.
As to the second ground of motion in arrest of judgment,
it is enough to say that there is nothing in the record to show
that the jury separated before the verdict *was returned, into
court, but the record does show that a sealed verdict was returned by the jury by agreement of counsel for both parties
in open court and in the presence of the defendant. This
verdict was rightly received and recorded. Commonwealth v.
Carrington,116 Mass. 37.
The judgment is
Aflled.

HARRISON v. MORTON.
ERROR TO THE 'COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF M ARYLAND.
N'o.245. Argued May 2, 8,1898.- Decided May 2.3,1S98.

Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, affirmed to the points:
(I) That to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court it must appear affirmatively not only that a Federal question
was presented for decision by the state court, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it

IIARRISON v. MORTON .
Statement. of the Case.
was actually decided adversely to the party claiming a right under the Federal laws or Constitution, or that the judgment as
rendered could not have been given without deciding it;
(2) That where the record discloses that if a question has been raised
and decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a provision
of the Constitution or laws of the United States, another question
not Federal has been also raised and 'decided against such party,
and the decision of the latter question is sufficient; notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain the judgment, t13is court will
not review the judgment.

Tnis suit was brought by the plaintiff in error Harrison.
against the defendant in error on the 8th of February, 1895,
in the Baltimore City Court to^ recover the sum of $300,000
damages for the breach of a contract under seal for the sale
of certain patent rights.
Under the alleged contract the plaintiff in error sold; and
the defendant in error bought and agreed to pay for, a certain machine, method and device for making barrels and kegs,
and all his right, title and interest in certain pending letters
patent therefor, when issued, at and for the price of three
hundred thousand dollars, whereof one hundred thousand
dollars were to be paid in cash within ten days after the.
issuing 6f letters patent, and'the remaining two hundred.
thousand dollars were to be paid in the full-paid, non-assessable shhres of a corporation, to be incorporated and
organized by the defendant in error Morton under the laws
of Maryland, with a eapital stock of five hundred thousand
dollars.
The pleas were:
First. .Yon, estfactum.
Second. That the signature of the defendant in error to the
alleged agreement was procured by the fraud of the plaintiff.
in error.
Third. That the signature of the defendant in error was
procured by the undue influence of the plaintiff in error.
And also three supplemental pleas on equitable grounds:
1st. That there was no consideration for the alleged agreement.
2d. Tha" at the date of the alleged agreement Harrison

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

was not the owner of and had no valid, title to the machine,
method and device mentioned in the declaration.
3d. That at the time of the alleged assignment of the
patent Harrison was not the owner of and had not a valid
title to the said patent.
The defendant also filed a plea of set-off, and upon demand
for a bill of particulars of such set-off filed a bill of particulars,
amounting to thirty-one, thousand seven hundred and ninetyone dollars and fifty-two cents ($31,791.52).

Replications were duly filed and issues joined on all of them.
The case was tried before the judge without a jury.
At the trial the parties asked the court to. rule on certain
propositions contained in what the record calls "prayers."
They were as follows, with the action of the court expressed
thereon:
"Plaintiff's First Prayer.
"The plaintiff, by his. counsel, prays the court to rule that
if it shall find from the evidence that the contract between
the plaintiff and defendant, dated December 8, 1894, and
read in evidence, was signed and sealed by the plaintiff and
defendant, and left in the possession of the defendant as a
complete and operative instrument according to its terms,
and that in accordance with said contract, shortly after the
execution thereof, the plaintiff executed to the defendant the
assignment read in evidence of his right to the invention
therein mentioned, on which application for a patent was then
pending, and that defendant afterwards employed and paid
patent attorneys to procure for him the patent from tle Government of the United States and from the. governments of
other countries ; and if the court shall further find that the
said application for a patent was allowed by the Government
of the United States, and subsequently that letters patent for
said invention were granted, bearing date January 22, 1895,
as read in evidence, and that the plaintiff, 'at the time of the
execution of said agreement with theplainti had no knowledge or notice of the agreement between Henry Campbell
and the Campbell Barrel Company offered in evidence, then
the plaintiff is entitled to recover.

HARRIS0ON v. MORTON.
Statement of the Case.

"('And that there i8 no evidence that the2laintifhad any
knowledge or notice of said agreement between said Campbell
and said Campbell Barrel Company.') (Rejected as offered,
but granted as modified by omitting the words in Italics.)
"Plaintif's Second Prayer.
"The plaintiff, by his counsel, prays the court to rule that the
defendant has offered no evidence legally sufficient to show
that the contract set out in the declaration was procured by the
plaintiff from the defendant by fraud, or by undue influence.
(Conceded.)
"Plaintiff's Third Prayer..
"The plaintiff, by his counsel, prays the court to rule that
the defendant has offered no evidence legally sufficient to
show that there whs no consideration- for the agreement set
out in the .declaration. (Rejected.)
"Plaintiff's Fourth. Prayer.
"The plaintiff prays the court to rule that if the court shall
find that on the 11th day of September, 1894, Henry Campbell made to the plaintiff the assignment of one half interest
in his then pending application to the United States Patent
Office for a patent for the invention in said assignment mentioned, and subsequently, on or about the 26th of November,
1894, made to the plaintiff a further assignment of all his
interest in his §aid pending application and to the patent
thereon, whenever the same should thereafter be granted;
then, by virtue of said two assignments, the plaintiff acquired
an inchoate title to said invention and to the patent thereon,
when the same should thereafter be granted, which title it
was competent for the plaintiff to sell, assign and dispose of;
and if the court shall further find that on or about the 10th
day of December, 1894, the plaintiff executed to the defendant the assignment read in the evidence and dated the 8th
day of December, 1894, for the consideration therein mentioned, and that subsequently, on or about the 22d day of
January, 1895, a patent was issued by the United States in
the name of said Henry Campbell, for the invention described

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

in said several assighiments from said Campbell to the plaintiff
and from the plaintiff to the defendant, then the defendant,
by virtue of said letters patent, acquired a' valid title to and
became the owner of said pateht, and said assignment from
the plaintiff to the defendant, bearing date the 8th day of
December, 1894, was supported by a good and sufficient consideration, and the plaintiff is entitled to recover upon the
contracts set out in the declaration, provided the court, sitting
as a jury, shall find that the said contract was signed and
sealed by the plaintiff to the defendant, and was designed by
them to be an operative instrument according to its terms;
and provided further that at the time of the execution of
said contract, the plaintiff had no knowledge or notice of the
agreement between Henry Campbell and the Campbell Barrel Company, bearing date the- day of January, 1892, and1
offered in evidence by the defendant, and that there is no
evidence legally sufficient to show that the plaintiff had any
such knowledge or notice of said agreement. (Rejected.)
"Fifth Prayer.
"That the agreement of January, 1892, between Henry
Campbell and the Campbell Barrel Company, offered in evidence by the defendant, is no deAence to this action, if the
court shall find that by the true construction of said agreement the invention and device described in the contract set
out in. the' declaration is not embraced within said agreement.
(Granted.)?'
And the defendant offered the following two prayers:
"Dqfendant's First Prayer.
"The defendant asks the court to, rule as matter of law that
upon the pleadings of the case the burden is upon the plaintiff
to prove the delivery of the sealed instrument sued on, and if
the court, sitting as a jury, finds that the paper sued on never
was delivered, the verdict must be'for the defendant. (Granted.)
"Defendant's Second Prayer.
11If the court, sitting as a jury, shall find that when the
paper sued on was presented by the plaintiff to the- defendant

HARRISONT v. MORTON.
Statement of the Case.

for tle latter's signatuie, with the request that he would sign
it, the defendant declined: so to do, as the terms of such papers
did not correspond with any agreement made or talked of between the plaintiff and defendant, and that thereupon it was
agreed between them that the papers in duplicate should be
signed by the defendant, and both kept in his possession, and
should not be of any force, and should belong to the defendant .until he chose to put them ii force, and that in pursuance
of this agreement they were then signed by the defendant, and
always afterwards kept in his possession until produced at the
trial of this cause, on notice, and that at no time after the
signing of said papers did the defendant ever exercise his option
of putting into force, but on the contrary, subsequently thereto,
exercised his option by declining to recognize them as in force,
then the verdict shall be for the defendant. (Granted.)"
The trial judge rendered a general verdict for the defendant,
on which judgment was entered for $35,091.65, with interest

ana costs.
An appeal having been taken .to the Court of Appeals of
Maryland by the plaintiff Harrison; the judgment of the court
below was affirmed by the said Court of Appeals on the 17th
of June, 1896, for $39,091.65, with interest from the 13th of
December, 1884, until paid, and costs.
On September 21, 1896, a writ of error to review this judgment was issued to the Court of Appeals of Maryland.
There are nine assignments of error. They embrace rulings
on testimnony, on the.prayers and the following:
"1. It was error to decide that under the laws of the United
States the assignments from Henry Campbell to Walter H.
Harrison, dated the 11th day of September, A.D. 1894, and
the 26th day of November, 1894, respectively, purporting to
convey to the said Harrison the ' entire right, title and interest
in and to the application for patent- serial number, 522,266
-and the patent right contained therein and covered thereby,'
operated to convey to the plaintiff Harrison merely the equitable titlein and to said invention and the patent rights covered
by said application.
"2. It was error to decide that the said. assignments were

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

not drawn as the laws required, and hence did not conv-ey the
legal title to the invention in question."
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Maryland, 83 Maryland,
456,. is quite long, necessarily so, as it passes upon all the
points which were raised by plaintiffs. The parts of it which
concern the case are as follows:
"We think thee can be no doubt that the defendant's ,two
,prayers were properly granted. By the first the court declared
as matter of law'that upon the pleadings the burden was upon
the plaintiff to prove the delivery of the sealed instrument
sued on, and that if the court, 'sitting as a jury, should find that
said paper never -was delivered the verdict must be for the
defendant. The second prayer recites the evidence more at
length, but asserts the same proposition of law, which appears
to be well settled in this State. Edelen v. Saunders,8 Md. 129.
We discover no inconsistency between tho two prayers. The
plaintiff specially excepted to the second on the ground that
there was no evidence in the cause legally sufficient to prove
the facts therein set forth. Itis clear, however, that the testimony of the witnesses, Morton and Coale, support the facts
set forth in the prayer, and we have' already held it to be competent and admissible'under the issue made by the plea of non
est factun.
"We will now consider the prayers of the plaintiff. He
offered five,, the second having been conceded and the fifth
granted.
"The controlling proposition in this'part of the case is that
contended for by the plaintiff in his first, third and fourth
prayers, namely, that there is, no legally sufficient evidence in
the case fo show.that he had any knowledge or notice of the
agreement between -the inventor, Caifipbell, and the Campbell .
Barrel Company.
" The correctness of this contention of the plaintiff depends,
first, upon the legal effect of the assignments from Campbell
to the plaintiff, and, secondly, upon the effect-of the contract
of Campbell with the Campbell Barrel'Company -that is to
say, whethersaid Campbell thereby assigned to said company
an equitable title to his invention prior in date to the title he

HARRISON v. MORTON.
Statement of the Case.

claims to have assigned to the defendant, which latter title
the plaintiff claims to be an absolute legal title; and the defendant's contention, on the contrary, is that it is a mere equi* table title, subsequent in date, and therefore inferior to the
title of the Barrel Company. The plaintiff claims title
through two assignments from Campbell, each being for
one half interest in a certain application filed in the Patent
Office of the United States, at Washington, D.C., which application is for letters patent covering the invention of a
machine for forming and making barrels and kegs.
"It will be found upon an examination of these
instruments
that they do not contain a request -to the Commissioner of
Patents to issue letters patent to the plaintiff. Notwithstanding they were recorded in the Patent Office, letters patent
were issued in the name of Henry Campbell, the inventor,
and the defendant contends that the legal effect of such an
assignment, in which the inventor fails to embody a request
to the Commissioner of Patents to issue letters to the assignee,
is to convey to such assignee only an equitable title. It is
conceded that by one of the rules of the Patent Office the
Commissioner will not and cannot issue the letters patent to an
assignee, unless specially requested so to do by the terms of
the assignment. One of the witnesses refers to this rule in
his testimony. The patent having been issued to Campbell
instead of to the defendant, the witness thus explains: 'I
ascertained that the probable reason why it (the patent) had
not been issued to Mr. Morton was this: The original assignment from Mr. Campbell to Mr. Harrison did not contain the
request which the rules of the Patent Office required in order
that the patent should be issued in the name of the assignee.'
(Rule 26, Rules of Practice in U. S. Patent Office, page 9.
Revised April 1, 1892.)"
After considering authorities, the opinion decides that "If, therefore, the Campbell Barrel Company acquired an
equitable title to the patent, as it undoubtedly did, under its
contract with the ihventor, before the assi gnment of the equity
to the defendant, the latter took subject to the equitable title
in the said company, and the first, third and fourth prayers of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff were properly refused, for they all asked the
court to say that there was no legally sufficient evidence to
show that the plaintiff had knowledge or notice of the agreement between the plaintiff and the barrel company; but, as
we have seen, knowledge and. notice will be imputed to him,
as C. J. Gibson said in Chew v. Barnett, supra, ' whether he
had notice or not,' holding as he did only an equitable title."
The opinion concludes as follovs: "Finding no error in
the rulings of the learned judge below, the judgment will be
affirmed."
Mr. William Pinlney Whyte and Mr. Frederic D.
Mcenney for plaintiff in error. Mr. 8amuel F. Phillips
was on their brief.
Mr. Edgar H. Gans and Mr. Bernard Carter for defendant in error.
M . JusTcF McKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is manifest that the pleadings of the parties presented for
decision other questions besides Federal ones, and which could
be, independent of the Federal ones, determinative of the controversy. Assuming, therefore, that a Federal question was
involved, it does not appear but that the decision was given
on the contention of the defendant that the agreement never
became operative for.want of delivery. This contention was
-'clearly presented by defendant's prayers, and they contained
the only rulings urged upon the court in that way, that is, in
the nature of instructions. They were given and the verdict
was generally for the defendant. It is therefore natural to
presume that the verdict was rendered on account of them.
and.on the ground urged by them. The ruling of the court
granting them was sustained by the Supreme Court of the.
State. It affirmed the ruling as correct in law and as supported by competent testimony. The Supreme Court, it is
true, passed -on other grounds, passed on the one which it is

HARRISON v. MORlTO.
Opinion of the Court.
-

claimed involved a Federal question, and decided it adversely
to plaintiff. But the rule in such cases has been repeatedly
declared by this court. It is not necessary to review the decisions. That has been done by Mr. Justice Shiras in Eustis v.
Bolles, 150 U. S. 361. It is sufficient to announce the rule
pronounced in that case:
"It is settled law that, to give this court jurisdiction of a
writ of error to a state court, it must appear affirmatively, not
only that a Federal question was presented for decision by the
state court, but that its decision was necessary to the deterrnination of the cause, and that it was actually decided ad.versely to the party claiming a right under the Federal laws or
Constitution, or that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding it. Murdock v. .Mem2 his, 20
Wall. 590; Cook County v. Calumet & Okicago Canal Co.,
138 U. S. 635.
"It is likewise settled law that, where the record discloses
that if a question has been raised and decided adversely to a
party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution
or laws of the United States, another question, not Federal,
has been also raised and decided against such party, and the
decision of the latter question is sufficient, notwithstanding
the Federal question, to sustain the judgment, this court will
not review the judgment." See also Wade v. Lawder, 165
U. S. 624.
The writ of errormust therefore be dismissed.
MRt. JusTicE GP&Y did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision.

