OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

the state court that even if there were a right of recovery on
the part of the plaintiffs in error because the grant oT 1826
was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
(which the court held was not the case), yet that such recovery
was barred- by the New York statute of limitations. This
court held that as the judgment of the state court could be
maintained upon the latter ground, itwas without jurisdiction
because the decision of the state court upon that ground involved no Federal question.
In this case there being two distinct grounds upon which
the judgment of the state court was based, each of which is
sufficient, and one of which involves no Federal question, wb
must, upon the authority of the cases above cited, hold that
this court is without jurisdiction, and the writ of error must be
Jismissed.
MR. JusTIOE HARLAN and MR. JusTicE WHITE were of
opinion that the decree should be affirmed.

PmRcE v. AYER, error to the Supreme

State of Maine.

Judicial Court of the

No. 13. Argued with No. 12.

This writ of error is controlled by the decision in the case just
announced. The writ will, therefore, be
Dismissed.

ST. LOUIS MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v.
MONTANA MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
1o. 305. Submitted October10, 1$9.-Decided October31, 1895.
The court again holds that when there is color for a motion to dismiss on
the ground that no Federal question was involved in a judgment of a
state court, this court may, under a motion to dismiss or affirm, dispose
of the case.
When a location is made of a mining claim, the area becomes segregated
from the public domain and the property of the locator, ana he may sell

ST. LOUIS MINI.G CO.. v. MONTANA MINLNG CO. 651
Statement of the Case.
it,mortgage it or part with the whole or any portion of It as liemay
see fit; and a contract for such iale is legal and will be enforced by the
court.
Where an application to enter a mining claim embraces land claimed by another, the latter is under no obligation to file an adverse claim; but lie
may make a valid settlement with the applicant by contract, which can
be enforced against him aftei he obtains his patent.

THIS was a suit for.specific performance brought by the
Montana Mining Company against the St. Louis Mining and
Milling Company of Montana and Charles Maiyger in the district court of the First Judicial District of the State of Montana, in and for the county of Lewis and Clarke,
The complaint alleged that on March 7,A.D. 1884- plaintiff's
predecessors in interest, Robinson, Huggins, Sterling, De Camp
and Eddy, were the owners of, and in possession, and legally
entitled to the use, occupation and possession, of a,certain portion of the Nine Hour Lode and Mining Claim, which embraced
in all an area of 12,844.5 feet, together with the minerals
therein contained.
That Mayger applied to the United States land office at
Helena for a patent to the St. Louis Lode Mining Claim,
owned by him, and that in the survey he caused to be made
of his claim he included that part of the Nine Hour Lode
Mining Claim described in the complaint, whereupon an action
was commenced by Robinson and Huggins against Mayger in
the district court of tke .Third .Judicial District of the then
Territory of Montana to determine the right to the possession
of the particular premises. That on said seventh of March,
for the purpose of settling and compromising that action, and
settling and agreeing upon the boundary lines between the
Nine Hour Lode Mining Claim and the St. Louis Lode Mining
Claim, Mayger made, executed and delivered to .Robinson,
Higgins and 9terling a certain bond for a deed, whereby, in
consideration of the compromise and settlement of the action
and the withdrawal of the protest and adverse claim, he covenanted and agreed that when he should obtain a patent as
applied for, be would, on demand, make, execute and deliver
to Robinson, Huggins and Sterling, or their assigns, a good

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

and sufficient deed for the premises described in the complaint; and thereupon. Robinson, Huggins and Sterling dismissed their said action, withdrew their adverse claim, and
performed all of the conditions of the bond on their part.
That Mayger then proceeded with- his application and obtained a patent, but that he gave no notice to plaintiff, or any
of its predecessors in interest, of the obtaining of the patent
until some time in November, 1889.
That when the bond for a deed was executed, plaintiff's
predecessors in interest were in possession of the premises,
and have ever since been and ar6 yet in possession thereof,
holding and using the same as a part of the Nine Hour Lode
Claim; that by mesne conveyances the title to this claim, including the portion in dispute in this suit, had come to plaintiff; that it is entitled to a conveyance Pf the premises from
Mayger; that Mayger,,on or about June 10, 1893, assumed to
convey said piece of ground to the St. Louis Mining and Millifig Company, which then bad full knowledge and notice of
the making, execution and delivery of the bond for a deed
by Mayger, and of the rights and equities of the Montana
Mining Company thereunder; that the St. Louis Company
has instituted a number of suits in the Circuit Court of the
United States, in which it claims that it is the owner of the
premises described in the complaint, and also the right to
recover certain sums of money for ores alleged to have been
wrongfully extracted therefrom. The bond referred to was
appended to the *complaint. The prayer was that the court
should decree that defendants should convey to plaintiff a
good and sufficient deed to the premises in controversy.
The answer denied all the material allegations of the complaint, and affirmatively alleged that; the adverse claim interposed to theapplication of Mayger for a patent was for the
purpose. of harassing and hindering Mayger in obtaining a
patent to his miiing claim, and that the bond was given contrary to equity, good conscience and public policy.
-The case was tried by the district "court without a jury,
and the court made and filed findings of -fact and conclusions
of law. It was found that plaintiff's predecessors in -interest

ST. LOUIS MINING CO. v. MONTANA MINING CO. 653
Statement of the Case.

were at the time mentioned in the comlaint the owners of,
in possession, and entitled to the. possession, of the Nine
Hour Lode Mining Claim as described, and that the strip of
ground in dispute was at the time and continued to be a part
of said claim; that the bond was executed and delivered by
Mayger to the parties therbin named, binding Mayger to convey to them or their assigns the ground in question When
Mayger. obtained a patent therefor; that it was given as a
compromise and settlement of the controversy as to the land
now in dispute, and then in litigation between the parties,
and for the purpose of fixing ind determining the boundary
line between the Nine Hour Lode Mining Claim and the 'St.
Louis Mining Claim, as- alleged in the complaint, and that
Mayger thereafterwards did obtain a patent..covering the
premises in d.ispute; that. plaintiffs in the adverse mining
suit, on the execution to them of the bond by Mayger, dismissed their action, and performed all the conditions of the
contract on their part; that at the time of the execution of
the bond the predecessors of plaintiff were in actual possession
of the ground in dispute, and that they and plaintiff have ever
since remained in possession thereof, claiming and holding
the same as a part of the Nine Hour Lode Mirning Claim;
that at the date of the execution and delivery of tah bond, it
was expressly agreed between the parties thereto that all of
the ground lying to the east of the wester]y line of the strip
should be a portion of the Nine Hour Lode Mining Claim;
that plaintiff is the successor in interest of Robinson, Huggins
and Sterling, the obligees named in the bond, and also of De.
Camp and Eddy, who were cotenants with said obligees in.
the premises at the date of the execution of the bond; that
the mdsne con'eyances introduced in evidence on the part of
plaintiff embraced and were intended to include the' ground
in question, and conveyed to the grantees therein named all
of the interest, legal and equitable, which the grantor or
grantors had in said premises, covering as well their interest
in the ground in dispute as in every other part and parcel of
the Nine Hour Lode Mining Claim.
That in July, 1893, plaintiff duly demanded a deed to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ground in dispute from defendants, which defendants refused
to execute; that in June, 1893, Mayger assumed to convey
the controverted ground to the St. Louis Mining and Milling
Company, but that at the date of his conveyance the St.
Louis company had full notice and knowledge of plaintiff's
equities in and to the disputed strip, and of its possession
thereof; that defendants wrongfully asserted title to the
ground in controversy, and thereby clouded plaintiff's title
thereto, which cloud plaintiff had a right to have removed.
The district court concluded as matter of law that plaintiff was entitled to the conveyance prayed for, and that defendants should be enjoined from asserting any right, title or
interest in or to the ground in dispute, and from in any manner interfering' with the possession or enjoyment thereof by
plaintiff.
In accordance with the findings of fact and cQnclusions of
law, a decree was entered for plaintiff, and defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of the State of Montana, by
which it was affirmed. 51 Pac. Rep. 824.
This writ of error was then sued out, and defendants in
error now move to dismiss the writ, or that the decree be
affirmed.
Mr. A. B. Browne on behalf of Htr. Charles J. Hughes, J.,
and 1r. I. E. Cullen submitted their brief in support of the
motion.
Mr. IV. IF. Dixon, Mr. Thomas C. Bach and Mr. Edwin
I. Toole opposing.
Mm. CHIxF JUsTIcE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
While it is conceded by plaintiffs in error that there is no
express prohibition on the transaction involved in the record,
it is contended that the contract was contrary to the policy
of the law, and that the question thus raised is necessarily
a Federal question. Granting'that this is so, and that the

ST. LOUIS MINING CO. v. MONTANA MINING CO. 655
Opinion of the Court.

motion to dismiss must, therefore, be overruled, we are of
opinion that there .was color for the motion, and that the
case may properly be disposed of on the motion to affirm.
The Supreme Court of Montana ruled that, in the absence
of statutory prohibition, there was no reason in law or equity
why the contract sought to be enforced should be held illegal,
and we concur in this disposition of the Federal question
suggested.
The public policy of the Government is to be found in the
Constitution and the laws, and the course of administration
and decision. License Tax cases, 5 Wall. 462; United States
v. Tran,8-JissouriFreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290, 940.
The proposition of plaintiffs in error is that where an application to enter a mining" claim is made, and there is embraced
therein land claimed by another, it is the duty of the latter to
file an adverse claim and thereafter bring in some court of
competent jurisdiction an action to determine the right to the
area in conflict, which action must be prosecuted to a final
judgment or dismissed; and that no valid settlement can be
made by which such adverse claimant can acquire any interest in the ground when thereafter patented by the applicant.
We are not aware of any public policy of the Government
which sustains this proposition.
Where there is a valid location of a mining claim, the area.
becomes segregated from the public domain and the property
of the.locator. There is. no inhibition in the Mifieral Lands
Act against alienation, and he may sell it, mortgage it or part
with the whole or any portion of it as he may see fit. 1forles
v. Gracey, 94: U. S. 762, 766; MAfanuel v. WuW 152 U. S. 505,
510; Black v. Elkhorn Mining Companiy, 163 U. S. 445, 449.
The location of the Nine Hour Lode was in all respects
sufficient and valid. When the dispute afterwards arose
between Robinson and Mayger as to a portion of it, there
was nothing to compel the filing of an adverse claim. The
settlement made gave Robinson an equitable title immediately, and ultimately he was to have the complete legal title,
to a piece of ground, which it seems rightfully belonged to
him. The Government was not defrauded in any way, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was there any legal or moral fraud involved in the transaction. The settlement-and adjustment of the dispute with
.reference' to the right of possession appears upon its face to
to have been satisfactory to the parties when made, and
should be upheld unless contravening some statute or some
fundamental principle of law recognized as the basis of public policy. There was no such statute, and settlements of
matters in litigation, or in dispute, without recourse to litigation, are generally favored, and are apparently of frequent
occurrence in regard to mining land claims; nor is there
anything in the decisions of this court to throw doubt on
their validity.
-In Ducie v. Ford,138 U. S. 587, a contract of the character
of that under consideration was7 passed on in a suit brought to
enforce its specific performance, and it was assumed that the
contract was not void as in contravention of any statute of the
United States, or contrary to public policy. In -Meyers v.
Croft, 13 Wall. 291, this court was asked to hold that the prohibition against alienation found in the last clause of the
twelfth section of the predmption act of 1841 extended from
the date of entry to the actual issue of patent. This the court
declined to do, and decided that the object of the act was attained when the predmptor went with clean hands to the -land
office and proved up and paid for his land. And the court
said: "iRestrictions upon the power of alienation after this
would injure the pre~mptori and would sere no important
purpose of public policy. It is well known that patents do
not issue in the usual course of business in the general land
office until several years after the certificate of entry is given,
and equally well'known that nearly all the valuable.lands in
the new States, admitted since 1841, have been taken up under
the preemption laws, and the right to sell them freely exercised after the claim was proved up, the land paid for, and the
certificate of entry received. Inview of these facts we cannot suppose, in the absefice of aii express declaration to that
effect, that Congress intended to tie up these lands in the
hands of the original owners, until the Government should
choose to issue the patent.'"

ST. LOUIS MINING CO. v.MONTANA MINING CO.

657

Opinion of the Court.

Ill Davenport v. Lamb, 13 Wall. 418, a covenant made by
certain grantors "that if they obtain the fee simple to said
property, from the Government of the United States, they
would convey the same to the grantee, his heirs or assigns, by
deed of general warranty," made with reference to. a tract of
land taken up undei wliat was known as the Oregon Donation
Act, was upheld although the point that the covenant was
against public policy was distinctly made.
In Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307, 314, Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking of claims under that act, said: "They were the subjects of bargain and sale, and, as among the parties to such
contracts, they were valid. The right of the United States to
dispose of their own property is undisputed, and to make rules
by which the lands of the Government may be sold or given
away is acknowledged; but, subject to these well known principles, parties in possession of the soil might make valid contracts, even concerning the title, predicted upon the hypothesis
that they might thereafter lawfully acquire the title, except
in cases where Congress has imposed restrictions on such contracts."
And to the same effect see Gaines v. 31olen, 30 Fed. Rep. 27,
where the subject was considered by Mr. Justice Brewer, then
Circuit Judge.
Anderson v. Car7kins, 135 U. S. 483, 487, involved a contract
made by a homesteader to convey a portion of a tract when
he should acquire title thereto from the United States, and
was disposed of on different grounds. It was stated in the
opinion that : "The theory' of the homestead law is that the
homestead shall be for the exclusive benefit of the homesteader. Section'2290 of the Revised Statutes provides that
a person applying for the entry of a homestead claim shall
make affidavit- that, among other things, 'such application is
made for his exclusive use and benefit, and that his entry is
made for the purpose of'actual settlement and cultivation, and
not either directly or indirectly for the use or benefit of any
other person., And section 2291, which prescribes the time
and manner of final proof, requires that the applicant make
'affidavit that no part of such land has been alienated, except
VOL. CLXx.--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
, Syllabus.

as provided in section twenty-two hundred and eighty-eight,'
which section provides-for alienation for ' church, cemetery or
school purposes, or for the right of way of railroads.' The
*law contemplates five years' continuous occupation by the
homesteader, with no alienation except for the named purposes. It is true that the sections contain no express prohibition of alienation, and no forfeiture in case of alienation; yet,
under them the homestead right cannot be perfected in case
of alienation, or contract for alienation, without perjury by
the homesteatder.

.

.

There can be no question that this

contract contemplated perjury on the part of Anderson, and
was designed to thwart the policy of the Government in the
homestead laws, to secure for the benefit of the homesteader
the exclusive benefit of his homestead right."
In the case at bar there was no statute which, in express
terms, or by any fair implication, forbade the maldng of such
a contract as that pi'oceeded on here.
Decree affinmed.

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 21. Argued April 20, 21, 188.-Decided October 81, 1898.
The statutes of the State of New York, providing that "Every corporation,
joint stock company or asspciation whatever, now or hereafter incorporated, organized or formed under, by'or pursuant to law in this State or
in any other State or country.and doing business in this State, except
only saving banks and institutions for savings, life insurance companies,

banks, foreign insurance companies, manufacturing or mining corporatlons or 6ompanies wholly engaged in carrying on manufacture or mining
ores within this State, and agricultural and horticultural societies or
associations, which exceptions, however, shall not include gas companies, trust'companies, electric or steam-heating, lighting and power companies, shall be liable to and shall paya tax as a tax upon its franchise or
'business into the state treasury annually, to -be computed as follows:"
and that "The amount of capital stock which shall be the basis for tax
in the case o.f every corporation, joint stock company and assoelatlon liable to taxation thereunder shall be the amount of capital stock

