CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK v. THOMAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No.86. Submitted May 4, 1898. -Decided

October 11, 1898.

A judgment of the highest court of a State reversing the judgment of the
state court below, upon the ground that the case made 6ut by the findings was a different case from that presented by the pleadings, and that
the variance was fatal to the validity of the judgment, and on the further
ground that as the defendants in error were sued jointly for a tort, a
withdrawal of the action in favor of two of them also operated to release
the third, presents no Federal question for the consideration of this
court.

THIS was an action sounding in tort, but styled a bill of
complaint in equity, for an accounting and settlement of a
trust by Richard P. Thomas, Robert R. Thompson and Robert A. Wilson. The action was instituted in the Superior
Court of San Francisco by John Chetwood, Junior, for himself and as the representative of all the stockholders of the
California National Bank, which bank had failed and was
at the time in the hands of a receiver.
The bill alleged that the failure was due to the negligence
of Richard P. Thomas, president; Robert R. Thompson, vice
441

OCTOBER TERM[, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

president ; and'Robert A. Wilson a director, composing the
executive committee of the corporation, who had as such committee contrived together to injure and deceive the said corporation by neglecting to conform to its by-laws ; and as such
committee had made worthless loans, whereby the money of
the corporation was wasted, misused and lost to the amount
of about $200,000.
Among the duties and powers of the committee, as set forth
in theby-laws adopted by the bank, were an immediate supervision of all the officers and business of the bank; auditing all
bills for current and other expenses; discounting and purchasing bills, notes and other evidences of debt; and reporting to
the directors at each regular meeting all bills, notes"and other
evidences of debt discounted'or purchased by them for the
bank. It was further provided by the by-laws that the president should have general control and supervision of the bank,
and be responsible for its condition to the directors. The vice
president was to assist the president, in the discharge of his
duties.
The bill alleged that "it was the duty of each of said members of the executive committee to exercise, concurrently with
his associates on said committee, diligence and fidelity in performing the duties of said committee," but that "they negligently permitted the cashier of said bank to control and
manage the whole business of the said bank as he saw fit and.
without consulting or in anywise informing said defendants,"
and that by reason of the negligence -of said defendants, and
the acts and misconduct of the cashier, negligently permitted
as aforesaid, the bank suddenly failed on December 15, 1888,
owing about $450,000, and the Comptroller of the Currency
had placed a receiver in .charge of said bank and its affairs,
and thereafter levied an assessment of $75,000 upon the stockholders, which sum was all paid except $20,000 assessed against
Richard P. Thomas, the president of the bank.
The prayer of the bill was that a decree might be entered
holding Richard P. Thomas,Robert R. Thompson and Robert
A. Wilson to an accounting of their trust, and that a joint and
several money judgment be entered against them for the sum

CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK v. THOMAS.

443

Opinion of the Court.

of $400,000, with legal interest thereon from the time of such
loss.
The defendants answered the bill, denying the allegations
as to negligence on their part.
Upon the cause being submitted to the court, a judgment
was 1entered in favor of the plaintiff and against Richard P.
Thomas, Robert R. Thompson and Robert A. Wilson," and
the case was referred to a master, who found the actual loss
of the bank to be $166,919. Before a final judgment was
rendered by the court, however, the suit was dismissed by the
plaintiff as to Robert R. Thompson and Robert A. Wilson,
from whom had been collected the sum of $27,500, thus leaving a net loss to the bank of $139,419, and judgment for this
amount was rendered against Richard P. Thomas.
Thereupon, Thomas appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State of California, by which court the judgment was reversed,
and the case remanded to the trial court, with directions to
enter a judgment in favor of the defendant Thomas. 113
California, 414.
The plaintiff thereupon sued out a writ of error to this
court, assigning as the principal ground to give this court
jurisdiction that the judgment of the Supreme Court of. the
State was rendered without due or any process of law, and
deprived the plaintiff of its property without due process of
law, contrary to the Constitution, etc., and Rev. Stat. ยง 5136,
relating to national banks.
The defendant in error in this court moved to dismiss the
case for want of jurisdiction.
Mir. A. H. Rioietts for the motion.
.Mr. E. G.
zaypp, -Mr. Robert )1&ae and -Mr. John Chetwood, Jr., opposing.
MR. J ST c. BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Unless the plaintiff in error was denied some right under
the Constitution or statutes of the United States, "specially

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

set up and claimed" by it, this writ of error must be dismissed.
The bill of complaint, filed in the Superior Court of San
Francisco by a stockholder of the California National Bank,
sought to charge three directors of the bank with negligence
in the performance of their trust, and particularly in failing
to comply with certain by-laws of the bank, by which large
amounts of money were lost to the bank, which the bill prayed
that the defendants might be decreed to make good and restore. The bank was'chartered under the National Banking
Act and the by-laws were adopted in pursuance of Revised
Statutes, section 5136, which authorizes associations incorporated under the act to define the duties of the president and
other officers and to regulate the manner in which its general
business shall be conducted. Certain transactions of the directors are also'alleged to be infractions of Revised Statutes,
section 5200, for which the directors are made liable in section
5239, although no violations of this section are specifically
alleged in the bill.
Demurrers were interposed by the several defendants and
overruled; when answers were filed denying.in general the
allegations of the bill. The court subsequently entered judgment against the three directors, but, being unable to determine the proper amount, appointed a referee to take proof of
the amount appearing to be due and owing to the bank from
certain named individuals. Upon such report having been
made, a stipulation was entered into between the plaintiff
stockholder and the defendants Thompson and Wilson,
whereby the plaintiff renounced and withdrew his action
against such defendants, and the court, upon such stipulation,
entered a judgment dismissing the action as against them.
The court thereupon made a finding of all the facts in the
case, among which was one to the effect that there had been
collected of the two defendants Thompson and Wilson the
sum of $27,500, leaving a net loss to the bank of $139,419, for
which judgment was entered against the defendant Thomas.
Thorilas thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State from the judgment so entered.

CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK v. THOMAS.

445

Opinion of the Court.

That court was of opinion that the complaint, though entitled "a bill in equity for the accounting and settlement of a
trdst," contained, nothing more than a charge ex delicto against
the directors for a breach and non-performance of their duties.
It did not consider it necessary to dispose of the objections to
the complaint; but assumed, without deciding, that the complaint was sufficient to state a cause of action in its averments
of misconduct. It then proceeded to decide (1) that the complaint was one sounding in tort, and that the defendants were
charged as joint tortfeasors; that their negligence was pleaded
as their joint neglect to perform duties not individually imposed upon them, but collectively undertaken as members of
the executive committee; that in the findings of fact no mention was made of any dereliction of duty on the part of
Thompson and Wilson, and that there was an absolute failure
by the court to find upon the most material issues of the case
- the joint negligence of the three defendants, which alone,
it was alleged, had occasioned loss to the bank. "Such," said
the court, "is the cause of action pleaded in the complaint.
The findings, if it be conceded that they give evidence of a
meritorious cause of action against the defendant Thomas, do
so because of a showing that he was negligent, not with the
other defendants and as member of the executive committee,
but that he was. individually and separately negligent in the
performance of his duties as president. But this is not the
cause of action pleaded against him, and it is well settled that,
where the case made out by the findings is a different case
from that presented by the pleadings, the judgment will be
reversed ; for the relief decreed must be the relief sought, and
a variance, even if it -be such as could have been cured by
amendment, is fatal to the validity of the judgment." The
court further held (2) that, as the defendants in error were
sued jointly for a tort, a withdrawal of the action in favor of
Thompson and Wilson operated also to release the defendant
Thomas. This was in fact the main reason given for its conclusion. The court thereupon ordered the judgment to be
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter
judgment in favor of th6 defendant Thomas.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

In all this record there was no Federal right specially set
up or claimed by the plaintiff in error until after the judgment
in the Supreme Court, when a petition for writ of error was
filed by .the California National Bank, a co-defendant with
Thomas in the original action, in which various allegations
were made of a denial of Federal rights. But assuming that a
Federal question might be extorted from the allegations of the
complaint, it is sufficient to say that the case was not disposed
of upon the merits of such complaint, which was treated as
sufficient, but upon a variance between its allegations and the
proofs, and upon the settlement made with the defendants
Thompson and Wilson, and the withdrawal of the action
against them. These were purely questions under the law of
the State, as to which the opinion of the Supreme Court was
conclusive. Not only was no suggestion of a Federal question made to the trial court or to the appellate court, but
there was nothing to indicate that the judgment rendered
could not have been given without deciding a Federal question.

Indeed, the opinion .shows that the cause was decided,

as it might well have been, solely upon grounds not involving
such question.
Whether a judgment should be ordered in favor of Thomas
for a dismissal of the action against him or simply for a new
trial, involved merely a question of the procedure under the
law of the State. The court might have been, and probably
was, of the opinion that an action would lie upon the separate
liability of Thomas, and have reserved for future consideration the question whether the dismissal of this action upon a
joint liability would operate as an estoppel against a new action upon his individual liability.
There was no Federal question involved in the disposition
of this case, and the writ of error is, therefore,Dismimsed.

