PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

345

Opinion of the Court.

PATAPSCO GUANO COMPANY v. NORTH CAROLINA BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 9. Argued March-3, 4, 1898.-

Decided May 81, 1898.

The act of the legislature of North Carolina of January 21, 1891, must be
regarded as an act providing for the inspectionof fertilizers and fertilizing materials in order to prevent the practice of imposition on the people
of the State, and the charge of twenty-five cents per ton as intended
merely to defray the cost of such inspection ; and as it is competent for
the State to pass laws of this character, the requirement of inspection
and payment of its cost does not bring the act into collision with the
commercial power vested in Congress, and clearly this cannot be so as to
foreign commerce, for clause two of section ten of article one expressly
recognizes the validity of state inspection laws, and allows the collection
of the amounts necessary for their execution; and the same principle
must apply to interstate commefce.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. 7oma N. Hill and Mr. John
lant.
1r. R. E. Batle, Mr. JT. C..
hee for appellees. โข

. Rin8daZe for appel-

Harrisand Mr. F. H. Bus-

Mi. CHIF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of North Carolina, April 1,
1892, seeking to enjoin the collection of an inspection charge
of twenty-five cents per ton on commercial fertilizers, as prescribed by an act of the general assembly of North Carolina
of January 21,.1891, and from taking any steps whatever to
enforce that act, on the ground of its unconstitutionality.
The court entered a restraining order, but, on the coming
in of the answer, a motion to continue the injunction until the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

hearing was heard on bill, answer, affidavits and' exhibits, and
denied, and the temporary injunction dissolved. The opinion
of the Circuit Court by Seymour, J., is reported in 52 Fed.
Rep. 690. Proofs were taken, and a final hearing had at June
term, 1893, at Raleigh; the bill was dismissed; and complainants thereupon prosecuted this appeal.
By section fourteen of article nine of the constitution of
North Carolina of 1875-76, it was provided. that, as soon as
practicable aft6r the adoption of that instrument, the general
assembly should "establish and maintain, in connection with
the University, a Department of Agriculture, of Mechanics, of
Mining and of Normal"Instruction."
By an act of March 12, 1877, (Laws N. C. 1876-77, 506,
c. 214,) such a department was established, and, among other
things, the subject of commercial fertilizers dealt with. By
the eighth section, manipulated guanos, superphosphates or
other commercial fertilizers/were forbidden to be sold or
offered for sale, until the manufacturer or person importing
the same had obtained a license tlierefor on payment of a
privilege tax of five hundred dollars per annum for each separate brand or quality.
By section nine, every bag, barrel or other package of such
fertilizer offered for sale was required to have thereon a label
or stamp setting forth the name, location and trade-mark of
the manufacturer; the chemical composition of the contents,
and the real percentage of certain specified ingredients; and
that the privilege tax had been paid. By section ten, the
board was empowered to collect-samples foi analysis; by
section eleven, to require railroad and. steamboat companies to
furnish monthly statements of the quantity of -fertilizers
transported; .and by section twelve, to establish an agricultural experiment and fertilizer central station in connection with
the chemical laboratory of the University, and the trustees of
the University, with the approval of the bbard,- were directed
to employ an analyst, skilled in agricultural chemistry, whose
duty it should be "to analyze such fertilizers and products
as may be required by the Department of Agriculture, and to
aid as far as practicable in suppressing fraud in the sale of com-

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

347

Opinion of the Court.

mercial fertilizers;" and whose salary was to be paid "outof the funds of the Department of Agriculture."
The sections bearing on this subject were carried forward
in the code of 1883, volume II, c. 1, % 2190 et seq.
In August, 1890, the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of North Carolina, Bond and Seymour, JJ., held that section
2190 of the code, declaring that no commercial fertilizers
should be sold or offered for sale until the manufacturer or
importer obtained a license from the treasurer of the State,
for which should be paid a privilege tax of five hundred dollars per annum for each separate brand, was in violation of
the Federal Constitution and void. A erican- Fertiliizng
Co. v. Board of Agriculture of Horth Carolina,43 Fed. Rep.
609.
Thereupon, by the act of January 21, 1891, Laws 1891, 40,
c. 9, volume H, c. 1 of the code was amended, and sectiotis
2190, 2191 and 2193 were made to read as follows:
"Sxc. 2190:" For the purpose of defraying the expenses connected with the inspection of fertilizers and fertilizing materials in this State there shall be a charge of twenty-five cents
per ton on such fertilizers and fertilizing material for each
fiscal year ending November thirtieth, which shall be paid
before delivery to agents, dealers or consumers in this State:
Provided, the board shall [have] the discretion to exempt
certain natural material as may be deemed expedient. Each
bag, barrel or other package of such fertilizers or fertilizing
xnaterials shall have attached thereto a tag stating that all
charges specified in this section have been paid, and the state
Board of Agriculture is hereby empowered to prescribe a
form for such tags, and to adopt such regulations as will
enable them to enforce this law. Any person, corporation or
company who shall violate this chapter, or who shall sell or
offer for sale any such fertilizers or fertilizing material contrary to the provisions above set forth, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and all fertilizers or fertilizing materials so sold
or offered for sale shall be subject to seizure and condemnation in the same manner as provided in this chapter for the
seizure and condemnation of spurious fertilizers, subject, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ever, to the discretion of the Board of Agriculture to release
-the fertilizers so seized and condemned upon the payment of
the charge above specified and 11costs and expenses incurred
by the department in such proceeding: Provided, that tags
shall be attached by manufacturers, agents or dealers to all
fertilizers now in the State; those protected under license
previously issued shall be furnished free of charge.
"SEC. 2191. Every bag, barrel or other package of such
feftilizers or fertilizing materials as above designated offered
for sale in this State shall have thereon plainly printed a
Jlabel or stamp, a copy of which shall be filed with the Commissioner of Agriculture, together with a true and faithful
sample of the fertilizer or fertilizing material which it is proposed to sell, at or before delivery to agents, dealers or consumers in this State and which shall be uniformly used and
shall not be changed during the. fiscal year for which tags are
-issued, and the said label or stamp shall truly set forth the
name, location and trade-mark of the manufacturer; also the
chemical composition of the contents of such package, and
the real percentage of any of the following ingredients asserted to be present, to wit, soluble .and precipitated phosphoric acid, which shall not be less than eight per cent;
soluble potassa, which shall not be less than one per cent;
ammonia, which shall not be less than two per cent, or its
equivalent in nitrogen ; together with the date of its analyzation, and that the requirements of the law have been complied with; and any such fertilizer as shall be ascertained by
analysis not to contain the ingredients and percentage set
forth as above provided shall be liable to seizure and cOndemnation as hereinafter prescribed, and when condemned shall
be sold by the board of agriculture for the exclusive use and
benefit of the department of agriculture.."
Section 2192 refers to the proceedings to condemn.
"SEC. 2153. Any merchant, trader, manufacturer or. agent
who shall sell or offer for sale any commercial fertilizer or
fertilizing material without having such labels, stamps and
tags as hereinbefore provided attached thereto, or shall use
the required tag.the second time to avoid the payment of the

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

349

Opinion of the Court.

tonnage charge, or if any person shall remove any such fertilizer, (he) shall be liable to a fine of ten dollars for each
separate bag, barrel or package sold, offered for sale or
removed, to be sued for before any justice of the peace and to
be collected by the sheriff by distress or otherwise, one half
less the costs to go to the party suing and the remaining half
to the department; and if any such fertilizer shall be condemned as herein.provided it shall be the duty of the department to have an analysis made of the same and cause printed
tags or labels expressing the true chemical ingredients of the
same put upon each bag, barrel or package, and shall fix the
commercial value thereof at which it may be sold; and any
person who shall sell, offer for sale or remove any such fertilizers, or any agent of any railroad or other transportation
company who shall deliver any such fertilizer in violation of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor."
Section 2196, which corresponded. to section 12 of the act
of March 12, 1877, was amended by the substitution of the
word "control" for the word "central," and read as follows:
"Sso. 12. The department of agriculture shall establish
. . .an agricultural experiment and fertilizer control station, and shall employ an analyst, skilled in agricultural
chemistry. It shall be the duty of said chemist to analyze
such fertilizers and products as may be required by the department of agriculture, and to aid as far as practicable in suppressing fraud in the sale of commercial fertilizerg. He shall,
also, under the direction of said department, carry on experiments on the nutrition and growth of plants, with a view to
ascertain what fertilizers are best suited to the various crops
of this State; and whether other crops may not be advantageously grown on its soil, and shall carry on such other investigations as the said department may direct. He shall
make regular reports to the said department, of all analyses
and experiments made, which shall be furnished, When deemed
needful, to such newspapers as will publish the same. . .
His salary shall be paid out of the funds of the department of
agriculture."
The following. was substituted for section 2205: "Whenever

OOTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

any manufacturer of fertilizers or fertilizing materials shall
have paid the charges hereinbefore provided his goods shall
not be liable to any further tax whether by city, town or
county."
Section 2208 remained unamended, and provided: "All

moneys arising from the tax on licenses, from fines and forfeitures, fees for registration and sale of lands not herein
otherwise provided for, shall be paid into the state treasury
and shall be kept on a separate account, by the treasurer as a
fund for the exclusive use and benefit of the department of
agriculture."
The various errors assigned question the decree on the
grounds, in general, that the court should have held the act of
January 21, 1891, to be in -violation of the third clause of
section eight, and of the second clause of section ten, of article
one of the Constitution of the United States; that the charge
required to be paid was so excessive that the act could not be
sustained as a legitimate inspection law; or as a valid exercise
of the police power; and that it was neither, because it.
wasnot limited to articles produced in the State, and because it
did not relate to the health, morals or safety of the community.
The second clause of section 10 of article I of the. Constitntion reads" "No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any *imposts or duties on imports or exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection
laws ; and the net produce of all duties and imposts, laid by
any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use of the
Treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be
subject to the revision and control of the Congress."
The words " i m ports" and "exports," as therein used, have
been held to apply only to-articles imported-from, or exported
to, foreign countries. Woodrff .v.Parham, 8.Wall. 123;
Pitsblw'g & Southern Coal Company v. .ouisiana, 156 U. S.
590, 600.
The clause recognized that the inspection of such articles
may be required by the States, and that they mty lay duties
on them to pay the expense of such inspections, but as it

PATAPSCO GUANO CO.. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

351

Opinion of the Court.

would be difficult, if not impossible, to determine the necessary amount with exactness and to remove any inducement to
excess, it was provided that any surplus should be paid to the
United States. As such laws are subject to the revision and
control of Congress; it has been suggested -that whether inspection charges are excessive or not might be for Congress to
determine and not the courts, which would also be so where
inspection laws operate on interstate as well as foreign commerce. Neilwon v. Garza, 2 Woods, 287; Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38.
Considered as an inspection law and as not open to attack
as in contravention of that clause, the questions still remain
whether an inspection law can operate on importations as
well as exportations; and whether in this instance the charge
was so excessive as to deprive the act of its character as an
inspection law or as a legitimate exercise of protective governmental power, and make it a mere revenue law obnoxious
to the objection of being an unflawful interference with interstate commerce. Counsel for plaintiff in error insists that
this result is deducible from the legislation of North Carolina
making appropriations from the funds of the department of
agriculture received from the charge on fertilizers or fertilizing materials; as also from the evidence submitted on the
hearing.
It will. be more convenient to first dispose of the latter contention.
By section 2206 of the code of 1883, the board of agriculture was directed to "appropriate annually, of the money.
received from the tax on fertilizers, the sum of five hundred
dollars for the benefit of the North Carolina Industrial Association, to be expended under the direction of the board of
agriculture."
By chapter 308 of the laws of 1885, Laws, N. C. March
11, 1885, 553, the establishment of an industrial school was
provided for, to the establishment and maintenance of which
the board was directed- by the fourth section td apply their
surplus funds, not exceeding five thousand dollars annually.
By chapter 410 of the laws of 1887, Laws, N. C. March 7,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1887, 718, the name of the industrial school was changed to"The North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic,
Arts," and the board was required by section six to turn over
to that institution annually "the whole residue of their funds
from licenses on fertilizers remaining over and not required to
conduct the regular work.of that department."
But by chapter 348 of the laws of 1891, Laws, N. 0. March
6, 1891, 40,4, the provision last above given was stricken out,
and by section five of the act $10,000 for the year 1891 and
$10,000 for the year 1892 were appropriated to the college;
and by chapter 426 of the laws of 1891, Laws, N. C. March
7, 1891, 491, an annual appropriation of five hundred dollars
was made to the North Carolina Industrial Association.
These appropriations were made from the state treasury, and
both acts contained the usual repealing clauses.
By section 2198 and subsequent sections of the act of 1883,
the geological survey of the State, the geological museum,
the appointment of the state geologist, and matters pertainiing thereto, were dealt with, and various expenditures connected therewith were authorized to be paid out of the general
fund of the agricultural department, the sources.pf which were
apparently not confined to what might be derived from the
license tax in respect of fertilizers.
By chapter 409 of the laws of 1887, (Laws, 1887, 714,) so,
much of the sections of the act pertaining to the state geologist as required the department to fix the compensation, to
regulate the expenditures, or pay out of their funds the salary
and expenses of the state geologist, was repealed.
Section fourteen of this act empowered the department toexpend from .the amount arising from the tax on fertilizers
for 1887-88, the expenses for the completion of the oyster
survey; but by chapter 338 of the laws of 1891, (Laws, 1891,
369,) .provision was made for defraying the expenses of the
regulation of the oyster industries of the State from other
sources.
We "agree entirely with the Circuit Court that the legislation of 1891 not only amended the code in the matter of
the requirement of the privilege tax of five hundred dollars,

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

353

Opinion of the Court.

but repealed all laws making any substantial diversion of the
money to be derived from the charge on fertilizers of twentyfive cents per ton, to any other purposes than those connected
with the necessary expenses of inspection. It is ingeniously
argued that as sectio n 6 of chapter 410 of the laws of 1887
repealed by substitution section 4 of chapter 308 of the laws
of 1885, the repeal thereof by chapter 348 of the laws of
1891 revived the latter section, and hence that $5000 of the
amount arising from the present charge on fertilizers became
appropriated to the industrial school, it being asserted that
the funds of the department were in fact derived *therefrom;
and also that the appropriation out of the state treasury of
five hundred dollars to the industrial association by chapter
426 of the laws of 1891 was an additional appropriation, and
did not repeal section 2206 of the code, which directed the
board of agriculture to appropriate that sum to that association.
These positions do not commend themselves to our judgment, As to the appropriation of five hundred dollars, we
think, under the circumstances, that it was intended, to be in
lieu of the former appropriation of that amount; and as to
the revival -of the act of 1885 by the repeal of the repealing
act of 1887, we regard the doctrine that the repeal of a repealing act revives the first act as wholly inapplicable. In
our opinion such a conclusion would be'opposed to the obvious legislative intention in the enactment of the law of 1891.
This act imposed a charge of twenty-five cents per ton on
commercial fertilizers, and the purpose of the charge was
declared to be to defray the expenses of inspection only. The.
previous laws had imposed a tax of five hundred dollars
per brand upon every brand and description of fertilizer, and
declared the same to be a privilege tax. It is impossible to
impute to the general assembly the intention, in repealing
parts of the code which had been declared unconstitutional,
to revive earlier laws which might render the amended law.
liable to thd same objections.
Entertaining these views of the legislative intention, it does
not appear to us that evidence tending to show that money
VOL. cx=-23

OCTOBER TERM, 189-.
Opinion of the Cofrt.

collected from this source was applied to other than the purposes for which it wag received should be entered into on this
inquiry into the validity of the act. If the receipts are found
to average largely more than enough to pay the expenses, the
presumption would be that the legislature would moderate
the charge. But treating the question whether the charge
of twenty-five cents per ton was shown to be so excessive as
to demonstrate a purpose other than that which the law
declared, as a judicial question we are satisfied that comparing the receipts from this charge with the necessary expenses; such as the cost of analyses, the salaries of inspectors,
the cost of tags, express charges, miscellaneous expenses of
the department in this connection, and so on, we cannot conclude that the charge is so seriously in excess of what is
necessary for the objects designed to be effected, as to justify
the imputation of bad faith and change the character of the
act.
Inspection laws are not in themselves regulations of commerce, and while their object frequently is to improve the
quality of articles produced by the labor of a country and fit
them for exportation, yet they. are quite as often aitted at
fitting them, or determining their fitness, for domestic use,
and in so doing protecting the citizen from fraud. Necessarily,
in the latter aspect, such laws are applicable to articles imported into, as well-as to articles produced within, a State.
Olause two of section ten expressly allows the State to collect from imports as well as exports the amounts necessary for
executing its inspection laws, and Chief Justice Marshall expressed the opinion in Brown v. Maryland that imported as'
well as exported .articles were subject to inspection.
The observations of Mr. Justice Bradley, on circuit, in Neilson v. Garza,are quite apposite on this and other points under
discussion, and may profitably be quoted.
That case involved the validity of a law of the State of
Texas, providing for the inspection of hides, and Mr. Justice
Bradley said:
"If the state law of Texas, which is complained of, is really
an inspection law. it is valid and binding unless it interferes

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

.355

Opinion of the Court.

with the power of Congress to regulate commerce, and if it
does thus interfere, it may still be valid and binding until
revised and altered by Congress. The right to make inspection laws is not granted to Congress, but is reserved to the
States; but it is subject to the paramount right of Congress
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States; and if any State, as a means of carrying out
and executing its inspection laws, imposes any duty or impost
on imports or exports, such impost or duty is void if it exceeds
what is absolutely necessary for executing such inspection laws.
How the question, whether a duty is excessive or not, is to be
decided, may be doubtful. As that question is passed upon by,
the state legislature, when the duty is imposed, it would hardly
be seemly to submit it to the consideration of a jury in every
case that .arises. This might give rise to great Aiversity of
judgment, the result of which would be to make the law constitutional one day, and in one case, and unconstitutional
another day, in another case. As the article of the Constitution which prescribes the limit goes on to provide that 'all
such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of Congress,' -it seems to me that Congress is the proper tribunal to
decide the question, whether a charge or duty is or is not
excessive. If, therefore, the fee allowed in this case by the
state law is to be regarded as in effect an impost or duty on
imports or exports, still if the lw is really an inspection law,
the duty must stand until Congress shall see fit to alter it.
"Then we are brought back to the question whether the law
is really an inspection law. If it is, we cannot interfere with
it on account of supposed excessiveness of fees. If it is not,
the exaction is clearly unconstitutional and void, being an
unauthorized interference with the free importation of goods.
The complainant contends that it is not an inspection law;
that inspection laws only apply legitimately to the domestic
products of the country, intended for exportation; and that
no inspection is actually required in this particular case, but amere examination to see if the hides are marked, and who
imported them, etc., duties which belong to the entry of goods,
and not their inspection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"No doubt the primary and most usual object of inspection
is to prepare goods for exportation in order to preserve the
credit of our exports in foreigii markets. Chief Justice
Marshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden, says: ' The object of inspection
laws is to improve the quality of articles produced by the labor
of a country ; to fit them for exportation, or it may be, for
domestic use.'
9 Wheat. 203; Story on the Const., ยง 1017.
But in Brown v. Maryland,he adds, speaking of the time when
inspection takes place: 'Inspection laws, so far as they act
upon articles for exportation, are generally executed on land
before the article is put on board a vessel; so far as they act
upon importations, they are generally executed upon articles
which are landed. The tax or duty of inspection is a tax
which is frequently, if not always, paid for service performed
on land.' 12 Wheat. 419; Story on the Const., ยง 1017. So that,
according to Chief Justice Marshall, imported as well as exported goods may be subject to inspection; and they may be
inspected as well to fit them for domestic use as for exportation.
"All housekeepers who are consumers of flour know what a
protection it is to be able to rely on the inspection mark for a
fine or superior article: Bouvier defines inspection as the examination of certain articles made by law subject to such examination, so that they may be declared fit for commerce. Law
Dict. verb. 'Inspection.' The removal or destruction of unsound
articles is undoubtedly, says Chief Justice Marshall, an exercise
of that power. Brown v. .Maryland, 8upra; Story on the
Const., ยง 1024. 'The object of the inspection laws,' says Justice Sutherland, 'is to protect the community, so far as they
apply to domestic sales, from frauds and impositions; and in relationto articles designed for exportation, to preserve the character and reputation of the State in foreign markets.' Clintsman
v. Northrop, 8 Cowen, 46. It thus appears that the scope of
inspection laws is very large, and is not confined to articles of
domestic produce or manufacture, or to articles intended for
exportation, but applies to articles imported, and to those intended for domestic use as well." - 2 Woods, 287, 289.
But in Turner v. ifa-yland, 107 U. S. 38, which related
only to the laws of Maryland so far as providing for the prep-

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

357

Opinion- of the Court.

aration for exportation of tobacco grown in the State, any
opinion as to the provisions of those laws referring to the
inspection of tobacco grown out of Maryland was expressly
reserved.
In Voight v. Wright, 141- U. S. 62, 65, a statute of Virginia
relating to the inspection of flour brought into that Commonwealth was held to be unconstitutional, because it required the
inspection of flour from other States when no such inspection
was required of flour manufactured in Virginia, an objection
to which the act under consideration is not open, for the inspection and payment of its cost are required in respect of all
fertilizers, whether manufactured in the State or out of it, and
it is conceded that fertilizers are manufactured in North Carolina, as, indeed, their many laws incorporating companies for
the purpose of so doing plainly indicate. Mr. Justice Bradley
in that case remarked that the question was "still open as to
the mode and extent in which state inspection laws can constitutionally be applied to personal property imported from
abroad, or from another State, -whether such laws can go
beyond the identification and regulation of such things as are
strictly injuriods to the health and lives of the people, and
therefore not entitled to the protection of the commercial
power of the government, as explained and distinguished in
the case of Crutcher v. .entucky, ante, 47, just decided."
Whenever inspection laws act on the subject before it becomes an article of commerce they are confessedly valid, and
also when, although operating on articles brought from one
State into another, they provide for inspection in the exercise
of that power of self-protection commonly called the police
power.
No doubt cad be entertained of this where the inspection is
manifestly intended, and calculated in good faith, to protect
the public health, the public morals, or the public safety.
.Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313. And it has now been
determined that this is so, if the object of the inspection is the
prevention of imposition on the public generally:
In Plumley v. .Masachusetts,155 U. S. 461, it was decided
that a statute of Massachusetts"' to prevent deception in the

.358

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mahiufabture' and sale of imitation butter," in its application
to ihe sale of oleomargarine, artificially colored so as to cause
it to look like yellow butter, and brought into Massachusetts,
was not in conflict with the clause of the Constitution of the
United States investing Congress with power to regulate commerce among the several States. That decision explicitly rests
on the ground that the statute sought to prevent a fraud upon
the generil public. It is true that an article of food was involved, but the sole ground of the decision was that the State
had the power to protect its citizens from being cheated in
making their purchases, and that thereby the commercial
power. was not interfered with. &hollenbergerv. Pennqylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
Where the subject is of wide importance to the community,
the consequences of fraudulent practices generally injurious,
and the suppression of such frauds matter of public concern,
it is within the protective power of the State to intervene.
Laiis providing for'the inspection and grading of flour, the
inspection and regulation of weights and measures, the weighing of coal on public scales, and the like, are all competent
exercises of that power, and it is not perceived why the preventioi of deception in the adulteration of fertilizers does not
fall within its scope.
It is apparent that there is no article entering into common
use in many of the States, and particularly the. Southern
States, the inspection of which is so necessary for the protection of those citizens engaged in agricultural operations, as
commercial fertilizers. Certain ingredients as ammonia or
nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash, make up the larger
part of. the value of these fertilizers, and without the aid of
scientific analysis, the amount of these ingredients cannot be
ascertained nor whether the fertilizer sold is of a uniform
grade. The average farmer was compelled, without an analysis, to depend on his sense of smell, or his success, or failure,
during the previous year with thd same brand or name, to
determine the relative amounts of the essential ingredients,
and the value of the materials. To protect agricultural interests .against -spurious and low grade fertilizers was the object

PATAPSCO GUANO CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

359

Opinion of the Court.

of this law, which simply imposed the actual cost of inspection, necessarily varying with the agricultural condition of
the various years. The label or tag could only be furnished
after an analysis, the result of which was therein stated. In
that light, the law practically required an analysis in every
case, and was sustained as so doing by the Supreme Court of
North Carolina in State v. _TNorri8, 78 N. C. 443.
The act of 1877, requiring the obtaining of a license to sell
fertilizers on the payment of a privilege tax of five hundred
dollars, was considered in that case; at January term, 1878,
of that court, and held valid under the state constitution as
intended to protect the public from being imposed on by
adulterated fertilizers, and to keep the traffic in the hands. of
responsible parties, making the means to that end self-sustaining by the license tax. And it was also decided that the law
was not in conflict with the Federal Constitutin on the authority of Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, and Iinson v.
Lott, 8 Wall. 148.
As before remarked, the sections of the act of 1877 relating to
this subject were carried forward into the code of 1883, and section 2190 required the license and imposed the privilege tax.
In Stoke4 v. .Department of Agriculture 106 N. C. 439
(1890), the Supreme Court held that section 2190, in prohibiting the sale, or -the offering for sale, of fertilizers in North
Carolina until the manufacturer or person importing the same
should obtain a license, did not prohibit the use of them in
the State, nor the purchase of them in another State, to be
used for fertilizing purposes by the purchaser himself in N'brth
Carolina; and that, where a person acting for himself and
others, resident farmers of the State, ordered from a non-resident manufacturer a number of bags of fertilizer, a given
number being ordered for each purchaser, and the same was
shipped in separate parcels, addressed to different purchasers
separately, and separate bills sent to each purchdser, there
being no intent to evade the statute, the transaction did not
come within the inhibition of section 2190, and the goods
were not liable to seizure at the instance of the department
of agriculture.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar laws of other States, regulating the sale of fertilizers,
have bee n sustained on the same ground.
In Steiner v. Ray, 84 Alabama, 93, it was held that a
statute regulating the sale of commercial fertilizers, when its
controlling purpose was to guard the agricultural public
against spurious and worthless compounds sometimes sold as
fertilizers, and to furnish to buyers cheap and reliable means
of proving the deception and fraud, should such be attempted,
was strictly within the pale of police regulation and was constitutional. And this case was cited with approval in Zirby
v. Huntsville Fertilj.eer &c. Co., 105 Alabama, 529, where it
was ruled that the sale of commercial fertilizers was void unless each sack, parcel or package was tagged as required by
statute at the time the right of property passed from the
vendor to the vendee.
In Vanmeter v. Spurmer, 94 Kentucky, 22, an act of Kentucky, "to regulate the sale of fertilizers in this Commonwealth, and to protect agriculturists in the purchase and use
of the same," was sustained; and it was held that the statute
could not be fairly construed to authorize the levy of an impost
on interstate commerce beyond what was necessary to inspection. The court said: "The statute, as its title indicates,
was enacted for protection of farmers of this Commonwealth against fraud and impdsition of those having for
sale commercial fertilizers. To accomplish that object, each
one selling, or offering for sale, any fertilizer is required to
submit a sample for analysis and test of its quality. at the
Experimental Station. For that purpose only can the fees
collected by the director be used, and in that way and to that
extent only can farmers of the Commonwealth be. benefited
by the statute. In our opinion the law is valid in every respect."
In Fairelotht. De Teon, 81 Georgia, 158; Goulding .Fertilizer Company v. Driver, 25 S. E. iRep. 922, and. other cases,
the Supreme Court of Georgia has held that the seller of
commercial fertili ers, which had not been inspected as the
law required, could not maintain against the buyer an action
for the price; but in AMartin v. Upshur Guano Company, .77

SMYTH v. AMES.
Syllabus.

Georgia, 257, that the statute was not applicable where sale
and delivery were without the State.
The act of January 21, 1891, must be regarded, then, as an
act providing for the inspection of fertilizers and fertilizing
materials in order to prevent the practice of impositioni on the
people of the State, and the charge of twenty-five cents per
ton as intended merely to defray the cost of such inspection.
It being competent for the State to pass laws of this character,
does the requirement of inspection and payment of its cost
bring the act into collision with the commercial power vested
in Congress? Clearly this cannot be so as to foreign commerce, for clause two of section ten of article one expressly
recognizes the validity of state inspection laws, and allows
the collection of the amounts necessary for their execution;
and we think the same principle must apply to interstate
commerce.
In-any view, the effect on that commerce is indirect and
incidental, and "the Constitution of the United States does
not secure to any one the privilege of defrauding the public."
Decree afflrred.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

and MR. JusTicE WHITE dissented.

SMYTH v. AMES.
SMYTH v. SMITH.
SMYTHI v. HIGGINSON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
APPLICATION FOR REHEARING AND
Nos. 49, 50, 51.

MODIFICATION OF JUDGMENTS.

Submitted May 9, 1893. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

The decrees in the several cases are modified by striking from them the
words referred to in the application of the appellants, and set forth in
the opinion of the court,

