OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

NORTH AMERICAN COMMERCIAL
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY v.

CERTIORAII.TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 431. Argued -April18, 19,1898. - Decided May

81,1S95.

By the agreement of march 12, 1890, between the United States and the
North American Commercial Company, that company contracted to pay
to the United States a rental of $60,000 per year, during the term of the
contract, for the privilege of killing an agreed number of seals each year,
subject to a proportionate reduction of this fixed rental, in case of a
limitation in the number; and also a further sum of seven dollars, sixty
two and one half cents for each seal taken and shipped by it. Held that
this per capita tax was not a part of the annual rental, and was not suject to reduction as was the annual rental of $60,000 a year.
The proviso in the original act for the naming of a maximum number of
seals to be taken, which was not to be exceeded, and making a proportionate reduction in the fixed rental in case of a limitation of that num*ber, remained in force through all subsequent legislation and contracts.
Assuming that the company took all the risk of a catch reduced by natural
causes, yet when the number that might be killed was reduced by the
act of the Government, the company'was entitled to such reduction on
the reserved rental as might be proper, that is, in the same proportion
as the number of skins permitted to be taken bore to the maximum.
The power to regulate .the seal fisheries in the interest of the preservation
of the species was a sovereign protective power, sibject to which the
lease was taken, and if the Government found it necessary to exercise that
power, to the extent which appears, the company did not attempt to rescind or abandon, but accepted the performance involved in the delivery
of the 7500 skins.
Tha company cannot maintain its counterclaim for damages for breach of
the lease, and the Circuit Court erred in its disposition thereof.

THIS was an action brought by the United, States against

the Nortli American Commercial Company to recover the
sum of $132,187.50, with interest, for rent reserved for the
year ending April 1, 1894, under a so called lease, bearing
date March 12, 1890, made by the Secretary of the Treasury
to the company, and for royahties upon seventy-five hundred
fur seal skins taken and shipped by the 'company that. year in
virtue of that instrument, and for the revenue tax of two

NORTH AMERICAN COM. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

111

Statement of the Case.

dollars on each skin.
sisted of these items:

The claim of the Government con-

Annual rental ...............................
Revenue tax on 7500 skins at $2 ...............
Per capita at $7.621. on 7500 skins .............
Total ................................
And interest thereon from April 1, 1894.

$60,000 00.
15,000 00
.57,187 50
$132,187-50

The case was tried by the Circuit Court without a jury.
The court found for the United States in the sum of $94,687.50;
with interest, and judgment was entered in their favor -for
$107,257.29, principal, interest and costs. 74: Fed. Rep. 145.
The company having taken a writ of error to the Circuit
Cohrt of Appeals for the Second Circuit, that court certified
a certain question arising in the cause concerning which it
desired the instructions of this court for its proper decision,
whereupon this court ordered that the whole record and
cause be sent up for consideration.
A counterclaim of the
company against the United States for breach of the lease
was disallowed and dismissed by the Circuit Court, but not
on -the merits, and without prejudice to the right of the
company to enforce the same by any other proper legal

proceeding.
The agreement of lease out of which the cause of action
arose is as follows:
-"This indenture, made in duplicate this twelfth day of
Mfarch, 1890, by and between William Windom, Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States, in pursuance of chapter 3
of title 23, Revised Statutes, and the North Ameriican Commercial Company, a corporation duly established under the
laws of the State of California, and acting by I. Liebes, its
president, in accordance with a resolution of said corporation
adopted at a meeting of its board of directors held January 4,
1890, witnesseth: That the said Secretary of the Treasury, in
consideration of the agreements hereinafter stated, hereby
leases to the said N7orth American Commercial Company for
a t6rm of twenty years from the first day of lvay, 1890, the

112-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

exclusive right to-engage in the business of- taking fur seals
on the islands of St. George and St. Paul, in the territory of.
Alaska, and to send a vessel or vessels to said islands for the"
skins of such seals.
"The said North American Commercial Company, in consideration of the rights secured to it under this lease above
stated, on its part covenants and agrees to do the things following, that is to say:
. "To pay to the Treasurer of the United States each
year
during the said term of twenty years, as annual rental, the
sum of sixty thousand dollars, and in addition thereto agrees
to pay the revenue tax or duty of two dollars laid upon each
fur seal skin taken and shipped by it from the islands of St.
George and St. Paul, and also to pay to said Treasurer the
further sum of seven dollars Sixty-two and. one half cents
apiece for each and every fur seal skin taken and shippe.
from said islands, and also to pay the sum of fifty cents per
gdllon for each gallon of oil sold by it made from seals that
taken on said islands during the said period of twenty
. may
years,beand
to secure the prompt payment of the sixty thousand dollars rental above referred to the said company agrees

-

-.to depqsit with the Secretary of the Treasury bonds of the

United' States to the amount of fifty thousand dollars, face
value, to be held as a guarantee for the annual payment of
said sixty thousand dollars rental, the interest thereon when
due to be collected and paid to the North American Commercial Company, provided the said company is not in default
of payment of any part of the said sixty thousand dollars
rental.

*" That it will -furnish to the native inhabitants of said
islands of. St. George and. St. Paul annually such quantity or
number of dried salmon and such quantity of salt and such
number of salt barrels for preserving their necessary supply of
'meat as .the Secretary of the Treasury shall from time to
time determine. '
"That it will also furnish to the said inhabitants eighty
tons of coal annually and a sufficient number of comfortable
dwellings in which said native inhabitants may reside, and

NORTH AME RICAN COM. CO. v. UITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

113

.

will keep said dwellings in proper repair, and will also provide
and keep in repair such suitable schoolhouses as may be necessary, and will establish and maintain during eight months of
each year proper schools for the education of the children on
said islands, the same to be taught by competent teachers,
who shall be paid by the company a fair compensation, all to
the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury, and will also
provide and maintain a suitable house for religious worship,
and will also provide a competent physician or physijcians
and necessary and proper medicines and medical supplies, and
will also provide the necessaries of life for the widbws and
orphans and aged and infirm inhabitants of said islands who
are unable to provide for themselves.; all of which foregoing
agreements will be done and performed by the said company
free of all costs and charges to said native inhabitants of said
islands or to the United States.
"The annual rental, tbgether with all other payments to
the United. States provided' for in this lease, shall be made
and paid on or before the first day of April of each and every
year during the existence of this lease, beginning with the
first day of April, 1891.
"The said company further agrees to employ the native
inhabitants of said islands to -perform such labor upon the
islands as they are fitted to perform and to pay therefor a
fair and just compensation, such as may be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury; and also agrees to contribute, as far
as in its .power, all reasonable efforts to secure the comfort,
health, education and promote the morals and civilization of
said native inhabitants.
"The said company also agrees faithfully to obey and abide
by all rules and regulations that the Secretary of the TreaSury
has heretofore or may hereafter establish or make ift pursuance of law conperning the taking of seals on said islands,
and concerning the comfort, morals and other, interests of
said inhabitants, and all matters pertaining to said islands
and the taking of seals within the possession of the United
States. It also agrees to obey and abide by any re§frictions
or limitations upon the right to kill seals that the Secretary
VOL. CLXXI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the'Treasury shall judge necessary, under the law for thepreservation of the seal figheries of the United States; and
it agrees that it will not kill, or permit to be killed, so far as
•t can prevent, in any year a greater number of seals than is
authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury.
"The said company further agrees that it will not permit.
any of its agents to keep, sell, givo" or dispose of any distilled
spirits or spirituous liquors or opium on either of said islands
or the waters adjacent thereto to any. of the native inhabitants
of said islands, such person not being a physician and furnishing the same for use as a medicine.
"It is understood and agreed that the number of fur sealsto be taken and killed for their skins upon said islands by the
North American Commercial Company during the year ending May 1, 1891, shall not exceed sixty thousand.
"The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to terminate this-lease and all rights of the North American Conmercial Company under the sanie at any time on full anl
satisfactory proof that the said company has violated any
of the provisions and agreements of this lease, or in any of
the laws of the United States, or any treasury regulation
iespecting the taking of fur seals or concerning the islands
of St. George and St. Paul or the inhabitants thereof."
The Circuit Court made eighteen findings, including the
following:
"Sixth. The said islands of St. George and St. Paul in the
Territory of Alaska are the breeding ground of a herd of seals
which in the early spring moves northward to Behring Sea,
and are the habitat of that herd during the summer and fall
of, each year; that the seals land in great numbers upon the
said islands and divide into families, each consisting of one
male or bull and many females 'or cows; that the young'or
miale seals, or bachelors as they are called, are not admitted
to the breeding ground, but are driven off by the older males
and oftentimes destroyed by them; 'that until such bachelor
seals arrive at the age of three or four years tlhey- occupy
other portions of the islands and can be driven away from
the breeding ground and -killed without disturbing the seals

NORTH AMERICAN COAL CO. v. UIKITED STATES.

115

Statement of the Case.

on the breeding grounds; that a large proportion of these
young bachelor seals may be so killed without diminishing
the birth rate of the herd, and their skins are a valuable
article of commerce and are more valuable than the skins of.
the females or older males; that by protecting the females
and restricting the capture to the bachelors the fisheries are
capable of a permanent and annual supply of skins which
would afford a valuable source of revenue.
"Seventh., That after the making of the said lease by the
said plaintiff and the said defendant, the said defendant entered upon the enjoyment of the right thereby granted it; but
on account'of the enforcement by the said plaintiff of the
provisions of a convention or agreement made and entered into
by the said plaintiff with the Government of Great Britain it
prohibited and prevented the said defendant, during the years
1890, 1891 and 1S92, from taking on.the said islands as many
seals as might have been taken without diminution of the herd,
and far less in each year than the number mentioned in the
said lease for the first year; the numbers taken in those years
being in 1890, 20,995; in 1891, 13,482; and in 1892, 7547.
"Eighth. That for the said years of 1890, 1891 and 1892,
it was agreed between the Secretary of the Treasury and the
said defendant that the said defendant should pay to the said
plaintiff for the seal skins taken by it on the said islands thetax and such proportionate part of the rental of $60,000 and
the per capita sum of seven dollars sixty-two and one half
cents, as the number of seals taken bore to one hundred
thousand, except that for 1890 the per capita of seven dollars sixty-two and one half cents was not so reduced.
"Ninth. That by a convention or agreement with the Government of Great Britain, commonly called the modus vivendi,
the United States promised, during the pendency of the arbitration between those two governments relating to the
Behring Sea controversy and the preservation of the seals
resorting to those waters, to prohibit seal killing on the said
islands in excess of 7500 to be taken from the islands for the
subsistence of the natives, and to use promptly its best efforts
to insure the enforcement of the prohibition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"Tenth. That pursuant to such agreement the United
States prohibited and prevented the said defendant from
taking .ny seals whatever from .the said islands during the
year 1893, and thus deprived the said defendant of the benelit of its said lease.
"Eleventh. That the Secretary of the Treasury did not
exercise the discretion conferred upon him by section 1962
of .the oRevised Statutes to limit the right of killing seals
.when necessary for the preservation of such seals, and did
not so limit or restrict the right of the said defendant to
take seals 'under its said lease for the year 1893, and that
during that year it was not necessary or even desirable for
the preservation of such seals to limit the killing Qf the seals
upon the said islands to the said number of 7500 specified in
the said modus vivendi.
'Twelfth. That in'the year 1893 the United States Government itself, through the agents 6f the Treasury Department, took upon the said islands 7.500 seafs; that the said
defendant was permitted to co~perate in selecting the seals so
killed, and to take, and it did take and retain the skins of
those seals, and in this way, and in this way only; the defendant received those 7500 skins.
"In accordance with the power reserved to him. in said
contract, the Secretary of the Treasury at the commencement
of the seal-killing season for the year ending April 1, 1894,.
fixed the compensation of the natives upon the islands of
St. Paul and St. George to be paid to them by the defendant
for killing the- seals, sorting the skins, and loading them on
board the defendant's steamer, at 50 cents for each skin taken
from the islands during the said season; and defendant paid
to the natives said compensation, to wit, the sum of $3750.
"Thirteenth. That 20,000 bachelor seals could have been
killed upon the said islands during the year 1893 in tho
customary way, without injury to or diminution of the herd,
and the said defendant would have taken that number had it
been permitted so to do.
"Fourteenth. That if the said defeiidant had been allowed
to and had taken in the year 1893, under its said lease, 20,000

NORTH AMERICAN COX. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

117

Statement of the Case.

seal skins, there would have been due to the said plaintiff the
$60,000 rental and for the per capita of seven dollars and
sixty-two and one half cents and the revenue tax of. two
dollars per skin, the sum of $192,500, making together the
sum of $252,500- that is, twelve dollars and sixty-two and
one half cents for each seal skin taken; that for the 7500
received by the said defendant, as above set forth, it owes
to the said plaintiff the said sum of twelve dollars and sixtytwo and one half cents apiece, amounting to the sum of
$94,687.50.
"Fifteenth. The defendant could have sold 12,500: more
seal skins if it had been allowed to take the same on the said
islands during the year 1893, at the average market price of
twenty-four dollars for each skin; which for the said numbeF
of 12,500 which it might have taken, but was prevented from
taking by the act of the Government of the United States,
would amount to $300,000; that for such 12,500 seal skins the
said defendant would have been liable to pay, according to
the terms of its lease if had taken 20,000 seal skins during
that year, the, sum of twelve dollars and sixty-two and one
half cents each, amounting to $157,812.50, which being
deducted from the price at which such skins could have been
sold, namely, $300,000, leaves as the net loss sustained by the
said defendant in consequence of the breach of its said lease
by the said plaintiff, the sum of $142,187.50, which is due and.
owing to the said defendant by the said plaintiff ; and that its
claim therefor would be a proper matter of counterclaim or
credit in this action, if the conditions prescribed by section
951 of the United States Revised Statutes had been complied
with by the said defendant."
"Eighteenth. The defendant did not present to the accounting officers of the Treasury for their examination any claim for
damages by reason of the losses alleged to have been incurred
by the defendant by reason of the action of the United States
in ente.ing into the said convention or modus vivendi with Great
Britain and limiting the catch of seals upon the said islands
to 7500; and such claim was not disallowed by the accounting officers of the- Treasury in w7hole or in part, and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not proved to the satisfaction of the court that the defendant
was at the time of the trial of this action in p6ssession of
vouchers, not before in its power to procure, or that the
defendant was prevented from exhibitifig its said alleged
claim at the Treasury by absence from the United States or
by unavoidable accident."
The Circuit Court made these conclusions of law:
," First. That the said defendant, having received the said
7500 seal skins taken fromh the said islaids during the year
1893, is liable to pay the said plaintiff theriefor the said sum
of $94,687.50, with interest thereon from the first day of
.April, 1894; and the said plaintiff is entitled to recover in this
action said sum, with interest as aforesaid, from the said
defendant.
"Second. That by reason of the breach of the said lease by
the said plaintiff, prohibiting the said defendant from taking
any seal skins during the\ year 1893, the said plaintiff is liable
to the said defendant for the said sum of $142,187.50, withi
interest thereon from the first day of December, 1894.
"That on accogunt of the same claim of 'the said defendant
against the said plaintiff for damages for breach of the said
lease not having been presented to and disallowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury, it cannot be allowed as -a
counterclaim or credit in this action, and the said counterclaim
is therefore dismissed, but not on the merits thereof, and.
without prejudice to the right of the said defendant to enforce
the same by any other proper legal proceeding."
1iL. James C. Carterfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Attorney. General for dgfendants in error.
MRg. CHrEF JusTIcE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the act of July 27, 1868, c. 273, 15 Stat. 240, the laws
of the United States relating to customs, commerce and navigation were extended over all the mainland, islands and

NORTH AMERICAN CO.

CO. v. UNITED STATES.

119

Opinion of the Court.

waters of the territory ceded to the United States by the Emperor of Russia, March 30, 1867, so far as applicable, and by
section six of that act it was made unlawful for any person. or
persons to kill any otter, mink, marten, sable or fur seal, or
any other fur-bearing animal within the limits of said territory, or in the waters thereof; provided that the Secretary of
the Treasury might'authorize the killing of any such furbearing animal, except fur seals, under such regulations as
he might prescribe, and it was made his duty to prevent the
killing of any fur seal, and to provide for the execution of the
provisions of the section until otherwise provided by law. On
the third of March, 1869, a resolution was approved, 15 Stat.
.348, No. 22, entitled "A resolution more efficiently to protect
the fur seal in Alaska," declaring the islands of St. Paul and
St. George in Alaska "a special reservation for government
purposes," and that, until otherwise provided by law, it should
be unlawful for any person to land or remain on either of said
.islands,except by the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury.
July 1, 1870, an act entitled "An act to prevent the extermination of fur-bearing animals in Alaska" was approved.
16 Stat. .180, c. 189. By the first section it was made unlaw.
ful to kill any fur seal upon the islands of St. Paul and St.
George or in the waters adjacent thereto, except during the
months of June, July, September and October in each year,
or to kill such seals -at any time by the use of firearms, or to
use other means tending to drive the seals away from said
islands. Provided, that the natives should have the- privilege
of killing such young seals as might be necessary for their
own food and clothing during other months, and also such
old seals as might be required for their own clothing and for
the manufacture of boats for their own use, which killing
should be limited and controlled by such regulations as should
be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
By section-two it was made unlawful to kill any female seal,
or any seal less than one year old, at any season of the year,
except as above provided; and also to kill any seal in the
waters adjacent to the islands, or on the beaches, cliffs or
rocks where they haul up from the sea to reinin.

OCTOBER TERM3,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

The third section reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. That for the period of twenty years from and after
the passage of this act the number of fur seals which may be
killed for their skins upon the island of St. Paul is hereby
limited and restricted to seventy-five thousand per annum;
and the number of fur seals which may be kiltedfor their skins
upon the island of St. George is hereby limited and'restricted to
twenty-five thousand per annum: _Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury may restrict aid limit the right of killing if it shall become necessary for the preservation of such
seals, with such proportionate reduction of the rents reserved
to the government as shall be right and proper; and if any
person shall knowingly violate either of the provisions of this
section, he shall, upon due conviction thereof, be punished in
the same way as' provided herein for a violation of the provisions of the first and second sections of this act."
The fourth section provided that immediately after the passage of the act the Secretary of the Treasury should lease for
the rental mentioned in the sixth section of the act, to the
b6st advantage of the United States, having due regard for the
interests of the government, the native inhabitants, parties
theretofore engaged in trade, and the protection of the seal
fisheries, for a term of twenty years from the first day of
May, 1870, " the right to engage in the business of taking fur
seals on the islands of St. Paul- and St.. George, and to sepd
a vessel or vessels to said islands for the skin.s of such seals,"
giving a lease duly executed, and not transferable, and taking
from the lessee or lessees a bond, conditioned "for the faithful observaihce of all thb laws and requirements of Congress
and of the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury touching the subject-matter of taking fur seals, and disposing of
the same, and for the payment of all taxes and dues accruing
to the United States connected therewith; and in making
said lease the Secretary of the Treasury shall have due regard to the preservation of the seal fur trade of said islands,
and the comfort, maintenance and education of the natives
thereof."
The fifth section read:

NORTH AMERICAN COM. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

121

Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 5. That at the expiration of said term of twenty
years, or on surrender or forfeiture of any lease, other leases
may be made in manner as aforesaid, for other terms of
twenty years;
.
.
and any person who shall kill any
fur seal on either of said islands, or in the waters adjacent
thereto, without authority of the lessees thereof, and any person who shall molest, disturb or interfere with said lessees, or
either of theni, or'their agents or employ~s in the lawful
prosecution of their business, under the provisions of this act,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall for each
offence, on conviction thereof, be punished in the same way
and by like penalties as prescribed in the second section of
this act; and all vessels, their tackle, apparel, appurtenances
and cargo, whose crews shall be found engaged in any violation of either of the provisions of this section, shall be forfeited to 'the *United States; and if any person or company,
under any lease herein authorized, shall knowingly kill, or permit to be -killed, any number of seals exceeding the number
for each island in this act prescribed, such person or company.shall, in addition to- the penalties and forfeitures afoiesaid, also forfeit the whole number of the skins of seals killed
in that year, or, in case the same have been disposed of,
then said person or company shall forfeit the value of the
"
same.
By the sixth section it was provided that "the annual
rental to be reserved by said lease shall not be less than fifty
thousand dollars per annnm,
and in addition thereto,
a revenue tax or duty of two dollars is hereby laid upon each
fur seal skin taken and shipped from said islands during, the
continuance of such lease to be paid into the Treasufy of the
United States; and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby
empowered and authorized to make all needful rules and regulations for the collection and payment of the same, for the
comfort, maintenance, education and protection of the natives
of said islands, and also for carrying into full effect all the
provisions of this act."
These provisions as well as others from the prior legislation
were carried forward into the Revised Statutes, approved

OCTOBER TERNK, 189T."
Opinion of the Court.

June 22, 1874, sections 1954 to 1976 constittiting chapter three
of Title XXIII, relating to the territory of Alaska, and sections 1956 to 1976 thereof to the subject under consideration.
By section 1960 the killing of any fur seal's upon the islands
or their adjacent waters was 'forbidden, except during June,
July, September and October in each year, etc., with the
same proviso as in the first section of the act of 1870.
Sections 1962, 1963, 1968, 1969, 1972 and 1973 were as
follows:
"SEC. 1962. For the period of twenty years from the first
of July, eighteen hundred and seventy, the number of fur
'seals which may be killed for their skins upon the island of
St. Paul is limited to seventy-five thousand per annuM; and
the number- of fur seals which may be killed for their skins
.upon.the island of St. George is limited to twenty-five thousand per annum; but the Secretary of the Treasury may limit
the right of killing, 'ifit becomes necessary for the preservation of such seals, with such proportionate reduction of the
rents reserved to the Government as may be proper; and
every person who knowingly violates either of the provisions
of this section shall be punished as provided in the preceding
section.
"SEC. 1963. When the lease heretofore made by the Secre-

tary of the Treasury to ' The Alaska Commercial Company,'
of the right to engage in taking fur seals on the islands of
Saint Paul and Saint George, pursuant to the act of July 1,
1870, chapter 189, or when any future similar lease expires,
or is surrendered, forfeited or terminated, the Secretary shall
] ase to proper and responsible. parties, for the best advantage
of the. United States, having due regard to the interests of
the Government, .the native inhabitants, their comfort, maintenance and education, as well as to the interests of the parties heretofore engaged in trade and the protection of the
fisheries, the right of taking fur seals on the islands herein
named, and of sending a vessel or vessels 'to the islands for
the skins of such seals for the term of twenty years, at an
annual rental of not less than fifty thousand dollars, to be
reserved in such lease and secured by a deposit of United

NORTH AMERICAN CO."CO. v. UNITED STATES.

123

Opinion of the Court.

States bonds to that amount, and every such lease shall be
duly executed in duplicate, and shall not be transferable."
"SEc. 1968. If any person or company, under any lease
herein authorized, knowingly kills, or permits to be killed,
any number of seals exceeding the number for each island in
this chapter prescribed, such person or company shall, in addition to the penalties and forfeitures herein provided, forfeit
the whole number of the skins of seals killed in that year, or,
in case the same have been disposed of, then such person or
company shall forfeit the value of the same.
"SEo. 1969. In addition to the annual rental required to
" be reserved in every lease, as provided in section nineteen
hiindied and sixty-three, a. revenue tax or duty of two dollars
is laid upon each fur seal skin taken and shipped from the
" islands of Saint Paul and Saint George, during the continuance of any lease, to be paid into the Treasury of the United
States; and the Secretary of the Treasury is empowered to
make all needful regulations for the collection and payment
of the same, and -to secure the comfort, maintenance, education and protection of the natives of those islands, and also
to carry into full effect all the provisions of this chapter except as otherwise prescribed:"
"SEC. 1972. Congress may at. any time hereafter alter,
amend or repeal sections from nineteen hundred and sixty
to nineteen hundred and seventy-one, both inclusive, of this
chapter.
"SEC. 1973. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to.
appoint one agent and three assistant agents who shall be
charged with the management of the seal fisheries in Alaska,
and the performance of such other duties as may be assigned
to them by the Secretary of the Treasury."
Pending the adoption of the Revised Statutes, and on
March 24, 1874, 18 Stat. 24, c. 64, the act of July 1, 1870,
was amended so as to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury
to designate the months in which fur seals "may be taken
for their skins on the islands of St. Paul and St. George, in
Alaska, and in the waters adjacent thereto, and the number
to be taken on or about the islands respectively." Thus the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes were in effect amended so that whereas by
section 1960 the months of June', July, September and October had been designated as the months in which fur seals
might be taken on the islands and in the waters adjacent
thereto, for their skins, and by section 1962 the maximum
number which might be killed on the island of St. Paul was
limited to 75,000, and on the island of St. George to 25,000,
per annum, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized by
the amendatory act to designate the months in which fur seals
might be taken, and the number to be taken on or about each
island respectively. The times of killing and the number to
be killed were left to the judgment of the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Manifestly the object the Government had in view throughout this legislation was the preservation by proper regulations
of the fur-bearing animals of Alaska, including, and particularly, the fur seals.
The first twenty years being about to expire the Secretary
of the Treasury on December 24, 1889, advertised for pro-posals "for the exclusive right to take fur seals upon thd
islands of St. Paul and St. George, Alaska, for the term of
twenty (20) years from the first day of May, 1890, agreeably to the provisions of the statutes of the United States."
Among other things, the advertisement stated: "The number of seals to be taken for -their skins upon said islands
during the year ending May 1, 1891, will be. limited to sixty
thousand (60,000), and for the succeeding years the number
will be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in
accordance with the provisions of law."
There were twelve proposals or bids, of which the NTorth
American Commercial Company put in three, numbered 10,
11 and 12, each of which offered a gross sum as reital, and,
in addition 'tothat and the revenue tax, a royalty per capitem.
The three bids set forth the advertisement at length. No. 10
contained a proviso that the proposal was made on the express
condition that the United States should not, through the Secretary of the Treasury, or otherwise, limit the skins to be taken
to any number less than one hundred thousand skins per

NfORTH AMERICAN COA.

CO. v. IIIITED STATES.

125

Opinion of the Court.

annum after the first year of the lease; and No. 12 made
the express condition that the United States should protect
the exclusive right of the fur seal fisheries in and within the
islands, and the waters known as the "Behring Sea." No. 11
contained no such express conditions, and it was this bid which
was accepted by the Government. The lease in question was
thereupon entered into "in pursuance of chapter 3 of title 23,
Revised Statutes," as it recites.
By its terms, the company undertook, in consideration of
the lease for twenty years of "the exclusive right to engage
in the business of taking fur seals on the islands of St. George
and St. Paul, in the Territory of Alaska, and to send a vessel
or vessels to said islands for the skins of such seals," "to pay
to the Treasurer of the United States each year du'ring the
said term of twenty years, as annual rental, the sum of sixty
thousand dollars, and in. addition thereto agrees to pay the
revenue tax or duty of two dollars upon each fur' seal skin
taken and shipped by it from the islands -of St. George and
St. Paul, and also' to pay to said Treasurer the further sum
of seven dollars sixty-two and one half cents apiece for each
and every fur seal skin taken -and shipped from said islands,
. . . and to secure the sixty thousand dollars rental above
referred to" to deposit United States bonds of the face value
of fifty thousand dollars; and'further "faithfully to obey and
abide by all rules and regulations that the Secretary of the
Treasury has heretofore or may hereafter establish or make
in pursuance. of law- concerning the taking of seals on said
islands, and concerning the comfort, morals and other inter.ests of said inhabitants, and all matters'pertaining to said
islands and the taking of seals within the possession of the
United States. It also agrees to obey and abide* by any restrictions or limitations upon the right to kill seals that the
Sebretary of the Treasury shall adjudge necessary, under the
law, for the preservation of the seal. fisheries of the United'
States; and it agrees that it will not kill, or permit to be
killed; so far as it can prevent, in any year a greater number
of seals than is authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury."
It Was also agreed.-that, "the annual rental; together" with

OCTOBER TERM, 1897..
Opinion of the Court.

all other payments to the United States provided for in this
lease, shall be made and. paid on or before the first day of
April of each and every year during the existence of this lease,
beginning with the' first day of April, 1891." The lease also
provided that the number of fur seals to be taken and killed
for their skins during the year ending May 1, 1891, should
not exceed sixty thousand.
1. It is contended on behalf of the company that, conceding that the right of killing in 1893 had bden'duly limited to
.seventy-five hundred seals, and that it took and received that
number of skins as full performance of the covenants of the
lease on the part of the Governmepnt, it is entitled under section 1962 of the Revised Statutes to a proportionate reduction
of the rent reserved, that is, in the proportion that 7500 bears
to 100,000; and that this reduction applies to the per capita
of $7.624 for each fur seal skin taken and shipped by it, as
well as to the $60,000 annual rental. On this theory, the
company tendered to the United States; before action brought,
the sum of $23,789.50, being $15,000 for the tax on -7500
skins; $4500, three fortieths of the annual rental; and
$4289.50, three fortieths of the full royalty on the skins.
The latter branch of this contention may be dismissed at
once as untenable. By the terms of the lease, the per capita
of seven dollars sixty-two and one half cents for each and
every skin was not a part of the annual rental. The lease is
explicit that the annual rental is the sum of $60,000, and that
in-addition the lessee shall, pay the revenue duty of two
dollars per skifi, and also pay the further sum of this royalty
on each and every skin. United States bonds were to be deposited "to secure the prompt payment of the sixty thousand
dollars rental above r:eferred to," and "the annual rental,
together with all other payments to the United States prothis lease," was to be paid on or before the firstvided for ix'
of April of each and every year.
-W6 think the rent reserved as such was this specified
annual rental, and that the per capita payment was in the
nature of a bonus in the sense of an addition to the stated
consideration.

NORTH AMERICAN COMC0. v. 'UNITED STATES.

127.

Opinion of the Court.

The Secretary was to lease to the best advantage to the
United States, and that included the right to accept an offer
of this kind; and while the per capita was a part of the return
to the Government, it does not follow that the provision for reduction had reference to anythifig else than the specific rental,
nor is any other construction compelled by the fact that the
per capita might exceed the rental. Natural causes might
diminish the catch so that this would not be so and, at all
events, the construction of the words of the statute and contract cannot be controlled by the amount of the reduction in
one view rather than the other. Of course at the time the lease
was made it is evident that it was supposed that sixty thousand seals might be taken annually, and on that basis the per
capita royalty would be. the principal compensation of the
Government. This made it directly to the interest of the
Government to allow the largest possible catch, which w-as
undoubtedly a reason for the offer of the lessee in that form,
as it tended to induce great circumspection in prescribing any
limitation.
On the other hand, -i. may be that each seal would cost
more'as the number taken was less, and .that, if the price of
skins did not keep up, the company might be subjected to a
loss, no inatter how many it took, and the loss might be
greater the more it took. But that was a risk the company
assumed, and no reason is perceived for relieving it from the
consequences.
The reduction of what the company agreed to pay, so far
as the per capita was concerned, regulated itself. The smaller
the number of skins, the less the company would pay, the
larger the number, the more. We conclude that there is no
adeqtiate ground for holding that there should be any reduction on the per capita, which necessarily had to be paid.
,By section 1962 of the Revised Statutes it was provided,
as it had been by section three of the act of 1870, that for the
period of twenty years from July 1, 1870, the number of fur
seals which might be killed for their skins on the island of
St. Paul was limited to 75,000 per annum, and the number
which might be killed on the island of St. George to 25,000;

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

but the Secretary of the Treasury might limit the right of
killing if it became necessary for the preservation of such
seals, "*ith such proportionate reduction of the rents reserved
to the Government as may be proper."
By section five of the act of 1870, that at the expiration of
the first term of twenty years,.or its termination by surrender
or forfeiture, other leases might be made "in manner as aforesaid, for other terms of twenty years;" and by section 1963
of the Revised Statutes, that, when the first lease, or any
future similar lease, expired, or was surrendered, forfeited or
terminated, the Secretary should again lease for the term of
twenty years.
It is argued with great force on behalf of the Government
that whether reference be had to the act of 1870, or to the
R~evised Statutes, the limitation of the maximum number was
expressly made 6nly. for a period of twenty years from July 1,
1870; that that limitation determined with the expiration
of that period, and that consequently the provision for a proportionate reduction of rental in case of a limitation by. the
Secretary did not afterwards apply. But, taking the entire
legislation into consideration, as we may, and indeed must,
in accordance, with well-settled rules of construction, when interpretation results in fairly differing meanings, United States
v. Laoher, 134: U. S. 624, 626; Rarrett v. U zted States, 169
U. S. 218, 227, we are not persuaded that this position is
correct.
In giving. authority to make the first lease, by section four
of the act of 1870 the character of the lease was described,
and a provision for further leases was made in .section five,
which referred back to the description in section four by saying that other leases might be made, "in manner as aforesaid
for other terms of twenty years." When, however, the statutes were revised, the first lease had been executed and was
running, and the words "in manner as aforesaid"s were eliminated. The provision for succeeding leases was made the subject of section 1963, and, in declaring what they should be, the
same language was used'as that employed in the original act,
whereby the character of future leases was indicated.

NORTH AMERICAN COA. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

129

Opinion of the Court.

And section 1968; taken from the latter part of section five
of the act of 1870, provided for the forfeiture of all. the skins
"if any person or company, under any lease herein authorized,
knowingly kills, or permits to be killed, any number of seals
exceeding the number for each island in this chapter prescfibed."
It is said that the words "under any lease herein authorized" were intended to apply to the then pending lease, and
that the purpose of the section was to provide for a forfeiture
against any new lessee who might come in under a lease made
on the happening of either of the contingencies mentioned in
section 1963, as applied to the first lease, but we think the operation of the section was not intended to be thus restrained,and that it referred to any lease authorized under the chapter,
and applied the forfeiture to the killing of seals in excess of the
maximum number prescribed, which was to remain, if, when
the time arrived for a new bidding, no change had been made.
by Congress.
The revision of the statutes was approved June 22,- 1874,
but by the last section, section 5601, provision was made that
legislation between December 1, 1873, and the date of enactment should take effect as if passed subsequently.
Accordingly the act of May 24, 1874, operated by way of
amendment, and by authorizing the -Secretary to designate
the months during which seals might be taken and the
number to be taken on or about each island respectively,
removed the restrictions imposed by sections 1960 and 1962
in -those regards. The next day after the approval of the act,
the then Secretary availed himself of it by entering into an
agreement with the company that the lease of 1870 should
be' amended so as to prQvide that not more than 90,000 seals
should be killed per annum on the island of St. Paul, and not
more than 10,000 on the island of St. George, and that no
seals should be killed in any other month except the months
of June, July, August to the 15th, September and October.
It seems to us reasonably clear that the specific restriction as
to number, which, with the other restriction as to the months,
it was the object of the act to remove, had relation to the disVOL. CLXxi-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tribution as between the two islands "respectively," and if it
were proper to resort to what passed in Congress no doubt
could be entertained on the subject. When the. bill was reported from the Committee .bn Commerce no written report
was made, but its purpose and scope were explained on behalf
of that committee in each house and those explanations declared the object to be as above indicated.'
Although the authority conferred as to the times of killing
and the number to be killed was continuing and discretionary,
and although the company in the present lease covenanted
that it would not kill in any year a greater number than was
iuthorized by the Secretary, yet we think it would be going
much too far to hold that the original provision for a maximum number, and a proportionate redubtion of the fixed rental
in case of a limitation, was done away with by implication.
Repeals where the intention to do so is not expressed are
not favored, and, moreover, here the mischiefs sought to be
remedied are quite obvious. One wag that it was evidently
thought that seals might properly be taken during the first
half of August, and the existing statute forbade this; the
other was, that the maximum was fixed for each islfand,
whereas it had probably been ascertained that the distribution was erroneous, or that the numbers that might be safely
taken on one or the other might vary, and consequently that
greater elasticity was desirable. The language by which these
objects were attained was entirely reconcilable with the prior
law so far as it did not purport.to change it.
The legislation from the beginning was directed to the preservation of the fur seals, and the act of 1870 recognized that
it might be necessary to such preservation that the number
to be killed in the different years should be varied, and the
discretion to do this was vested in the Secretary, but while this
authority was made more comprehensive by the act of 1871,
and a redistribution as between the two islands authorized, we
cannot accept the view that it was the intention by that act
to wholly change the scheme of leasing by making the discretion of the Secretarypurely arbitrary, and dispensing with any
maximum or reduction.

NORTH AMERICAN COM. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

131

Opinion of the Court.

It should be added that the action of the Treasury Department in the matter of the abatement of rent for 1890, 1891
and 1892 ,does not impress us as amounting to such departmental bonstruction as entitles it to any particular weight, and
the views of the Department of Justice were conflicting.
Reference is,made to Article V of t1he treaty of 1892 extending the- modu8 vivendi and the action taken under it before
the Tribunal of Arbitration, as if amounting to an estoppel,
or an admission against interest, or at the least as having some
considerable bearing on the construction of the lease and the
statutes. That article provided, among other things, that "if
the result of the arbitration shall be to deny the right of British sealers to take seals within the said waters, then compensation shall be made by Great Britain to the United States
(for itself, its citizens and lessees) for this agreement to limit
the island catch to seven thousand five hundred a season, upon
the basis of the difference between thisnumber and such larger
catch as in the opinion of the arbitrators might have been
taken without an undue diminution of the seal herds." And
it appears that the United States originally presented as part
of its case a claim for the recovery of the damages which it
'and its lessee had sustained by reason of the limitation to 7500,
but this claim was certainly not presented as a claim which
the company could maintain against the United States under
the lease, and it 'involved no question of the power of the
Secretary in respect of the lessee under the covenants of that
instrument. There was no element of estoppel about the transaction, and counsel had no authority to bind the Government
for any other purpose than the pending cause.
Moreover, counsel for the United States were constrained
to expressly admit that the evidence failed to establish that
an additional take over and above the seventy-five hundred
could have been safely allowed. In the argument on behalf
of the United States, Judge Blodgett, one of the counsel, and
all the counsel concurred, made this statement: "Frankness
requires us, as we think, to say that the proofs which appear
in the counter case of the United States as to the condition of
the seal herd on the Pribiloff Islands show that the United

OCTOBER TERAL 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

States could not hale allowed its lessees to have much, if any,
exceeded the number of skins allowed by the modus vivendi
of 1892 without an undue diminution of the seal herd, and
upon this branch of the case we simply call the attention of
the tribunal to the proofs, and submit the question to its decision." , And later, counsel announced that the United States
would not ask the tribunal for any finding for damages upon
and under Article V.
Our opinion is, that, assuming that the lessee took all the
risk of a catch, reduced by natural causes, yet that when the
number that might be killed was limited by the act of the Government or its agent, the Secretary, the company was entitled
to such reduction on the rental reserved as might be proper,
and that the rule to be observed in that regard would be a reduction in.the same proportion as the number of skins perinitted to be taken bore to the maximum. This would reduce
the annual rental for the year under consideration from $60,000
to $4500; the tax due would be $15,000, and the per capita
857,187.50, making a total of $76,687.50.
2. Laying out of view the concession under the first proposition, the compahy further contended that the prohibition by
the United States, by agreement with Great Britain, of seal
killing in excess of 7500, to be taken on the islands for the
subsistence of the natives, relieved the company from its covenants for the payment of rent and royalty, and that no action
could be maintained therefor on the lease.
The..evidence disclosed that prior to 1890 the number of
seals annually resorting to these islands was rapidly diminishing. This was attributed to the open sea or pelagic sealing,
whereby the seals, especially the females, who were exempt
from. slaughter under the laws of the United States, were
interrupted in their passage to the islands by the crews of
foreign vessels and were killed in great numbers while in the
water. For several years the United States, asserting that it
had territorial jurisdiction over Behring Sea, had been striving
to prevent vessels of foreign nations from seal hunting on the
open waters thereof. Great Britain denied the territorial jurisdiction of the United States and denied that the United States

NORTH AME-RICAN COX. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

133

Opinion of the. Court.

had a right of property in the fur seals while on the high seas
during their progress to or from the islands of ,St. Paul and
St. George, and it became necessary to resort to inteinational
regulation to prevent the extermination of the seals. Indeed,
it appears that the treasury agent in charge made a report
to the Secretary of the Treasury after' the season of 1890, in
which he strenuously urged the necessity of stopping sealing
for a number of years absolutely upon the islands'as a necessary measure for the preservation of the seals. On the 15th
of June, 1891, an agreement for a modui vivendi ,was concluded between the Government of the United States and the
Government of Her Britannic Majesty, "in relation to the
Fur Seal Fisheries in Behring Sea," (27 Stat. 980,) whereby
-with a view to promote the friendly settlement of the questions between the two Governments touching their respective
rights in Behring Sea, "and for the preservation of the seal
species," it was agreed that seal killing should be prohibited
until the following May, altogether by Great Britain, and by
the United States, "in excess of seventy-five hundred, to be
taken on the islands for the subsistence and care of the
natives." This was followed by a convention submitting to
arbitration the questions concerning the jurisdictional rights
of the United States in Behring Sea; "the preservation of
the fur seal in, or habitually resorting to, the said sea," and
the right to take such seals, which was proclaimed May 9,
1892. 27 Stat. 947.
And under the same date the modus vivendi was renewed
during the pendency of the arbitration. 27 Stat. 952.
The arbitral tribunal sat in -Paris in 1899-3, and the prohibition covered the killing period for which recovery is
sought in this case.
The learned Circuit Judge held that the limitation under
the modus vivendi was not a -designation by the Secretary,
but was a prohibition by the Government; and, consequently,
that if the lessees had not received any skins the action could
not have been maintained. But he held that as the seventyfive hundred skins were received by the lessees they must
make compensation for them; that a proper way to deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mine this was to ascertain what the fair product of the year,
which might safely be taken, was, and compute what each
skin would have cost the company, assuming -they had taken
that number; and by this mode of computation, having found
that 20,000 might properly have been taken, he reached the
sum of $94,687.50 as the amount due to the Government.
The Circuit Court found that the United States, pursuant to .the modus vivendi, "prohibited and prevented the
said company from taking any seals whatever from the said
islands during the year 1893, and thus deprived the said
defendant of the benefit of its .said lease." We think this
so far partakes of a conclusion of law that we are not shut up
to treating it as a finding of fact. The power to regulate the
seal fisheries in the interest of the preservation of the: species.
was .a sovereign protective power, subject to which the lease"
was taken, and if the Government found it necessary to exercise that power to the extent which this finding asserts, and
if we assume that the company might thereupon-have tieated
this contract as rescinded, it is sufficient to say that it took no
such position, but accepted the performance involved in the
delivery of the seventy-five hundred skins. The company
did not wish to rescind or abandon, and it could not but
recognize that, as the modus was entered into in an effort to
save the seal race from extermination, and thereby to preserve something for the future years of the lease, the prohibition was so far for its benefit.
Again, although the Government acted in making the lease
by the hand of 'the Secretary, it was the real conracting
party, exercising th power of regulation through the Secretary, so that it was immaterial whether the Secretary on
his own judgment or in compliance with the will of the Government confined the number of seals taken in the year 1893
to seventy-five hundred. Undoubtedly the Government could
have directed the Secretary by law to restrict the killing to
seventy-five hundred-seals, and the treaty was nothing more.
The company could not object that the Secretary was constrained to impose the limitation, for the Secretary was bound
to obey the instructions of his principal, and the company

NORTH AMERICAN COM. 00. v. UNITED STATES.

135

Opinion of the Court.

could not make it the subject of a contest inpai8 as to whether
the preservation of the herd in fact required the limitation.
The whole business of taking seals was conducted under the
supervision of the Government, and by section 1973 the Secretary was authorized to appoint agents, who were charged
with the management of the seal fisheries.
The record, shows -that instructions were issued to the Government supervising agent on April 26, 1893, and a copy delivered to the superintendent of the company before the
commencement of the season of that year. These instructions directed the number of seals to be taken during the
season of 1893 to be limited to 7500. It was stated by the
Secretary that it was believed: "That if the killing be" confined between the first of June and the tenth of August, a
better quality of skins would be obtained and less injury
would be done to the rookeries ;" and he added: "This matter is, however, left, as above stated, to your discretion, and in
reference thereto you will confer fully with the representative
of the company, its interests and those of the Government in
the preservation of the fur seals being identical."
In the letter of the attorney of the company of November
15, 1893, he said: "During the present year this company, in
strict compliance with the orders of the Treasury Departmentr
restricted its catch to 7500." In other words, it appears that
both parties regarded the Secretary of the Treasury as authorizing the taking of 7500 skins in the year 1893.
Under the law of 1870 and the various sections of the Revised Statutes the power was expressly reserved to the Government to make whatever restrictions of the business it
might see fit to make; the lease recognized this to the full
extent; and it was, moreover, expressly stipulated that the
company was not to kill or permit to be killed. a greater
number than the Secretary might authorize. The company
was offered 7500 skins for 1893 took them ; paid the amount
fixed by the Secretary under the lease for compensation to
the natives for taking and loading .the skins, and subsequently
tendered the sum of $23,789.50 as, according to its computation, the full amount due_ under the lease. These particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

seals were killed by the Government agent, but notice of the
killing, from time to time, was given to the company, and the
company requested to select the skins it desired, which it did.
The Government did not regard the lease as broken, but proceeded under it, and delivered the 7500 skins as full performance of the covenant on its part, for the privilege of taking
the seals was subject to such limitation on the number, as the
Government believed it necessary to impose; and the company acquiesced in that view by taking the 7500 skins without dissent.
It wi after this that the question arose, not of breach of
contract, but as to what sum, if any, wfis due from the company under the lease more than it had tendered. Was the
company entitled to a reduction on what it had agreed to pay,
and, if so, how much?
3. Finally, the company claims that the United States are
liable to it in damages to the extent of $287,725, for skins it
could have taken during the season of 1893, without unreasonable injury to or diminution of the seal herd, and which the
United States prevented it from doing; and that it can avail
itself of .this claim in this suit by 'way of recoupment and
counterclaim.
The Circuit Court rejected this counterclaim on the ground
that the claim had not been presented and disallowed by the
accounting officers of the Treasury, and dismissed it, not on
the fuerits, but without prejudice. The company prosecuted
its writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, and assigned as errors, among others, that the
Circuit Court erred in adjudging that its claim for damages
was not duly presented; that the court did not allow its
counterclaim; and that judgment *as not directed in favor
of the company. From what we have already said it -will
have been seen that we are of opinion that the company cannot maintain this claim for damages, and that, assuming. that
the claim had been duly presented and disallowed, and that,
if meritorious, it might be availed of by way of recoupment
in this action, the Circuit Court erred in its disposition of the
counterclaim.

NORTH AMERICAN COM. CO. v.UNITED STATES.

137"

Opinion of the Court.

The seal fisheries of the Pribiloff Islands were a branch of
commerce and their regulation involved the exercise of power
as a sovereign and not as a mere proprietor. Such governmental powers cannot be contracted away, and it is absurd to
argue that in this instance there was any attempt to do so, or
any sheer oppression or wrong inflicted on the lessee by the
Government in'the effort to protect the fur seal from extinction.
The privilege leased was the exclusive right to take fur
seal, but it was subject, and expressly subjected, from -the
beginning, to whatever regulations of the business the United
States might make. If those regulations reduced the catch,
the company was protected by a reduction of the rental, and
paid taxes and per capita only on the number taken. The
other expenses to which it bound itself were part of th.e risk
of the venture. The catch for 1893 was lawfully limited to
seventy-five hundred, and the company accepted and disposed
of the skins. It cannot now be heard to insist that that
limitation was in breach of the obligations of the Government, for which, though still claiming the contract to be
outstanding, it is entitled to recover damages.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is -reversedand the cause
remandedwith a directionto enter judgment in favor of
the United States for $76,687.50, with interestfrom the
frst day of April, 1894; and to enterjudgment in favor
of the United States on the counterclaim.

