OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement. of the Case..

The act is "for the relief of the estate" of Charles M. Briggs,
and the only matter referred to the Court of Claims is the
claim of his "legal representatives." The executor was the
proper person to represent the estate of Briggs, and was his
legal representative; and as such he brought suit in the
Court of Claims, and recovered the fund now in question, and
consequently held it as.assets of the estate, and subject to the
debts and liabilities of his testator to the defendants in errorJudgment q§Zrmed.

HUBBARD, Assignee, v. TOD.
VERTIOEA

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEA.LS FOR THE EIGHW
CIRCUIT.
1 o. 24. Argued April 22, 25, 1898.-Decided October 17, 1898.

On the hearing of a case, brought by certiqrari from a Circuit Court of
Appeals on petition of one of the parties, in which the judgment of that
court is made otherwise final, this court will pass only upon the errors
assigned by the petitioner, and does not feel at liberty to decide whether
there was error in the decree below, of which the other party might have
complained.
Under the circumstances disclosed in the statement of the case and in theopinien of the court in this case, the Union Trust Company cannot be
allowed to set up its alleged title to the stock and bonds in controversy,
as against third parties taking in good faith and without notice, and the saine principle is applicable to its assignee, and to creditors seeking to
enforce rights in his name; and, so far as this case is concerned, there
is nothing to the contrary in the statute of Iowa regulating assignments
for the benefit of creditors, as expounded by the Supreme Court of that
State.
This court concurs in the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the fact that the- respondents' right to the
securities was superior to that asserted by the petitioner.
The New York statutes against usury cannot be interposed by a corporatfon,
or pleaded by endorsers of its paper.

THE Manhattan Trust Company of New York filed its bill,
on September" 28, 1893, in the Circuit Court of -the United
States for the iNorthern District of Iowa, against the Sioux

City & N"orthern Railroad -Company 'of Iowa, praying for

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

the appointment of a receiver to take possession of the railroad and its properties and to operate and preserve the same,
under and by virtue of the terms of a trust deed made and
executed by the Sioux City & Northern Railroad Company to
the Manhattan Trust Company, January 1, 1890, to secure an
issue of bonds to the amount of $1,920,000.
October 5, 1893, receivers were appointed, and on the same
day E. H. Hubbard, as assignee of the Union Loan & Trust
Company, a corporation of Iowa, filed in said cause an intervening petition against the members of the banking firm of
J. Kennedy Tod & Co. of New York, praying in respect
of 10,600 shares of the capital stock of the Sioux City &
Northern Railroad Company, and $2,340,000 in first mortgage bonds of the Sioux, City, O'Neill & Western Railway
Company, a corporation of Nebraska, held by J. Kennedy
Tod & Co., an injunction against the disposition thereof; an
accounting of what sums J. Kennedy Tod & Co. had advanced
in good faith on said securities; and the surrender by them
of the collateral to the intervening petitioner on the ascertainment of the sums so advanced and constituting a lien thereon.
J. Kennedy Tod, W. S. Tod and Robert S. Tod, composing the firm of Tod & Co. objected to the jurisdiction, but
answered November 16, 1893, and about the first of January,
1894, petitioner filed an amended petition, to which defendants filed a supplemental answer, and petitioner, a replication.
The intervening petition and amendments averred that
the Union Loan & Trust Company was a corporation of the
State of Iowa, organized in the year 1885, and thereafter
engaged in carrying on a loan and trust business up to and
until April 25, 1893, when it made a general assignment of
all its property and assets to E. H. Hubbard of Sioux City,
Iowa.
That on July 3, 1889, A. S.. Garretson, John Hornick, J. D.
Booge, Ed. Haakinson and D. T. Hedges entered into an agreement in writing, referred to as a railroad syndicate agreement,
for the construction of the Sioux City & Northern Railroad,
which construction was proceeded with, and from time to
time the individual members of the syndicate executed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

delivered their respective notes to the Union Loan & Trust
Company in various- sums, which notes that company sold to
various bankers and brokers throughout the United States;
that there existed an understanding or agreement between the
syndicate and the company that the syndicate should deposit
with. the company as collateral security for said notes the
stock and bonds of the Sioux City & Northern Railway
Company when issued; that the syndicate caused the corporation to issue the mortgage described in the original bill; and
that the bonds and stock of the corporation were held by the
company "as collateral security for the payment of the
notes with the proceeds whereof the said railroad has been
constructed and equipped as aforesaid." That afterwards the syndicate lent its aid to the Wyoming
Pacific Improvement Company, a Wyoming corporation -engaged in the construction of the Nebraska & Western Railroad, a line of road extending westward from Sioux City to
the town of O'Neill, in the State of Nebraska, and that said
syndicate also extended its aid and assistance to other corporations in and about Sioux City, such as the Pacific Short
Line Bridge Company, the Union Stock-Yards Company, the
Sioux City Terminal Railroad & Warehouse Company, and
the Sioux City Dressed Beef & Canning Company, with a
like understanding between the syndicate and the Union.Loan
& Trust Company that the securities of the respective companies coming into the possession of the syndicate should be
deposited with the Union Loan & Trust Company as collateral to the notes which the ,members of the 'syndicate might
give to that company on behalf of the enterprises respectively.
And also that the syndicate organized the corporation
known as the Pacific Short Line Bridge Company to construct a bridge across the Missouri River at Sioux City for
the purpose of connecting said railroads, the stock of said
company to belong to the Nebraska Company.
It was further averred that the syndicate acquired the
ownership of all the bonds of the Nebraska & Western Railway Company, and that they became subject to the lien of
the Union Loan & Trust Company; yet that A. S. Garretson,

HUBBARD

u TOD.

Statement of the Case.

on or about October 1, 1891, without any apparent record or
other authority from the Union Loan & Trust Company,
caused all of the Nebraska & Western bonds and 7200 shares
of Sioux City & Northern Railroad stock to be transferred
to Tod & Co. as security for a loan of one million dollars,
but that Tod & Co. were chargeable with notice of Garretson's want of authority.
That the Nebraska & Western Railway was built by the
Wyoming & Pacific Improvement Company, which was
practically owned and controlled by the Manhattan Trust
Company, and that the Improvement Company received stock
and bonds of the Nebraska & Western Company, and delivered them to the Manhattan Trust Company, by which
they were pledged, or held in trust, as securiLy for loans negotiated and advanced by it to the Improvement Cbmpany,
including a loan of $500,000 by Belmont & Co., all of which
were outstanding when, on November 1, 1890, the Improvement Company collapsed, to the knowledge of Tod & Co.
That to relieve itself from impending loss, the Manhattan
Trust Company, byuntruthful representations as to the amount
of the indebtedness of the Nebraska & Western Railway
Company, induced Garretson to purchase said loans; that
Garretson thereupon deposited $750,000 of the Sioux City &
Northern bonds with the Manhattan Trust Company as security for relief of the maturing obligations to Belmont & Co.;
and that about the same time Tod & Co. began to make advances to Garretson on the security of the Nebraska and
Western bonds; that Garretson was obliged to sell all the
Sioux City and Northern bonds at a sacrifice price of seventyfive per cent, and to pledge all the Nebraska & Western
bonds and half of the Sioux City & Northern stock substantially for the value of the purchase price of the Nebraska &
Western bonds.
That the mortgage covering said bonds was foreclosed and
the property conveyed to a new corporation called the Sioux
City, O'Neill & Western Railway Company, in exchange for
the issue of $2,340,000 of first mortgage bonds, and 36,00&
shares of stock; and that in the latter part of 1892, or early

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the 'Case.

in 1893, Garretson, without any apparent record or other
authority from the Union Loan & Trust Company, caused
all of the bonds of the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railway Company, and substantially all of the stock of the Sioux
City & Northern Railroad Company, to be vested in the
Pacific Short Line Bridge Company, and the notes of the
latter company, to the amount of $1,500,000, to be given to
himself, and the payment thereof to be secured by the pledge
of -all said bonds and stock, and transferred the notes and
securities to J. Kennedy Tad & Co., who, acting as trustees,
but chargeable with notice, negotiated or -bought the greater
part of the said notes for different holders or purchasers
thereof, $500,000 being taken by the Great Northern Railway, -which desired to acquire the Sioux City & Northern
Railroad, and with which Tod & Co. were allied.
That after the failure of the Union Loan & Trust Company, a committee of its creditors, Tad & Co. having advertised the sale of the collateral pursuant to the terms of the
$1,500,000 loan, there having been default in payment of
interest for thirty days, offered to pay the overdue ifiterest on
certain conditions, which were refused, and thd collateral was
sold and bought in by Tad & Co. for $1,000,000.
The petition and amended petition contained an averment
that petitioner, "as assignee of said Union Loan & Trust
Company, is entitled to the immediate surrender of all and
singular of said securities by said J. Kennedy Tad & Co. to
your petitioner without any payment of principal, or interest
upon said alleged loan, or any other consideration whatsoever."
The prayer of the amended petition, was: That Tad & Co.
surrender to petitioner, without any terms or conditions, the
collateral held by them as aforesaid, and that they be enjoined from selling or disposing of the same; for an accounting of-sums advanced by Tod & Co. in good faith and without notice on account of the securities, and the disposition
made by them of any other collateral held by them under
the loan agreement of December 31, 1892; the surrender of
the certificates to the petitioner upon an accounting, and the

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

ascertainment of what sums, if any, constituted a lien thereon; and the appointment of a receiverpend-ente, lite.
The answers of Tod & Co. traversed the allegations of the
petition and amended petition on which*petitioner based his
claim to the securities, and particularly denied all charges of
fraud, want of good faith or notice; and set forth at length
the transactions in respect of said securities on which they
claimed the title thereto or right to hold the same. After
much of the testimony had been taken petitioner moved for
leave to further amend his petition, which motion was held
over to the hearing.
The case was heard on the merits, and, in the final decree,
leave to further amend was granted. This second amended
petition made the MNfanhattan Trust Company a party, and
averred among other things, that the loan of one million dollars and the loan of one million and a half were usurious, and
prayed that each be declared void, and that the securities be
surrendered to petitioner free and clear of any claim, right,
interest or lien of Kennedy Tod & Co.
The evidence may be sufficiently summarized as follows:
I.The Union Loan & Trust Company was organized in
1885 with a capital stock of $100,000, which was afterwards
increased to $1,000,000. The purposes of its incorporation, as
stated in its certificate of organization, were the loaning of
money on real and personal security; the purchase and sale
of securities; the negotiation of loa ns; and the execution of
trusts; but the company was not to "purchase, nor loan its
funds on the securities of any railroad company." It had a
board of five directors, a president, vice president and secretary, and by its by-laws a committee of three members on
applications for loans was provided for..
November 2, 1885, George L.Joy was elected president, A. S.
Garretson, vice president, and E. R. Smith, secretary, subsequently also made treasurer, and these three persons were appointed the committee on loans. They continued to hold these
offices and to constitute that committee up to and until April 21,
1893, when the company made an assignment to E. H. Hubbard.
The practical management of the company's affairs was

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1898.
Statement of the-Case.

left to E. R. Smith, secretary and treasurer, and he accepted,
endorsed and discounted notes as if he were solely in charge
of When
the business.
individual members of the syndicate presented
notes
to the company, Smith accepted the notes without collateral,
but claimed that this was on the understanding that securities
were to be or would be thereafter deposited; and when securities, whether bonds or stock, did come to the hands of Smith
as secretary and treasurer, he parted with them to Garretson,
or transmitted' them as requested by Garretson, constantly
recognizing Garretson's right to sell or rehypothecate the
same. - Garretson testified to the right of the syndicate to sell
or pledge the securities on the market; and its financial
management was entrusted- to him.
The so-called Railroad Syndicate agreement was entered
into July 3, 1889, by A. S. Garretson, John Hornick, J. E.
Booge, Ed. Haakinson and D. T. Hedges, for the purpose of
building and equipping the Sioux City & Northern Railroad,
and provided that all money borrowed and contracts made
for the building and equipment of the road should be borne
equally by the parties; that where notes were executed by
one for the purposes expressed, each should be equally liable
therefor; that all money borrowed should be placed to the
credit of John Hornick, trustee, at the office of the Union
Loan & Trust Company; and that the contract should continue 'until the railroad ,should be completed and its debts
paid; and be lodged with the company.
The agreement contained no provision that the money borrowed for the uses of the copartnership should be borrowed
from or through the Union Loan & Trust Company; nor
any stipulation for the depositing with that company of the
stock and bonds of the Sioux City & N6rthern Railroad, as
security for any money the syndicate might borrow.
It appeared that when the Union Loan & Trust Company
desired to rediscount or sell notes, it sent out'a circular offering them at a considerable discount, and reciting "in every
case we hold good and sufficient security from the maker"; but
i did not appear that the holders of notes, the creditors repre-

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

sented by the assignee, took them on the faith of any pledge
of the securities in question. Nor was any reference thereto
made in the notes themselves. The understanding between
the syndicate and the Union Loan & Trust Company, that
railroad securities should be deposited to secure syndicate
paper, rested on conversations between the parties, and did not
involve the liberty of the syndicate to borrow elsewhere; nor
did the understanding permit securities held for moneys advanced to one enterprise to be held as security for any other.
The Sioux City & Northern Railroad was constructed by
the syndicate, some of the money being raised on notes of its
members, which were discounted by the Union Loan & Trust
Company, the proceeds credited to Hornick, trustee, and
drawn against as provided in the agreement.
The road was completed in January, 1890, and the syndicate
acquired its first mortgage bonds for $1,920,000, secured by
mortgage to the Manhattan Trust Company as trustee, and
its capital stock of about 14,400 shares. None of the shares
of this stock ever stood in the name of the Union* Loan &
Trust Company, nor did any of the bonds; nor did the books
of the company contain entries referring to the collateral in
controversy as pledged to secure syndicate paper or the company's indorsement thereof.
The bonds came into the custody of the Union Loan &
Trust Company before they were certified by the Manhattan
Trust Company, and on February 24, 1890, Smith, secretary,
transmitted them to the Manhattan Trust Company to be certified, but did not request that they should be returned. On
the same day Garretson directed the Manhattan Trust Company to certify the bonds and hold them subject to his order;
and on March 12, 1890, Smith, secretary, directed the Manhattan Trust Company to issue its receipt for said bonds to
A. S. Garretson, individually, which was accordingly done.
Efforts to sell the bonds were made, and, in furtherance
thereof, August 26, 1890, Garretson directed the Manhattan
Trust Company to ship the bonds to the Boston* Safe Deposit
and Trust Company, Boston, to be held subject to the order.
of F,V. Parker & Co., and the bonds were so shipped.
voL. CLX=-31

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

-

Subsequently, Garretson hypothecated portions of these
bonds to secure his own notes given for loans made for the
purpose of acquiring control of the Nebraska & Western
Railroad, forming part of the ":Pacific Short Line" enterprise,
promoted to build a road from a point on the Missouri River
opposite Sioux City westward to Ogden, Utah.
In the latter part of December, 1890, or early in January,
1891, Garretson and Hedges offered the Sioux City & Northern bonds to Tod & Co. at 90 cents, but no purchase was
made, Tod & Co. offering 661. A few weeks later, Tod &
Co. were again applied to and they p'archased the bonds at 75
cents. The evidence tended to show that out of the proceeds
Garretson's notes to the aggregate of $690,000, secured by
920 Sioux City & Northern bonds, were taken up, and
$750,000 were paid over to the Union Loan & Trust Company and credited to the syndicate.
II. The Nebraska & Western Railway Company was organized in 1889, and on the first day .of July of that year
made and executed its mortgage to the Manhattan Trust Company to secure its issue of bonds to the amount of $2,583,000.
It then contracted with the Wyoming Pacifib Improvement
Company to construct and equip the road, which vas to receive therefor the bonds of the railway company, to be delivered by the Manhattan Trust Company as issued and certified
to by it, and in this way the Improvement Company became
the owner of the bonds. On February 1, 1890, the Improvement Company entered into an agreement with the Manhattan Trust Company, under which the latter procured for the
former, on its notes, loans to the amount of $1;050,000, secured
by bonds held in trust in the ratio of two dollars in bonds to
one dollar in money loaned. At the same time an underwriter's agreement was entered into between the Improvement
Company-and the subscribers thereto, by which if the loans
were not paid the bonds were to be taken at fifty cents on
the dollar.
Of this loan Belmont & Co. took $500,000, and Garretson
and Hedges $125,000 each.
Garretson, Hornick and Booge had previously liecome.sub

HUBBARD v. TO]).
Statement of the Case,

scribers to the enterprise to the extent of $100,000 for certificates of the Improvement Company, and they, and. Hedges and
Haakinson, executed an agreement February 15, 1890, agreeing that for the purpose of securing the "construction of the
Pacific Short Line from Sioux City westward to O'Neill,"
they would raise $350,000, $250,000 to be loaned the Improvement Company on the security of $500,000 first mortgage
bonds of the Nebraska & Western Railway Co., held by the
Manhattan Trust Company, and $100,000 certificates of the
Improvement Company to be assigned to the syndicate by
the original subscribers.
The Manhattan. Trust Company held $2,100,000 of the Nebraska & Western bonds to secure the $1,050,000 loan and,
subsequently, $483,000 more to secure other loans.
About November 1, 1890, it became necessary to provide for
the payment of the loan by Belmont & Co.
On that date Garretson borrowed through the Manhattan
Trust Company $500,000 on his individual notes secured by
$750,000 Sioux City & Northern bonds, and took up the
Belmont loan of $500,000. He at the same time negotiated
with the officers of the Manhattan Trust Company touching
other loans to the Improvement Company under the underwriter's agreement to the effect that the Manhattan Trust
Company should cause said loans to be renewed or placed
elsewhere, and that the Nebraska & Western bonds in possession of the Manhattan Trust Company should be used as
Icollateral.
And, January 28, 1891, Garretson entered into a Written
agreement with the Manhattaii Trust Company for the taking
up of the then outstanding notes and receiving the collateral
held as security therefor.
Among the transactions, Garretson borrowed in February
$190,000 secured by 170 Sioux City & Northern bonds, and
the equity in the 750 bonds held to secure the $500,000 loan.
These loans were paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the
whole issue of the Sioux City & Northern bonds, as before
stated.
The testimony of Garretson was relied on to sustain the

.484

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

charge that the Manhattan Trust Company perpetrated a
fraud on him at the time -he entered into negotiations to assume or take up the obligations of the Improvement Company,
in the acquisition of the Nebraska & Western road, in that
it misrepresented the amount of that company's"indebtedness.
The officers of the Manhattan Trust Company positively
denied any such misrepresentation; and the eighth paragraph
of Garretson's contract with the Manhattan Trust Company
of January 28, 1891, declared: "This agreement and the settlement herein made is in full adjustment and settlement of
all questions heretofore arising between the parties hereto, in
reference to the said Improvement Company or the construction of the Nebraska & Western Railway, and the first party
agrees that his note for $500,000 heretofore given on taking up
certain loans shall be paid at or before maturity." The evidence did not show that if there had been any misrepresentation, Tod & Co: had any knowledge in fact thereof, though at
one time a member of the firm, now deceased, was a director
of that Trust Company, and its counsel was also Tod & Co.'s.
After Garretson had become the holder of the obligations
of the Improvement Company and the Nebraska & Western
bonds, he caused the bonds to be sold on May 27, 1891, and
June 24, 1891, pursuant to a demand made on the Manhattan
Trust Company as trustee and to notice given, and at the sale
purchased all the bonds of the Nebraska & Western Railway Company.
In June, 1891, Tod & Co. loaned Garretson $75,000 on
$200,000 Nebraska & Western bonds as collateral.
III. October 1, 1891, Garretson entered into a contract with
Tod & Co. to borrow one million dollars, which recited that
Garretson was the holder of $2,500,000, or thereabouts, of
Nebraska & Western bonds; of 25,000 shares of the stock
of the Nebraska & Western Railway Company, and of 7200
shares of the stock of the Sioux City & Northern Railroad
Company; that proceedings were pending for the foreclosure
and sale of the Nebraska & Western Railway; and that
Garretson desired to borrow money, purchase the road, form
a new corporation, and obtain a new issue of bonds and stock;

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

and Tod & Co. agreed to make or procure him a loan on
these terms: Garretson to deliver to Tod & Co. his two hundred promissory notes of $5000 each, dated October 1, 1891,
and payable on demand, and to deposit as security for the equal
and common benefit of all who should become holders thereof
the Nebraska & Western bonds, the shares of Nebraska &
Western stock, and the shares of Sioux City & Northern
stock; Tod & Co. to procure the sale of the notes at par, and
to advance thereon at once $200,000, if required in obtaining
title, the collateral to be held by Tod & Co. for the equal
benefit of the holders of the notes; on the reorganization of
the Nebraska & Western Rail vay Company under the foreclosure, a new mortgage to be executed to the Manhattan
Trust Company to secure a new issue of bonds at the rate
of $18,000 per mile, and the whole amount of such issue,
$2,340,000 and one half of the capital stock of the new company to be delivered to Tod & Go. in the place of the Nebraska
& Western bonds and stock. If the Nebraska & Western
bonds wera required to be deposited in court, the road was to
be purchased in the name of trustees, and until the new corporation was formed and new bonds and stock delivered, no
more than $600,000 was to be paid over to Garretson, the balance to remain to his credit with the banking company.
The new bonds were also to be further secured by all the
stock of the Pacific Bridge Company except such part not
exceeding fifty shares as should be necessary to qualify
directors. The note holders were also given certain options,
and Tod '&Co. were to receive one per cent commission for
their services.
The notes representing this million dollar .loan were not
executed October 1, 1891, but were thereafter prepared and
sent to Garretson at Sioux City, were there executed by him,
and were received by Tod & Co. October 26, Garretson being
credited with the principal and twenty-five days' interest.
One million of the Nebraska & Western bonds were delivered to Tod & Co. October 19, 1891, $800,000 by the Manhattan Trust Company and $200,000 by Tod & Co.'s cashier,
which had been pledged to them to secure the loan of $75,000,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

and these bonds were sent that day to Wickersham, Tod & Co.'s
attorney and agent at Omaha, to be used in the purchase
under the foreclosure. One hundred and fifty thousand dollars of the bonds had been delivered to the St. Charles Car
Company, and were received by Tod & Co. October 27, and
forwarded to Wickersham that day.
Of the remainder of the bonds, 500 were held by the Manhattan Trust Company as collateral to the $250,000 subs.cribed
by Garretson and Hedges to the underwriter's agreement, and
had been shipped to .the Union Loan & Trust Company by
the Manhattan Trust Company by direction of Garretson,
December 2, 1890.
And $933,000, which had been lodged in Tod & Co.'s custody by Garretson, had been sent to the company in August,
1891, on his instructions, which contained nothing to indicate
that the Union Loan & Trust Company had any claim of
lien thereon, or right thereto, while Tod & Co. testified that
they supposed they were transmitted as a mere matter of
safety deposit.
These -bonds for $1,433,000 were sent to Garretson at
Omaha by the Union Loan & Trust Company, and delivered
by him to Wickersham.
The railroad was sold under the foreclosure decree October
23, 1891, and bought in by Garretson and Wickershani as
trustees for the holderg of the first mortgage bonds of the
Nebraska & Western Railway Company, and on October 30
the entire issue, $2,583,000, was deposited by Wickersham
with the clerk of the court, and the sale thereupon confirmed.
The road was reorganized under the name of the Sioux City,
O'Neill & Western Railway Company, and Wickersham. and
Garretson as trustees conveyed the property to the new conipany in exchange for the issue of the bonds and stock.
Pending the issue of the engraved bonds Of the Sioux City,
O'Neill & Western Railway Company, a temporary bond was
issued and delivered to Tod & Co.,.and afterwards exchanged
for the engraved bonas.

All the bonds of the company were tlaus pledged to secure
the $1,000,000 loan with the full knowledge and participation

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

of Garretson, and of Smith, secretary and treasurer of the
Union Loan & Trust Company.
Some of the notes issued under this loan were sold to various
parties and some retained by Tod & Co.
It having been intimated that payment of the one million
dollar loan would be required, Garretson applied to Tod &
Co. for the negotiation of a loan of $1,500,000. It was contemplated that the notes of the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railway Company for that amount should be given, to be
secured by the bonds of that company and the stock of the
Sioux City & Northern Company, then in pledge with Tod
& Co. But Tod & Co. were.advised by their counsel that the
railway c6mpany was not authorized under the law of Nebraska to contract so large an indebtedness in excess of its
outstanding bonds, and thereupon it was suggested that
Garretson should sell the securities to the Pacific Short Line
Bridge Company and receive back the notes of that company
for $1,500,000, to be secured by-a pledge of said securities, and
that Tod & Co. should negotiate a sale of these notes on the
strength of the securities thus pledged.
The Pacific Short Line Bridge Company was a corporation of
Iowa, organized for the purpose of constructing a bridge across
the Missouri River at Sioux City, as a part of the Nebraska
and Western enterprise. Its -stock was divided into 20,000
shares of $100 each, which were issued November 13, 1891, in
four certificates of 5000 shares each, in the name of "A. S.
Garretson, trustee," and these certificates were delivered by
Garretson, November 19, 1891, to Tod & Co., who, on December 14, delivered them to the Manhattan Trust Company
as trustee under the mortgage of the Sioux City, O'Neill &
Western Railway Company, pursuant to the million dollar
loan agreement of October 1, 1891. The Bridge Company
had executed a mortgage to secure $1,500,000.of bonds, biht of
these only $500,000 had been certified by the trustee, and it
did n6t affirmatively appear that any had been negotiated.
Garretson testified that the purpose of the $1,500,000 loan was
to take up the million dollar loan and to get "additional funds
with which to carry on the construction of the bridge to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

point where we could get money from the bonds of the bridge
to complete it."

December 26, 1892, the Pacific Short Line Bridge Company,
at a meeting of its board of directors, passed *aseries of resolutions by which it agreed to purchase the bonds of the Sioux
City, O'Neill & Western Railway Company, and 10,200
shares of the capital stock of the Sioux City & Northern
Company, and to give therefor its promissory notes in the
sum of $1,500,000 to the order of Garretson, dated December
30, 1892, aid to pledge said bonds and stock to Garretson as
security. Accordingly on December 31, 1892, a contract was
entered into between Garretson, Hedges, Hornick and Haakinson (the remaining member of the syndicate, Booge, having
failed and dropped out), and the Pacific Short Line Bridge
Company, by which the Bridge Company purchased the securities and agreed to give its notes therefor, payable to
Garretson's order, February 1, March 1 and April 1, 1894,
bearing date December 30, 1892, to be forwarded to Tod &
Co. to be delivered to Garretson or his order, or held by Tod
& Co. as trustees to secure the payment of said notes. The
notes were to provide, and when issued did provide, that on
thirty days' default, in payment of interest, the principal was
to become due and payable at the option of Tod & Co., on
behalf of the holders, to be exercised -on the written request
of a majority.
Tod & Co. negotiated a sale of the notes through the Union
Debenture Company, a corporatioR,-of the State of New Jersey, which was evidenced by a contract under date of December 30, 1892, between Garretson and that company, which
recited that the notes were to be secured by the 2340 Sioux
City, O'Neill & Western bonds and 14,200 shares of the Sioux
City & Northern stock, by an indenture of trust with Tod
& Co. December 31, Garretson entered into this indenture
of trust whereby he pledged the said bonds and stock to
Tod & Co. as trustees for the equal and pro rata benefit and
security of all the holders of the notes, it being provided that
if.default should be made in the payment of the principal or
interest of any of,the notes, the trustee, on request, might de-

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

-clare the prinQipal and interest due and sell the bonds and
stock at public auction, and that the holders might appoint a
purchasing trustee, in whom,if be bought at the sale, the right
and title to the bonds and stock in trust for all the note holders in proportion to the amounts due them respectively.
The note holders were given certain options, and Garretson
agreed to pay the Debenture Company three and a half per
cent commission.
As already set forth, Tod & Co. then held the 2340 bond$
and 7200 shares of Sioux City & Northern stock. Of the
remaining 7000 shares of this stock to be pledged under the
agreement, 6190 shares were delivered to Tod & Co. by Garretson in December, 1892, in New York, and certificates for
1000 shares were sent to Tod & Co. by Smith, secretary,
January 16, 1893. All these shares were transfdrred by members of the syndicate. In March, 1893, Tod & Co., as authorized by the indenture of trust, at the request of Garretson,
released and delivered to the treasurer of the Great Northern
Railroad Company 3600 shares, which Garretson had sold to
that company for $350,000 in cash, all of which was received
by Garretson. W. S. Tod testified that his firm supposed the
proceeds of this sale were to be applied towards the construction of the bridge, and the evidence tended to show that the
money was paid over to the Union Loan & Trust Company
to be applied in payment of notes of the syndicate.
The notes for the $1,500,000 were executed and endorsed by
Garretson and the transaction closed January 30, 1893, and
on that date the Union. Debenture Company turned over to
Tod & Co. $1,507,500, being principal with accrued interest,
and thereupon Tod & Co. paid off the million dollar loan
with accrued interest, $1,004,833.33. They thus released the
$2,340,000 Sioux City, O'Neill & Western bonds, the 18,000
shares of Sioux City & Western Stock, and 7200 shares of
Sioux City & Northern stock, and delivered to themselves
as trustees under the indenture of trust the bonds, 10,200 shares
of Sioux City & Northern stock and also 4000 of the latter
stock; and certified and delivered the bridge notes to the
Debenture Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

These notes contained the provision that they might be
declared due on default in payment of interest or principal,
and that they were secured by the indenture of trust of
December 31, 1892, and the deposit of the bonds and stock as
collateral.
The Union Debenture Company was a corporation of New
Iersey, with a capital stock of $300,000 and over $800,000 of
assets, and had issued and had outstanding $500,000 of twenty
year debenture bonds, which had been sold mainly in England,
Scotland and Holland. Tod & Co. owned one third of the
capital stock, and the business of the company was*transacted
through Tod & Co. as brokers. The notes in question, except
about $40,000 retained by the Nbenture Company, were sold
by them as brokers to various persons, including $590,000 to
parties abroad, and $500,000 to the Great Northern Railway
Company, butTod & Co. took-no part of the loan.
The commission. of .three and one half per cent, $52,500, was
paid to the Debenture Company by Tod & Co.
The remainder of the proceeds of the $1,500,000 loan, after
the discharge of the million dollar loan, the payment of the
commissions, and of a temporary loan of $30,000 to Garretson,
was paid over on Garretson's drafts, to the Union Loan &
Trust Company, to be applied to the payment of bridge estimates and to the credit of Hornick, trustee. About $200,009
was applied on bridge account.
All the members of the syndicate were parties to the agreement by which the bonds and stock in controversy were sold
to the Bridge Company and knew of the use Garretson proposed to make of the notes and securities. They did not repudiate the transaction, and never made any complaint or gave
any notice to Tod & Co. that Garretson was wrongfully pledging the collateral. Tod & Co. rendered full accounts of the
two loans to Oarretson, which were sent by him to Smith as
they were received.
Garretson was a-prominent man in banking, financial and
railroad circles when he began his dealings with Tod & Co.,
and continued to be so until 1893 He had been, or was, an
officer of many business corporations or companies; and one

HUBBARD v.. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

of the chief promoters anl builders of the Sioux City &
Northern Railway, and organizers of the Union Loan &
Trust Company. He was highly recommended to Tod & Co.
by the president of the Great Northern Railway Company, of
which J. Kennedy Tod was a director. Mr. Tod stated that
they believed during the n egotiations between their firm and
Garretson that he was a man of large wealth.
The Tods testified that they knew nothing of the dealings
between the Manhattan Trust Company and the Improvement
Company, or of the loan transactions of the Improvement
Company, and had no connection therewith; that they had no
knowledge or notice of any claims of the Union Loan &
Trust Company to these securities at or before the time they
were pledged to secure either the loan for $1,000,000, or the
loan for $1,500,000, and the first information they had of any
such claim was after default had been made in the payment
of interest on the latter loan.
The interest on the notes was payable July 1, 1893, and
January 1, 1894, and the interest due July 1i 1893, not having
been paid, and the default having continued for thirty days,
Tod & Co. on a request of a majority of the note holders declared the principal due, and advertised the securities for sale
on September 19, in accordance with the indenture of trust,
due notice being given, which sale was adjourned to September 26, at the instance of the creditors of the Union Loan &
Trust Company, when the sale 'took place, and Tod & Co.
bought the securitids as purchasing trustees, thereto duly
appointed, and held the same for the benefit of the holders of
the notes. Certificates Were issued by Tod & Co. as such purchasing trustees that they so held the securities and that each
of the note holders was entitled to a three hundredth part
interest for every $5000 note deposited.
After the interest had defaulted Tod & Co. were interviewed
on behalf of some of the creditors of the Union Loan &
Trust Companyf and an offer to pay the defaulted interest was
made on condition that such creditors should be put in control
of the board of directors of the Sioux City & Northern Railroad Company, but with this condition Tod & Co. were with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

out authority to comply, and the creditors' committee declined
to pay. No money was tendered.
According to the evidence of the Tods it was then, for the
first time, that Tod & Co. received afiy intimation that their
right to hold the securities was questioned by the Union Loan
& Trust Company or its creditors.
The Circuit Court entered a final decree authorizing the redemption of the securities by the intervenor on payment to
Tod & Co., as'trustees, of the sum of $1,500,000, with interest
thereon from December 30, 1892, computed with semiannual
-rests, to the date of payment.
The opinion is reported 65 Fed. Rep. 559, and it appears
'therefrom that District Judge Shiras, by whom the cause was
heard, held that the transactions prior to the million and a
half loan could not be passed on, but that the inquiry at issue
was to be determined by considering the contracts under
which Tod & Co. obtained possession of and claimed title to
the 10,600 shares of Sioux City & Northern stock, and the
$2,3:0,000 of Sioux City, O'Neill & Western bonds held by
them.
After a brief review of the formation of the syndicate and
its dealings with the Union Loan & Trust Company, the
conclusion was drawn " that the Trust Company as against the
members of the syndicate is entitled to the benefit of the securities which were placed in its possession, and upon the faith
of which it may be assumed it endorsed the syndicate paper,"
but that it was fairly deducible from the evidence that "the
Trust Company parted with the possession of the securities,
knowing that it was intended to re-hypothecate them," and
that " it is not now open to the Trust Company to repudiate
the acts of its secretary and treagurer in regard to these
securities, by whose action in placing the same in the possession and under the control of Garretson the latter was enabled
to repledge the same as security for further advances." That
"the fair inference from the entire evidence is that the Trust
Company consented to the repledging of these securities, in
order that further funds might be procured for carrying on
the work in question, but by so doing it did not abandon its

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Statement of the Case.

lien,upon or equity in the securities, but only subordinated its
rights to those created by the repledging of the securities.".
That the sale of the securities by Tod & Co. under the provisions of the trust agreement of December 31, 1.892, did not
divest the Trust Company, or its assignee, of the junior lien
on the securities, and that its right to redeem remained
because the $1,500,000 of notes were not purchased in the
ordinary course of business, nor in fact issued by the Bridge
Company in connection with its business, but made at the dictation of the syndicate on the suggestion of Tad & Co., and
operated as a fraud on the Bridge Company; that the use of
i#s name was in reality a matter of form merely, and was so
understood; and that the transaction must be considered as a
loan to the syndicate, secured by a pledge of 'the collateral,
which'lien was superior to that existing in favor of the Trust
Company.
The suggestion as to usury was dismissed on the ground
that in any view equity required the payment of the sums
advanced with interest, and no offer to do this was made by
the intervenor.
From the decree the intervenor prosecuted an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, assigning as
error, in substance, that the Circuit Court erred in not finding
that intervenor had a prior lien; that the securities were
wrongfully taken from the Union Loan & Trust Company,
and that defendants were not bona fide holders and took with
notice; that the loans were usurious and void, and defendants, therefore, unable to hold the securities as against the
intervenor.
Defendants also appealed from the decree, assigning as error
the failure of the court to sustain objections to certain evidence; the allowance in the final decree -of leave to intervenor to file his second amended petition; and the award of
redemption:
The cause was heard in the Court of Appeals by two Circuit
Judges, and the decree affirmed by an equal division; but on
a petition for rehearing by the intervenor an opinion was
filed from which it appeared that both judges were agreed

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opfnion of the Court.

that appellee's lien on the securities was paramount to any
claim of intervenor, but that they were divided on the question whether or not the right of redemption was cut off by
the auction sale under the loan agreement.
The intervenor then applied to this court for a writ of
certiorari, which was granted.
MAr. Henry J. Taylor and Mr. John C. Coombs for Hubbard,
Assignee. Mr. William -Faxon,Jr., was on the brief.
21r. John I. Webster and Mr. George W. Wickersham for
Tod and others. Mr. FrancisB. .Daniels was on the brief.
MR.CHIEF JUsTIcE F ULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the Court.
It is provided by the judiciary act of March 3, .1891, c. 517,

§ 6, 26 Stat. 826, 828, that any case in which the judgments or
deQrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are thereby made
final, may be required, by certiorari or otherwise, to be certi-fled to this court "for its review and determination, with the
same power and authority in the case as if it had been carried
by appeal or writ of e~ror to the Supreme Court."
This case belongs to the class of cases in which the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is made final by the statute,
and having been brought up by certiorari on the application
of petitioner below, is pending before us as if on his appeal.
And as respondents did not apply for certiorari, we shall
confine our consideration'of the case to the examination of
errors assigned by petitioner. '
These- errors as assigned in the brief of counsel are, in short,
that the Ciicuit Court erred, (1) in not establishing the priority
of petitioner's lien or right in and to the securities; (2) in subordinating that lien or right, and decreeing foreclosure unless
payment was made as prescribed; (3) in not entering a decree
giving priority to petitioner because respondents set up absolute title by purchase, which was not sustained by the court;
(4) in not restraining respondents by injunction and not ordering the surrender of the securities to petitioner.

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Opinion of the Court.

The supposed errors in decreeing foreclosure, and that respondents were entitled to hold as pledgees notwithstanding
their title by purchase was so far defective as to let in
redemption, may readily be disposed of.
This was not a proceeding by Tod & Co. to obtain foreclosure. It was petitioher who sought the aid of the court, and
this by an application which was, in effect, a bill to reclaim
the securities absolutely and free from incumbrance. The
Circuit Court treated the pleading as if framed in the alternative, and allowed redemption on conditions stated, the right
thus accorded being necessarily declared to be extinguished if
the conditions were not complied with as prescribed. And
no error is assigned to the particular terms imposed.
Nor is there any tenable basis for the proposition that respondents' failure to sustain their purchase at the sale as a
defence affected their rights as pledgees. Respondents stood
on all their rights and were not put to an election. If the
purchase was valid, the equity of redemption was wipe. out.
If invalid, the original lien remained. If superior, its superiority was not displaced by the claim of absolute title derived
through the pledge as set forth in the pleadings.
Assuming that, as between the Union Loan & Trust Company and the syndicate, the company or its assignee had
a lien on the securities in question, did the Circuit Court err
in holding that the rights of respondents in respect thereof
were paramount to those asserted by the intervening petitioner?
If not, then although the Circuit Court may have erred in
holding that the sale of the securities did not absolutely cutoff the claim of the company or its assignee, that would be an
error of which petitioner could not, of course,. complain.
Petitioner contends that his alleged lien or right was entitled to priority, because the securities "were wrongfully
and fraudulently abstracted and diverted from said Trust
Company in subsequent re-hypotbecation with respondents;"
and respondents did not hold them as received in good
faith, in due course of business, for value and without notice,
but acquired possession through transactions known to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

fictitious, usurious, ulra 'vires,fraudulent and void, and with,
notice.
The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals agreed
that respondents' right to the securities was superior to that
asserted by petitioner, and-we entirely concur in that conclusion.

So far from the securities being wrongfully abstracted
from the Trust Company, we think that, whatever the agreement between the Trust Company and the syndicate, the
Trust Company must be held to have parted with such of the
securities as were ever in its custody, with full knowledge that
they were to be hypothecated by Garretson; that indeed the
evidence fairly shows that those which at any time came into
the possession .of the Trust Company were either deposited
there by Garretson or by his order and direction, with the understanding on his part that he was authorized to withdraw
them for the purpose of sale, pledge or otherwise, and that he
always acted on that theory, with the consent and participation of Smith, as-secretary and treasurer; and that in any
view Smith's acts in the company's behalf must be held to
have been performed with the actual or- implied authority of
the-directors.
.Smith, as secretary and treasurer, was the person who was
actively engaged in the management of the affairs of the
Union Loan & Trust Company; and held- out to the public
as. having-unlimited authority to manage its business and dispose of any of its securities. He endorsed in the company's.
name every note it put out, signed every letter that it wrote,
and was, as reppected the public, the Trust Company itself.
Throughout all the transactions his conduct conceded that
Garretson was the lawful holder of the stock and bonds tendered by him as collateral to the loans he negotiated. As
such officer, he directly transmitted the securities of the Sioux
City & Northern Railroad Company to New York, and likewise the $1,433,000 of Nebraska & Western bonds to Garretson at Omaha, to be delivered to the agent of Tod & Co.,
under the contract for the million dollar loan, and to- be
turned into court in carrying out the reorganization scheme

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with which the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western bonds were to be issued.
It appears to us indisputable on the face of this record that
Garretson was entrusted, according to the understanding of
all parties, with the right to sell the Sioux City & Northern
bonds; that the Union Loan & Trust Company received the
proceeds of a million dollars of those bonds, thus ratifying the
transaction; and that the proceeds of the balance were applied
with Smith's knowledge, without objection on his part, or that
of any other officer or director of the Trust Company, to taking up notes secured thereby, which had been given by Garretson to acquire the Nebraska & Western bonds, which he
afterwards pledged to Tod & Co., and which were exchanged
for the bonds of the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railroad
in controversy.
None of the securities ever st6od in the name of the Union
Loan & Trust Company. And they were delivered in such
form as to enable Garretson to hold himself out as the owner
or lawful holder thereof, with full power of disposition.
The District Judge well said: "It is entirely clear that E. R.
Smith, the secretary and treasurer of the company, dealt with
these securities as though he had full authority from the company so to do, and he obeyed Garretson's instructions in regard
to the same without demur; and it does not appear that the
Trust Company, or any officer thereof, evef objected to such
disposition of the securities ;and, furthermore, so far as the
evidence in this case discloses, the general management of the
business of the Trust Company was entrusted to Smith, with
very little, if any, supervision on the part of the directors or
other officers of the corporation." 65 Fed. Rep. 564.
The truth of the matter seems to be, as the Circuit Court
held, that, in order that the various properties represented by
the stock and bonds should become valuable, it was necessary
that the enterprises on which they were based should be carried through, and this required additional funds, to procure
which the Trust Company consented to Garretson's negotiations with Tod & Co. and the Debenture Company, and the
pledging of the securities.
VOL. CLXX-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The presumption on the facts is that the securities were
delivered by the company to Garretson for use, and, if they
had ever been pledged to the company, that the pledge was
discharged by the voluntary parting with -possession. There
is nothing to show an intention to limit the use to a hypothecation in subordination to a prior pledge let alone, the question whether any such pledge existed, and the absence of
evidence of any assertion thereof.
Certainly, under the circumstances, the company could not
be allowed to set up its alleged title as against third parties taking in good faith and without notice. And the same principle
is applicable to its assignee and.to creditors seeking to enforce
rights in his name. So far as this case is concerned there is
nothing to the contrary in the statute of Iowa regulating
assignments .for the bengfit of creditors as expounded by the
Supreme Court of the State. Code Iowa, Tit. 14, c. 7;
Schaller -v.Wright, -70 Iowa, 667;
ehlhhop v. Ellsworth,
95 Iowa, 657.
Section 2127 of the Code provides: "Any assignee, as aforesaid, shall have as full power and authority to dispose of all
estate, real and personal, assigned, as the debtor had at the
time-of the assignment, and to sue for and recover, in the
name of such assignee, everything belonging or appertaining
to said estate, and, generally, do whatsoever the debtor might
have done in the premises."
Conveyances by insolvent debtors in fraud of their creditors.
may be attacked by their statutory assignees, though equity
would not aid the debtors themselves to recover the property,
for the property transferred would, in the eye of the law, remain the debtors' and pass to the assignees, who would not be
subject to the rule that those who commit iniquity have no
standing in equity to reap the fruits thereof. But equities
or rights belonging to particular creditors are not,*by operation of law, transferred to such assignees.
The Trust Company-did not own these securities, and did
not transfer. them in fraud of its creditors, prior to the assignment, so 'as to 'entitle 'the assignee to treat. the transfers as
void and the securities as belonging to the company-.

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Opinion of the Court.

And it must be remembered that this proceeding is an attempt on behalf of the holders of railroad syndicate paper,
which constituted only a portion of the liabilities of the Trust
Company, to establish equities in the securities on the-ground
that they were pledged to the company to secure it against
liability on its indorsements of such. paper, and that these
equities, if any, must be worked out through the company.
The difficulty with the contention that the Trust Company
was bound to hold the securities for the benefit of the holders
of syndicate paper; that they were not duly parted with; and
that Tod & Co. took with notice of the alleged interest of the
Trust Company, and the equities of those holders, is that it
does not appear that any of the syndicate paper was taken on
the strength of these particular securities; or that Smith acted
otherwise than with the knowledge and assent of the directors; or that Tod & Co. had notice of any claim of the
Trust Company or its endorsees, or of any defect in Garretson's right to dispose of the securities.
The securities were railroad bonds, payable to bearer, and
certificates of stock in the names of Garretson and his associates, with transfers endorsed by them in blank; and they were,
in large part, sent to Tod & Co. by the Trust Company, at
Garretson's request, with presumably full knowledge that they
were to be used as collateral to loans lie was procuring, without anything to indicate that the Trust Company had any
interest in them, or any intimation of such interest. The securities did not stand in the name of the Trust Company, and
Garretson did not, in any of his dealings with Tod & Co.,
assume to act for the*company. The mere fact that he was
one of its officers was not in itself sufficient to call for an inference that he was acting as such in these transactions, nor
did he make his requests of Smith in that capacity, nor were
they complied with by Smith as on that theory.
There was no actual notice, and as the visible state of things
was consistent with Garretson's right to deal with the securities as he did, such notice cannot be presumed or implied.
Nor do we regard the conduct of Tod & Co. as so negligent as
to justify the application of the doctrine of constructive notice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The circumstances relied on as imputing notice or requiring
inquiry which 'would have resulted in notice are in our judgment inadequate to sustain that conclusion.
Thus it'is said that because the Nebraska & Western
bonds were overdue, and the mortgage in process of -foreclosure, they were not negotiable and were taken subject to the
alleged lien of the Trust Qompany. But they were assignable
choses in action susceptible of being pledged, and were pledged
to Tod & Co. until through the foreclosure and reorganization
the new securities were substituted. As we have seen, the
power of disposition had'been lodged in Garretson by, or with
the assent of, the'Trust Company, and no secret equity could
be set up by the latter.
So as to the.fact that some of the shares of Sioux City &
Northern stock delivered to Tod & Co. under the agreement
of December 31, 1892, stood in the name of "A. S. Garretson,
Trustee," the evidence disclosed that this stock belonged' to
Booge, one of the original members of the syndicate, and that
he, having failed, had consented it should be put out of his
name and held in trust, and that at this time there were no
notes furnished by Booge to the syndicate outstanding. The
Trust Company had no greater interest in this stock than in
any other, and the word "trustee" was not 'intended to give
and did not give notice of any rights claimed by the Trust
Company.
Again elaborate argument is devoted to the point that
Garretson was induced to assume the Nebraska & Western
enterprise by false representations by the Manhattan Trust
Company as to the condition of the Improvement Company;
and that this led him to pledge the securities which he should
have left with the Union Loan & Trust Company.
While we must not' be understood as intimating in any degree that this charge of misrepresentation was made out, or,
ifit were, that Tod & Co. were cognizant thereof, it is enough
that we are not satisfied that the transactions complained of
involved notice &f the claim of the Trust Company now set
up.
But we do not feel called on to do more than allude to these

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Opinion of the Court.

matters. Tod & Co. held the securities under~the $1,600,000
loan in trust for the purchasers of the notes thereunder issued,
and neither the Debenture Company, through which the transaction was made, and which holds a few of the notes, nor
any other of the beneficiaries, was before the court: Nor was
.Garretson, nor any member of the syndicate, nor any holder
of part of the million dollar loan, other than Tod & Co., a
party to the record.
The Circuit Court correctly held that the prior transactions
could not be overhauled under such circumstanbes; and applied the same principle to the last loan as well.
By the final decree petitioner was permitted to file a second
amended petition, on which no issue could be, or was, joined,
or additional testimony taken, and it was then set up, for the
first time, that the loans were void because in contravention
of the statutes of New York in relation to usury, and that
petitioner was, therefore, entitled to reclaim the securities
without compensation. The prohibition against usury of the
New York laws (N. Y. Rev. Stat. Banks Bros., 7th ed. p. 2253)
could not be interposed by corporations as a. defence (Id. p.
2256; Laws, 1850, c. 172), nor could the endorsers of their
paper plead the statute, Union .i'ational Bank v. W-heeler,
60 N. Y., 612; 96 U. S. 268; Stewart v. Branhall,74 N. Y.
85; Junction Railroad v. Ashland Baak, 12 Wall. 226;
nor did it apply to demand loans of $5000 or upwards, secured
by collateral. Laws, 1882, c. 237, § 1; Laws, 1892, c. 689, § 56.
Apart from these considerations, the Circuit Court disposed
of this contention on the ground that petitioner, in order to any
relief in equity, would be compelled to pay the sums advanced
and interest, but had not tendered or made any offer of payment. This assumed that the point might have been passed
on, if there had been such tender or offer, notwithstanding the
Trust Company was not a party to the contract of loan, and
neither the Bridge Company, nor Garretson, nor any member
of the syndicate, nor the Debenture Company, nor any other
loan holder, was a party to the record. We think the court
was right if the questiou was properly before it. This was
not a proceeding to enforce an alleged usurious agreement, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

-

it was petitioner who sought the affirmative aid of equity,
which he could only obtain by doing equity.* It is true that
by a statute of New York (N. Y. Rev. Stat. '7th ed. 2255;
Acts, 1837, c. 430, §4), it is provided that whenever a borrower
files a bill for relief in respect of violation of the usury law,
he need not pay or offer to pay "any interest or principal on
the sum or thing loaned;" but this act has been rigidly confined to the borrower himself (Wheelocl v. Lee, 64: N. Y. 2-42;
Buckeingkam v. Corning, 91 N. Y. 525; Allerton v. Belden,
49 N. Y. 373), and moreover, is not applicable to suits
brought in courts not within the State of New York
It is further urged that the transaction with the Bridge
Company was ultra vires, and that, this being so, the securities should have been awarded petitioner free and clear
from any condition whatsoever.
The Circuit Court held that the Bridge Company did exceed its powers, and that the matter must be treated as
if that company had not been interposed as an actor in the
transaction. Relief to the extent of redemption was on that
account accorded, yet it was limited to that because there was
nothing in the invalidity of the action of the Bridge Company
which gave the Trust Company any greater right to the
securities than it had before. The Bridge Company was not
a party to the proceeding, and, indeed, if it had itself instituted suit for the cancellation of its notes, it could not have.
demanded possession of the securities. Clearly the Trust
Company could not avail itself, in favor of its own alleged
claim, of such a n infirmity, if it existed, nor could the holders
of the notes, which had passed into their hands as strangers,
be deprived of the securities on the faith of which they had advanced their money; or have their rights adjudicated in their
absence.
However, whatever the contention in the courts below may
have been, the errors assigned here merely put forward the
theory that the alleged usurious character of the contract by
reason of the options granted and commissions paid, and its
invalidity for lack of power in the Bridge Company, so took
the transaction out of the ordinary course of business as to

HUBBARD v. TOD.
Opinion of the Court.

charge Tad & Co. and the loan holders with bad faith and
notice of the alleged claims of the Trust Company.
But we cannot perceive that the fact of usury between the
parties to the contract, if usury there were, or acti6n in excess
of power, if that existed, either or Jboth, can be laid hold of
to justify the imputation of notice that Garretson was dealing
with the securities in derogation of rights of the Trust Company. Doubtless there are cases where commercial paper or
securities may be offered for negotiation under circumstances
so out of the usual course of business as to throw such grave
suspicion on the source of title that lack of inquiry, a~suming
that it wouli disclose defects, might amount to culpable negligence. But that doctrine has no application here.
Respondents had possession of all the Sioux City, O'Neill
& Western bonds, and 7200 shares of Sioux City & Northern stock, in pledge to secure payment of $1,000,000 of Garretson's notes payable on demand, which amount had been
borrowed for the purposes of, and was used in acquiring the
Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railroad for, the syndicate.
The syndicate was engaged in constructing a bridge across
the Missouri River to connect the railroad in Nebraska with
that in Iowa. The stock of the Bridge Company was all
owned by the syndicate, and had been pledged with the bonds
of the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railway,
Garretson applied for a new loan of $1,500,000, with which
to take up the million dollar loan and get additional funds for
the construction of the bridge.
As the railroads whose bonds and stock constituted the
security were new and the securities were then without market value, the negotiation of the loan was made more attractive to the Debenture Company by the allowance of the
commission and certain options. And since there seems to
have been a question as to whether the agreements might not
be obnoxious to the New York usury statutes and as notes of
a corporation were supposed to be more readily salable than
those of an individual, it was thought best to make the loan
directly to one of the corporations owned by Garretson and
his associates. The original suggestion was that the loan

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

should be made to the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western Railway Company, but objections being raised to this in view of
certain provisions 6f the statutes of Nebraska, it was arranged
between Tod & Co. and Garretson and his associates that the
Bridge Company, which was equally owned by the syndicate,
and to the purposes of. which $500,000 of the loan were ostensibly to be devoted, should become the borrower. The sale of
the securities, the issue of the notes secured thereby, and the
making of the loan followed.
Garretson executed the indenture of trust to Tod & Co., the
Debenture Company paid over $1,500,000 and interest tothem,
and they took up the million dollar loan, thereby releasing
the Sioux City, O'Neill & Western bonds and 7200 shares of
Sioux City & Northern stock; the balance of the latter
stock was sent to Tod & Co. by the Trust Company; Tod &
Co., as trustees, certified on the notes that the collateral had
been deposited with them; and the notes were sold to various
purchasers, who apparently advanced their money in good
faith.
If the transactions, thus briefly stated, were unaffected by
notice of any want of authority in Garretson in respect of the
Trust Company as now alleged, it is not for that company to
say that Tod & Co., or the holders of the loan, should be
held chargeable with notice simply because the commissions
and options might have constituted usury as between the.
parties to the loan, or the Bridge Company, its stockholders,
or judgment creditors might have had cause of complaint of
defect of power.
In letting petitioner in to redeem the Circuit Court went at
least as far as the record would permit. Whether or not there
was error in- the decree of which respondents might have complained, we do not feel at liberty to decide.
Decree affliwwd.

