OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

further allude to the other reasons which have been advanced for i reconsideration of the decision in the TransMissouri case.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of the United Statesfor
the Southern District of lew York and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit are reversed, and
the case remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to
take such further proceedings therein as may be in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTioE

GRAY,

MRi.

JusT'i.c

SHIRAS

and MR. JusTioE

WHITE dissented.
MR. JusTICE MoKEN A took no part in the decision of the

case.

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORAR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 210. Argued February 28, March 1, 1898. -Decided October 24,1 698.
The Kansas City Live Stock Exchange was an unincorporated volunteer
association of men, doiiig 'business at its stock yardA, situated partly in
Kansas City, Missouri, and partly across the line separating Kansas City,
Missouri, from Kansas City, Kansas, The business of its members was to
receive individually consignments of cattle, hogs, and other live stock
from owners of the same, not only in-the States of Missouri and Kansas,
but also in other States and Territories, and to feed such stock, and to
prepare it for the market, to dispose of the same, to receive the proceeds
thereof from the purchasers, and to pay the owners their proportion of
such proceeds, after deducting charges, expenses and advances. The
members were individually in the habit of soliciting consignments from
the owners of such stock, and of making them advances thereon. The
rules of the association forbade members from buying live stock from a
commission merchant in Kansas City, not a member of the exchange.
They also fixed-the commission for selling such live stock, prohibited the
employment of agents to solicit consignments except upon a stipulated
salary, and forbade the sending of prepaid telegrams or telephone messages, with information as to the condition of the markets. ,It- was also
provided that no member should transact business with any person vio-

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
lating the rules and regulations, or with an expelled or suspended member after notice of such violation. Held, that the situation of the yards,
partly in Kansas and partly in Missouri, was a fact without any weight;
that such business or occupation of the several members of the association was not interstate commerce, within the meaning of the act of July
2, 1890, c. 647, "to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies;" and that that act does not cover, and was not
intended to cover, such kind of agreements.
THIS

suit was commenced by'the United States attorney for

the District of Kansas, acting under the direction and by the
authority of the Attorney General of the United States,
.against Henry Hopkins and the other defendants, residents
of the State of Kansas and members of a voluntary unincorporated association, known and designated as the Kansas
City Live Stock Exchange. The purpose of the action is to
obtain the dissolution of the exchange, and to perpetually
enjoin the members from entering into or from continuing in
any combination of a like character.
As a foundation for the relief sought it was alleged in the
bill thas the members of this association, known as the Xansas
City Live Stock Exchange, have adopted articles of association,
rules and by-laws which they have agreed to be bound by;
that the business of the exchange is carried on and conducted
by a board of directors at the Kansas City stock yards, which
are situated partly in Kansas City in the State of Missouri and
partly in Kansas City in the State of Kansas, the building
owned by the stock yards company being located one half of
it in the State of Missouri and the other half in the State of
Kansas, and half of the defendants have offices and transact
business in these stock yards aiid in that part of the building
which is within the State of Kansas, and the other half in that
part of the building which is in the State of Missouri; that the
Kansas City Stock Yards Company is a corporation owning the
stock yards, where the business is done by the members of
the exchange; that substantially all the business transacted
in the matter of receiving, buying, selling and handling their
live stock at Kansas City is carried on by the defendants herein
and by the other members of the exchange as. commission
merchants, and that large numbers of the live stock, consisting

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of cattle and hogs and sheep bought and sold and handled at
the stock yards by the defendants and their fellow members
in the exchange, are shipped from the States of Nebraska,
Colorado, Texas, Missouri, Iowa, and Kansas, and the Territories of Oklahoma, Arizona and New Mexico; that when this
stock is received at the stock yards it is sold by the defendants,
members of the exchange, to the various packing houses situated at Kansas City, Missouri, and Kansas City, Kansas, and
it is also sold for shipment to the various other markets, particularly Chicago, St. Louis and New York; that vast numbers
of cattle, hogs and other live stock are received annually at
the stock yards and handled by the members of the exchange.
The bill also alleges that large numbers of the live stock sold
at the stock yards by the defendants are incumbered by mortgages thereon, executed by their owners in the various States
and Territories, which mortgages have been given to various
defendants as security for money advanced by them to the
different owners to enable them to feed and prepare the cattle
for market, and that when the live stock so mortgaged are
ready for shipment, they are sent to the defendants who have
advanced the money and received the mortgages, and on the
sale of the stock the amount of these advances and interest is
deducted from the proceeds of the sale of the cattle by the
commission merchants owning the mortgages; that ninety per
cent Qf the members of the exchange make such advances, and
that the market is largely sustained by means of the money
thus advanced to the cattle raisers by the defendants, and that
Kansas City is the only place for many miles about, which
constitutes an available market for the purchase and sale of
live stock from the large territory located in the States and
Territories already named; that it is the custom of the owners
of the cattle, many of them living in different states, and who
consign their stock to the Kansas City stock yards for sale
to draw drafts on the commission merchants to whom the live
stock is consigned, which the consignors attach to the bill of
lading issued by the carrier, and the money on these drafts is
advanced by the local banks throughout the western States

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

and Territories. These drafts are paid by the consignees and
the proceeds remitted to the various owners through the
banks.
The business thus conducted is alleged to be interstate commerce, and it is further alleged that- if the person to whom
the live stock is consigned at Kansas City is not a member of
the exchange, he is not permitted to and cannot sell or dispose of the stock at the Kansas City market, for the reason
that the defendants, and all the other commission merchants,
members of the exchange, refuse to buy live stock or in any
manner negotiate or deal with or buy from a person or commission merchant who is not a member of the exchange, and
thus the owner of live stock shipped to the Kansas City market is compelled to re-ship the same to other markets, and by.
reason of the unlawful combination existing among the defendants and the other members of the exchange the owner is
prevented from delivering this stock at the Kansas City stock
yards, and the sale of stock is thereby hindered and delayed,
entailing extra expense and loss to the shipper, and placing an
obstruction and embargo on the marketing of all live stock
shipped from the States and Territories to the Kansas City
market which is not consigned to the stock yards company or
to the defendants, or some of them, members of the stock exchange.
It is alleged that the defendants, as members of the exchange, have adopted certain rules, among them being rules
9 and 16, which are particularly alleged to be in restraint
of trade and commerce between the States, and intended to
create a monopoly, in contravention of the laws of the United
States in that behalf.
Rule 9 provides as follows:
"SEcrioN 1. Cbmmissions charged by members of this association for selling live stock shall not be less than the following named rates."
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 relate to the amounts of such
commissions, and it is alleged that in some instances the commissions are greater than had theretofore been paid.
Section 8 permits the members to handle the business of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

non-resident commission firms when the stock is consigned
directly to or from such firm, at half the rates fixed by the
rule, provided the non-resident commission firms are established at the markets named in the section.
Section 10 prohibits the employment of any agent, solicitor
or employ6 except upon a stipulated salary not contingent upon
the commissions earned, and it provides that not more than
three solicitors shall be employed at one time by a commission firm or corporation, resident or non-resident of Kansas
City.
Section 11 forbids any member of the exchange from sending or causing to be sent a prepaid telegram or telephone
message quoting the markets or giving information as to the
condition of the same, under the penalty of a fine as therein
stated. The rule, however, permits prepaid messages to be
sent to shippers quoting actual sales of their stock on the date
made; also to parties desiring to make purchases on the
market.
Rule 16 provides, in section 1, "That no member of the exchange shall transact business with any persons violating any
of the rules or regulations of the exchange, or with an expelled
or suspended member after notice of such violation, suspension or expulsion shall have been issued by the secretary or
board of directors of the exchange."
It is alleged that the defendants in adopting these rules and
in forming the exchange and carrying out the same have
violated aid are violating the statute of the United States,
approved July 2, 1890, c. 64-7, 26 Stat. 209, entitled "An act
to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies," and it is charged that it was the purpose of the
defendants, in organizing the exchange and in adopting the
rules mentioned, to prevent the shipment or consignment of
any live stock to the Kansas City market unless it was shipped
or consigned to the Kansas City stock yards and to some one
or other of the defendants, members of the exchange, and to
compel the shippers of live stock from other States and from
the Territories to pay to the defendants the commissions and
charges provided for in rule 9, and to prevent such shippers

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

from placing their property on sale at the Kansas City market
unless these commissions were paid.
The answer of the defendants admitted their forming the
exchange and becoming members thereof, and adopting, among
others, the rules specially mentioned in complainants' bill.
They denied that the exchange itself engaged in any business
whatever, and alleged that it existed simply in order to prescribe rules and provide facilities for the transaction of business by the members thereof, and to govern them by such
rules and regulations as have been evolved and sanctioned by
the developments of commerce, and which are universally
recognized to be just and fair to all concerned.
It was further set up in the answer that each member of the
organization was in fact left free to compete in every manner,
and by all means recognized to be .fair and just, for his share
of the business which comes to the point at which the members of the organization do business; that in adopting their
rules they followed in all substantial respects the provisions
which had been made upon the same subject respectively by
the exchanges theretofore established at Chicago and East St.
Louis, Illinois, and which have been since established at St.
Louis, Omaha, Indianapolis, Buffalo, Sioux City and Fort
Worth; and that the exchange at no time refused to admit as a
member any reputable person who was willing to comply
with the conditions of membership and to abide by the rules
of the organization.
Various allegations in the bill as to the effect of the organization in precluding any sales or purchases of cattle other than
by its members are denied.
The defendants also deny that the exercise of their occupation as commission merchants, doing business as members of
the exchange, constitutes or amounts to interstate commerce,
within the meaning of the Constitution or laws of the United
States. They allege that they have no part in or control over
the disposition of the live stock sold by them to others, nor
of live stock purchased by them as commission merchants acting
for others. They allege that the stock yards company permits
any person whatsoever to transact business at its yards who

OCTOBER TERM£, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

will pay the established charges of that company for its services, and that in point of fact, a very large part of the business done at said yards is transacted by persons who are not
members of the exchange, and without the interposition of
such members. It is also alleged in their answer that they
are under no obligations to extend the privileges of the exchange to a person who is not a member thereof, who has
violated its rules and been suspended from'membership, and
who has voluntarily withdrawn therefrom, and announced his
purpose to carry on his business as a competitor of the members of such exchange, to the destruction of said organization
and its rules and to the injury of his competitors.
It is also set up that defendants cannot be compelled to deal
with a non-member of their organization, or a person violating its rules, or with one who has been suspended for such
violation, or who has withdraivn therefrom, or who has announced his intention to destroy said organization and to
compete with the members thereof, and the defendants allege
that they cannot be compelled to deal with any person whatsoever, and that they had'a right to establish, said exchange,
and now have the right to maintain the same, and to require
the observance of its rules and regulations on the part of their
associates, so long as they desire to retain the privileges of
membership in the body. They allege that their rules are in
harmony with the rules and regulations of commercial exchanges which have existed for more than a hundred years,
and which are now to be found in every State almost in the
United States, and throughout the world, and that such rule3
and regulations are in all respects legal and binding. They
deny all general and special allegations of illegal agreements,
combinations or conspiracies to violate any la'w of the United
States, or of the State of Kansas.
The complainants, in addition to their bill, used several
affidavits, the tendency of which was to show that by virtue
of the adoption of rules 9 and 16, the members of the exchange refused to deal with one who had violated a rule and
had been suspended by reason thereof, and that by reason of
this refusal to do business, the member thus suspended was

HOPKINS -v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of, the Case.

substantially incapacitated from carrying on his business as a
commission merchant, and that by this combination defendants, in forming such rule and in adhering to it, have greatly
injured the business of such member.
The defendants read counter-affidavits for the. purpose of
sustaining their answer, which were replied to by the coinplainants filing affidavits in rebuttal, and .upon these affidavis
and the pleadings above described an application for an injunction was made to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas, First Division. That court, after
argument, granted an injunction restraining the defendants
from combining by contract, express or implied, so as by their
acts, conduct or words to interfere with, hinder or impede
others in shipping, trading, selling or buying live stock that
is received from the States and Territories at the stock yards
in Kansas City, Missouri, and Kansas City, Kansas; also
-enjoining them from acting under the rules of the exchange
known as rules 9 and 16, and from attempting to impose any
fines or penalties upon members for trading or offering to
trade with any. person respecting the purchase and sale of
any live stock; and also from discriminating in favor of any
member of the exchange because of such membership, and
-especially from discriminating against any person trading at
the stock yards, and from refusing, by united or concerted
action, or by word, persuasion, threat or by other means, to
,deal or trade with persons with respect to such live stock who
.are not members of the association, because they are not
members of such association, or in any manner from interfering with the right and freedom of all and any persons trading
,or desiring to trade in such live stock at the stock yards, the
same as if the exchange did not exist. The defendants were
also enjoined from agreeing or attempting tolimit the right
of any person in business at the Kansas City stock yards to
employ labor or assistance in soliciting shipments of live stock
from other States or Territories, and from enforcing any agreement not to send prepaid telegrams from the stock yards to
any other State or Territory.
The District Judge delivered an opinion upon granting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction, which will be found reported in 82 Fed. Rep. 529.
From the order granting it an appeal was taken by the defendants to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, which court certified to this court certain questions under the provisions of section 6 of the act of March 3,
1891, and thereupon a writ of certiorari was issued from this
court, and the whole case brought here for decision.
Mr. I. C B rauthoffor Hopkins and others.
Mr. Johit S. Miller filed a brief for same.
.Mr. GustavusA. Koerner filed a brief for same.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore for the Uniteal Stktes" Mr. Solicitor
General was on his brief.
MR. JUSTInCE PECKHAM, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The relief sought in this case is based exclusively on the act
of Congress approved July 2, 1890, c. 647, entitled "An act
to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies," commonly spoken of as the Anti-Trust act. 26
Stat. 209.
The act has reference only to that trade or commerce which
exists, or may exist, among the several States or with foreign
nations, and has no application whatever to any other trade
or commerce.
The question meeting us at the threshold, therefore, in this
case is, what is the nature of the business of the defendants,
and ar6 the by-laws-, or any subdivision of them above referred
to, in their direct effect in restraint of' trade or commerce
among the several States or with foreign nations; or does the
case made by the bill and answer show that any one of the
above defendants has monopolized, or attempted to monopolize, or combined or conspired with othier persons to monopolize, any part of the trade or commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations?

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

That part of the bill which alleges that no one is permitted
to do business at the cattle market at Kansas City unless he
is a member of this exchange, does not mean that there is
any regulation at the stock yards by which one who is not a
member of the exchange is prevented from doing business,
although ready to pay the established charges of the stock
yards company for its services; but it simply means that by
reason of the members of the exchange refusing to do business
with those who are not members the non-member cannot
obtain the facilities of a market for his cattle such as the
members of the exchange enjoy. It is unnecessary at present
to discuss the question whether there is any illegality in a combination of business men who are members of an exchange
not to do business with those who are not members thereof,
even if the business done were in regard to interstate commerce. The first inquiry to be made is as to the character of
the business in which defendants are engaged, and if it be not
interstate commerce, the validity of this agreement not to
transact their business with non-members does not come before
us for decision.
We come, therefore, to the inquiry as to the nature of the
business or occupation that. the defendants are engaged in.
Is it interstate commerce in the sense of that word as it has
been used and understood in the decisions of this court? Or
is it a business which is an aid or facility to commerce, and
which, if it affect interstate commerce at all, does so only
in an indirect and incidental manner?
As set forth in the record, the main facts are that the
defendants have entered into a voluntary association for the
purpose of thereby the better conducting their business, and
that after they entered into such association they still continued their individual business in full competition with each
other, and that the association itself, as an association, does
no business whatever, but is simply a means by and through
which the individual members who have become thus associated are the better enabled to transact their business; to
maintain and uphold a proper way of doing it; and to create
the mean§ for preserving business integrity in the trafisaction

OCTOBER TERiVM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the business itself. The business of defendants is primarily
and substantially the buying and selling, in their character as
commission merchants, at the stock yards in Kansas City, live
stock which has been consigned to some of them for the purpose of sale, and the rendering of an account of the prc.eeds
arising therefrom. The sale or purchase of live stock as commission merchants at Kansas City is the business done, and
its character is not altered because 'the larger proportion of
the purchases and sales niay be of live stock sent into the
State from other States or from the Territories' Where the
stock came from or where it may uitimately go after a sale or
purchase, procured through the services of one of the defendants at the Kansas City stock yards, is not the substantial
factor in the case. The character of the business of defendants
must, in this case, be determined by the facts occurring at
that city.
If an owner of cattle in Nebraska accompanied them to
Kansas City and there personally employed one of these
defendants to sell the cattle at the stock yards for him on
commission, could it be properly said that such defefdant
in conducting the sale for his principal was engaged in interstate commerce? Or that an agreement between himself
and others not.to render such services for less than a certain
sum was a contract in.restiaint of interstate trade or commerce? We think not. On the contrary, we regard the
services as collateral to such commerce' and in the nature of
a local aid' or facility provided for the cattle owner towards
the a6complishment of his purpose to sell them; and an
agreement among those who render the services relating to
the terms upon which they will render them is not a contract
in restraint of interstate trade or comnierce.
Is the true character of the transaction altered when the
owner, instead- of coming from Nebraska with his cattle,
sends -them by a common carrier consigned to one of the
defendants at Kansas City with directions to sell the cattle
and render him an account of the proceeds? The services
rendered are the same in both instances, only in one case
they are rendered under a verbal contract made at Kansas

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

City personally, while in the other they are rendered under
written instructions from the owner given in another State.
This difference in the manner of making the contract for
the services cannot alter the nature of the services themselves.
If the person, under the circumstances stated, who makes a
sale of the cattle 'for the owner by virtue of a personal
employment at Kansas City, is not engaged in interstate
commerce when he makes such sale, we regard it as clear
that he is not so engaged, although he has been employed by
means of a written communication from the owner of the
cattle in another State.
The by-laws of the exchange relate to the business of its
members who are commission merchants at Kansas City,
and some of these by-laws, it is claimed by the Government,
are in violation of the act of Congress, because they are in
restraint of that business which is in truth interstate commerce. That one of the by-laws whidh relates to the commissions to be charged for selling the various kinds -of stock,
is particularly cited as a violation of the act. In connection
with that by-law it will be well to examine with some detail
the nature of the defendants' business.
It is urged that they are active promoters of the business
of selling cattle upon consignment from their owners in 'other
States, and that in order to secure the business the defendants
send their agents into other States to the owners of the cattle
to solicit the business from them; that the defendants also
lend money to the cattle owners and take back mortgages
upon the cattle as security for the loan; that they make
advances of a portion of the purchase price of the cattle to be
sold, by means of the payment of drafts' drawn upon them by
the shippers of the cattle in another State at the time of the
shipment. All these things, it is said, constitute intercourse
and traffic between the citizens of different States, and hence
the by-law in question operates upon and affects commerce
between the States.
The facts stated do not, in our judgment, in any degree
alter the nature of the services performed by'the defendants,
nor do they render that particular by-law void as in restraint

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of interstate trade or commerce because it provides for a
minimum amount of commissions for the sale of the cattle.

Objections are taken to other parts of the by-laws which
we will notice hereafter.
Notwithstanding these various matters undertaken by
defendants, we must keep our attention upon the real business transacted by them, and in regard to which the section
of the by-law complained of is made. The section amounts
to an agreement, and it relates to charges made for services
performed in selling cattle upon commission at Kansas City.
The charges relate to that business alone. In order to obtain
it the defendants advance money to the cattle owner; they
pay his drafts, and they aid him to keep his cattle and make
them fit for the market. All this is done as a means towards
an end; as an inducement to the cattle owner to give one of
the defendants the business of selling the cattle fQr him when
the owner shall' finally determine to sell them. That business is not altered in character because ,of the various things
done by defendants for the cattle owner in order to secure it.
The competition among the defendants and others who may
be engaged in it, to obtain the business, results in their sending outside the city, to cattle owners, to urge them by distinct and various inducements to send their cattle to one of
the defendants to sell for them. In this view it is immaterial
over how many States the defendants may themselves or by
their agents travel in order to thereby secure the business.
They do not purchase the cattle themselves ; they do'not transport them. They receive them at Kansas City, and the complaint made is in regard to the agreements for charges for the
services at that point in selling the cattle for the owner. Thus
everything at last centres at the mafket at Kansas City, and
the charges are for'services there, and there only, performed.
The selling of an article at its destination, which has been
sent from another State, while it may be regarded as an
interstate sale and one which the importer was entitled to
make,.yet the services of the individual employed at the place
where the article is sold are not so connected with the subject
sold as to make them a portion of interstate commerce, and a

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

combination in regard to the amount to be charged for such
service is not, therefore, a combination in restraint of that
trade or commerce. Granting that the cattle themselves,
because coming from another State, are articles of interstate
commerce, yet it does not therefore follow that before their
sate all persons performing services in any way connected
with them are themselves engaged in that commerce, or that
their agreements among each other relative to the compensation to be charged for their services are void as agreements
made in restraint of interstate trade. The commission agent
in selling the cattle for their owner simply aids him in finding
a market; but the facilities thus afforded the owner by the
agent are not of such a nature as to thereby make that agent
an individual engaged in interstate commerce, nor is his
agreement with others engaged in the same business, as to the
terms upon which they would provide these facilities, rendered
void as a contract .in restraint of that commerce. Even all
agreements among buyers of cattle from other States are not
necessarily a violation of the act, although such agreements
may undoubtedly affect that commerce.
The charges of the agent on account of his services are
nothing more than charges for aids or facilities furnished the
owner whereby his object may be the more easily and readily
accomplished. Charges for the transportation of cattle between different Stites are charges for doing something which
is one of the forms of and which itself constitutes interstate
trade or commerce, while charges or commissions based upon
services performed .for the owner in effecting the sale of the
cattle are not directly connected with, as forming part of, interstate commerce, although the cattle may have come from
another State. Charges for services of this nature do not
immediately touch or act upon nor do they directly affect the
subject of the transportation. Indirectly and as an incident,
they may enhance the cost to the owner of the cattle in finding a market, or they may add to the price paid by a purchaser, but they are not charges which are directly laid upon
the article in the course of transportation, and which are
charges upon the commerce itself; they are charges for the

OCTOBER TERM, .1898.
Opinion of the Court.

facilities given or provided the owner in the course of the
movement from the home situs of the article to the place and
point where it is sold.
The contract. condemned ,by the statute is one whose direct
and immediate effect is a restraint upon that kind of trade or
commerce which is interstate. Charges for such facilities as
we have already mentioned are not a restraint upon that
trade, although the total cost of marketing a subject thereof
may be thereby increased. Charges for facilities furnished
have been held not a regulation of commerce; even when made
for services rendered or as compensation for benefits conferred. Sands v. Manistee River Improvement Co., 123 U" S.
288; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312, 329, 330; Kentucky & IndianaBridge Company v. Louisyille &c. Railroad,37 Fed. Rep. 567.
To -treat as condemned by the act all agreements under
which, as a result, the cost of conducting an interstate commercial business may be increased would enlarge the application of the act far beyond the fair meaning of the language
used. There must be some direct and immediate effect upon
interstate commerce in order to come within the act. The
State may levy a tax upon the earnings of a commission merchant Which were realized out of the sales of property belonging to non-residents, and such a tax is not one upon interstate
commerce because it affects it only incidentally and remotely
although certainly. _Ficklem v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S.1. 'any agreements suggest themselves which
relate only to facilities furnished commerce, or else touch it
only in an indirect way, while possibly enhancing the cost of
transacting the business, and which at the same time we
would not think of as agreements in restraint of interstate
trade or commerce. They are agreements which in their effect
operate in furtherance and in aid of commerce by providing
for it facilities, conveniences, privileges or services, but which
do not directly relate to charges for its transportation, nor to
any other form of interstate commerce. To hold all such agreements void would in our judgment improperly extend the act
to matters which are not of an interstate commercial nature.

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-

It is not difficult to imagine agreements of the character
above indicated. For example, cattle, when transported long
distances by rail, require rest, food and water. To give them
these accommodations it is necessary to take them from the
car and put them in pens or other places for their safe reception. Would an agieement among the landowners along the
line not to lease their lands for less than a certain sum be a
contract within the statute as being in restraint of interstate
trade or commerce? Would it be such a contract even if the
lands, or some of them, were necessary for use in furnishing
the cattle with suitable accommodations? Would an agreement between the dealers in corn at some station along the
line of the road not to sell it below a certain price be covered
by the act, because the cattle must have corn for food? Or
would an agreement among the men not to perform the service of waiering the cattle for less than a certain compensation come within the restriction of the statute? Suppose the
railroad company which transports the cattle itself furnishes
the facilities, and that its charges for transportation are enhanced because of an agreement among the landowners along
the line not to lease their lands to the company for such purposes for lesz th n a named sum, could it be successfully
contended that the agreement of the landowners among themselves would be a violation of the act as being in restraint of
interstate trade or commerce? Would an agreement between
builders of cattle cars not to build them under a certain price
be void because the effect might be to itcrease the price of
transportation of cattle between the States? Would an agreement among dealers in horse blankets not to sell them for less
than a certain price be open to the charge of a violation of
the act because horse blankets are necessary to put on horses
to be sent long journeys by rail, and by reason of the agreement the expense of sending the horses from one State to another for a market might be thereby enhanced? Would an
agreement among cattle drivers not to drive the cattle after
their arrival at the railroad depot at their place of destination
to the cattle yards where sold, for less than a minimum sum,
come within the statute? Would an agreement among themVOL.

CLXXI-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

selves by locomotive engineers, firemen or trainmen engaged
in the service of an interstate' railroad not to work for less
than a certain named compensation be illegal because the cost
of transporting interstate freight would be thereby enhanced?
Agreements similar to these might be indefinitely suggested.
In our opinion all these queries should be answered in the
negative. The indirect effect of the agreements mentioned
might be to enhance the cost of marketing the cattle, but the
agreements themselves would not necessarily for that reason
be in restraint of interstate trade or commerce. As their
effect is either indirect or else they relate to charges for the
use of facilities furnished, the agreements instanced would be
valid provided the charges agreed upon were reasonable. The
effect upon the commerce spoken of must be direct and proximate. NArew York, Lake Brie & Western Railroad v. Penn8ylvania, 158 U. S. 431, 439. An agreement may in a variety of ways affect interstate
commerce, just as state legislation may, and yet, like it, be
entirely valid, because the interference produced by the agreement or by the legislation is not direct. Sherlock v. Alling,
93 U. S. 99-103; United States v. E. C. Enight Company, 156
U. S. 1, 16; Pittsbur# & Southern Coal Co. v. Louisiana,
156 U. S. 590, .597; TransportationCompany v. Parkess6urg,
107 U. S. 691; Ficklen v. Shelby County, supra. Reasonable
charges for the use of a facility for the transportation of interstate commerce have heretofore been regarded as valid in
this court, even though such charges might necessarily enhance the cost of doing the business. - Packet Company v.
St. Louis, 100 U. S. 423; Packet Company v. Catlettsburg,
105 U. S,559; Transportation Company v. Parkersburg,107
U. S. 691; Buse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543; Ouachita Packet
Company v. Aiken, 121 U. S. 444; St. Louis v. IMestern
Union Telegraph Company, 148 U. S. 92. An agreement
among the owners of such facilities, to charge not less than
9,minimum rate for their .use, cannot be condemned as illegal
under the act of Congress.
The fact that the above cited cases relate to tangible property, the use of which was charged for, does not alter the

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.

595.

Opinion of the Court.

reasoning upon which the decisions were placed.

The charges

were held valid because they related to facilities furnished in
aid of the commerce and which did not constitute a regulation
thereof. Facilities may consist in privileges or conveniences
provided and made use of or in services rendered in aid of
commerce, as well as in the use of tangible property, and so
long as they are facilities and the charges not unreasonable
an agreement relating to their amount is not invalid. The
cattle owner has no constitutional right to. the services of the
commission agent to aid him in the sale of his 'cattle and
the agent has the right to say upon what terms he will
render them, and he has the equal right, so far as the act of
Congress is concerned, to agree with others in his business
not to render those services unless for a certain charge. The
services are no part of the commerce in the cattle.
In Brown v. M1aryland, 12 Wheat. 419, Chief Justice Marshall, while maintaining the right of an importer to sell his
article in the original package, free from any tax, recognized
the distinction between the importer selling the article himself
and employing an auctioneer to do it for him, and he said
that in the latter case the importer could not object to paying
for such services as for any other, and that the right to sell
might very well be annexed to importation without annexing
to it also the privilege of using auctioneers, and thus to make
the sale in a peculiar way. In such case a tax upon the auctioneer's license would be valid.
The same view is enforced in Emert v. .Ati&souri, 156
U. S. 296.
The right of the cattle owners themselves to sell their own
cattle is not affected or touched by the agreement in question,
while the privilege of having their cattle sold for them at
the market place frequented by defendants, and with the
aid of one of them, is a privilege which they are charged
for, and which is not annexedto their right to sell their own
cattle.
It is possible that exorbitant charges for the use of these
facilities might have similar effect as a burden on commerce
that a charge upon cbinmerce itself might have. In a case

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

like that the remedy would probably be forthcoming.

Tans-

portation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691. As was said by
Mr. Justice Field, in Sands v. Manistee Rives Improvement
Co., 123 U. S. 288, 294, 295, "should there be any gross injustice in the rate of tolls fixed, it would not in our system of
government, remain long uncorrected."
But whether the charges are or are not exorbitant is a question primarily of local law, at least in the absence of any
superior or paramount law providing for reasonable charges.
Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691. This case
does not involve that question.
If charges of the nature described do not amount to a reguiation of interstate trade or commerce because they touch it
only in an indirect and remote way, or" else because they are
in the nature of compensation for the use of property or privileges as a mere facility for that commerce, it would for a-like
reason seem clear that agreements relating to the amounts of
such charges among those who furnish the privileges or facilities are not in restraint of that kind of trade. While the indirect effect 'of the agreements may be to enhance the expense
to those engaged in the business, yet as the agreements are in
regard to compensatign for privileges accorded for services
rendered as a facility to commerce or trade, they are not illegal as a restraint thereon.
The facilities or privileges offdred by the defendants are
apparent and valuable. The cattle owner has the use of a.
place for his cattle furnished by the defendants and all the
facilities arising from a market where the -sales and purchases
are conducted under the auspices of the association of which
the defendants are members, and in a manner the least troublesome to the owners and at the same time the most expeditious
and effective. Each of these defenidants has the right to have
the cattle which are consigned to him taken to the cattle yards,
where, by virtue- of the arrangements made by defendants
with the owners of the yards, the cattle are placed in pens,
watered and fed, if necessary, and a sale effected at the earliest
moment. It is these facilities and services which are paid for
by a commission on the sale effected by the commission men.

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

If, as is claimed, the commission men sometimes own the
cattle they sell, then the rules do not apply, for they relate
to charges made for selling cattle upon commission and not
at all to sales of cattle by their bwners.
Definitions as to what constitutes interstate commerce are
not easily given so that they shall clearly define the full
meaning of the term. We know from the cases decided in
this court that it is a term of very large significance. It comprehends, as it is said, intercourse for the purposes of trade in
any and all its forms, including transportation, purchase, sale
and exchange of commodities between the citizens of different
States, and the power to regulate it embraces all the instruments by which such commerce may be conducted.
Welton
v. Missouri, 91 "U. S. 275; Mob*ile County v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 691; Gloucester Ferry Company v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196; ifooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, 653; United
States v. E. C.. Knight Company, 156 U. S. 1.
But in all the cases which have come to this court there is
not one which has. denied the distinction between a regulation
which directly affects and embarrasses interstate trade or
commerce, and one which is nothing more than a charge
for a local facility provided for the transaction of such
commerce. On the contrary, the cases already cited show
the existence of the distinction and the validity of a charge
for the use of the facility.
The services of members of the different stock and produce
exchanges througlout the coulitry in effecting sales of the
articles they deal in are of a similar nature. ,Members of the
New York Stock Exchange buy and sell shares of stock of
railroads and other corporations, and the property represented
by such shares of stock is situated all over the country. Is a
broker whose principal lives outside of New York State, and
who sends him the shares of stock or the bonds of a corporation created and doing business in another State, for sale.
engaged in interstate commerce? If he is employed to purchase stock or bonds in a like corporation under the same
circumstances, is he then engaged in the business of interstate
commerce? It may, perhaps, be answered that stocks or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds are not commodities, and that dealers therein are not
engaged in commerce. Whether it is an answer to the question need not be considered, for we will take the case of the
New York Produce Exchange. Is a member of that body to
whom a cargo of grain is consigned from a western State to
be sold engaged in interstate commerce when he performs the
service of selling the article upon its arrival in New York and
transmitting the proceeds of the sale less his commissions? Is
a New Orleans cotton broker who is a member of the Cotton
Exchange of that city, and who receives consignments of cotton from different States and sells them on 'change in New
Orleans and accounts to his consignors for the proceeds of
such sales less his commission, engaged in interstate commerce?
Is the character of the business altered in either case by the
fact that the broker has advanced moneys to the owner of the
article and taken a mortgage thereon as his security?. We
understand we are in these queries assuming substantially the
same facts as those which are contained in the case before us,
and if these defendants are engaged in interstate commerce
because of their services in the sale of. cattle which may come
from other States, then the same must be said in regard
to the members of the other exchanges above referred to.
We think it, would be an entirely novel view of the situation
if all the members of- these different exchaiiges throughout
the country were to be regarded as engaged in interstate.
commerce, because they sell things for their principals which
come from States different from the one in which the exchange is situated and the sale made.
The theory upon which we think the by-law or agreement
regarding commissions is. not a violation of the statute
operates also in the case of the other provisions of the bylaws. The answer in regard to all objections is, the defendants are not engaged in interstate commerce.
But special weight is attached to the objection raised to
section 11 of rule 9 of the by-laws, which provides against
sehding prepaid telegrams as set forth in the statement of
facts herein. It is urged' that the purpose of this section is
to prevent the sending of prepaid telegrams by the defendants

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to their various customers in the different States tributary to
the Kansas City market, and that the section is a part of the
contract between the members of the exchange, and is clearly
an attempt to regulate and restrict the sending of messages
by telegraph and telephone between citizens of the various
States and Territories, and operates upon and directly affects
the interstate business of communicating between points in
different States by telegraph or telephone.
An agreement among the defendants to abstain from telegraphing in certain circumstances and for certain purposes
is so clearly not an attempt to regulate or restrain the general sending of telegrams that it would seem unnecessary
to argue the question. An agreement among business men
not to send telegrams in regard to their business in certain
contingencies, when the agreement is entered into only for
the purpose of regulating the business of the individuals, is
not a direct attempt to affect the business of the telegraph
company, and has .no direct effect thereon. Although communication by telegraph may be commerce, and if carried on
between different States may be commerce among the
several States, yet an agreement or by-law of the nature of
the one under consideration is not a burden or a regulation of
or a duty laid upon the telegraph company, and was clearly
not entered into for the purpose of affecting in the slightest
degree the company itself or its transaction of interstate
commerce.
The argument of counsel in behalf of the United States,
that because none of the States or Territories could enact
any law interfering with or abridging the right of persons
in Kansas or Missouri to send prepaid telegrams of the nature in question, therefore an agreement to that effect entered
into between business men as a means towards the proper
transaction of their legitimate business would be void, is, as
we think, entirely unsound. 'The conclusion does not follow
from the facts stated. The statute might be illegal as an
improper attempt to interfere with- the liberty of transactihg
legitimate business enjoyed by the citizen, while the agreement among business men for the better conduct of their own

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

business, as they think, to refrain from using the telegraph
for certain purposes, is a matter purely. for their own consideration. There is no similarity between the two cases, and
the principle existing in the one is wholly absent in the other.
The private agreement does not, as we have said, regulate
commerce or impose any impediment upon it or tax it. Communication by telegraph is free from any burden so far as
this agreement is concerned, and no restrictions are placed on
the commerce itself.
The act of Congress must have a reasonable construction or
else there would scarcely be an agreement or contract among
business men that could not be said to- have, indirectly or remotely, some bearing upon interstate commerce, and possibly
to restrain it. We have no idea that the act covers or was
intended to cover such kinds of agreements.
The next by-law which complainants object to is section 10
of the same rule 9, which prohibits the hiring of a solicitor
except upon a stipulated salary not contingent upon commissions earned, and which provides that no more than three
solicitors shall be employed at one time by a commission firm
or corporation.
The claim is that these solicitors are engaged in interstate
commerce, and that such commerce must be free from any
state legislation and free from the control or restraint by any
person or combination of persons. They also object that the.
rule is an unlawful inhibition upon the privilege possessed by
each person under the Constitution to make lawful contracts
in the furtherance of his business, and they allege that in this
respect these- members have surrendered their dominion over
their own business and permitted the exchange to establish a
species of regency, and that the by-law in regard to the employment of solicitors is one which directly affects interstate
commerce.
Mc Call v. California,136 U. S. 104, is cited for the propo-.
sition that the solicitors employed by these defendants are
engaged in interstate commerce. In that case the railroad
company was itself engaged in such commerce, and its agent
in California was taxed by reason of his business in soliciting

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

for his company that which was interstate commerce.

The

fact that he did not sell tickets or receive or pay out money
on account of it was not regarded as material. His principal
was a common carrier, engaged in interstate corimerce, and
he was engaged in that commerce because he was soliciting
for the transportation of passengers by that company through
the different States in which the railroad ran from the State
of California. In the case before us the defendants ate not
employed in interstate commerce but are simply engaged in
the performance of duties or services relating to stock upon
its arrival at Kansas City. We do not think it can be properly
said that the agents of the defendants whom they send out
to solicit the various owners of stock to consign the cattle to
one of the defendants for sale are thereby themselves engaged
in interstate commerce. They are simply soliciting the various stock owners to consign the stock owned by them to particular defendants at Kansas City, and until the arrival of the
stock at that point and the delivery by the transportation
company no duties of an interstate-commerce nature arise to
be performed by the defendants. As the business they do'is
not interstate commerce, the business of their agents in soliciting others to give them such business is not itself interstate
commerce. Not being engaged in interstate commerce, the
agreement, of the defendants through ,the by-law in question,
restricting the number of solicitors to three, does not restrain
that commerce, and does ilot therefore violate the act of Congress under discussion.
The position of the solicitors is entirely different from that
of drummers who are travelling through the severdl States for.
the purpose of getting orders for the purchase of property.
It was said in Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489, that the negotiation of sales of goods which
are in another State for the purpose of introducing them
into the State in which the negotiation is made is interstate
commerce.

But the solicitors for these defendants have no property or
goods for sale, and their only duty is to ask or induce those
who own the property to agree that when they send it to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

market for sale they will consign it to the solicitor's principal, so that he may perform such services as may be necessary to sell the stock for them- and account to them forthe proceeds thereof. Unlike the drummer who contracts,
in one State for the sale of goods which are in another, and
which are to be thereafter delivered in the State in which the
contract is made, the solicitor in this case has no goods or
samples of goods and negotiates no sales, and merely seeks to
exact a promise from the owner of property that when he
does wish to sell he will consign to and sell the property
through the solicitor's principal. There is no interstate commerce in that business.
Hooer v. California,155 U. S.648, is another illustration
of the meaning of the term "commerce," as used in the Constitution of the United States. In that case, contracts of
marine insurance are stated not to appertain to interstate
commerce, and cases are cited upon the nature of the contract of insurance generally at page 653 of the opinion.
It is also to be remarked that the effect of the agreement
as to the number of solicitors to be employed by defendants
can only be remote and indirect upon interstate commerce.
The number of solicitors employed has no direct effect upon
the number of cattle transported from State to State. The
solicitors do not solicit transportation of the cattle. They
are not in the interest of the transportation company, and.
the transportation is an incident only. They solicit a consignment of cattle to their principals, so that the latter may
sell them on commission and thus transact their local business.
The transportation would take place any way and the cattle
be consigned for sale by some one of the defendants or by
others engaged in the business. It is not a matter of transportation but one of agreement as to who shall render the
services of selling the cattle for their owner at the place of.
destination.
We say nothing against the constitutional right of each one
of the defendants and each person doing business at the Kansas
City stock yards to send into distant States and Territories as
many solicitors as the business of each will warrant. This

HOPKINS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

original right is not denied or questioned. But cannot the
citizefi, for what he thinks good reason, contract to curtail
that right? To say that a State would not have the right to
prohibit a defendant from employing as many solicitors as he
might choose, proves nothing in regard to the right of individuals to agree upon that subject in a way which they may
think the most conducive to their own interests. What a
State may do is one thing, and what parties may contract
voluntarily to do among themselves is quite another thing.
The liberty of contract as referred to in Allgeyer v. Louiiana, 165 U. S. 578, is the liberty of the individual to be free,
under certain circumstances, from the restraint of legislative
control with regard to all his contracts, but the case has no
reference to the right of individuals to sometimes enter into
those voluntary contracts by which their rights and duties
may properly be measured and defined and in many cases
greatly restrained and limited.
We agree with the court below in thinking there is not the
slightest materiality in the fact that the state line runs
through the stock yards in question, resulting in some of the
pens in which the stock may be confined being partly in the
State of Kansas and partly in the State of Missouri, and that
sales may be made of a lot of stock which may be at the
time partly in one State and partly in the other.' The erection of the building and the putting up of the stock pens upon
the ground through which the state line ran were matters of
no moment so far as any question of interstate commerce is
concerned. The character of the business done is not in the
least altered by these immater; I and incidental facts.
It follows from what has been -id that the complainants
have failed to show the defendants guilty of any violations of
the act of Congress, because it does not appear that the defendants are engaged in interstate commerce, or that any
agreements or contracts made by them and relating to the conduct of their business are in restraint of any such commerce.
Whether they refused to transact business *hich is not
interstate commerce, except with those who are members of
the exchange, and whether such refusal is justifiable or not,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

are questions not open for discussion here. As defendants'
actions or agreements are not a violation of the act of Congress,
the complainants have failed in iheir case, and the order for the
injunction must be
Reversed and the case remitted to the Circuit Court of the
United Statesfor the District of Kansas, First Diviiion,
with directions to dismiss the bill with costs.
MiR. JUSTICE HARLA-N dissented.
MR. JUSTiCE MOKENNA

took no part in the decision of this

case.

ANDERSON v.. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 181. Argued February 25, 28, 1898.- Decided October 24, 1898.
The Traders' Live Stock Exchange was an unincorporated association in
Kansas City, whose members bore much the same relation to it, and
through it carried on much the same business as that carried on by the
members of the Kansas City Live Stock Exchange, considered and passed
upon in Hopkins v. United States, just decided. The main difference was,
that the members of the Traders' Exchange, defendants in the present
proceedings, were themselves purchasers of cattle on the market, while
the defendants In the former case were commission merchants who sold
cattle upon commission as a compensation for their service. The
articles of association of the Traders' Exchange contained the following preamble: 1. We, the undersigned, for the purpose of organizing and
maintaining a business exchange, not for pecuniary profit or gain, but to
promote and protect all interests connected with the buying and selling of
live stock at the Kansas City Stock Yards, and to cultivate courteous and
manly conduct towards each other, and give dignity and responsibility to
yard traders, have associated ourselves together under the name of
Traders' Live Stock Exchangd, and hereby agree, each with the other,
that we will faithfully observe and be bound by the following rules and
by-laws and such new rules, additions or amendments as may from time to
time be adopted in conformity with the provisions thereof from the date
of organization." The rules objected to in the bill in this case were the
following: "Rule 10. This exchange will not recognize any yard trader
unless he is a member of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange. Rule 11.

