OCTOBER TERMV, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

WHITE v. BERRY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST 'VIRGINIA.
No. 539. Argued March 21, 22, 1898.-Decded May 31, 1898.

A court of equity has no jurisdiction over the appointment and removal of
public officers, whether the power of removal is vested, as well as that
of appointment, in executive or administrative boards or officers, or is
entrusted to a judicial tribunal.
The jurisdiction to determine the title to a public office belongs exclusivply
to the courts of law, and is exercised either by certiorari, error or appeal, or by mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto, or information in the
nature of a writ of quo warranto, according to the circumstances of
the case, and the mode of procedure established by common law or by
statute.
If the assignment of some one to duty as gauger at the Hahnis distillery,
in the place of the plaintiff, did not work his removal from office, a
court of equity ought not to assume to control the discretion which
under existing statutes the Executive Department has in all such matters; as interference by the judicial department in such cases would
lead to the utmost confusion in the management of executive affairs.

Tis suit in equity was brought by H. C. Berry in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of West Virginia against A. B. White, United States collector of internal
revenue for that district, A. L. Hoult, John D. Sutton, Anthony Staubley and Franklin T. Thayer.
The bill alleged that in 1893, the plaintiff Berry was duly
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury to the position of
United States gauger, and from that time to the commencement of this suit he had acted in that capacity at the Hannis
distillegy at Martinsburg, West Virginia;
That he was appointed through the recommendation of E.
M. Gilkeson, late collector of internal revenue for the abovenamed district;
That he was paid at the rate of one hundred dollars per
month directly from the Treaisury Department, and was an
officer of the United States Government, having taken the
required oath of office and executed bond as required by law;

WHITE v. BERRY.
Statement of the Case.

That his oath of office and bond continued good and in
force regardless of the personnel of the collector of internal
revenue, and he did not hold his position at the discretion of
that officer;
That he had honestly, faithfully and impartially discharged
his duties, being especially well equipped and qualified to discharge all the duties appertaining to his office;
That the defendant White, collector of internal revenue,
had declared his intention to appoint a gauger and three
storekeepers to fill the place of the plaintiff and others employed at the distillery at an early date;
That the defendants Hbult, .Sutton, Staubley and Thayer
had been reinstated, or would be appointed and commissioned,
and one of them would be assigned to duty in place of the
plaintiff at the Hannis .distillery, through White, who had
openly declared his intention to reinstate the defendants in
place of the plaintiff and others;
That the plaintiff is a Democrat in politics, was assigned to
said office as a Democrat, and had voted the ticket of that
political party, while the defendant White was a Republican;
That White had declared his intention to place one of the
other four defendants in plaintiff's position, because of the
latter's political affiliation, and for no other reason, and to
appoint and recommend Republicans to fill such places for no
other reason than that they were of that political faith;
That the plaintiff's office is in the classified service, and
belongs to what is known as the Civil Service, and as such he
could not be removed, except for cause shown and proved;
That by a circtilar issued by the Secretary- of the Treasury,
it was provided that no removals should be made from any
position subject to competitive examination except upon just
cause and upon written charges filed with the head of the department or the appointing officer, of which the accused
should have full notice and opportunity to make defence;
That in department circular No. 119, which was an executive order, the same provisions were made together with
others, and were signed by the acting commissioner of

OCTOBER TER-if, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

internal revenue and approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury;
That the plaintiff was one of the employ~s of the Treasury
Department, was included in the classified service, and was
protected from removal for political or religious reasons under
the Civil.Service laws and rules of the United States, as fully
appears from a communication received from the acting
president of the Civil Service Commission of date September 10, 1897;
That if the defendant White be permitted to remove the
plaintiff from'his office and position or supplant him by others,
the same would be illegal and in violation of law;
That rule two of section three of the Civil Service rules
provides that "no person in the executive Civil Service shall
dismiss or cause to be dismissed or make any attempt to procure the dismissal of or in any manner change. the official
rank or position of any other person therein because of his
political or religious .ffiliations;" while section one of those
rules provides that any person in the executive Civil Service
of the United States who should wilfully violate any provision
of the Civil Service Act or of the rules established by the
Civil.Service Commission should be dismissed from office;
That under .the law the plaintiff had a vested interest in
his office, and.if White should remove him therefrom or assist
in so doing it would be in violation not only of the Civil Service rules but of the plaintiff's vested interest in his office, for
which he would not have an adequate remedy at law;
That he is able, competent and willing to discharge the
duties of his office, and is unwilling to be summarily dismissed
therefrom for no other reason than that he is of opposite
politics to those of the defendant White, collector of internal
revenue;
That the said collector has no power, right or authority to
remove the plaintiff from his office, or to appoint any other
to take his place and thereby effect his removal; that the
defendants Hoult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer have no rightor authority to take the oath of office and otherwise qualify
and appear to take the position, and thereby assist in the

WHITE v. BERRY.
Statement of the Case.

removal of the plaintiff, and as there were no vacancies
created either by removals or resignations, and there being
fifteen per cent now commissioned more than sufficient to perform the duties of storekeepers and gaugers in that district,
if they were permitted so to do it would be in violation of
law as well as of the rights and vested interests of tfe plaintiff; and,
That unless White be enjoined from so doing he will remove the plaintiff, and- unless his codefendants are enjoined
from qualifying as officers of the United States to take the
place of the plaintiff at the distillery they would in that
manner effect the removal of the plaintiff from his office, they
having expressed their intention to accept such appointment
and assignments.
The relief asked was an injunction restraining and prohibiting the defendant White, collector, and all otlers by and
through him, "from removing him from the position of gauger
until a vacancy is created according to law, as an officer of
the United States aforesaid, and also from recommending,
assigning and appointing any person to the same position, and
from proceeding in the attempt to make such removal, and in
any other manner interfering with your coihplainant;" and
also, thai Hoult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer and all other
persons be enjoined, restrained and prohibited "from qualifying as gauger to take the place of your complainant at
said distillery, or in any other way aid or assist in the removal
of your said orator, or performing or discharging any of the
duties of said office," and for such other and general relief
as to equity might seem just and right.
In conformity with the motion by the plaintiff for a tem.porary restraining order, it was adjudged, ordered and decreed
"that A. B. White, United States collector of internaf revenue
for the District of West Virginia, be and is hereby restrained,
enjoined and inhibited from recommending, appointing or aiding in the appointment of A. L..Hoult, John D. Sutton,
Anthony Staubley or any other person, to said position, aLnd
from removing the said complainant Berry aforesaid, until a
vacancy therein is created by law, and from assigning and apVOL. cLxxi-24

OCTOBER TERM. 1897.
Statement of the Case.

pointing any person to the same position, and from proceeding in the attempt to make such removal, and in any other
manner interfere with the said complainant Berry in the said
*office, as aforesaid." It was further adjudged, ordered and
decreed "that A. L. Hoult, John D. Sutton, Anthony Staub"Ieyand all other persons be, and they are hereby, enjoined
and prohibited from acting-as gauger in the place and stead
of the said complainant Berry, as aforesaid, or in discharging
any of the duties of the said office, until the further order of
this court.'
The answer of the defendants states that on the 30th day
of September, 1897, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
made an order relieving plaintiff from Assignment to duty as
gauger at the Hannis distillery, and on the same day telegraphed the plaintiff to that effect; that on the same day the
Commissioner telegraphed defendant Thayer, assigning him
to duty as gauger at that distillery, and on the 1st day of
October, 1897, he took charge as such gauger, and was in charge
when defendant White, collector, visited the distillery on that
day; that Thayer took charge before 8 o'clock in the morning
of October 1st, and before the granting of the injunction, and
before any service ulon or other notice of any kind of the
granting of or.application for the injunction to Thayer, White
or any of the defendants; that the recommendation of defendant White to the Commissioner, that the plaintiff be relieved
from duty as aforesaid, was made prior to the institution of
this suit; that it has been the general policy of the Internal
Rev6nue Bureau to rotate the assignments of storekeepers and
gaugers for the purpose of securing to such storekeepers and
gaugers a fair proportion of employment and for the purpose
of preventing collusion between distillery officials, and otherwise protecting the interests of the Government; that plaintiff having been on duty for a long time prior to the 30th day
of September, 1897, as gauger, it was deemed by the Commissioner fair and right among the several gaugers, and for the
best-interests of the public service, to relieve plaintiff from assignment to dutyat the Hannis distillery.
Admitting in their answer that the plaintiff was an officer

WHITE v. BERRY.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States, duly appointed and commissioned, and
that he did not hold his position at the discretion of the collector of internal revenue, the defendant White denied that
the plaintiff was well equipped and qualified to discharge all
the duties of gauger, but that from the records of his office
and of the Department for the previous three months, during
which he has been collector, the plaintiff was not a first-class
gauger, and was culpably careless in his work, and that it was
largely because of information he had received that defendant
White recommended to the Commissioner that the plaintiff.
be relieved from duty as gauger at that distillery; that the
defendant White, as collector, had never declared his intention
to appoint any one of the other defendants or any one else a
storekeeper or gauger, knowing full well and recognizing the
fact that storekeepers and gaugers are and can be appointed
by the Secretary of the Treasury only; that the Secretary of
the Treasury reinstated HIoult as gauger, Staubley as storekeeper, and Thayer as gauger in 1897, in accordance with the
laws of the United States and in accordance with the Civil
Service law, each having first been certified as eligible to such
reinstatement by the Civil Service Commission; and that
Roult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer had all been duly commissioned and executed bonds and qualified prior to the
institution of this suit; and that defendant White never
declared his intention to reinstate any of said officers or assign
them to duty in the place of the plaintiff, recognizing fully
that he had no such authority, and that neither Hoult nor
Staubley had been assigned to duty since their reinstatement.
The defendant White admitted that he was .a Republican
in politics, and the defendants admitted that the plaintiff was
a Democrat in politics. White denied that he ever signified
or declared his intention to remove the plaintiff from office or
put the defendants or any one else in his place, for the reason
that the plaintiff was a Democrat in politics, and for no other
reason to appoint or recommend in his stead a Republican;
that in fact and in law he could have nothing to do with the
removal or appointment of a storekeeper or a gauger unless it
be to recommend the same; that in short the appointments

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of storekeepers and gaugers and their removals could be made
only by the Secretary of the Treasury.
The defendants alleged that the revocation of assignment
complained of by the plaintiff was made by the Commissioner, whom the defendants understood was a Democrat.
The defendants admitted that the office of gauger held by
the plaintiff was in the classified service, and belonged to what
was known as the Civil Service; but alleged that so far as
they knew the plaintiff had not been removed, but on the contrary still held the position of United Statds gauger; that the
fact that he had been relieved from assignment to duty at the
Hannis distillery did not remove. him- from office; that he
might be assigned to duty or transferred or non-assigned at
any time by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; that the
plaintiff could not in this manner question the right of the
Commissioner to assign a United States gauger at a distillery
or relieve one who has already been assigned; that the Commissioner had the right to assign to duty a United States
gauger, and to determine bow long he shall remain on duty
under such assignment; and that. no law, executive order, or
rule or regulation of the Civil Service Commission was violated by the Commissioner doing as he had done in this case
in exercising the authority conferred upon him by the acts of
Congress by assigning a gauger to duty at the said distillery
and relieving from duty the plaintiff, who had been theretofore assigned to duty at the same distillery by the Commissioner and by the same act of Congress.
The defendants admitted that the plaintiff was willing to
continue in office, but the defendant White charged that he
was a careless officer, and that if any attempt was or should
be made to remove or disniiss him from the service, it would
not be for the reason that he was of opposite politics to those
of the colledot.
The answer concludes:
"Replying to allegation No. 13 in plaintiff's bill, the defendants again say that the defendant White claims no right
or authority to remove the said. plaintiff from office or to
appoint any one in his place, and that he never has claimed

WHITE v. BERRY.
Statement of the Case.

any such authority. The defendants say-that the defendants
Hoult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer, having been duly appointed to the positions respectively held by each of them by
the'Secretary of the Treasury the right to hold said positions cannot be questioned in this or any other collateral
.proceeding; that the question of whether there were or were
not vacancies at the time these appointments were made cannot be determined iji this suit. Neither of said defendants
Hoult, Sutton, Staubley or Thayer was app6inted in place of
the plaintiff. The appointment of neither could 'affect the
plaintiff, and whether the Secretary of the Treasury has more
of these officers in commission than he is entitled to have
under the law is not a question which can be raised by the
plaintiff in this suit. It cannot be ascertained in this proceeding whether or not 15 per cent or any other number of officers are now in commission more than are sufficient to perform
the duties of storekeepers or gaugers in this collection district.
This court; it is respectfully suggested, will not undertake to
ascertain the number of distilleries in operation and to be
placed in operation in said collection district and the number
of storekeepers and gaugers to be placed on duty at such distilleries. -It is submitted that these are questions to be determined by the Treasury Department, and must be supposed
to have been determined before such appointments were
made, and the appointments made in conformity to the interests and requirements of the public service. Defendants
therefore, deny that by the appointment of the defendants
Iloult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer more storekeepers and
gaugers were placed in commission than were sufficient to
perform the duties of such officers in said district.
"The defendants deny that the appointment and qualification of said Hoult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer will make
necessary the removal of the plaintiff. The defendants,
further answering, say that the defendant Hoult was on the
-day
of--, 1889, appointed a United States gauger; that
on the -day

of -

, 1893, after having served about four

-years, and there having been a change of administration, he
was removed from said position through no delinquency or

OCTOBER TERM; 1897.
Statement of the Case.

misconduct of his; that during the late war of the rebellion
he served in the military 'service of the United States, and
was honorably discharged therefrom; that availing himself of
Rule IX of the Civil Service regulatio.ns, he made application
to the Secretary of the Treasury to be reinstated to the position from which he had been removed; that defendants are
informed that said petitiofn, together.with the requisition of
the-proper officer of the Treasury Department, were referred
to the Civil Service Commission, and his eligibility *having
been properly certified by said Commission, he was reinstated
and reappointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. Said
petition was originally filed with E. M. Gilkeson, late collector
-of internal revenue, and, together with the "recommendatioA
of said collector, forwarded t 9 the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. The defendants insist that in making said appoint-.
nment or reinstatement the Secretary of the Treasury acted in
strict conformity with the acts of Congress and the rules and
regulations of the Civil Service Commission. The defendants
Sutton, Staubley and Thayer were similarly reinstated and
reappointed as storekeepers and gauger. The defendant
A. B. White says that the recommendation made by him to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue relative to the plaintiff
was made prior to or on the 29th day of September, 1897, and
the said recommendation was made in part because the said
plaintiff had been on duty for some time, and in part for the.
reasons hereinbefore stated. Said defendants further say that
they believe and charge that the reinstatement and appointment of said defendants IHoult, Sutton, Staubley and Thayer
were not made by the Secretary of the Treasury for political
reasons, nor was the plaintiff relieved from duty as aforesaid
at the Hannis distillery by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue for political reasons, nor the-said Thayer assigned to
duty at the said distillery for political reasons."
.The cause having been heard upon the bill, the demurrer to
the bill, the answer and a general replication thereto, the
affidavits filed by the parties, and upon the plaintiff's motion
to perpetuate the injunction theretofore granted, a final order
was made "restraining and inhibiting the defendant White,

WHITE v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

the collector of the district, the appointing power, the defendant Thayer, and-all others, from. in anywise interfering with
the possession of his office and in
the plaintiff H. C. Berry in.
the ilischarge of his duty as gauger at the Hannis distillery,
located in the town of Martinsburg, W. Va., until he shall be
removed therefrom by proper proceedings had under the Civil
Service Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder or
by judicial proceedings at law; and the said collector having
applied heretofore to the court for leave to the Commissioner
to appoint temporarily a gauger pending this litigation, he,
the said collector, is required and directed to recommend and
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to transfer the temporary gauger heretofore assigned, and to permit the said
gauger Berry undisturbed to discharge the duties of his office
as gauger, unless hereafter removed as hereinbefore provided."
r.Assistant _Attorney General Boyd and Mr. Josqph R.
Gaines for appellants.
Xr.CharlesJ.Faulkner for appellee.
MR.JUsTicE

HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the opinion delivered .y the learned District Judge, who
heard this and other cases involving the same questions as those
now presented, it was held: .1. That the act known as the
"Civil Service Act" was constitutional. 2. That Congress
has not delegated to the President and the Commission legislative powers. 3. That by rule 3, section 1, the internal
revenue service has been placed under the Civil Service Act
and rules made in pursuance of it. 4. That the plaintiffs in
these actions are officers of the Government in the internal
revenue service. 5. That they cannot be removed from their
positions except for causes other than political, in which event
their removal must be made under the terms and provisions
of the Civil Service Act and the rules promulgated under it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

which, under the act of Congress, became a part of the law.
6. That the attempt to change the position and rank of the
officers in these cases.was in violation of law. 7.That a court
of equity has jurisdiction to restrain the appointing power from
removing the officers from their positions if such removals are
in violation of the Civil Service' Act. 83 Fed. Rep.'578.
On behalf of the Government it is insisted that the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting in equity, was without
jurisdiction to entertain this suit and to grant the relief asked in
the bill. ,If this position be well taken, it will be unnecessary
to consider the other questions discussed in the able and elaborate opinion of the District Judge.
In Sawyer's case, 121 U. S.200, 223, Chief Justice Waite, in
a dissenting opinion, said that he was -not prepared to hold
that an officer of a municipal gove'rnment cbuld not, under
any circumstances, apply to a court of chancery to restrain the
municipal authorities from proceeding to remove him from
his office without authority of law; that there might be cases
when the tardy remedies of quo warranto, certiorari and other
like writs would be entirely inadequate. In that view of the
jurisdiction of equity the writer of this opinion concurred at
the time the court disposed of that case.
But the court in its opinion, in that case observed that
under the Constitution and laws of the United States the distinction between common law and equity, as existing in
England at the time of the separation of the two countries,
had been maintained, although both jurisdictions were vested
in the same courts, and held that a court of equity had no
jurisdiction over the appointment and removal of public officers, and that to sustain a bill in equity to restrain or relieve
against proceedings for the removal of public officers would
invade the domain of the courts of common law, or of the
executive and administrative departments of the government.
After referring to numerous authorities, American and
English, in support of the general proposition that a court
of chancery had no power to restrain criminal proceedings,
unless they had been instituted by a party to a suit already

WHITE v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

pending before it, and to try the same right that was in issue
there, the court proceeded: "It is equally well settled that a
court of equity has no jurisdiction over the appointment and
removal of public officers, whether the power of removal is
vested, as well as that of appointment, in executive or admin,istrative boards or officers, or is entrusted to a judicial tribunal. The jurisdiction to determine the title to a public office
belongs exclusively to the courts of law, and is exercised
either by certiorari, error or appeal, or by mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto or information in the nature of a writ of
quo warranto, according to the circumstances of the case,
and the mode of procedure established by common law or by
statute. No English case has been found of a bill for an injunction to restrain the appointment or removal of a municipal officer. But an information in the Court of Chancery for
the'regulation of Harrow School within its undoubted jurisdiction over public charities was dismissed so far as it sought
a removal of governors unlawfully elected, Sir William Grant
saying: 'This court, I apprehend, has no jurisdiction with
regard either to the election or a motion of corporators of any
description.' Attorney General v. Clarendon,17 Ves. 488, 491.
In the courts of the several States the power of a court of
equity to restrain by injunction the removal of a municipal
officer has been denied in many well-considered cases," - citing Tap an v. Gray, 3 Edw. Ch. 450, reversed by Chancellor
Walworth on appeal, 9 Paige, 507, 509, 512, whose decree
was affirmed by the Court of Errors, 7 Hill, 259 ; Ilagner v.
.Heyberger, 7 Watts & Serg. 104-; Updegraf v. Crans, 47
Penn. St. 103; Cochran v. lIoc~leary, 22 Iowa, 75; Delahanty
v. Tarner, 75 Illinois, 185; Sheridan v. Colvin, 78 Illinois,
237; Beebe v. Robinson, 52 Alabama, 66; and Moulton v.
Reid, 51 Alabama, 320.
The rule established in Sawyer's case was applied in Morgan v. NYunn, 84 Fed. Rep. 551, in which Judge Lurton said
that "a court of equity will not, by injunction, restrain an
executive officer. from making a wrongful removal of a subordinate appointee, nor restrain the appointment of another."
Similar decisions have been made in other Circuit Courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States; by Judges Pardee .and Newman, in
(ouper v. Sinyth, Northern District of Georgia, 84; Fed. Rep.
757; by Judge Kirkpatrick, in Page v. Hffoett, District of
New Jersey, 85 Fed. Rep. 38; by Judge Jenkins, Northern
District of Illinois, in Carr v. Gordon, 82 Fed. Rep. 373, 379,
and by Judge Baker, District of Indiana, in Taylor v. Eercheval, 82 Fed. Rep. 497, 499.
If the assignment of some one to duty as gauger at the
Hannis distillery, in the place of the plaintiff, did not work
his removal from office, a court of equity ought not to assume
to control the discretion which under. existing statutes the
Executive Department has in all such matters. Interference
by the judicial department in such cases would lead to the
utmost confusion in the management of -executive affairs.
But the plaintiff contends that the assignment of some one
to duty in his place at the Hannis distillery is, in effect, a removal of him from his office in violation of law, and that the
object of the proceedings against him was to bring about that
result. But, under the authorities cited, such proceedings
cannot be restrained by a court of the United States, sitting
in equity, and therefore the court below erred in passing the
final decree which has been brought here for review.
Without expressing any opinion upon other questions so
fully discussed by counsel, we hold that the Circuit Court,
sitting in equity, was without jurisdiction to grant the relief
asked.
The decree below is reversed,.andthe cause is remanded with
direction-to dismiss the bill.
MR. JUsTIcE MoKtNNA took .no part in the decision of this

case.

