BOOTH v. INDIANA.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

April 3, 1914, $984.87, or $5,828.47, is the greatest sum for
which it could have recovered judgment.
The maximum amount fairly in dispute is therefore the
judgment of $15,878.13 against appellant, plus $5,828.47
which it sought to recover from appellee-a total of
$21,706.60. Dushane v. Benedict, 120 U. S. 630, 636; Buckstaff v. Russell, 151 U. S. 626, 628; Harten v. L.ffler, 212
U. S. 397, 403; Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610, 617;
Philippine Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 510.
The value in controversy being under $25,000.00, the
appeal must be
Dismissed.

BOOTH v. STATE OF INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 231.

Argued April 19, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

As the police power of the State extends'to regulating coal mining, it
cannot be limited by moments of time and differences of situation.
Where the highest court of the State has sustained a police statute under the State Constitution, this court is only concerned with questions of constitutionality under the Federal Constitution.
The Fifth Amendment is not applicable to the States.
The decision of the highest court of the state that the method of calling
a police statute into operation is proper does not involve a Federal
question reviewable by this court.
A police statute requiring owners of the mine to furnish certain conveniences for coal miners on request of a specified number of employ6s is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the
law because it may be applied to one mine where some of the
employ6s demand it, and not to another where such demand is not
made by the specified number. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.
539.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

The statute of Indiana requiring owners of coal mines to erect and
maintain wash-houses for their employ~s at the request of twenty
or more employ~s is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth
Amendment either as depriving the mine owners of their property without due process of law or as denying them the equal protection of the law.
100 N. E. Rep. 563, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the coal mine wash-house law of
Indiana, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry W. Moore, with whom Mr. Ulric Z. Wiley
and Mr. T. J. Moll were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The act under which plaintiff in error was convicted is
not a valid exercise of police power; it does not serve the
purpose for which it was intended.
The act is not in harmony with the principles of popular
government; it goes beyond what is necessary and violates
the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The act deprives a citizen of property without compensation or due process of law; is class legislation and violates both state and Federal Constitutions; it discriminates
between persons equally entitled to its protection.
The legislature cannot delegate its authority to another
body or private person or persons, nor can it abdicate its
functions except to lawful public agencies.
A police regulation cannot be established except by the
law-making power.
The act is in the nature of a "referendum" and is therefore invalid. It is also an arbitrary exercise of police power
as applied to plaintiff in error.
Numerous authorities support these contentions.
Mr. Richard M. Milburn and Mr. Leslie R. Naftzer, with
whom Mr. Thomas M. Honan, Attorney-General for the

BOOTH v. INDIANA.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Indiana, and Mr. Thomas H. Branarnan,were on

the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Error to review a judgment of conviction for the violation of a statute of Indiana entitled "An act requiring the
owners and operators of coal mines and other employers
of labor to erect and maintain wash-houses at certain
places where laborers are employed, for the protection of
the health of the employ~s, and providing a penalty for
its violation." Section one reads as follows:
"Coal Mining-Wash-housesfor Laborers.
"Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
the State of Indiana, That for the protection of the health
of the employs hereinafter mentioned, it shall be the duty
of the owner, operator, lessee, superintendent of, or other
person in charge of every coal mine or colliery, or other
place where laborers employed are surrounded by or affected by similar conditions as employ~s in coal mines, at
the request in writing of twenty (20) or more employ~s
of such mine or place, or in event there are less than twenty
(20) men employed, then upon the written request of onethird (1/3) of the number of employ6s employed, to provide a suitable wash-room or wash-house for the use of
persons employed, so that they may change their clothing
before beginning work, and wash themselves, and change
their clothing after working. That said building or room
shall be a separate building or room from the engine or
boiler room, and shall be maintained in good order, be
properly lighted and heated, and be supplied with clean
cold and warm water, and shall be provided with all necessary facilities for persons to wash, and also provided
with suitable lockers for the safe-keeping of clothing.
Provided, however, that the owner, operator, lessee, super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

intendent of or other person in charge of such mine or
place as aforesaid, shall not be required to furnish soap or
towels."
It is provided in ยง 2 that a violation of the act shall be a
misdemeanor and punished by a fine, to which may be
added imprisonment.
The prosecution was started by an affidavit charging
Booth, he being the superintendent of a mine belonging
to the Indiana Coal Company in one of the counties of the
State, with a violation of the act for failure to provide a
wash-house or wash-room as required by the statute after
request in writing from twenty of the employ6s of the
mine.
A motion to quash the affidavit and dismiss the charge
was made on the grounds, stated with elaborate specifications, that the affidavit did not state an offense against
the State of Indiana or the United States and that the
statute violated both the constitution of the State and the
Constitution of the United States.
The motion having been overruled, upon trial Booth
was found guilty and fined one dollar and costs. He made
a motion in arrest of judgment, repeating without details
the grounds that he had charged in his motion to dismiss.
The conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. (100 N. E. Rep. 563.)
The record contains seventeen assignments of error.
Plaintiff in error, however, waives five of them and is content to present his contentions in the other twelve. These
contentions are, stated in broad generality, that the statute under review is in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States and certain articles of the constitution of the State
of Indiana.
We are concerned only with the contention based on
the Fourteenth Amendment, as the Fifth Amendment is
not applicable to the States and the conformity of the

BOOTH v. INDIANA.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute to the constitution of the State of Indiana has
been adjudged by the Supreme Court of the State.
The specifications under the Fourteenth Amendment
are: (1) That the statute deprives plaintiff in error of his
property without due process of law; and (2) denies him
the equal protection of the law.
The Supreme Court rejected both contentions, deciding
that the statute was a legal exercise of the police power of
the State, and the specific objection that the statute was
invalid because it only applies to coal mines and not to
other classes of business the court said was disposed of by
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, and Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 708. The court quoted from the latter
case as follows: "The specific regulation for one kind of
business, which may be necessary for the protection of the
public, can never be the just ground of complaint because
like restrictions are not imposed upon other business of a
different kind."
Plaintiff in error, to sustain his contentions and to combat the conclusions of the Supreme Court, enters into a
wide consideration of the police power. It has been so
often discussed, that we may assume that both its extent
and limitations are known. Their application in the
present case can best be determined by considering the
objections to it.
The first objection in the case at bar seems to be that
the statute "applies solely and specifically to a particular
class, engaged in a particular business, and is not in the
interest of the public generally, as distinguished from a
particular class." And it is further said that "it is a matter
of common knowledge, of which courts take judicial notice, that the 'class' to which the act applies constitutes
a very small percentage of population, and this being true,
the act could not possibly be in the interest of the public
health of the commonwealth."
The objection is answered by the cases already cited, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, and McLean v. Arkansas,
211 U. S. 539; and further comment is unnecessary.
But a distinction is sought to be made between what a
legislature may require for the safety and protection of a
miner while actually in service below ground and that
which may be required when he has ceased or has not
commenced his labors. Cases are cited which, upon that
distinction, have decided that when a miner has ceased his
work and has reached the surface of the earth his situation
is not different from that of many other workmen and that,
therefore, his rights are not greater than theirs and will
not justify a separate classification.
We are unable to concur in this reasoning or to limit the
power of the legislature by the distinctions expressed.
Having the power in the interest of the public health to
regulate the conditions upon which coal mining may be
conducted, it cannot be limited by moments of time and
differences of situation. The legislative judgment may be
determined by all of the conditions and their influence.
The conditions to which a miner passes or returns from
are very different from those which an employ4 in work
above ground passes to or returns from, and the conditions
of actual service in the cases are very different, and it
cannot be judicially said that a judgment which makes
such differences a basis of classification is arbitrarily exercised, certainly not in view of the wide discretion this court
has recognized, and necessarily has recognized, in legislation to classify its objects.
It is further said that the act "is inoperative in itself,
for the reason that it can only be put into operation by
the will and election of a specific number of the 'class' to
which it applies, and consequently it fastens a burden
upon the owners and operators of coal mines, which is 'a
manifest injustice by positive law."' The purpose of the
comment, other than to give accent to the contention that
the act has special operation, is part of the view, elsewhere

BOOTH v. INDIANA.
237 U. S.

397

Opinion of the Court.

urged that the provision is a delegation of legislative
power. But with this objection we are not concerned.
The Supreme Court of the State decided that the law
could be called into operation by petition, and in the decision no Federal question is involved.
It is, however, further objected that the law discriminates because it may be applied to one mine and not to
another, all other conditions being the same but the desire
of the miners-indeed, discriminates upon a distinction
more arbitrary than that, upon the desire of twenty in
one mine as against a lesser number, nineteen, it may be,
in another. The objection is a familiar one and has an
instance and answer in McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539.
It is the usual ground of attack upon a distinction based
on degree, and seems to have a special force when the distinction depends upon a difference in numbers.
But there are many practical analogies. The jurisdiction of a court is often made to depend upon amounts apparently arbitrarily fixed. For instance, the jurisdiction
of the District Court of the United States (formerly the
Circuit Court) is limited to civil suits in law and equity
in certain instances in which the amount in controversy
is $3,000. It could be objected, as it is here objected, that
the amount is arbitrary and that there cannot be any difference in principle between suits for $3,000 and suits for
$2,999, a distinction dependent upon one dollar. Indeed,
in more acute illustration, the distinction may be made of
one cent only. And so might there be objection to any
amount which might be selected, as it might be also to
any number of petitioning miners which the legislature of
* Indiana might have selected. Indeed, would not an objection have the same legal strength if the law had been
made to depend upon anything less than unanimity of
desire? To require that it might well have been thought
by the legislature would render the legislation nugatory,
and that a lesser number would call it into exercise and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

attain its object. The conception, no doubt, was that a
lesser number-indeed, the number selected-would be
fairly representative of the desire and necessity of the
miners and that use would breed a habit, example induce
imitation and a healthful practice starting with a limited
number might become that of all. And such consummation justified the effort, the manner adopted attaining the
end sought as well as if not better than a direct and
peremptory requirement of the miners and mine owners.
The choice of manner was under the circumstances for the
legislature and its choice was legal if it had the power to
enact the law at all. Plaintiff in error disputes such power
and thereby presents in its most general form his contention against the validity of the statute.
The contention seems to be independent of the objections that we have considered, and yet in counsels' discussion those objections and others are so mingled that
it is impossible to discern which they consider especially
vitiate the law and take it out of the power of government
to enact.
The charge of its special application to coal mines and
its other features of discrimination we have passed upon.
The charge that it has no relation to health, we are not
disposed to dwell upon. Counsel seem to think if the
washing places were required to be put underground in
connection with or in proximity to the working places, the
law would be relieved from some criticism.
There remains to be considered only the contention
that the law "is, within itself, a dead letter." And it is
said that "it would forever lie dormant if not called into
exercise and activity by the request of private persons."
Or, as plaintiff in error otherwise expresses what he thinks
to be the evil of the law, it "is not enforceable by any
power which the state government possesses, under its
constitution, or its laws enacted thereunder, but it is enforceable only upon the demand, the whim or the election

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. GRAY.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of a limited number of employ~s in the coal mining business." And it is declared that "this is the exercise of an
arbitrary power, for an arbitrary private right, and against
a private business."
We have quoted counsels' language in order to give them
the strength of their own expressions of what they consider the vice of the law, but manifestly it is but a generalization from the particular objections which we have
considered, and those objections we have sufficiently
discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO

AND NORTHWESTERN
COMPANY v. GRAY.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 232.

Argued April 19, 20, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

This court will not express an opinion on the question of whether or
not the trial court should have found that the injured employ6
was engaged in interstate commerce, where the error, if any, did
the appellant no harm.
Where the claim of defendant railroad company against whom the verdict was rendered is that the plaintiff was engaged in interstate commerce and the case should have been tried under the Federal instead
of the state statute, and the finding of the jury was warranted by
the evidence, this court will not reverse if it does not appear that
the defendant's position was worse because the state, instead of the
Federal, law governed the case.
Under the Wisconsin law assumption of risk is merely a case of contributory negligence, and a finding of the jury that the plaintiff
was not guilty of contributory negligence excludes the possibility
that he assumed the risk.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injuries, are stated in the opinion.

