OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY OF NEW MEXICO
v. LITTLEFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 320.

Submitted March 1, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

Penna. R. R. v. Puritan Mining Co., ante, p. 121, followed to effect
that under the proviso of ยง 22 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
the state courts by virtue of their general jurisdiction can determine
theright of a shipper to recover damages from the carrier for its
failure to supply a reasonable number of cars after it had accepted
*the order, although a car shortage existed of which it had knowledge

but did not notify the shipper.
While a carrier may be relieved from performing a service by reason
of conditions arising without fault on its part, it must promptly
notify shippers of its inability, or the reception of goods without
notice will estop the carrier from setting up what might be a sufficient
excuse.
Where the record does not contain the evidence and there are no
findings of fact, the verdict of the jury in favor of the plaintiff must
be construed to mea4 that the evidence sustained the material allegations of the complaint.
The liability of a carrier for failing to furnish a reasonable number of
cars for an accepted shipment becomes fixed when the goods are
tendered and the carrier fails to furnish the facilities needed, and
that liability cannot be avoided by proving a car shortage for which
the carrier was not responsible but of which it gave no notice to the
shipper.
Whether a carrier is liable at common law as forwarders of freight to
be delivered to connecting carriers outside the State and whether
associated carriers are so associated as to be jointly ankd severally
liable are not Federal questions and are concluded by the decision
of the state court.
Writ of error to review 154 S. W. Rep. 543, dismissed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. H. Culwell, Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, and Mr.
Robert Dunlap for plaintiff in error, submitted.

EASTERN RAILWAY v. LITTLEFIELD.
237 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. W. A. Dunn, Mr. J. A. Templeton, and Mr. D. T.
Bomar for defendant in error, submitted:

Federal questions which the highest state court is by
its settled practice justified in disregarding, either because not assigned or not noticed or relied upon in the
brief or argument of counsel will not serve as a basis of
a writ of error from the Federal Supreme Court. Hulbert
v. Chicago, 202 U. S. 275; Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446;
Western Electrical Co. v. Abbeville Electrical Co., 197 U. S.
299; Cin. & Ohio Ry. v. Slade, 216 U. S.78; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Wilson, 213 U. S.52; Leathe v. Thomas, 207
U. S.93; Yazoo Ry. v. Adams, 180 U. S.1.
This court, in an action at law, has no jurisdiction to
review the decision of the highest court of a State upon
a pure question of fact, although a Federal question would
or would not be presented according to the way in which
the question of fact was decided. Dower v. Richards, 151
U. S. 658.
It is-not enough that such right, privilege or immunity
was thus set up and claimed, but it must be made manifest
either that the right was denied or that the judgment
could not have been rendered without denying it. West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Wilson, 213 U. S.52.
This court will not take jurisdiction of a cause where the
judgment of the state court rests on two grounds, one of
which does not involve a Federal question or where it does
not appear on which of two grounds the judgment was
based, and the non-Federal ground in itself is sufficient to
sustain the judgment. Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S.149;
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S.112; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Wilson, 213 U. S.52; Arkansas Southern Ry. v.
German Nat'l Bank, 207 U. S.270; Leathe v. Thomas, 207
U. S. 93; Vandalia Ry. v. Indiana, 207 U. S. 359.
The plaintiffs' cause of action as declared on in their
petition was based on, and grew out of the breach by defendants of their common law duty, to furnish at the point

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

of origin of the shipment, after due and reasonable notice
so to do, a sufficient number of suitable cars wherein to
ship the cattle, then and there tendered for shipment.
Such a breach of duty was not such a violation of the
interstate commerce act as was cognizable alone by the
United States court to the exclusion of the state courts.
Re Winn, 213 U. S. 458; Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside
Mills, 219 U. S. 208; G. H. & S. A. Ry. v. Wallace, 223
U. S. 481.
Notwithstanding the breach of duty on the part of the
defendants, of which plaintiffs complain and for which
they seek to recover damages, may have been inhibited
by, and may constitute a violation of the interstate commerce law, the state courts are not deprived of jurisdiction over such a cause of action, but such jurisdiction is
expressly recognized by ยง 22 of the act of February 4, 1887,
and by par. 7 of the act of June 29f 1906, amending ยง 20
of the act of 1887. G. H. & S. A. Ry. v. Wallace, 223 U. S.
481; Adams Express Co. v. Crominger, 226 U. S. 491; Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 208.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error jointly operate the Santa Fe system, of railway lines extending through Arizona, Texas,
Kansas and Oklahoma into Missouri. The Littlefield
Cattle Company owns ranches near these roads and
brought suit for damages caused by their failure to furnish
cars needed for the transportation of cattle from points in
Texas to points in Missouri.
The Cattle Company's declaration averred that finding
in the spring of 1907 that it would need 200 cars in which
to ship cattle to market it requested the carriers' station
agent in May, 1907, to furnish these cars in lots of 50, at
designated places on designated dates in September and
October, 1907. The defendants accepted the order and

EASTERN RAILWAY v. LITTLEFIELD.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff relying on the duty and promise brought 3900
head of cattle to the station at the time stated and tendered the same for shipment. The defendants refused
to furnish the cars needed. Plaintiff was consequently
forced to hold the cattle under herd for 3everal weeks
awaiting the arrival of cars wherein to ship the same. On
October 18, 1907 plaintiff learned for the first time definitely that defendants would not furnish cars until several
weeks thereafter, whereupon plaintiff was forced to abandon the shipment and return the herd to the ranch in
Texas which was distant from the station about 100 miles.
By reason of the. expense and loss of the market plaintiffs
were damaged $35,000.
Each Railway Company demurred specially on -the
ground that it could not be required to furnish cars to go
beyond its line in interstate shipment; and insisted that
if plaintiff had any right of action it arose under the Commerce Act and the United States courts had exclusive
jurisdiction of the suit. The demurrer was overruled.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff and, the judgment
thereon having been affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Texas, the case is here on a writ of error in which the assignments are said to present two questions involving the
construction of the act to regulate commerce.
1. The decision in Penna. R. R. v. Puritan Coal Mining Company, just decided, ante, p. 121, makes it unnecessary to do more than repeat that, under the proviso
to ยง 22 of the Commerce Act, the state courts by virtue
of their general jurisdiction can determine the right of a
shipper to damages for failure to supply cars in cases like
that presented by the plaintiff's pleading in the present
suit. There was, therefore, no error in overruling the defendant's demurrer.
2. It is claimed that a Federal question, and one calling
for the exercise of the administrative function of the Commission, was raised by the contention in defendants'

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

answer that plaintiffs' demand for cars was unreasonable
and as the defendants were unable to comply with the
demand they are not liable for failure to furnish the cars
within the time, as alleged.
This contention is based on the averment in the answer
tlat the defendant's lines were adequate for the needs of
tbe sparsely settled country through which they ran 'until
the - day of
,1907 when an unprecedented rush of
settlers to the southwest created an unprecedented demand for transportation facilities of all kinds, including
cars for live stock.' It was also averred that during the
year 1907 there was a car shortage throughout the country
and "It was impossible for the defendants to have furnished the cars demanded by the plaintiffs without neglecting other demands and discriminating against other
persons-and firms contrary to the provisions of the Federal
law regulating interstate commerce.'! There is complaint
made of the rulings of the trial judge relating to this defense.
But whatever may be the rights and remedies of the
parties and the jurisdiction of the Commission, in such
cases, it is certain that the defendants' answer does not
meet the issue nor set out facts which would constitute a
defense against the cause of action alleged in the plaintiffs'
pleading. For the answer indicates that the car shortage
was known to the carriers when the plaintiffs demanded
cars to be furnished in September and October. There
is no allegation that in May the carrier objected that the
demand was unreasonable in the time that it was made
or in the number of cars that were demanded. Nor was
there any claim that the want of equipment was brought
to the attention of the Cattle Company, or that it was
notified that conditions were such as to make it impossible
for the carriers to agree to furnish cars at the time and
place designated. If such information had then been
given to the shipper, or promptly upon subsequent dis-

EASTERN RAILWAY v. LITTLEFIELD.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

covery that the defendants would be unable to supply the
cars, a different question would have arisen. But, where,
without fault on its part, a carrier is unable to perform a
service due and demanded, it must promptly notify the
shipper of its inability, otherwise the reception of goods
without such notice will estop the carrier from setting up
what would otherwise have been a sufficient excuse for
refusing to accept the goods or for delay in shipment after
they had been received. The evidence is not set out in
the record and there are no findings of fact, but the verdict of the jury must be construed to mean that the evidence sustained the material allegations of the complaint
and showed that the defendants had negligently failed to
furnish
promised.
Thus cars
construed
it appears that the plaintiff in May
gave
the carriers notice that it would need 200 cars in the following September and October to be used in the shipment
of cattle from Texas to Missouri. The offer was accepted
and a statement was made that the cars would be on hand
at the time and place named. Relying thereon the Cattle
Company drove its herd a long distance across the country
and at great expense kept them at the station until definitely notified that they could not be shipped for several
weeks. In the meantime great expense had accrued, the
market was lost and the cattle had to be driven 100 miles
back to the ranch.
The liability of the carriers under these facts, and in the
absence of a showing of new facts establishing an excuse,
became fixed when the cattle were tendered for shipment
and the carrier failed to furnish the facilities needed. That
liability cannot now be avoided by proof that the failure
to furnish cars was occasioned by a shortage for which
the carriers may not have been responsible but as to which
they failed to give timely notice to the shipper.
The question as to whether at common law these railroads were liable as forwarders of freight to be delivered
VOL. ccxxxviI-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

to connecting carriers outside the State; and whether the
railways were so associated as to make them jointly and
severally liable are-Inatters concluded by the decision of
the Supreme Court of Texas. There is no merit in the
Federal question relied on and the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. SHERMAN & SONS COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 541.

Argued December 17, 18, 1914.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The Government will not allow foreign goods to be brought into this
country and then litigate with the importer as to the amount of
duty. The duty, as assessed by the Collector, must be paid in any
event, not only as a condition of entering the goods, but also as a
condition of the right to file a protest. After payment and protest the importer may exercise a right of review under the statutory
method and procedure provided therefor.
The assessment and collection of duties is an administrative matter,
no notice or hearing being necessary where the assessment is in rem
and against the foreign goods sought to be entered.
In case of fraud, inability on the part of the Government to proceed
in rem against goods fraudulently entered would not prevent it
from enforcing the personal liability of the importer in a suit in
personam. United States v. National Fiber Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 596,
approved.
An importer is not concluded by a reliquidation order made more
than one year after the entry where the complaint contains no allegation of the presence of a protest or of fraud, but may file his plea
and be heard in his defense as in other cases even though he did not
file a protest and make the payment required in the case of the original
*liquidation.
In a suit brought against an importer to recover the amount of duty

