TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MARCUS.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the defendant for any injury resulting from the intervening malpractice of the surgeon or surgeons, if such
malpractice was found to exist, if the plaintiff had failed
to exercise reasonable care in the selection of a competent
surgeon or surgeons and had in any respect fallen' below
the standard which reasonable prudence would have
exacted, not only in the employment of a reasonably
competent surgeon but in following his advice concerning
the necessity of the operation- to relieve from the consequences of the injury suffered from the collision, if in
fact such injury was found to have been suffered.
In conclusion we observe that the contention that error
was committed by the trial court in not directing a remittitur because of the assumed excessive amount of the
verdict is not open (Southern Ry. Co. v. Bennett, 233 U. S.
80), and it needs nothing but statement of the proposition
to demonstrate the want of all foundation for the contention that there is ground for reversing the trial court
because the court below affirmed the action of that court
without opinion.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MARCUS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 790.

Submitted March 1, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

A corporation created by an act of Congress has an inherent right to
invoke the jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals.

On the record in this case this court sees no reversible error and affirms
the judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injuries, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. P. Jones for defendant in error in support of the
motion.
When a passenger train blocks a public way and the
vestibule openings between the coaches have, for many
years, been left open as a passageway for the public,
starting the train without closing the doors thereof or
giving signal raises the issue of negligence. Chicago &
Ohio Ry. v. Steele, 29 C. C. A. 81; 2 Thompson on Negligence, §§ 1568-1571, 1726.
Where the public has long used the openings between
coaches as a passway, the railway company, in starting
the train, owes the same duty to give signals as it would
before starting the train across a public way. Adams v.
Southern Ry., 28 C. C. A. 495; S. C., 84 Fed. Rep. 596; Balt.
& Pot. Ry. v. Cumberland, 176 U. S. 232; Del. Improvement
Co. v. Steed, 75 U. S. 161; Ellsworth v. Metheny, 44 C. C.
A. 484; Grand Trunk Ry. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408; Tex. &
Pac. Ry. v. Cody, 166 U. S. 606.
Where the openings between coaches have been used
with the acquiescence of the railway company for a number
of years as a passway, starting the train with a jerk without giving signals raises the issue of negligence, though
the engineer did not know that any person was passing
through the opening, for he would be charged with notice
of the probability of persons being in a position to be
injured. 2 Thompson on Negligence, §§ 1472-1552-15621568-1571.
Mr. F. H. Prendergastfor plaintiff in error in opposition
to the motion.
The mere fact that the train started with a jerk when
it bicked out of a station, would not be negligence unless
the jerk was unusual. Boston Elevated Ry. v. Smith, 168

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MARCUS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 629; Hogan v. Railroad, 59 Wisconsin, 150;
Tex. & Pac.Ry. v. Breadow, 90 Texas, 27; Tex. & Pac.Ry.
v. Staggs, 90 Texas, 485.
After a passenger train has remained at a station the
usual length of time, the conductor does not have to
examine to see if persons not passengers, and not intending
to become such, are climbing on or off the train. Bennett
v. Railroad, 102 U. S. 584; Griswald v. Chicago Railroad,
23 Am. & Eng. R. R. Cas. 464; Gardner v. Railroad, 56
Connecticut, 143;' Gillis "r. Railroad, 59 Pa. St. 129; Keller
v. Railroad, 27 Minnesota, 178; Lucas v. New Bedford
R. R., 6 Gray, 64; Lucas v. New Bedford R. R., 66 Am.
Dec. 406; Lawton v. Little Rock R. R., 18 S. W. Rep.
459; McKone v. Railroad, 51 Michigan, 601; Mitchell v.
Railroad, 51 Michigan, 238; Railway v. Letcher, 69 Alabama, 106; Railway v. Miller, 27 S. W. Rep. 905; Sherman
& Redf. on Neg. 36; Sutton v. Railway, 66 N. Y. 248; Tex.
& Pac. Ry. v. McGilvray, 29 S. W. Rep., 68.
Where a train headed east opened the vestibules on the
north side to allow passengers to leave the car on that
side and go to another train waiting on that side, then it
is not negligence to allow the vestibules to remain open
until the incoming train starts to back out. Davis v.
Railroad, 58 Wisconsin, 657; Davis v. Railroad, 15 Am. &
Eng. R. R. Cas. 424; Gardnerv. Railroad,51 Connecticut,
143; Mitchell v. Railroad, 51 Michigan, 238.

Memorandum opinion by MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

by direction of the court.
The Texas & Pacific Railway Company, a corporation
created by an act of Congress, prosecutes this writ of
error to reverse a judgment of the court below affirming
one of the trial court entered on the verdict of a jury in
favor of the defendant in error awarding damages alleged
to have been by her suffered through the negligence of
the Railway Company. We pass from the motion to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

dismiss as there is jurisdiction. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Hill, ante, p. 208.
To understand the controversy a statement of the
circumstances from which it arose is essential. Immediately north of the depot of the Railway Company at Marshall, Texas, two tracks run east and west. At the time
here in question on the track farthest from the depot,
the more northern of the two, there stood a train scheduled
shortly to depart east for Shreveport, Louisiana. A party
including the defendant in error, accompanying a friend
who was leaving on such train, came to the depot and
crossed over to the waiting train. While they were there
a train bound west for Texarkana, which was behind time,
came in and was stopped on the track immediately north
of the depot and therefore stood between the track on
which the Shreveport train was standing and the platform of the depot. When the party, after bidding goodbye to their friend started to return to the depot they found
the Texarkana train barring their passage. The vestibules,
however, between some or all of the cars of this train were
open and most of the party crossed through an open
vestibule to the depot platform. When, however, the
defendant in error was doing so, by a sudden jerking
movement of the train made without any notice or warning, as she alleged, she was thrown down and received the
injury for which she sued. It is not traversed that usually
persons wishing to go from the depot platform to a train
standing on the northern track crossed the open vestibules
on trains standing on the track nearest the depot. It was
disputed, however, whether on coming from a train standing on the farthest track, it was usual to cross an open
vestibule of an intervening train for the purpose of reaching the depot. There was dispute as to whether notice
was given of the movement of the Texarkana train.
The trial court gave to the jury full instructions concerning every aspect of the case, some of which were

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MARCUS.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

objected to on the ground that the tendency of the proof
was not such as to justify the instructions. The court
also refused to give certain instructions asked by the
Railway Company which either depended upon assumptions as to the condition of the proof or were equivalent
only to an expression in different form of the contention
concerning the tendency of the proof which formed the
basis of the exception to the charges which were given.
Exanimg the whole record and considering all the
propositions and arguments deemed as sustaining them
pressed at bar we are of opinion that all the contentions
urged to show that reversible error exists in ultimate
analysis rest upon assertions as to the existence or nonexistence of tendencies of the proof; in other words, in
substance but assert that there was nothing in the case to
justify its going to the jury for decision. When the case
is thus resolved, we are clearly of the opinion that the
propositions relied upon are without merit and therefore
that no reversible error exists and the judgment below
should be affirmed. As the grounds upon which this
conclusion rests involve only a consideration of the evidence and the tendencies of the proof resulting from it,
matters of no doctrinal concern, we again say that we see
no necessity of doing more than announce our conclusion.
Seaboard Air Line By. Co. v. Padgett, decided March 22,
1915, 236 U. S. 668, Texas & PacificRy. Co. v. Hill, supra.
Affirmed.

