OCTOBER TERM. 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

PARK,
TRUSTEE
OF
SLAYDEN-KIRKSEY
WOOLEN MILL, BANKRUPT, v. CAMERON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT. OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR- THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 293.

Submitted May 14, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

This action by the trustee to recover funds formerly belonging to the
bankrupt corporation, not being a suit to avoid a transfer by the
bankrupt of its property, but a suit against wrongdoers who had appropriated the bankrupt's property without its assent, is not one

within §§ 23b and 70e of the Bankruptcy Act, and the District Court
properly dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction

THE facts, which involve the right of a trustee in bank-

ruptcy to recover funds formerly belonging to the bankrupt, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Neethe, Mr. J. D. Williamson and Mr. Rhodes
S. Baker for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles A. Boynton, Mr. W. M. Sleeper -and Mr.
Ben G. Kendall for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover funds
formerly belonging to the bankrupt. The District Court
dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction. The defendants
in error admit that the court had jurisdiction of a suit by
the trustee to recover property fraudulently transferred
-by the bankrupt, §§ 23b, 70e, but deny that this is such a
suit. The plaintiff says that it is-so that our decision
must rest upon an analysis of the bill. The trouble with
it is that the cause of action is not very steadily conceived;

PARK v. CAMERON.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but in,
view of what seem to us the -dominant allegations
we are of opinion that the decree was right.
If we stopped with the opening hverment it is uncompromising: that the bankrupt transferred-to the defendants, for the purpose of defrauding its creditors, $8,250 in
cash. The declaration goes on to tell that the defendants,
being largely interested in the bankrupt Corporation,
bought 275 shares of one Altgeld to prevent the depreciation of the stock on the market; that they sold them to
Harris, but had trouble about collecting the price .(two
notes for $4,125 each, secured by the stock), Harris discovering that he had been overreached; that thereafter the
defendants, being directors, conspired with one Kirksey,
the general manager, and induced him to make a pretended
purchase of the stock, but really for the Corporation, and
to use in payment for the same $8,250 of the Corporation's
funds; that the Corporation had no funds with which to
purchase its own stock but was heavily involved and that
the sale was void; that the purchase was a pretense to
purchase the stock from the defendants and that $4,125
of the Corporation's funds were received by each of them.
Then it is alleged that the defendants knew or ought to
have known that the Corporation was not indebted to
Kirksey, that it was insolvent, and 'that the stock so pretended to be sold by them, either to the said Kirksey, or
to the said Corporation, was of no value' and that the
money received was the property of the bankrupt. So far
it might seem that the declaration sustained the plaintiff's
contention. But it continues that the Corporation did not
authorizb- the foregoing transactions or ratify them, and
that the defendants knew it; and 'that to conceal said
misapplication of funds' the defendants caused entries to
be made on the Corporation's books making the transaction appear to be a purchase of the stock by Kirksey,
contrary to the facts, 'and the defendants -knew said S. F.
Kirksey, Jr., was not to repay said funds to said Corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

tion' and the liability, was not intended to be a bona fide
one and afterwards pursuant to the conspiracy was cancelled and retired. The other allegations are not material
to the question before us. Those that we have recited
seem to us in their conclusion to import not that the corporation has done anything, but that certain of its officers
by false pretenses have withdrawn its funds. If so the
suit is not to avoid a transfer by the bankrupt of its property, but a suit against wrongdoers who have appropriated
it without the bankrupt's assent, and therefore not within
§§ 23b and 70e of the Act.
Judgment affirmed.

G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY v. SYNDICATE
PUBLISHING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued April 14, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
In a case where diverse citizenship exists, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is final unless in addition to the allegations of diverse
Citizenbhip, the bill contains averments of a cause of action, and consequent basis of jurisdiction, arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States.
If the jurisdiction of the District'Court was invoked on the ground of
diversity of citizenship, and averments 4ts to a Federal right are unsustainable and frivolous, or foreclosed by former adjudication of
this court, the appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be dismissed.
Where the jurisdiction below rests on diverse citizenship, averments
of unfair trade,which do not contain any elements of a cause of action
under the Federal Constitution or statutory law, afford no basis for
jurisdiction of this court of an appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.

