OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

tion' and the liability, was not intended to be a bona fide
one and afterwards pursuant to the conspiracy was cancelled and retired. The other allegations are not material
to the question before us. Those that we have recited
seem to us in their conclusion to import not that the corporation has done anything, but that certain of its officers
by false pretenses have withdrawn its funds. If so the
suit is not to avoid a transfer by the bankrupt of its property, but a suit against wrongdoers who have appropriated
it without the bankrupt's assent, and therefore not within
§§ 23b and 70e of the Act.
Judgment affirmed.

G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY v. SYNDICATE
PUBLISHING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued April 14, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
In a case where diverse citizenship exists, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is final unless in addition to the allegations of diverse
Citizenbhip, the bill contains averments of a cause of action, and consequent basis of jurisdiction, arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States.
If the jurisdiction of the District'Court was invoked on the ground of
diversity of citizenship, and averments 4ts to a Federal right are unsustainable and frivolous, or foreclosed by former adjudication of
this court, the appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be dismissed.
Where the jurisdiction below rests on diverse citizenship, averments
of unfair trade,which do not contain any elements of a cause of action
under the Federal Constitution or statutory law, afford no basis for
jurisdiction of this court of an appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.

MERRIAM CO. v. SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO.
237 U. S.

619

Opinion of the Court.

The Trade-mark Act of 1881 expressly denied the right of an applicant
to obtain a trade-mark on his own name, or to acquire in a proper
nane trade-mark rights not recognized at common law.
The Trade-mark Act of 1905 does recognize the right to obtain trademarks in a proper name when the same has been in use under specified conditions for ten years, but makes the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals final in cases arising under the Act. Street & Smith
v. Atlas Co., 231 U. S. 348.
As is the case with patents, so after the expiration of copyright securing
the exclusive right of publication, the further use of the name by
which the publicatioln was known and sold cannot be acquired by
registration as a trade-mark. Merriam v. Hollaway Co., 43 Fed. Rep.
450, approved; and see Jane v. Singer ManufacturingCo., 163 U. S.
169.
The word "Webster" was not subject to registration as a trade-,
mark under the act of 1881, and a contention based on an attempted
registration affords no jurisdiction for this court to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, having been precluded by prior
decisions of this court.
Appeal from 207 Fed. Rep. 515, dismissed.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

of appeals from judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
in cases involving rights under the Trade-mark Acts of
1881 and 1905, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William B. Hale for appellant,_
Mr. Hugh A. Bayne, with whom Mr. Wade H. Ellis,
Mr. R. Golden Donaldson and Mr. Challen B. Ellis were
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by complainant to enjoin the defendant from the use of the name "Webster" as a trademark and trade-ntame, when applied to the sale of dictionaries of the English language. A decree was entered
dismissing the bill in the United States District Court
(207 Fed. Rep. 515). This decree was affirmed upon ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

peal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second.Circuit (207 Fed. Rep. 515), and from the latter decree an
appeal was taken to this court.
The original bill set up at great length the origin and
history of the Webster dictionary publications, the succession of the complainant to the ownership of the rights
of publication, and the various copyrights which had been
taken out from time to time to protect the use of the name
"Webster," as applied to dictionaries of the English language, and facts were set out in detail concerning the
various publications which the complainant and its predecessors had made from time to time. The bill, in its
original form, relied upon the secondary meaning which,
it was alleged, the history of the publications had established in the name "Webster," as applied to English
dictionaries, and it was alleged that the exclusive right to
use that name in such connection had become the property
of the complainant, and entitled it to protection against
those who used the word in such manner as to cause their
publications to be purchased as and for the publications
of the complainant. It was charged that the respondent
belonged to the class of persons wrongfully using the name
thus acquired, and facts in detail were set forth to support
this contention of unfair competition in trade. After the
bill was filed an amendment was added setting up the
ownership in complainant of certain trade-marks, duly
registered in the Patent Office of the United States, in
accordance with the statutes in.such case made and provided. The amendment alleges the registration of two
"trade-marks under the Act of Mar. 3, 1881 (c. 138, 21
Stat. 502), and of eight trade-marks under the Act of
Feb. 20, 1905 (c. 592, 33 Stat. 724), and it was charged
that the defendant used and imitated the complainant's
trade-marks upon Webster's dictionaries, by affixing the
word "Webster" to dictionaries in a manner closely imitating complainant's registered trade-marks or one of

MERRIAM CO. v. SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO.
237 U. S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

them, the natural tendency of such acts being to deceive
the public and to pass off defendant's dictionaries as and
for the dictionaries of the complainant. The prayer of the
bill was amended so as to ask relief by injunction against
the defendant from in any manner copying, imitating, or
infringing any of complainant's registered trade-marks.
The bill as amended therefore rested upon (1) allegations
tending to establish unfair competition in trade, (2) trademarks registered under the Act of 1881, and (3) trademarks registered under the Act of 1905.
A motion to dismiss the appeal was made and passed
for consideration to the argument upon the merits, which
has now been had.
The Circuit Court of Appeals' decree, affirming the
decree of the District Court, was final unless, in addition
to the allegations of diverse titizenship which were contained in the bill, there was an averment of a cause of action and consequent basis of jurisdiction arising under
the Constitution or statutes of the United States. Macfadden v. United States, 213 U. S. 288; Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561. If the jurisdiction of the District
Court was invoked on the ground of diversity of citizenship, and the averment as to a right arising under the
Federal Constitution or statutes was unsubstantial and
without real merit, either because of its frivolous character upon its face, or from the fact that reliance was
based upon a claim of Federal or statutory right denied
by former adjudications of this court, then the appeal to
this court must be dismissed. Newburyport Water Co. v.
Newburyport, 193 .U.S. 561, 576; Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 3,11.
" So far as concerns the allegations of unfair competition
in trade, upon which the bill mainly rests, such averments
contain no element of a cause of action arising, under the
Federal Constitution or statutory law. The' registered
trade-marks, an essential part of which covers the use of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the word "Webster" as applied to dictionaries of the
English language, were registered some under the Act of
1881 and some under the Act of 1905. In the latter act
there is a recognition of the right to obtain a trade-mark
upon a proper name, when the same has been in use for
ten years under conditions named in the statute. That
act was before this court in Thaddeus Davids Co. v.
Davids, 233 U. S. 461, and the distinction between it and
former acts was pointed out, particularly in that the Act
of 1905 gave the right to the use of ordinary surnames as
a trade-mark, which right did not exist under the prior
legislation. The Act of 1905 contains provisions making
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals final.
Street & Smith v. Atlas Co., 231 U. S. 348.
The Act of 1881 expressly denied the right of an applicant to obtain a trade-mark upon his own name, and gave
no recognition to the right to a trade-mark in a proper
name, nor did it confer authority to register such name and
thereby acquire a right not recognized at common law.
Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer, 139 U. S. 540, 542; Elgin
Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665; Howe Scale
Co. v. Wyckoff, 198 U. S. 118, 134, 135.
Moreover, it appears upon the face of the bill that the
registration of the trade-marks relied upon, having the
name "Webster" as applied to dictionaries of the English
language as their chief characteristic, was made long after
the expiration of the copyright securing to the publishers
the exclusive right to publish the Webster dictionaries.
After the expiration of a copyright of that character, it is
well-settled that the further use of the name, by which
the publication was known and sold under the copyright,
cannot be acquired by registration as a trade-mark; for
the name has become public property, and is not subject
to such appropriation. Such was the decision of Mr.
Justice Miller, sitting at circuit, in the first of what may
be called the Webster Dictionary Cases,--Merriam v.

MERRIAM CO. v. SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO. 623
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Holloway Pub. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 450. In that case, the
learned justice in vigorous terms denied the right to
appropriate as a trade-mark the designation "Webster's
Dictionary" after the expiration of the copyright. To the
same effect is Merriam v. Famous Shoe & Clothing Co., 47
Fed. Rep. 411. These cases were cited with approval in
the opinion, in Singer Manufacturing Co. v. June Manufacturing Co., 163 U. S. 169, in which case the subject was
fully considered, and the cases, American and foreign,
were reviewed; the conclusion being reached that on the
expiration of a patent there passed to the public not only
the right to make the machine in the form covered by the
letters patent, but along with the public ownership of the
device described there necessarily passed to the public the
generic designation of the thing which had arisen during
the life of the monopoly. As the cases cited in the opinion
in that case show, this doctrine is no less applicable to the
expiration of a-copyright, upon the termination of which
there passes to the public the right to use the generic
name by which the publication has been known during
the existence of the exclusive right conferred by the copyright. in the Singer Case, at page 202, the same doctrine
was applied to a trade-mark containing the word "Singer"
and attempted to be used as one of the constituent. elements of a trade-mark.
In that case while the right of another, after the expiration of the monopoly, to use the generic designation was
recognized, it was also stated that its use must be such
as not to deprive the original proprietor of his rights, or
to deceive the public, and that such use of the name must
be accompanied with indications sufficient to show that
the thing manufactured or sold is the work of the one
making it, so that the public may be informed of that
fact,-this latter consideration arising from the use of the
name as designating the production of the original owner,
and in order to prevent confusion and unfair trade, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the wiongful appropriation of another's rights. As we
have already said, the feature of the case involving unfair
competition in trade came within the jurisdiction of the
District Court because of diverse citizenship, and the
right of appeal was limited to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
From what has been said, it follows that the name
"Webster" was not subject to appropriation or registration as a trade-mark,. under the Act of 1881, and the contention to the contrary as a basis for jurisdiction in the
District Court was devoid of substantial merit and was
foreclosed by previous decisions of this court. In reaching
this conclusion, we have not overlooked the cases relied
upon by the complainant, cited in opposition to the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, in which thi court
has held that where jurisdiction was invoked upon diverse
citizenship and also because of alleged rights arising from
the Federal Trade-Mark Statute (c.. 138, 21 Stat. 502) of
1881, this court has jurisdiction upon appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals-Warner v. Searle & H. Co., 191
U. S. 195; Standard Paint Co. v. TrinidadAsphalt Co., 220
U. S. 446; Baglin v. Cusenier Co., 221 U. S. 580; Jacobs v.
Beecham, 221 U. S. 263. These cases are readily distinguishable from the one at bar, in which there was an
attempt to register and obtain a statutory trade-mark.
upon a proper name, which registration was also long after
the expiration of the copyright embodying the same
designation as its distinguishing feature.
It follows that this appeal must be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

