GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

251

Syllabus.

GREENLEAF JOHNSON LUMBER COMPANY v.
GARRISON, SECRETARY OF WAR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 678.

Argued February 24, 25, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

The power of the sovereign State or Nation is perpetual-not exhausted
by one exercise--and all privileges granted in public waters are subject to that power; the exercise of which is not a taking of private
property for public use but the lawful exercise of a governmental
power for the common good. West Chicago R. R. v. Chicago, 201
U. S. 506.
When one acting under state authority erects anything in navigable
waters he does so with full knowledge of the paramount authority of
Congress to regulate commerce among the States and subject to the
exercise of such authority at some future time by Congress. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364.
The power of the States over navigable waters is subordinate to that
of Congress and the State can grant no right to the soil of the bed
of navigable waters which is not subject to Federal regulation.
PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; United States v. ChandlerDunbar Co., 229 U. S. 269.
The power of Congress extends to the whole expanse of a navigable
stream and is not dependent upon the depth or shallowness of the
water.
The United States is not liable under the Fifth Amendment to compensate the owner of a wharf erected in navigable waters for the
removal of that part of the structure outside of the new lines properly
established by Federal authority, although the wharf was originally
erected within the harbor lines then duly established by both the
state and Federal authorities.
In this case the action of the Secretary of War in establishing new
harbor lines within those previously established was not so wanton
and arbitrary as to subject it to judicial review, if such action were
subject to review.
The mooring of vessels is as necessary as is their movement and can
equally be made the basis for increasing the navigability of a river
whether for trading vessels or war vessels.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.
The judgment of Congress as
river is or is not an obstacle
cise of legislative power in
control and is conclusive.
229 U. S. 269.
208 Fed. Rep. 1022, affirmed,

237 U. S.

to whether a construction iu or over a
and hindrance to navigation is an exerrespect to a matter wholly within its
United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co.,

THE facts, which involve the right of the owners of a
wharf erected under state authority in navigable waters
of the United States to compensation on the taking thereof
by the United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. L. Jeffries, with whom Mr. L. D. Starke was on
the brief, for appellant:
The appellant's right to recover damages is based on
the character of this title and the ownership of the State
in the submerged soil.
The State has authority as to the disposition of .submerged lands aid the character of ownership which is
acquired under grants of rights and privileges from the
State or from Congiess is property that cannot be taken
without compensation. Congress cannot now take such
property when acquired and constructed under the authority of the State or of Congress granted in the interest of
navigation.
In support of these contentions see Code of Virginia,
§§ 1338, 1339, 2010, 2011; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7
Cush. 53; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; 1 Farnham on Water Rights, pp. 50, 136, 510, 511,551, 552, 569;
Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Gring v. Ives, 222
U. S. 365; Grinnell v. Daniels, 110 Virginia, 874; Homer
v. ,Pleasants,7 Atl. Rep. 691; Illinois Cent. R. R. v. Illinois,
146 U. S. 387; Lake Shore &c. R. R. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
365; Lewis v. Portland, 35 Pac. Rep. 256.
Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82 and United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, can be distinguished
from the case at bar. 1 Lewis Em. Domain, §§ 76-b, 78;

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

253

Argument'for Appellees.

MonongahelaNay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; Montgomery V. Portland, 190 U. S. 89; Norfolk City v. Cook,
27 Gratt. 430; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605; Prosser v. Nor. Pac. Ry., 159 U. S. 59; American
School v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141; S. C., 57 Fed. Rep. 803; Shiveley v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1; Stockton v. Balto. & N. W. R. R., 32 Fed.
Rep. 19; Sullivan Timber Co. v. Mobile, 110 Fed. Rep. 186;
Taylor v. Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 759; Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Buffalo
Pitts. Co., 234 U. S. 228; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445; Weems Steamboat Co. v. Peoples Co., 214 U. S. 345;
Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for appellees:
The Secretary of War was authorized to establish
harbor lines and require the removal of appellant's wharf
under the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151.
The judgment of Congress and Secretary of War in this
matter is not reviewable or if reviewable, no facts have
been shown to warrant review.
The removal of appellant's wharf, without payment
of compensation, will not contravene the Fifth Anienidment.
The title to the bed of a navigable stream within the
State, is subject to Congress's control over navigation.
The State's dominion over navigable waters ceases
when the United States assumes coitrol.
There is no estoppel in favor of appellant.
The State cannot limit the coi.'rol of Congress over
navigable waters.
The structure involved in this case was erected without
state authority.
In support of the Government's contention see, Atlee v.
Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389; Bloomfield v. Charter Oak Bank,
121 U. S. 121, 135; Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

217 U. S. 189, 195; C., B. & Q. Ry. v. DrainageCom'rs, 200
U. S. 561, 593; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196; Gibson
v. United States, 166 U. S.269, 272, 276; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 725; Groner v. Foster, 94 Virginia,
650, 651; Hannibal Bridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
194; Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1, 23; Juragua
Iron Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 297, 303; Oyster Co.
v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82, 87, 88, 89; Monongahela Bridge
Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.177.
Mongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 315
and United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, can be distinguished from the case at bar. See New Orleans Gas Co.
v. DrainageComm., 197 U. S.453; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge, 18 How. 421; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 634, 637, 638; American School v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94, 109, 110; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S.141,
163; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, 40; South Carolinav.
Georgia, 93 U. S.4; Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co.,
32 Fed. Rep. 9, 20; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.
635; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.364, 400;
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53; Weber
v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Weems Steamboat
Co. v. People's Co., 214 U. S.345; West Chicago R. R. v.
Chicago, 201 U. S.506, 521, 523, 526; Williamette Bridge
Co. v. Hatch, 125.U. S.1, 12-13; Yatea v.Milwaukee, 10
Wall. 497; see also 25 Stat. 400, 425; 26 Stat. 426, 455;
30 Stat. 1121, 1151; 36 Stat. '265,. 1275; Act of Virginia
Assembly, February 18, 1875; Laws of Virginia, 18741875, p. 82; Code of Virginia, 1904, §§ 1338, 1339.
MR.
court.

JUSTICE

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Suit for injunction by appellant, which we shall call
complainant, brought originally against Henry L. Stimson
as Secretary of War and Robert Shaw Oliver as Assistant

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of War, for whom the appellees were substituted
and whom we shall refer to as defendants, to enjoin them
and all persons acting under their authority from taking
or removing or in any Way interfering with complainant's
wharf or other property "along or upon the water front
of its said property upon the southern branch of the
Elizabeth river" in the State of Virginia. It having been
constructed, it is alleged, under the authority of the State
and within and upon the harbor line subsequently established by the Secretary of War, it became, it is further
alleged, property lawfully owned and could, therefore; be
removed only upon payment of just compensation.
A preliminary injunction was granted in accordance
with the prayer of the bill.
There was a demurrer to the bill, urging, among other
grounds, that the court was without jurisdiction of the
persons of the defendants and also without jurisdiction
of the suit because it was one against the United States.
These grounds were subsequently waived and the want
of equity in the bill alone relied on.
The demurrer was overruled, 204 Fed. Rep. 489, and
the present defendants, substituted as parties defendant,
answered.
The answer, by certain denials and admissions, in effect
repeated the propositions of the demurrer and asserted
the control of Congress over the river, acting through the
Secretary of War, adducing 30 Stat. 1153, and concluded
with a prayer that the court order the demolition of such
portions of the wharf and other property as might be
found to be outside the re-established pier-head line and
that the injunction theretofore granted be dissolved and
complainant's bill dismissed.
Further detail of the pleadings is unnecessary as a
statement of facts was made which presents all that are
necessary for a decision. From the statement it appears
that a board of harbor commissioners was created by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Virginia in 1875 and that in 1876, the exact date not known,
the authorities of the State of Virginia established a harbor
line which remained until 1890, when the same was
adopted by the Secretary of War as the harbor line established by the Federal Government, and it so remained
until "the recent establishment of the present harbor
line June 12, 1911, which was so established by the
Secretary of War, after notice, etc., and that until said
new line -was established, no part of complainant's property was outside of the same." It appears from the statement and diagram attached that complainant had constructed two certain fills into the Elizabeth river. It
made extensions into the river from two points on the
shore and connected at the outer extremities, the wall
forming a continuous wharf of three sides surrounding
the water they inclosed, the fourth side being the high
land. The space so surrounded was called a log pond and
designed for the storage of logs for the purposes of complainant's business. The following also appears from the
statement:
"That on the 22nd day of July, 1911, the Navy Department wrote to the complainant stating that that Department intended making certain improvements in the
Navy Yard and requesting the complainant to fix a price
at which it would sell so much of its'property or wharf and
log pond as lay without the present port warden's line.
The complainant answering said letter stated that the
matter would be laid before its board of directors on
July 26, 1911, and thereafter the attached correspondence was had between the Navy Department and the
complainant. That while the above paragraph is admitted
as a fact, it is nevertheless objected to by the defendants
for the reason that the same is not relevant or material
to the decision of this case and it is claimed by said defendants, Secretary of War and Assistant Secretary of War,
that this admission does not bind them.

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

"That the water now immediately in front of complainant's property is navigable, but if the present structures.are removed to the present harbor line as demanded
by the Government the complainant will be cut off from
navigable water unless the river is dredged where the
structures now are. That an act of Congress approved
March 4, 1911, entitled "An Act making Appropriations for the Naval Service for the year ending June 30,
1912, and for other purposes" (c. 239, 36 Stat. 1265,
1275), has been passed, in which Act an appropriation
has been made for dredging the' bottom of the river at the
point in controversy, pursuant to which the Government
proposes to widen the channel to the new port warden's line.
"It is further admitted that the fee simple title to the
high land to low water mark adjacent to the port warden's
line in question, is in the Greenleaf Johnson Lumber
Company, the complainant in this suit.
"The reestablished or new harbor line runs along the
front of complainant's wharf at the northern end of the
property, cutting off approximately two [2001 feet of the
same."
There was some oral testimony, of which it is enough
to say that it identified certain descriptive maps of the
property. It also showed the purpose for which the property was constructed and used, and its present condition,
the description of the new line and its relation to the old
one, and that "the entire change made by the establishment of the new harbor line is immediately in front of
the Navy Yard," and that "the Government in recent
years had used the channel of the river opposite the Navy
Yard and in front of the property of complainant to a very
large extent for the storage of its vessels," and a witness
had seen as many as five abreast, ranging from torpedo
boats to colliers.
The District Court overruled the demurrer, as we have
said, expressing its views in an opinion. The court also
VOL. ccxxxvii-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

denied the mandatory injunction prayed by the United
States and continued the temporary restraining order.
Subsequently the court entered its decree adjudging that
the Secretary of War had no authority under the law
to remove or cause to be removed the structures mentioned
in the pleadings and decreed that the temporary injunction be made permanent. The decree was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 208 Fed. Rep. 1022.
Two propositions are presented: (1) The power of Congress over navigable waters. (2) Whether the acts of the
Secretary of War were done in the exercise of that power.
It would seem that the existence of the power of Congress has been withdrawn from the domain of discussion by
many authorities, and that little room is left for debate
as to the extent of that power. But a distinction is made
by complainant between structures in a river which avail
of its navigability and structures which may be an obstruction to its navigation. Upon this distinction, which will be
explained more fully hereafter, complainant contends that
a right of property by the privilege granted by the State
of Virginia became vested in it which can only be taken
upon payment of just compensation. And this distincticn, it is further contended, explains the cases relied on
by counsel for the United States and sustains the authority
of the cases adduced by complainant. A review of the
cases, therefore, is worth while.
The power of Congress is expressed in a general way in
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 731, in which a certain power was conceded to the States but necessarily
to be exercised, it was decided, in subordination to the
supremacy of the national power. "Until the dominant
power of the Constitution is awakened," it was said, "and
made effective, . . . the reserved power of the
States is plenary."
In Gibson v. United Siates, 166 U. S. 269, there was a
further expression of the principle and an application of

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

259

Opinion of the Court.

it to riparian ownership, and it was decided that "all
navigable waters are under the control of the United States
for the purpose of regulating and improving navigation,
and although the title to the shore and submerged soil is in
the various States and individual owners .under them, it
is always subject to the servifude in respect to navigation created in favor of the Federal Government by the
Constitution." Citing, among other cases, Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1. The case was one for the recovery
of damages caused by the construction of a dike in the
Ohio river, by which the lands of Gibson were flooded.
Relief was denied and the principle expressed that the
exercise "of the dominant right of the Government"
over navigation subjected riparian ownership to such consequence and it was said that an appropriation for improvement was an exercise of the power of Congress.
In Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, access was cut
off from a navigable river by improvements instituted
by authority of Congress. This was said: "All the cases
concur in holding that the power of Congress to regulate
commerce, and therefore navigation, is paramount, and is
unrestricted, except by the limitations upon its authority
by the Constitution." The words "except by the limitations upon its authority by the Constitution" were not
intended to qualify the power expressed, as is made manifest by subsequent cases.
In C., B. & Q. Ry. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561, the railway company was required to reconstruct a bridge to
subserve a public work. The bridge had been constructed
under lawful authority. Compensation, however, was
denied, the bridge being over a public highway. The
latter and public waters were considered analogous.
In West Chicago Railroad v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506,
a tunnel was constructed by permission of Chicago under
the Chicago river and was subsequently required to be
lowered. It was held not a taking of property, the removal

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinuion of the Court.

237 U. S.

of the tunnel having been required in the interest of navigation. In other words, the paramount right of navigation
was decided to be superior to riparian rights or rights in the
river--or, to put it more generally, to rights in the submerged lands. The case seems directly against complainant in the case at bar. Complainant asserts a right of
compensation because it conformed to the harbor line as
located by Virginia and by the United States; in other
words, contends that it acquired a vested right. The
case decides otherwise, and 200 U. S. 561, supra, so decides.
The proposition announced was that the power of the
sovereign, state or National, is perpetual-not exhausted
by one exercise-and all privileges granted in public
waters are subject to it; and that the exercise of the power
was not a taking of private property for a public use but
"the lawful exercise of a governmental power for the
common good."
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 400,
conspicuously displays the principles of the prior cases
cited and followed by it. A bridge was required to be
altered or changed, the expense of which was great. It was
contended- that the bridge had been erected under state
authority, to the exercise of which the United States had
impliedly assented, and that, therefore; 'the requirement
to alter it was a taking of property without compensation.
The opposing contention of the United States was that
the requirement was an exertion by Congress of its power
to regulate commerce, and therefore navigation, upon the
waterways on and over which such commerce was conducted. The latter contention was sustained upon a
review of the prior cases. It was said that when the company "exerted the power conferred upon it by the State,
it did so with the knowledge of the paramount authority
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States"
and subject to the possibility that Congress at some future
time would exert its power.

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

261

Opinion of the Court.

- In Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.
177, 194, again the doctrine of the other cases was repeated. A bridge erected over the navigable waters of a
State by the authority of the State was declared subject
to the paramount authority of Congress to regulate commerce and its right to remove unreasonable obstructions
to navigation. Congress exerted its power in a provision
in the river and harbor bill of March 3, 1899, giving authority to the Secretary of War, when he had good reason
to believe a bridge over navigable waterways was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, to order it to be
removed after notice and hearing. The court declined
to modify its holding in Union Bridge v. United States,
and declared that it adhered "to what was said in that
case" and sustained the Secretary without much discussion.
Hannibal Bridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 194,
was another case of bridge removal. It is not so positive
an authority as the preceding cases, for Congress had reserved the right to alter or amend the act under which the
bridge was constructed. But the Union Bridge Case was
quoted from as correctly expressing the Congressional
power.
Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, is
directly to the effect that Congress may establish harbor
lines, and is not precluded thereby from changing them.
There was action by the State and twice by the United
States and the relation of such actions and the rights
derived therefrom were considered and determined.
Rights under the action of the State were asserted by the
Philadelphia Company and assumed to exist by the court
in determining the power of Congress. It was said (page
634): "The exercise of this power [that of Congress] could
not be fettered by any grant made by the State of the soil
which formed the bed of the river, or by any authority
conferred by the State for the creation of obstructicns

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

to its navigation." And again, "It is for Congress to
decide what shall or shall not be deemed in judgment of
law an obstruction of navigation. . . . The principles
applicable to this case have been repeatedly stated in
recent decisions of this court." The cases which we have
reviewed were cited. In speaking of the effect of the first
action of the Secretary as affecting his second action, it
was said, "That officer did not exhaust his authority in
laying the lines first established in 1895, but was entitled
to change them, as he did change them in 1907, in order
more fully to preserve the river from obstruction. And,
in none of the acts complained of, did he exceed the power
which had been conferred."
PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, supra, is an epitome
of all prior cases. Indeed we might have relied upon it as
fumishing all of the elements of decision of that at bar.
It expressed the subordination of the power of the States
to the power of Congress, that one exercise of the power by
either does not preclude another exercise by either, and
that the State can grant no right to the soil of the bed of
navigable waters Which is not subject to Federal regulation. There was a repetition of this doctrine in United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53.
Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, is not in antagonism
to the principle announced in those cases. If it could be so
regarded it would have to give way to the many cases
decided since. But it cannot be so regarded. It was
decided, it is true, that one of the rights of a riparian owner
was that of access to a navigable river and of constructing
a landing wharf or pier for his own use and that of the
public, but the limitation or subordination of these rights
to be regulated by the dominant power of Congress was
not involved nor passed on. And certainly no limitation
was implied. The case was referred to in Scranton v.
Wheeler, supra, and "the point adjudged" said to be that,
as there was no proof in the record that the wharf involved

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

was in fact an obstruction to navigation or a nuisance,
except a declaration to that effect in the city ordinance
attacked, the wharf could not be made such by a mere
declaration. And it was observed that "a proper disposition of the case required nothing more to be said." See
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 40.
We have recognized that the States have a certain
control and management over the navigable streams within
their territory, but subject to be superseded by the interference of Congress. Gilman v. Philadelphia, supra;
Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678. When Congress acts, necessarily its power
extends to the whole expanse of the stream, and is not dependent upon the depth or shallowness of the water. To
recognize such distinction would be to limit the power
when and where its exercise might be most needed. In
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, the water was very
shallow between the high land and the pier erected in the
river by authority of Congress and which it was contended
cut off access to navigability.
But, as we have said, complainant distinguishes between the rights a riparian owner may receive, "between
those rights," to quote counsel, "which do not relate
to navigation in any sense, and second, those which do
relate thereto, and which contribute to the enjoyment
thereof." To support the distinction Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 335, as construed
in Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82, is adduced. The
argument is that the right or privilege which complainant received from Virginia was given by the State "in
the performance of the dominant trust for the benefit
of the public" and not, as in the cases urged by defendant,
'in the interest of the individual riparian owners." And
it is declared that the cases referred to and Ill. Cent. R. R.
v. Illinois,.146 U. S. 387, makes it clear "that when grants
of rights or privileges are made within the authority of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

State, property acquired thereunder becomes as stable as
any other property, and the rights and privileges so granted
are irrevocable, and if taken for public use it must be upon
the payment of just compensation." It is hence contended
that when the State or Congress acts in fulfillment of its
trust for the benefit of the public the structures it authorizes become fully protected under the Constitution, and in
thus encouraging facilities for navigation and commerce
"Congress loses none of its authority of regulation, because it can at any time exercise the right of eminent domain, and the expense will be a most profitable investment in the public interest."
The contention is plausible, but it is not supported by
the cited cases, and the case relied on by complainant is
reconcilable with them. It is true the instances in the
cited cases were the removal of structures not facilities
of commerce on the rivers. But the principle declared in
the cases and which determined their. decision was not
dependent upon such instances, and the power of Congress
was said to be analogous in its illimitable exertion to
the police power. Illustrative cases were adduced. How
then, it may be asked-indeed is asked-shall we account
for Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312, as construed in Oyster Company v. Briggs, 229 U. S.82?
It Was said in the latter case that the former rested upon
estoppel.
A few words of explanation become necessary. The
Monongahela Company, under the express authority
of the State of Pennsylvania, expended large sums of
money in improving the Monongahela River by means of
locks and dams, which were also built at the instance and
suggestion of the United States. By means of the improvements the river, which theretofore was navigable
only for boats of small tonnage and at certain seasons of the
year, accommodated large steamboats at all seasons and
an extensive commerce by means thereof. Subsequently

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

265

Opinion of the Court.

Congress authorized the purchase of the property, or,
if its price could not be agreed on, its condemnation, but
excluded from the estimate of the sum to be .paid for it a
consideration of the franchise to collect tolls. It was held
that the franchise was a part of the property and should be
paid for, notwithstanding its exclusion by Congress and
that the franchise, the right to take tolls, could "no more
be taken without compensation than" could "its [the
company's] tangible, corporeal property." The court said,
by Mr. Justice Brewer, "This lock and dam connected
the lower improvements already made by the Navigation
Company with the upper improvements proposed to be
made by Congress, and the appropriation by the latter
[act of March 3, 1881] was conditioned on the company's
undertaking their construction. This is something more
than the mere recognition of an existing fact; it is an invitation to the company to do the work; and when in
pursuance of that invitation, and under authority given
by the State of Pennsylvania, the company constructed
the lock and dam, it does not lie in the power of the State
or the United States to say that such lock and dam are an
obstruction and wrongfully there, or that the right to
compensation for the use of this improvement by the
public does not belong to its owner, the Navigation Company."
This language was quoted in Oyster Co. v. Briggs as
sustaining the view that the case rested upon estoppelrested upon the fact that the lock and dam had been
constructed "at the instance and implied invitation of
Congress." It is true a great deal was said by Mr. Justice
Brewer which seemed to be of broader import, but we are
now only concerned with the explanation of the case by
the later case, and we may observe that the Union Bridge
Case, supra, was referred to for comparison. It is manifest, therefore, that the Monongahela Navigation Co. Case
can be distinguished from the other cases and its ruling

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

sustained upon the following grounds: (1) The lock and
dam were built at the instance of Congress, not as a simple
facility for the navigation of the river but as making its
navigability, enlarging its capacity from the accommodation of boats of small tonnage at certain seasons of the
year to the accommodation of large steamboats at all
seasons. (2) The Navigation Company was invited to
make the improvements, and so far invested with the
rights of sovereignty. It did not, as did complainant in
the case at bar, exercise the rights of a riparian owner,
building to the harbor line and availing itself of the navigability of the river for its own interest. It, to repeat,
constructed a public work, having no other power to do so
but the authority conferred upon it by the State and by
Congress-invited, indeed, to do so and given as its compensation a right to take tolls for the use of the works.
This court well said that such right was as much the consideration of the service rendered as the material propprty
constructed. The case, therefore, as Mr. Justice Lurton
said in the Oyster Co. Case, rested on estoppel. Whatever
was said beyond that may be left, as it was left in the latter
case, to a comparison with the Union Bridge Case, the principle it declares and the cases it cites.
Something is attempted to be made of Gring v. Ives,
222 U. S. 365, by complainant in support of its distinction
between rights held "subject to the dominant trust in
which the beds of navigable streams are held, and those
conferred in the exercise and in aid of the purpose of the
dominant trust under which the submerged soil is held for
the benefit of the public." The case does not support the
distinction. A marine railway was constructed under
state authority and had been in existence for eighteen years
but projected beyond a harbor line subsequently established by Congress. It was run into recklessly and injured
by a tugboat, and in defense of an action for the injury
the fact of the projection beyond the harbor line was set

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
236 U. S.

267

Opinion of the Court.

up. The defense was rejected, the lower court deciding
that even if the railway had been erected illegally, even if
it was a public nuisance, the tugboat was not authorized
to run into it unnecessarily and negligently as the evidence
tended to show. The case was brought here, a Federal
question being based on the act of Congress under which
the harbor line over which the marine railway projected
was established. The question was pronounced frivolous
and the writ of error was dismissed.
The contention of the tugboat owner was practically
that the railway was an outlaw subject to be destroyed by
anybody, although it had been erected by authority of the
State and its existence indulged by the Secretary of War.
Manifestly the contention was without any merit whatever, as was said by the court, and there was no implication of the existence of the distinction urged by complainant, nor implication of the want of power in the Secretary
of War to have ordered the railway removed if he
had thought it in the interest of commerce to have
done so.
It is, however, contended that the jurisdiction to establish harbor lines is given by the statute only "where it is
made manifest to the Secretary of War that the establishment of harbor lines is essential to the preservation and
protection of harbors," and that it is shown by the agreed
statement of facts and the correspondence attached thereto
that the Secretary of War acted at the suggestion of the
Navy Department for the improvement of the river opposite the Norfolk Navy Yard and in pursuance of the act
making appropriations for the naval service for the year
ending June 30, 1912, c 239, 36 Stat. 1265, 1275; and that
this was "the sole purpose of the change in the harbor lines
and the required removal of the company's [complainant's]
property is shown by the additional fact that it appears
that the United States moors abreast its war vessels, colliers and other vessels in front of its Navy Yard, so that

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

they project out in the channel which it so uses for the
storage of its vessels."
We may grant that such was the inducement and such
the occasional use, but neither militates against the
validity of the power exercised. The mooring of vessels
is as necessary as their movement, and the navigability
of a river can be maintained or increased as legally for the
accommodation of war vessels as for trading vessels, those
of public ownership as well as those of private ownership,
and we cannot enter into a consideration of what may be
necessary for either purpose.
It was said in United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater
Co., 229 U. S., at page 64: So unfettered is the "control
of Congress over the navigable streams of the country that
its judgment as to whether a construction in or over such
a river is or is not an obstacle and a hindrance to navigation, is conclusive. Such judgment and determination
is the exercise of legislative power in respect of a subject
wholly within its control." And in Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141, 162: "Whether navigation upon waters over
which Congress may exert its authority requires improvement at all, or improvement in a particular way, are
matters wholly within its discretion;.
.. " This
power has been exercised by the act of March 3, 1899, delegating to the Secretary of War the power to establish
harbor lines and, necessarily, to require the removal of
structures which project beyond them. Union Bridge
Company v. United States, 204 U. S.364.
If it can be said that arbitrary or wanton action of the
Secretary of War would be subject to judicial review, it
cannot be said that his action in the case at bar reached
that bad degree.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

LmAitR,

269

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment by which the appellant's
wharf is physically taken, its existing right' of access to
navigable water destroyed, and its private property appropriated to public use without compensation.
At, above and below the Norfolk Navy Yard, the navigable part of the Elizabeth River is 600 feet in width. In
1873 appellant's wharf was built opposite the Navy Yard,
through shallow water out to the navigable channel of the
stream. Several years afterward, under authority of the
State of Virginia, the Norfolk Wardens established a port
line which ran along the edge of this channel and left the
Lumber Company's wharf and logging pond outside of the
harbor.
In 1890, fourteen years later, the Secretary of War established exactly the same line; and thus by City, state
and Federal authority the plaintiff's wharf was shown to
.be a lawful structure outside of the harbor and not an
obstruction to navigation either in law or in fact. Since
that date there has been no change in the condition of
the stream; and the wharf remained a lawful structure
until 1911 when,-having decided to widen the river at
that point, as a place of storage for war vessels,-Congress
in that part of the Act of March 4, 1911 (36 Stat. 1275)
relating to the Navy Yard at Norfolk, made an appropriation of $80,000 "for the purchase of land and widening the
channel." Accordingly, on June 12, 1911, the harbor line
was changed, at this particular point, so as to take in the
part of the river intended to be widened, but leaving the
Norfolk harbor line otherwise unaffected. No one understood, however, that fixing the line 200 feet further inland
at this place for this naval purpose authorized the taking
of plaintiff's wharf without compensation. And the act
of Congress so obviously included the property of the
plaintiff, as a part of that to be purchased, that the Secre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

237 U. S.

tary of the Navy on July 22, 1911, "wrote to the complainant stating that that Department intended making
certain improvements in the Navy Yard and requesting
the complainant to fix a price at which it would sell so
much of its property or wharf and logging pond as lay
without the present Portwarden's line."
The complainant named a price which the Department
considered exorbitant, and-the parties failing to agreethe Government began proceedings in the District Court
of the United States
"to acquire title by condemnation to a certain piece of
land, situated in the southern branch of the Elizabeth
River, Virginia, held and owned by the Greenleaf Johnson
Lumber Company, which is needed for public uses and
purposes; that is to say for deepening and widening the
said South Branch of the Elizabeth River, as authorized
by Act of March 4, 1911 (36 Stat. 1275)."
The statutory notice was given the owner and a jury
was impanelled to assess the value of complainant's property, when, suddenly, the proceedings were dismissed and,
what was a wharf-lawfully erected in a non-navigable
part of the stream and outside of the old line,-was declared to be "a menace to navigation."
The control which Congress has over navigable waters
by virtue of the power to regulate commerce is practically
unlimited, except in one particular. The Fifth Amendment was passed for the purpose of restraining the exercise
of that or any other power by which private property was
taken. Monongahela Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.336;
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.61 (3). That Amendment was intended to protect the citizen against the Government; and being the expression of the fundamental
policy of a people, both able and willing to pay, should
be given a broad and liberal construction. Congress in
directing that the Elizabeth River should be widened distinctly indicated its intention that the private property

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

LAMAR,

271

J., dissenting.

needed for that purpose should be "purchased."
The
Secretary of the Navy so understood the statute and began
proceedings to asceitain the amount the Government
should pay for the property of the appellant needed for
widening the river. In the absence of absolutely controlling authority, requiring a different interpretation, the
complainant should receive the payment intended by
Congress aiid demanded by the Constitution wherever
private property is taken for a public use. But there is
no such authority cited, for none of the decisions relied
on by the Government sustain the contention that, on
facts like these, wharf property can be taken without
compensation.
Some of the cases cited make a distinction between
taking and damaginj, and then hold that the owner cannot
recover for consequential damages resulting from making
public improvements in navigable waters (Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141). Another holds that the title of
the riparian owner to oysters in the bed of a body of public
water is inferior to the right of the Government to deepen
the channel in the interest of commerce. Lewis Oyster
Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82. Another related to a case
where a power dam had been constructed under a revocable license. It was held that the owner acquired no
such right in the flow in the stream as would give him a
claim for damages when the Government, in the interest
of navigation, caused the water to run in another channel.
United States v. Chandler, 229 U. S. 53. Another holds
that where the Government had constructed a dam, which
raised the level of the river and backed the water beyond
the old harbor line, the person who purchased after the dam
was built could not complain because he was prevented
from building a wharf inside the new harbor lines which
had been changed to conform to the new line of deep water. But the right of the person who owned the land
before the dam was built was expressly left open for future

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAImAR,

J., dissenting.

237 U. S.

decision. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 627. In
some of the cases it appeared that bridges had been built
subject to the power expressly reserved to order them
removed. HannibalBridge Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
194. Several of the cases hold that those who build bridges
or tunnels across the navigable channel of a stream can
be required at their own expense to raise or lower the
structures whenever they become obstructions to navigation. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364;
West Chicago R. R. v. Chicago, 201U. S.506.
But no case has been cited which holds that a wharf,
in shallow water, outside an established harbor line, can
be declared an obstruction to navigation, the property
taken and the owner ousted of possession without compensation.
On the contrary, Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497,
distinctly holds that this cannot be done. There the City,
by the act of 1854, had authority 'by ordinance to establish dock and wharf lines and to prevent obstructions in
the river and to cause it to be dredged.' Thereafter Yates
built a wharf, across the harbor line, through the shallow
water out to the navigable channel of the Milwaukee
River. Suheequently a new line was established (505)
and in 1864, the city declared, as the Secretary did here,
that the wharf (inside the harbor line), was an 6bstruction.
This court said:
"The mere declaration by the city council of Milwaukee
that a certain structure was an encroachment or obstruction did not make it so, nor could such declaration
make it a nuisance unless it in fact had that character." (505)
Again, speaking of the land-owner's right to build docks,
the court said:
"This riparian right is property, and is valuable, and,
though it must be enjoyed in due subjection to the rights
of the public, it cannot be arbitrarily or capriciously de-

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

LAmAR,

273

J., dissenting.

stroyed or impaired. It is a right of which, when once
vested, the owner can only be deprived in accordance with
established law, and if necessary that it be taken for the
public good, upon due compensation."
There is a remarkable similarity between the facts in
the Yates Case and the present. There the dock was to
be 'removed in pursuance of a general scheme of widening
the channel and in improving the navigation of the Milwaukee River.' Here Congress appropriated $80,000 'to
purchase land and to widen the channel' of the Elizabeth
River in the interest of the Navy Yard. But even such
governmental purposes would not justify a taking withouk
payment; for, in the Yates Case, the court concluded its
opinion by the use of language which is absolutely applicable to the present controversy, saying:
"If the authorities of the city of Milwaukee deem its"
[the wharf's] removal necessary in the prosecution of any
general scheme of widening the channel and improving
the navigation of the Milwaukee River, they must first
make him compensation for his property so taken for
the public use."
That case has never been overruled and is a notable
illustration of the meaning of the Fifth Amendment,
which, standing between the Government and the private
individual, provides a means by which the interests of
the public can be secured without destruction of the
rights of the citizen.
Most of the wharves in the United States were located
many years before the adoption of the act conferring power
upon the Secretary of War to establish harbor lines.
Congress did not intend to destroy existing rights (Montgomery v. Portland, 190 U. S. 105) and it is inconceivable
that it could have intended to vest that officer with the
power to declare that these lawful structures, worth hundreds of millions of dollars and useful agencies of commerce, were obstructions to navigation merely because
VoL. ccxxxvII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR,

J., dissenting.

237 U. S.

they were inside of a line which he might decide to run in
non-navigable water.
The present case is even stronger, for the complainant's
wharf is located outside of a harbor line which had been
established in 1890 by the Secretary of War himself. The
wharf was not an obstruction to navigation when it was
built in 1873; it was not an obstruction to navigation
when the Secretary established the line in 1890; it has not
become an obstruction to navigation during the years it
has remained in shallow water, and, under the Yates Case,
cannot be made an obstruction in fact by declaring (where
there has been no :change in the stream), that it is such in
law.
Few cases directly in point can be found, but out of the
multitude which deal with the principle involved, the
facts and rulings in the following tend to sustain the appellant's right to compensation for. the wharf taken for
public use: Dutton v. Strong, I Black, 1; Railroad Company
v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; Commonwealth v. Alger,
7 Cush. 53, 103; Langdon v. Mayor of New York, 98 N. Y.
129, 161; Kingsland v. Mayor of New York, 110 N. Y.
570, 574; Fitchburg R. Co. v. Boston & M. R. Co., 3 Cush.
71; Hamlin v. Parpoint, 141 Massachusetts, 57; Lewis v.
Portland,25 Oregon, 133, 167; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Chase,
43 Maryland, 35-36; Classen v. Chesapeake Co., 81 Maryland, 259.
The power of the Secretary of War to run harbor lines
may not be exhausted when once exercised, and, from
time to time, they may be relocated over unused and submerged land. But as against lawful structures, the line
must be run to conform to the physical conditions of the
stream and to meet changes occasioned by the washing
of the water or other natural causes. But the public cannot determine to widen the river, artificially create a
channel, and thus, by its own act, acquire a right to declare

GREENLEAF LUMBER CO. v. GARRISON.
237 U. S.

LAMAR,

275

J., dissenting.

that what was formerly a lawful structure in shallow water
will be an obstruction to a storage basin to be artificially
created.
In Commonwealth v. Aiqer, 7 Cush. 53,103, it is strongly
intimated that the power to establish harbor lines does
not confer authority to take, without compensation, existing structures lawfully built out to the navigable channel.
Other cases hold that the establishment of the line is in
the nature of an invitation to fill in and build out to that
line. Sherman v. Sherman, 18 R. I. 506. So here the
action of the Secretary of War in 1890 "is to be construed
as a regulation of the exercise of the riparian right; it
settles the line 'of navigability above which the State will
not interfere; and is an implied concession of the right to
build, possess and occupy, which amounts practically
to a qualified possessory title. Miller v. Mendenhall, 43
Minnesota, 95, citing Hamlin v. Parpoint,141 Massachusetts, 51. See also Langdon v. Mayor, 98 N. Y. 129, 161;
City of Brooklyn v. New York Ferry Co., 87 N. Y. 204, 206,
and Williams v. Mayor of New York, 105 N. Y. 429.
The action of the Secretary of War in 1890 in establishing a harbor lihe was, in effect, a declaration that wharves
outside of the limits of that harbor thus marked and defined were not obstructions to navigation and, as against
existing wharfs, the line could not thereafter be changed
except to meet natural changes in the channel. Congress
in authorizing the Secretary of War to establish lines,
clearly indicated an intention to secure fixity and permanency. If such was not its intention, then-as shown
by the actual results in the present case-nothing could
be more unstable than the tenure by which riparian
owners hold docks, pie-s and wharves. For, progressively,
it is said that the builders cannot rely on grants from the
State; they cannot rely on lines fixed by the Port Wardens
of the State; and it is now decided that they cannot rely
on a line fixed by the Secretary of War. For, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

ruling in the present case, he can, by running a new line,
take in 200 feet of a wharf outside of an old line and then
oust the owner from the possession and use of that property without compensation.
The wharf here involved may not be of great value,
but my view of the harm done the Appellant and of the
possibility of like serious consequences to a multitude of

persons who have built and invested in these costly and
useful instrumentalities of commerce compel me to dissent
from the judgment.

STATE OF NEW YORK, EX REL. INTERBOROUGH

RAPID TRANSIT COMPANY v. SOHMER, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 129.

Argued January 18, 19, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

An exemption from taxation of a person constructing and operating
a railroad in respect to his or their interest therein under said contract and in respect to the rolling stock and other equipment of the
railroad does not extend to a tax or the privilege to operate as a corporation in case the parties decide to operate the road in a corporate
form.
The Court of Appeals of New York having held that the right to be
a corporation was not an interest under the New York subway contract involved in this case, and that the exemption from taxation
contained in that contract did not extend to such privilege, this
court accepts that construction although it is not conclusive upon it.
207 N. Y. 270, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain assessments and provisions of the tax statutes of the State of

