SPOKANE INLAND R. R. v. WHITLEY.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

SPOKANE AND INLAND EMPIRE RAILROAD
COMPANY v..WHITLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 206.

Argued March 18, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

Decedent, who met his death in Idaho from the wrongful act of defendant railroad company left a wife and mother who under the laws
of Idaho were his sole and equal heirs. The wife qualified as administratrix in Tennessee, and, having obtained power from the
probate court of that State, to settle with defendant, sued as administratrix in Washington and recovered, without contest, a judgment
which was paid. The mother applied in the Tennessee probate court
for one-half of the recovery but the demand was contested by the wife
successfully. The mother had already sued in Idaho and defendant
set up the judgment in Washington but the Idaho state court held
that the mother's right was not barred as the administratrix did not
represent her in the Washington suit. Held that
While the right given by the law of one State may .be enforceable
in another State, if the law is not opposed to its policy, when so
enforced, as the liability springs from the law of the enacting
State, it is governed thereby.
When suit is brought in another jurisdiction, such provisions of the
law of the place of the wrongful act as are merely procedural
may be treated as non-essential, but the obligation itself has its
source in that law; and if it is an action for damages for wrongful death that law must be looked to, to determine not only what
the obligation is, but to whom it runs and the persons for whose
benefit recovery may be had.
The statute of Idaho giving a remedy for the wrongful death, as
construed by the highest court of the State, is similar to Lord
CampbelFs Act in that the recovery is not for the benefit of
the estate of the decedent but for the benefit of his heirs as established by the law of the State.
The attempt of the mother to obtain a part of the proceeds of
the Washington judgment did not, as her right to do so was successfully denied, amount to a ratification.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in.Eiror.

237 U. S.

The Idaho court was not bound to regard the Washington judgment as having been prosecuted by or on behalf of the mother
and in so doing did not fail to give to such judgment full faith
and credit under the Constitution of the United States.
23 Idaho, 642, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of enforcement in
one State of a liability created under the statute of another State and the extent to which a judgment recovered
by an administratrix may affect a claim by an heir of the
intestate, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. G. Graves, with whom Mr. B. B. Adams,
Mr. F. H. Graves and Mr. B. H. Kizer were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
Under a statute like that of Idaho, where the right to
recover damages for death by wrongful act is given to
the "heirs or personal representativres" of the decedent,
there is but one right of action and there can be but one
recovery. Either of the designated classes may sue in the
first instance, there being no prior right of suit in either,
*and a recovery by 'one is a bar to a second suit by the
other. Hartigan v. So. Pac., 24 Pac. Rep. 851; Daubert
v. Meat Co., 73 Pac. Rep. 244; Salmon v. Rathjens, 92
Pac. Rep. 733; Alder Co. v. Fleming, 159 Fed. Rep. 593;
McBride v. Berman, 79 Arkansas, 62; St. Louis &c. Co. v.
Needham, 52 Fed. Rep. 371; Whelan v. Railway Co., 111
Fed. Rep. 326; Hawkins v. Barber Pay. Co., 202 Fed. Rep.
340; Beard v. Skeldon, 113 Illinois, 584;Louisville &c. Co.
v. Sanders, 86 Kentucky, 259; Willis &c. Co. v. Grizzell,
100 Ill. App. 480; Peers v. Water Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 400;
Con. Coal Co. v. Dambrowski, 106 Ill. App. 641; Louisville
&c. Co. v. McElwain, 98 Kentucky, 700; Di Paulo v.
Lumber Co., 178 Fed. Rep. 877; Roberts v. Railway Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 471; Keele v. Railway Co., 131 S. W. Rep.
730; Foster v. Hicks, 46 So. Rep. 533; Tenn. Cent. R. R.
v. Brown, 143 S. W. Rep. 1129; In re Taylor, 204 N. Y.

,SPOKANE INLAND. R. R. v. WHITLEY.

237 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

135; Kling v. Torello, 87 Connecticut, 301; Marquezo
v. Koch, 161 S. W. Rep. 648; Shawnee &c. Co. v. Motesenbacker, 138 Pac. Rep. 790; Riggs v. Nor. Pac.Railway Co.,
,60 Washington, 292; Benson v. Lumber Co.; 71 Washington, 616.
A right of action conferred by a state statute to recover damages for death by wrongful act is transitory,
and may be maintained in another State whose laws
give a similar remedy under a similar state of facts.
Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11; Tex. & Pac. Ry.
v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Stewart v. Railroad Co., 168 U. S.
443.
The right of action is enforced in another State upon
the theory that when a person recovers in one jurisdiction for a tort committed in another he does so on the
ground of an obligation incurred at the place of tort that
accompanies the person of the defendant elsewhere.
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542. Therefore
the right to recover and its incidents are governed by the
lex loci and not by the lex fori. Cuba R. R. v. Crosby,
222 U. S. 473; Nor. Pac. R. R. v. Babcock, 154 U. S. 190;
Stewart v. Railroad Co., .168 U. S. 445; Reynolds v. Day,
140 Pac. Rep. 681.
The rule extends to all substantial incidents of the action, so that distribution of the amount recovered should
be made in accordance with the laws of the State where
the cause of action arose. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103
U. S. 11; Leenan v. Railroad Co., 128 Fed. Rep. 191;
Denver & R. G. Co. v. Warring, 86 Pac. Rep. 305; Hartley
v. Hartley, 81 Pac. Rep. 505; McDonald v. McDonald,
28 S. W. Rep. 482; Texas &c. Co. v. Miller, 128 S. W. Rep.
1165; Bolinger v. Beacham, 106 Pac. Rep. 1094; Cowen v.
Ray, 108 Fed. Rep. 320; Florida &c. Co. v. Sullivan, 120
Fed. Rep. 799.
The administratrix, though appointed under the .laws
of Tennessee, was authorized to recover from defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

in Washington upon the right of action given by the statute of Idaho for the following reasons :
Because the statute conferring it does not require that
it be enforced in the Idaho courts, or by a personal representative appointed by the Idaho courts. It may
therefore be enforced in the courts of another State, and
by a representative appointed by the courts of another
State. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11; Hodges v.
Kimball, 91 Fed. Rep. 845; Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Lewis,
40 N. W. Rep. 401; Higgins v. Railroad Co., 29 N. E. Rep.
534; Chandlerv. Railroad Co., 35 N. E. Rep. 89; Ill. Cent.
R. R. v. Crudup, 63 Mississippi, 291; Leonard v. Nay.
Co., 84 N. Y. 48.
Because a personal representatiye who sues upon a right
of. action given by the Idaho statute does so as trustee for
the heirs, is at least a quasi trustee, and the rule that a
receiver or an administrator appointed by the courts of one
State will not be permitted to sue in the courts of another
State, does not apply to a quasi assignee or quasi trustee.
Bernheimerv. Converse, 206 U. S. 516: Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243; Kansas Co. v. Cutter, 16 Kansas, 568;
Jeffersonville Co. v. Hendrix, 41 Indiaria, 48; Memphis &c.
Co. v. Pikey, 40 N. E. Rep. 527; Wabash &c. Co. v. Shacklet, 105 Illinois, 364; Bouldin v, Railroad Co., 54 Atl. Rep.
906; Robertson v. Railroad Co., 99 N. W. Rep. 433; St..
Louis &c. Co. v. Graham, 102 S. W. Rep. 700.; Kelly v.
Railroad Co., 125 S. W. Rep. 818; Voris v. Railroad Co.,
157 S. W. Rep. 835; Knight v. Moline &c, Co., 140 N. W.
Rep. 839.
Because the Superior Court of the State of Washington
for Spokane County held that the Tennessee admninistratrix might sue and recover in the courts of Washington
upon the right of action given by the statutes of Idaho.
While that court is not the highest court of the State,
nevertheless its decision as to what is the law of the State
must be accepted by this court as conclusive in the ab-

SPOKANE INLAND R. R. v. WHITLEY.
237 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

sence of a controlling statute or decision of a higher court.
Laing v. Rigney, 160 U. S. 531, 542; Fish v. Smith, 47
At. Rep. 711.
There is no statute or decision of a higher court to the
contrary.
Though the personal representative sues for the benefit
of, and as trustee for, the heirs of the decedent, they are
not entitled to be made parties to the action, or in any
way control it. He is their representative for all the purposes of the action. Yelton v. RailroadCo., 33 N. E. Rep.
629; Pittsburg &c. Co. v. Moore, 53 N. E. Rep. 290; Cleveland &c. Co. v. Osgood, 73 N. E. Rep. 285; Major v. Railroad Co., 88 N. W. Rep. 815; Harshman v. Railroad Co.,
103 N. W. Rep. 412; Louisville v. Hart, 136 S. W. Rep. 212;
Slusher v. Weller, 151 S. W. Rep. 684; Harbin Co. v.
McFarland, 160 S. W. Rep. 798.
It follows that he may in good faith compromise the
claim without the consent of the beneficiaries. Foot v.
Railroad Co., 84 N. W. Rep. 342; Washington v. Louisville &c. Co., 26 N. E. Rep. 653.
The widow possesses the same right where she is authorized to sue in behalf of herself and children. Shambach v. Electric Co., 81 Atl. Rep. 802; Hamilton v. Railroad Co., 154 S. W. Rep. 86.
Where several judgments founded upon the same
cause of action are recovered against the same defendant
in several different States, a payment of one of, them is a
satisfaction of. all. 2 Black on Judgments (2d ed.),
ยง 1013; 23 Cyc., p. 1493; 17 Am. & Eng. Enc. (2d ed.),
p. 863.
For a statement of the rule in actions to recover damages
for death by wrongful act, see Nelson v. Railroad Co.
14 S. E. Rep. 838; Harrisv. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, 226.
Mr. John P. Gray, with whom Mr. Robert Elder was on
the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Mary Elizabeth Whitley, the defendant in error, recovered judgment in the District Court for the County
of Kootenai. Idaho, for the sum of $5,500 as damages for
the death of her son, A..P. Whitley, alleged to have been
caused by the negligence of the Railroad Company, the
plaintiff in error. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment (23 Idaho, 642), and this writ of
error is prosecuted. It is assigned as error that the court
failed to give due faith and credit, as required by the
Federal Constitution, to a judgment recovered in the State.
of Washington by osephine Whitley, as administratrix
of the estate of the deceased A. P. Whitley, for the same
cause of action.
Thb facts; upon which the question arises, are these:
The Railroad Company operates an electric railway
between the City of Spokane, in the State of Washington,
and Cceur d'Alene, in the State of Idaho. On July 31,
1909, A. P. Whitley, a passenger, was killed in a collision
at or near La Cross or Gibbs station, Idaho; and the court
found that his death was caused by the defendant's negligence. The law of the State of Idaho provided: "When
the death of a person, not being a minor, is caused by the
wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal
representatives may maintain an action for damages
against the person causing the death." (Rev. Codes,
ยง 4100.) The deceased at the time of his death was a
resident of Shelby County, Tennessee. He was survived
by his wife, Josephine Whitley, and his mother, Mary
Elizabeth Whitley, the defendant in error. Under the
Idaho law, they were his sole heirs. In September, 1909,
the Railroad Company entered into an agreement with
Josephine Whitley, promising to pay to her the sum of
$11,000 on account of the death of her husband, of which
$1,500 was paid at once and the remainder was to be paid

SPOKANE INLAND R. R. v. WHITLEY.
237 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon her appointment as administratrix in Tennessee.
Thereupon, in October, 1909, Josephine Whitley obtained
from the Probate Court of Shelby County, Tennessee,
letters of administration upon her husband's estate and
by that court was authorized to settle with the Railroad
Company for the sum above stated. Shortly after-on
October 25, 1909-the mother of the deceased brought
the present action against the Railroad Company in the
State of Idaho. Josephine Whitley, having refused to
join as a party plaintiff, was made a defendant. She was
not within the jurisdiction of the Idaho court and did not
appear; under order of that court, a copy of the summons
and complaint was served upon her without the State.
In view of the commencement of this suit, the Railroad
Company refused to carry out the agreement with Josephine Whitley and she as administratrix (in November,
1909) brought an action against, the company in the
Superior Court of the State of Washington to recover
the sum of $9,500 alleged still to be due. In her complaint
she set forth her appointment as administratrix, the
negligence of the defendant causing the death of the intestate, the statute of Idaho, the settlement fGr $11,000
authorized by the Probate Court of Tennessee, and the
partial payment. It was not alleged that the mother,
Mary Elizabeth Whitley, was an heir under the law , of
Idaho, where the cause of action arose, or that any recovery was sought on her behalf. The Railroad Company in its answer denied the wrongful act and set forth
as an affirmative defense that the mother had sued in
Idaho, was one of the heirs, and was entitled to maintain
her action; and that, if the plaintiff succeeded, the defendant would be exposed to a double recovery. The
administratrix replied, alleging that she had full authority
under the laws of Idaho to agree -to a settlement of the
claim and that the settlement would be.a bar to a recovery in the Idaho action. Mary Elizabeth Whitley

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

was not a party to the Washington suit and no attempt
was made to bring her in. It was swiftly determined,
without contest. Service of the answer was acknowledged
on November 16, 1909, and the reply was served on
November 17, 1909. The cause was brought to trial on
November 18, 1909; the pleadings were filed shortly after
9 o'clock on the morning of that day; at 9:45 o'clock
findings were filed (with a conclusion of law overruling
the defense of the Railroad Company), and at 10 o'clock
on the same morning judgment was entered in favor of
the plaintiff for the sum of $9,500.
The Railroad Company at once paid to Josephine
Whitley the amount of the judgment and she removed
this amount to the State of Tennessee. In the early part
of the year 1910, the mother presented her petition to
the Probate Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, alleging
that the administratrix had recovered by compromise
the sum of $11,000, and that the petitioner, as an heir
under the Idaho 19w, was entitled to one-half. The demand was contested and the petition was dismissed. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the judgment
was affirmed; it was held that the fund recovered by
the administratrix was 'to be distributed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Tennessee, and not the
laws of the State of Idaho,' and that the mother had
no interest in the proceeds of the recovery.
After these proceedings, the Railroad Company
amended its answer in the present suit in Idaho, and
pleaded in bar the Washington and Tennessee judgments.
These defenses the Idaho court overruled and, as we
have said, the mother recovered judgment for $5,500.
In determining the question now presented, it is apparent that the fundamental consideration is that the
right to recover damages for the killing of the decedent
was created by the Idaho statute. That right could be
enforced in another State, if the enforcement was not

SPOKANE INLAND R. R. v. WHITLEY.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

opposed to its policy (Dennick v. Railroad Company,
103 U. S. 11; Texas & Pacific Rwy. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593),
but. wherever enforced, the liability sprang from the
Idaho law and was governed by it. Whee suit is brought
in another jurisdiction, it has been held that such provisions of the law of the place of the wrongful act as can
be deemed to be merely procedural may be treated as
non-essential (Stewart v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 168
U. S. 445; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Rwy. v, Sowers,
213 U. S. 55; Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. R. Co. v. George,
233 U. S. 354), but it is clear that the obligation itself
has its source in that law. We must look to the Idaho
statute to determine what the obligation is, to whom it
runs, and the persons by whom or for whose benefit recovery may be had. Slater v. Mexican National R. R.
Co., 194 U. S. 120, 126, 127; Western Union Telegraph
Company v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542, 547.
The construction of that statute by the Supreme Court
of Idaho, with respect to the nature of the right of actibn
created, is in accord with the accepted view of statutes
similar to Lord Campbell's Act. The recovery authorized
is not for the benefit of the 'estate' of the decedent; the
proceeds of the recovery are not assets of the estate.
Where the personal representative is entitled to sue, it
is only as trustee for described persons,-the 'heirs' of
the decedent. The action, says the Supreme Court of
Idaho, is allowed upon the theory that the wrongful
killing of the ancestor 'works a personal injury to his
heirs.' They are the sole beneficiaries. The 'heirs' axe
those who under the laws of Idaho take in cases of intestacy; here, it is conceded that these heirs were the widow
and mother of the deceased, taking equally. 23 Idaho,
pp. 659, 662. It may also be premised that when suit is
duly brought by the trustee under such a statutory trust,
it is a necessary and conclusive presumption that the
trust will be executed and that the rights of the bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ficiaries as fixed by the statute which created the obligation will be recognized by all courts before whom the
question of distribution may come. Dennick v. Railroad
Company, 103 U. S. 11, 20. It follows necessarily that
if Josephine Whitley as administratrix was authorized
to sue on behalf of the mother, and she recovered as
trustee by virtue of that authority, the Washington
judgment constituted an adjudication of the mother's
right and as such would be entitled to full faith and
credit in other States, including Idaho; in that case, the
fact that the Tennessee court subsequently denied the
right of the mother to her share as one of the beneficiaries
would present simply the case of an erroneous determination which could not operate to. destroy the estoppel of
the judgment. Judicial error on a trustee's accounting
does not disturb the rights which have become fixed in
suits prosecuted by the trustee agaiRst third persons.
The question, then, is one of jurisdiction, that is,
whether the mother-Mary Elizabeth Whitley-was
represented by the administratrix in the Washington
suit. The mother was not a party to that suit, and, if
she was not represented by the administratrix, the Washington court was without jurisdiction as to her, and the
Idaho court was not bound to treat the judgment as a
bar to her recovery in the present suit. Thompson v.
Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 463, 469; National Exchange Bank
v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257, 270; Haddock v. Haddock, 201
U. S. 562, 573; Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 237.
The matter is not one ,of mere form or procedure, and
it is manifest, that the authority of the administratrix
to represent the mother without her consent, if that
authority existed, could be derived only from the Idaho
statute. Not only did the Tennessee court deny that
the Tennessee law conferred the right to represent the
mother, but the State of Tennessee was powerless to
confer it contrary to the statute which gave the cause of

SPOKANE INLAND R. R. v. WHITLEY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action. The same is true with respect to the State of
Washington, where the suit was brought; and there, it
may be observed, it has been held under the local statute
giving (as does that of Idaho) the right of action for
the wrongful killing of the decedent to 'heirs or personal
representatives' that the personal representative is not
entitled to recover unless it be shown that the designated
beneficiaries have sanctioned the. bringing of the action.
Copeland v. Seattle, 33 Washington, 415, 421; Koloff v.
Chicago, Milwaukee & Puget Sound Rwy. Co., 71 Washington, 543, 550, 551.
The Supreme Court of Idaho, having authority to construe the Idaho statute, has held that the administratrix
did not represent the mother, and, consequently that the
mother's right was not barred. The court thus expressed
its conclusion:
"It clearly appears then, first, that the respondent
in this case, Mary Elizabeth Whitley, had no right of
action and no claim whatever under the laws of the State
of Tennessee; second, that she was never made a party
to the action prosecuted in the State of Washington,
and that the action there prosecuted was not prosecuted
for her or in her interest or on her behalf, and that she was
neither aecorded representation there in person nor by
trustee, administrator or other representative. She has,
therefore, clearly never been a party to the Washington
judgment and is not bound by that judgment. (Galveston
H. & A. S. R. Co. v. Kutac, 72 Texas, 643; S. C., 1'S. W.
Rep. 127.)" 23 Idaho, p. 658.
It is left to the plaintiff in error to contend, in substance,
that the Idaho court sustained the right of a personal representative, that is, of a duly appointed administrator,
to sue under the Idaho statute for the benefit of the 'heirs,'
but denied credit to the judgment in question, recovered
in virtue of that right, simply because of the subsequent
decision of the Tennessee court in refusing to permit the
VOL. ccxxxvii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

mother to participate in the proceeds of the recovery;
and extracts from the opinion of the Idaho court are quoted
in support of the argument. It seems to us that this is
too narrow a view of the decision of the state court. We
think that the decision taken in its full scope and with its
necessary implications involves the construction of the
statute to the effect that the 'heirs' are entitled...to sue
on their own behalf, and that the statute does not give to
an administrator or personaLrepresentative an independent right of action, or authority to bind the heirs without
their sanction, but an administrator is authorized by the
statute to sue only on their behalf and with their consent.
As has been said, similar words in the statute of the State
of Washington, have been similarly construed. See Copeland v. Seattle, 33 Washington, 415 (cited in the opinion
of the Idaho court); Koloff v. Chicago, Milwaukee & Puget
Sound Rwy., 71 Washington, 543, 550, 551. And under
that construction there is no basis for the conclusion in
the present case that the mother was represented in the
Washington suit and that she was bound'by the judgment
there recovered.' It is insisted that the mother ratified by
endeavoring to obtain in Tennessee a share of the recovery.
But this was a wholly barren proceeding. The administratrix resisted the petition, denying in effect that she
had represented the mother in the Washington suit and
asserting that the mother had no interest whatever in
that action or the proceeds. The court upheld this contention of the administratrix and the mother took nothing.
Neither the position of the widow nor that of the Railroad Company was changed in any respect, and it cannot
be said that this unsuccessful attempt altered the mother's
rights.
It is apparent that the Railroad Company co~perated
with the administratrix in securing the judgment in her
favor, without bringing the mother in as a party and without demanding that proof of authorization of the suit by

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. TILGHMAN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

the mother should be furnished. Had the Railroad Company made such a demand, there is no reason to believe
that it would not have been sustained. Relying upon
what appears to be an erroneous construction of the Idaho
statute, it preferred to facilitate the adminiatratrix in
obtaining the recovery in the absence of the mother and
without its being shown that the suit was brought in her
interest and with her authority, and the predicament in
which it now finds itself is due solely to its own conduct.
Judgment afirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. TILGHMAN.
ERROR TO THE'SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 713.

Argued April 22, 23, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

The Federal Employers' Liability Act rejects the common-law rule
that contributory negligence is a complete defense and adopts the
more reasonable rule that the damages shall be diminished in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to the injured employ6.
Where the causal negligence is attributable partly to the carrier and
partly to the injured employ6 the latter is not to recover fall damages, but only a diminished sum bearing the same relation to the full
damages that the negligence attributable to the carrier bears to the
negligence attributable to both; the purpose being to exclude from
the recowry a proportional part of the total damages corresponding
to the employ6's contribution to the total negligence.
The trial court should not commit to the jury the duty of determining
the amount in which the damages should be diminished by reason
of the contributory negligence of the employ6 without advising them of the rule prescribed by the statute for determining the amount
of the diminution. It should not be left to their conception of
what is reasonable.
167 N. Car. 163, reversed.

