SEABOARD AIR LINE v. TILGHMAN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

the mother should be furnished. Had the Railroad Company made such a demand, there is no reason to believe
that it would not have been sustained. Relying upon
what appears to be an erroneous construction of the Idaho
statute, it preferred to facilitate the adminiatratrix in
obtaining the recovery in the absence of the mother and
without its being shown that the suit was brought in her
interest and with her authority, and the predicament in
which it now finds itself is due solely to its own conduct.
Judgment afirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. TILGHMAN.
ERROR TO THE'SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 713.

Argued April 22, 23, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

The Federal Employers' Liability Act rejects the common-law rule
that contributory negligence is a complete defense and adopts the
more reasonable rule that the damages shall be diminished in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to the injured employ6.
Where the causal negligence is attributable partly to the carrier and
partly to the injured employ6 the latter is not to recover fall damages, but only a diminished sum bearing the same relation to the full
damages that the negligence attributable to the carrier bears to the
negligence attributable to both; the purpose being to exclude from
the recowry a proportional part of the total damages corresponding
to the employ6's contribution to the total negligence.
The trial court should not commit to the jury the duty of determining
the amount in which the damages should be diminished by reason
of the contributory negligence of the employ6 without advising them of the rule prescribed by the statute for determining the amount
of the diminution. It should not be left to their conception of
what is reasonable.
167 N. Car. 163, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
. Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict in
the state court in an action for personal injuries brought
under the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William C. Douglass, with whom Mr. Clyde A.
Douglass and Mr. Robert N. Simms were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was an action in the Superior Court of Wake
County, North, Carolina, under the Employers' Liability
Act of Congress, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291,
to recover for personal injuries sustained by the plaintiff
in a head-on collision of two passenger trains, of one of
which he was the conductor in charge. A trial of the
issues resulted in a verdict finding that the plaintiff's
injuries were caused by the concurring negligence of the
railway company and himself and assessing the damages
recoverable by him at $7,000. A judgment in his favor
was rendered on the verdict and the company appealed
to the- Supreme Court of the State where the judgment
was affirmed, two judges dissenting. 167 N. Car. 163.
*The Federal question which brings the case here is,
whether proper effect was given to that part of the statute
which deals with the measure of recovery where the employ6 contributes to his injuries by his own negligenct.
At common law there could be no recovery in such a
case, the contributory negligence being a complete bar
or defense. But this statute rejects the common law rule
and adopts another, deemed more reasonable, by declaring
(ยง 3), "the fact that the employ6 may have been guilty

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. TILGHMAN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of contributory negligence shall not bar a recovery, but
the damages shall be diminished by the jury in proportion
to the amount Of negligence attributable to such employ6." This is followed by a proviso to the effect that
contributory negligence on the part of the employ6 shall
not be considered for any purpose where the carrier's
fault consisted in the violation of a statute-a Federal
statute-enacted for the safety of employ6s (see Seaboard
Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 503); but this is not such
a case, and so the principal provision is the one to be applied. It means, and can only mean, as this court has
held, that, where the causal negligence is attributable
partly to the carrier and partly to the injured employ6,
he shall not recover full damages, but only a diminished
sum bearing the same relation to the full damages that the
negligence attributable to the carrier bears to the negligence attributable to both; the purpose being to exclude
from the recovery a proportional part of the damages corresponding to the employ6's contribution to the total
negligence. Norfolk & Western Ry. v. Earnest, 229 U. S.
114, 122; Grand Trunk Western Ry. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
42, 49.
At the trial the court instructed the jury that, if they
found the plaintiff was injured through the concurring
negligence of the railway company and himself, they
should determine the full amount of damages sustained
by him, "and then deduct from that whatever amount
you think would be proper for the contributory negligence." This was reiterated in different ways and somewhat elaborated, but the fair meaning of all that was said
was that a reasonable allowance or deduction should be
made for the plaintiff's negligence and that it rested with
the jury to determine what was reasonable. No reference
was made to therule of proportion specified in the statute
or to the occasion for contrasting the negligence of the
employ6 with the total causal negligence as a means of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Syllabus.

237 U; S.

ascertaining what proportion of the full damages should
be excluded from the recovery. On the contrary, the
matter of diminishing the damages was committed to the
jury without naming any standard to which their action
should conform other than their own conception of what
was reasonable. In this there was a failure to give proper
effect to the part of the statute before quoted. It prescribes a rule for determining the amount of the deduction
required to be made and the jury should have been advised of that rule and its controlling force.
It results that the objection to the instructions upon
this subject was well taken and should have been sustained.
Judgment reversed.

COLLINS v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 594.

Argued February 25, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

In habeas corpus proceedings this court is confined to the examination
of fundamental and jurisdictional questions; the writ cannot be
employed as a substitute for a writ of error.

Refusal of the trial court to permit a proffered defense, even if erroneous, does not ordinarily affect the jurisdiction or amount to more
than error.
An averment of arbitrary action in judicial ruling merely states a conclusion of law and has no effect in the absence of facts alleged sufficient to show that the ruling was actually arbitrary.
Even though the question whether the judgment was rendered by a
properly constituted court were open here, this court sees no reason
to disagree with the meaning attributed by the state courts of Cal-

