BROWN v. FLETCHER.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

not to have been raised below and which we think also is
too frivolous to afford a basis for jurisdiction, what we
have said disposes of all the considerations relied upon as
the basis for the right to prosecute this direct writ of error,
it follows that we are without jurisdiction and the writ
is therefore
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

BROWN AND SCHERMERHORN, TRUSTEES, v.
FLETCHER, AS TRUSTEE OF BRAKER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 286.

Argued May 13, 14, 191S.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Brown v. Fletcher,235 U. S. 589, followed to the effect that ยง 24, Judicial
Code, does not apply to the assignment of an interest of the cestui
que trust of a testamentary trust fund.
Even though jurisdiction to do so exists, this court will not dispose of
a case on the merits where such action would be out of harmony
with the provisions of the Judicial Code giving a direct right of re-

view on questions of jurisdiction, or where it would be incompatible
with the provisions of that Code giving finality to judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
The refusal of the Circuit Court of Appeals to decide a case on its merits
because it erroneously held that the diversity of citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction to the Federal courts did not exist, should
not, under the circumstances of this case, be made the basis of this
court for deciding a case which, if jurisdiction does exist, should be
finally decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The District Court having taken jurisdiction of a case on the ground
that diversity of citizenship existed, and decided the case on the
merits, and the Circuit Court of Appeals having held that jurisdiction
did not exist and reversed, with instructions to dismiss the bill, but
not on the merits, this court, having found that diversity of citizen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. 8.

ship does exist, and that there is jurisdiction, does not decide the
case on the merits, although it has jurisdiction so to do, but remands
it to the Circuit Court of Appeals to the end that it proceed to discharge its duty of hearing and deciding the case.
206 Fed. Rep. 461, reversed.

CoNRAD BRAKER, JR., of New York who there died
July 21, 1891, by his will created several trusts in favor of
his son, Conrad Morris Braker. The beneficiary of these
trusts, the son, assigned a portion of' his interest in them
to one Rabe and nearly the whole of the remainder to the
New York Finance Company. Rabe subsequently assigned to the Finance Company the interest which he had
acquired and the Finance Company which thus claimed
to be the successor or assignee to all, or nearly all, the interest of Braker, the son,, under the trusts, assigned certain parts of its interest to one Cunningham and the remainder to one Wood. Cunningham 'having died, this
suit was commenced in 1911 in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York by
the trustees under his will to enforce one of the trusts under
the assumption that it had matured and was owned by the
estate of Cunningham in virtue of the assignment made
to him. The jurisdiction of the court was based solely on
diversity of citizenship. The bill was demurred to for
various causes, one of which challenged the jurisdiction
of the court on the ground that as there was no diversity
of citizenship as between the original parties and hence
no jurisdiction, none did or could result under the law
from the assignments. The demurrer was overruled and.
the case on the merits was decided against the complainants who appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.
While the case was there, on February 5, 1913, the
trustees under the will of Cunningham commenced another suit in the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York against the trustee

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

under the will, to enforce another trust which they asserted had matured and which they claimed to have a
right to enforce in consequence of the assignment from
the New York Finance Company. In the meanwhile
Wood, to whom as we have previously said an assignment
had been made, having died, his testamentary executors
also on the same day commenced in the District Court a
suit against the trustee of the will of Braker, to enforce
the trust. The jurisdiction in both these cases also depended on diverse citizenship. The cases were put at
issue by answer and while they were on the docket awaiting trial this case, which was pending in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, was by that court decided June 27, 1913. The
court primarily intimated opinions concerning the controlling influence of a prior ruling made in the state Surrogates Court and further intimated views on the merits
which came ultimately', however, to be mere obiter since
the court placed its final ruling on a question of Federal
jurisdiction and held that as Braker, the son, was not a
party and as diversity of citizenship did not exist if the
prior parties were considered and as the assignee had no
greater right than had his assignor to invoke the Federal
jurisdiction, there was no jurisdiction and the decree below
was therefore reversed with directions "to 'dismiss the bill,
but not upon the merits." (206 Fed. Rep. 461.) Before,
however, such decree became final a writ of certiorari was
granted and in consequence of that fact the case is now
before us.
After the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals and
after the granting of the writ of certiorari by this court
demurrers to the jurisdiction were filed in the two cases
pending in the District Court on the ground covered by
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case,
and the District Court evidently following that decision
changed its previous ruling and dismissed both of the
cases for want of jurisdiction. Under the provisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ยง 238 of the Judicial Code direct appeals were then prosecuted in both the cases from the District Court to this
court. On these appeals as the result of the allowance of
a motion to advance the cases were heard in December
last and the judgments below were reversed, it being decided that the assignee under the circumstances was not
within the provisions of ยง 24 of the Judicial Code and
therefore the existence of diversity of citizenship between
the parties gave authority to hear and decide the cases.
Brown v. Fletcher, 235 U. S. 589.
Mr. Charles H. Burr for petitioners.
Mr. William' P. S. Melvin for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is apparent from the statement which We have made
that the ruling as to the question of jurisdiction made in
the two previous cases involving the same subject-matter
which is here in controversy so far as it concerned the
jurisdiction of the court as a Federal court, conclusively
demonstrates that the court below erred in declining to
take cognizance of the cause upon the theory that it was
without its jurisdiction as a Federal court to do so. While
it is clear, the question of jurisdiction being thus determined, that we' have power to consider and dispose of the
merits, we think it is equally clear that we ought not to
exert the authority, (a), because to do so would be out of
harmony with the provisions of the Judicial Code, giving
a right to direct review on questions of jurisdiction; and
(b), because it would be in a broad sense incompatible with
the provisions giving finality to the judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in cases, of which this is
one, within the final competency of those courts. We say

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the first, because it is apparent that if we now determine
the merits of this case, we shall in a large sense virtually
decide the merits of the two other cases concerning in a
sense the same subject-matter involved in the cases which
came here on direct appeals as to jurisdiction and jurisdiction alone and which now, the question of jurisdiction
alone having been determined, doubtless await the action
of the District Court and the review of that action by the
court below if after the cases have been decided by the
District Court they are carried to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for review and final decision. We say the second,
because as this case is one over which the action of the
court below is made final by the statute, we are of opinion
that its refusal to decide the case on the merits because of
an erroneous conclusion as to want of power as a Federal
court to do so ought not under the circumstanc s here
disclosed to be made the basis by which this cou .t would
perform a duty which the statute contemplate 3 should
be discharged by the court below.
Indeed, the views just stated have been applied by
previous rulings. Lutcher & Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight,
217 U. S. 257; United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S. 547; Win.
Cramp Sons v. Curtiss Turbine Co., 228 U. S. 645. In the
Lutcher Case which was brought here by the allowance of a
writ of certiorari, it was found that the court below, the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit, had from
a mistake of law refused to consider the merits of the case
and although it was recognized that as the result of the
certiorari the whole case was open to our review, it was
yet pointed out that as by the provisions of the act of
1891 the cause was one which apart from certiorari was
within the competency of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and its judgment when rendered would be final, the duty
of this court was not to determine the case on the merits
but after correcting the error which had stood in the way
of the court below performing its duty, to remand the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

to that court so that such duty might be discharged. So
in the Rimer Case which was brought here by certiorari,
when it was discovered that the writ had obviously been
allowed upon a mistaken conception as to the existence
in the case of a far-reaching question of public importance
justifying the issue of the writ, it was pointed out that,
the mistake becoming apparent, it was our duty not to
decide the case but to remand it to.the Circuit Court of
Appeals to which the certiorari had been directed to enable
that court to discharge its duty. And the same principle
was involved in the Cramp Case where, after the case had
been brought to this court by certiorari and it was held
that the decision of the court below was void because the
court- which decided it was not legally organized, while it
was recognized that there was power under the certiorari
to dispose of the whole case, it was held that the duty
arose in order to give effect to the statute not to decide,
but to remand the case so that when the court below was
organized conformably to the statute the case might be
considered and disposed of as the statute contemplated it
should be.
While it follows from these considerations that the decree below must be reversed, it also results that it is our
duty to remand the case to the court below, that is, the.
Circuit Court of. Appeals, to the end that, all questions
doncerning its jurisdiction as a Federal court having been
determined by the prior decision of this court, it proceed
to discharge its duty of hearing and deciding the case
conformably to law.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.

