REINMAN v. LITTLE ROCK.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

could recover from the United States by a suit in the
Court of Claims the amount received from defendant in
the compromise (United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1;
United States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 394), because upon
the facts as found plaintiff is entitled to recover a larger
amount and upon a different basis of fact from that which
controlled in the compromise; and defendant as the wrongdoer cannot put upon plaintiff the burden of prosecuting
two actions to recover compensation for a single wrong.
Our decision, however, is without prejudice to action by
the Wisconsin courts requiring that plaintiff, upon obtaining judgment against defendant in accordance with
the principles above declared, and as a condition to payment of that judgment by defendant, shall assign to defendant his claim against the Government, or, upon being
properly indemnified, shall agree to permit defendant to
use his name in proceedings to recover the money. We
intend no intimation respecting the effect, if any, of § 3477,
Rev. Stat., upon such an assignment.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

REINMAN v. CITY OF LITTLE ROCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 153.

Argued January 22, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The decision of the state court of last resort that a municipal ordinance is within the scope of the power conferred on the municipal-

ity by the legislature is conclusive upon this court.
Where the state court has held that an ordinance is within the power
conferred on the municipality it must be regarded as a state law
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

the force of law is a statute of the State within the meaning of § 237,
Jud. Code, conferring jurisdiction on this-court.
Even though a livery stable is not a nuisance per se it is within the
police power of the State to regulate -the business, and to declare a
livery stable to be a nuisance, in fact and in law, in particular circumstances and particular places; if such power is not exercised
arbitrarily or with unjust discrimination it does not infringe upon
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The opinion of the state court is to be interpreted in the light of the
issue as framed by the pleadings.
Where averments of facts in the complaint are contradicted by the
answer, and the expression used by the court "dismissed for want
of equity," may, under the practice of the state court, as in Arkansas,
indicate dismissal on the merits as distinguished from a dismissal
based upon d formal defect or fault-this court assumes that the
state court adopted the facts set up in the answer, that being the
basis of facts which would most clearly sustain its decision.
The ordinance of the City of Little Rock, Arkansas, making it unlawful
to conduct the business of a livery stable in certain defined portions
of that city, is not unconstitutional as depriving an owner. of a
livery, stable already established within that district of his property
without due process of law or as denying him equal protection of
law.
107 Arkansas, 174, affirmed.

PLAINTIFFS in error filed their bill of complaint in the
Pulaski County Chancery Court, a state court of general
chancery jurisdiction, praying an injunction against the
City of Little Rock, its mayor and other officers, to restrain them from enforcing an ordinance passed by the
city council to regulate livery stables. The ordinance
recites that "The conducting of a livery stable business
within certain parts of the City of Little Rock, Arkansas,
is detrimental to the health, interest and prosperity of the
City," and it is ordained that it shall be unlawful to conduct or carry on that business within the area bounded by
Center, Markham, Main, and Fifth Streets, under penalties prescribed. Plaintiffs include a firm that conducts
a livery and sale stable business, and a corporation that
carries on a general livery stable business, within the de-

REINMAN v. LITTLE ROOK.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

fined area. It is averred that the businesses are and have
been for many years conducted in brick buildings, in a
proper and careful manner, and without complaint as to
sanitary conditions; that plaintiffs during the progress of
their business have been compelled to enter into leases for
the grounds and improvements and to construct brick
buildings at great cost, useful for no other purpose, and that
these and other large expenditures made for improvements
will be lost if they are compelled to cease to do business
there; that there is no other available site in the city where
such business can be profitably carried on and where
plaintiffs have assurance that they may remain without
molestation; that these matters are matters of public
notoriety, and the establishment of the business in that
locality has been encouraged by the city, and upon the
strength of such encouragement the buildings were constructed and expenditures made; that the passage of the
ordinance was procured by named parties (not made
defendants) who' desired to purchase the property of
plaintiffs; that plaintiffs have tried to obtain another location for their business outside of the prohibited district,
but are unable to do so except with extravagant outlay
which they are unable to make; and that the action of city
council in prohibiting the carrying on of any livery stable
business in the locality mentioned is unreasonable, discriminatory, not warranted by law or the charter of the
City, and in contravention of those provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment respecting due process of law and the
equal protection of the laws. A verifying affidavit and a
copy of the ordinance were attached as exhibits.
Defendants demurred, upon the ground that
the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The trial court overruled the demurrer and
granted a temporary restraining order. Defendants
answered, denying the material averments of the bill,
and asserting that the ordinance was passed in good faith

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

for the purpose of promoting the health and prosperity
of the citizens, and in the belief that said livery stables
in said district were conducive to sickness and inconvenience and ill health to the citizens, and were damaging
to the property in that vicinity; also, "that said district
composes the greatest shopping district in the entire
State of Arkansas; that it contains the largest and best
hotels in the State, and the district encompasses the most
valuable real estate in the entire State; that said stable
business is conducted in a careless manner, and that it is
nothing unusual in connection with said sale stables to
have from fifty to one hundred head of horses and mules
driven through the principal streets to said stables; that
there is always an offensive odor coining from said stables,
to the great detriment of the tenants in the property
adjoining and the shoppers who go within this district,
and hotel guests; that said stables being in such densely
populated part of the city produce disease, making that
section extremely unwholesome," etc.
Plaintiffs excepted and also demurred to the answer
as insufficient in law to raise an issue of fact upon the
authority assumed by the City to pass the ordinance,
and as stating no facts sufficient to constitute a defense.
The cause was then heard, upon the complaint and exhibits,
the answer, and the demurrer; the demurrer was sustained,
and, defendants declining to plead further, it was decreed
that the temporary restraining order be made perpetual.
Defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of Arkansas,
which court, on February 24, 1913, made a decree reversing
the decree of the lower court, with costs, and remanding'
the cause with directions to dismiss the complaint for
want of equity. The decree of reversal recited: "This
cause came on to be heard upon the transcript of the record
'6f the Chancery Court of Pulaski County, and was argued
by solicitdrs, on consideration whereof it is the opinion
of the Court that there is error in the proceedings and

REINMAN v. LITTLE ROCK.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

decree of said-Chancery Court in this cause, in this: Said
court erred in granting the relief prayed for in the complaint, whereas the same is without equity and should
have been dismissed." It was therefore ordered and decreed that the decree of the Chancery Court be reversed,
"and that this cause be remanded to said Chancery
Court with directions to dismiss the complaint of the
appellees for want of equity." Upon the same day an
opinion was filed in the Supreme Court, expressing the
grounds of the decision. 107 Arkansas, 174.
Thereafter, a petition for rehearing was filed, and by
leave of the court was submitted at a later date with a
supporting brief. Among the averments of the petition
were the following: "That the effect of the ruling of this
Honorable Court is to deprive the appellees of the opportunity of presenting evidence to sustain those of the
allegations of the Complaint as are denied by the said
answer, for the said ruling orders the dismissal of the
said complaint and does not remand the cause so that
appellees may present evidence to sustain the allegations
of their bill of complaint bearing on the question whether
said ordinance and permit system does or does not amount
to a deprivation of property and a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, within the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, as well as the provisions of the constitution of the
State of Arkansas. That unless the appellees are given
an opportunity to introduce evidence as aforesaid the
said answer may be taken as conclusive against them;
that upon the finding that said demurrer was improperly
sustained the cause should have been remanded to take
evidence as to the said constitutional questions, including
the use and abuse of the said permit system by said City."
The petition for rehearing was takeff under advisement,
and at a later date overruled, without opinion. The present writ of error was then sued out.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Mr. Morris M. Cohn for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. Merrick Moore for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.'

The decision of the state court of last resort is conclusive
upon the point that the ordinance under consideration is
within the scope of the powers conferred by the state
legislature upon the city council of Little Rock. It must
therefore be treated, for the purposes of our jurisdiction, as an act of legislation proceeding from the lawmaking power of the State; for a municipal ordinance
passed under authority delegated by the legislature is a
state law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution; and any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives the force of law, is a
statute of the State within the meaning of Judicial Code,
§ 237, which confers jurisdiction upon this court. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 555, and cases
cited.
Therefore the argument that a livery stable is not a
nuisance per se, which is much insisted upon by plaintiffs
in error, is beside the question. Granting that it is not a
nuisance per se, it is clearly within the police power of the
State to regulate the business and to that end to declare
that in particular circumstances and in particular localities a livery stable shall be deemed a nuisance in fact and
in law, provided this power is not exerted arbitrarily, or
with unjust discrimination, so as to infringe upon rights
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. For no question is made, and we think none could reasonably be made,
but that the general subject of the regulation of livery,
stables, with respect to their location and the manner

REINMAN v. LITTLE ROCK.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in which they are to be conducted in a thickly populated
city, is well within the range of the power of the state
to legislate for the health and general welfare of the
people.
While such regulations are subject to judicial scrutiny
upon fundamental grounds, yet a considerable latitude
of discretion must be accorded to the law-making power;
and so long as the regulation in question is not shown to
be clearly unreasonable and arbitrary, and operates uniformly upon all persons similarly situated in the particular
district, the district itself not appearing to have been
arbitrarily selected, it cannot be judicially declared that
there is a deprivation of property without due process of
law, or a denial of the equal protection of the laws, within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 62; FertilizingCo. v. Hyde Park,
97 U. S. 659, 667; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 30;
Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 708; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 136; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S.
183, 188; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79, 87; Cronin
v. People, 82 N. Y. 318, 321; In re Wilson, 32 Minnesota, 145, 148; City of St. Louis v. Russell, 116 Missouri,
248, 253.
The only debatable question arises from the contention
that under the particular circumstances alleged in the
complaint, viz: that plaintiffs in error have conducted
the livery stable business for a long time in the same location and at large expense for permanent structures,
and the removal to another location would be very costly,
and since (as the complaint alleges) their stables are in all
respects properly conducted, this particular ordinance
must be deemed an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise
of the power of regulation. But these averments of fact
are contradicted by the answer, and so we are confronted
with the question: Upon what basis of fact is this matter
to be determined? Plaintiffs in error insist that it is to be
-VOL. ccxxxvii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

decided upon the basis of the averments contained in their
complaint, because the Supreme Court ordered the complaint to be dismissed for want of equity. But it seems
that in the practice of the courts of Arkansas, as elsewhere,
the expression "dismissed for want of equity" is employed
to indicate a decision upon the merits as distinguished
from one based upon a formal defect or default; and that
it applies as well where on final hearing it is found that
the averments of the complaint are not true in fact, as
where those averments do not upon their face show a
sufficient basis of fact for the granting of the relief sought.
Meux v. Anthony, 11 Arkansas, 411, 422, 424; Smith v.
Carrigan,23 Arkansas, 555; McRae v. Rogers, 30 Arkansas,
272.
Upon the face of this record it appears that all the material averments of the bill were denied by the answer, and
that the latter pleading also showed particular reasons
why it was proper for the city council to prohibit the
further maintenance of livery stables within the limited
district described in the ordinance. It was averred that
that district is in a densely populated and busy part of
the City bf Little Rock, and that the stables are conducted
in a careless manner, with offensive odors, and so as to be
productive of disease. Plaintiffs did not contradict this,
but demurred to the answer as insufficient in law, and the
cause was heard in the trial court upon the complaint
and exhibits, the answer, and the demurrer. The demurrer
being sustained, and defendants declining to plead further,
a perpetual restraining order followed in due course.
Upon the removal of the cause to the Supreme Court
on defendant's appeal it was heard there, as appears from
the decree rendered, by that court, "upon the transcript
of the record of the Chancery Court of Pulaski County."
That record includes not only the complaint, but the
answer and demurrer. The Supreme Court in its opinion
made no statement of the facts upon which it proceeded

REINMAN v. LITTLE ROCK.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to judgment, and did not intimate that it ignored the
effect of the answer and confined itself to the averments
of the bill alone. It is true that broad reasoning was
employed; but, upon familiar principles, the opinion is to
be interpreted in the light of the issue as framed by the
pleadings. Besides, the petition for rehearing especially
set up that the effect of the ruling of the Supreme Court
was to deprive plaintiffs of the opportunity of presenting
evidence to sustain those allegations of the complaint
that were denied by the answer, that unless they were
given an opportunity to introduce evidence the answer
might be taken as conclusive against them, and that the
cause ought to have been remanded to take evidence, etc.
The fact that the Supreme Court denied the rehearing
without giving reasons is at least consistent with the
theory that plaintiffs had properly interpreted the meaning
of the decree as entered, and that it correctly expressed
the intent and the purpose of the court.
By § 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (ch. 20, 1 Stat. 86)
it was provided: "No other error shall be assigned or
regarded as a ground of reversal . . . than such as
appears on the face of the record." Under this Act,
it was uniformly held that in reviewing the judgments
of state courts (in States other than Louisiana, where
the opinion formed a part of the record), this court could
not look into the opinion to ascertain what was decided.
In the amendatory act of February 5, 1867 (ch. 28, § 2,
14 Stat. 386), the words above quoted were omitted, and
because of this it has since been held that this court is
not so closely restricted as before to the face of the record
to ascertain what was decided in the state court, and may
examine the opinion, when properly authenticated, so
far as may be useful in determining that question. This is
recognized in paragraph 2 of our eighth rule. "But after
all," said Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court in
Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 633, 634,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

"the record of the case, its pleadings, bills of exceptions,
judgment, evidence, in short, its record, whether it be a
case in law or equity, must be the chief foundation of the
inquiry; and while we are not prepared to fix any absolute
limit to the sources of the inquiry under the new act, we
feel quite sure it was not intended to open the scope of it
to any loose range of investigation."
If the recorff,. including the opinion, leaves it a matter
of doubtful inference upon what basis of fact the state
qourt rested its decision of the Federal question, it seems
to us very plain, upon general principles, that we ought
to assume, so far as the state of the record permits; that
it adopted such a basis of fact as would most clearly
sustain its judgment. Hence, in the present case, we
ought to and do assume that the Arkansas Supreme Court
acted upon the basis of the facts set up. in the answer of
the City, treating them as sufficiently substantiated by
the effect of the demurrer in admitting them to be true
go far as properly pleaded. This being so, there is, as we
have already remarked, no reasonable question of the
validity of the ordinance, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court is
Affirmed.

MALLOY v. STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF.SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 172.

Argued March 5, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

The constitutional inhibition on ex post facto laws was intended .to
secure substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive
legislative actior and not to obstruct mere alterations in conditions deemed necessary for the orderly infliction of humane punishment. Rooney v. North Dakota, 196 U. S. 319.

