574

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U S.

As these reasons, as well as those stated in No. 239, are
conclusive that the demurrers in these cases should not
have been sustained, it follows that the decrees sustaining
the demurrers in these cases must be and they are reversed and remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with this and the opinion in Danielsv. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. CRADDOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 248.

Argued April 21, 22, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Decided on authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat
Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Will R. King, Mr. F. M. Saxton and Mr. L. F.
Conn for appellees, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Included among the fifteen cases which were argued by
the appellant in a single brief, this case was separately
argued by the appellees. The brief pressed upon our
attention seven propositions. all of which we are of opinion

ST. ANTHONY CHURCH v. PENNA. P. R.
237 U. S.

575

Syllabus.

are disposed of by the views announced in Daniels v.
Wagner, ante, p. 547 (No. 239), since the propositions all
in substance either conflict with the finding of the Secretary of the Interior as to the performance by the lieu
applicants of every essential requirement to entitle them

to make the entry, or directly or indirectly assert the
possession by the Land Department, at least as to the
lieu entries, of the discretionary power which was asserted
and recognized by the court below. It follows therefore
that for the reasons here stated and those expressed in
No. 239 the judgment must be and it is reversed and- the
case is remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with this and the opinion in Danielsv. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH OF ST. ANTHONY
OF PADUA, JERSEY CITY,. v. THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 269. Argued May 7, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
This court cannot review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

when the complaint alleged diversity of citizenship unless there
remain in the complaint, if the averments of such diversity were
disregarded, such averments as to existence of rights under the Constitution and laws of the United States as are adequate to sustain
jurisdiction.
Inadequacy of averments in the bill to sustain jurisdiction under the
Constitution and laws of the United States cannot be cured by showing that the nature and character of the acts relied upon are sufficient
to justify the implication that such Constitution and laws were
relied upon.
In this case the facts alleged in regard to damages caused by negligent

