OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

237 U. S.

rectness of this finding, but as it is conclusive here nothing

more need be said on that subject.
It results that these cases both as to law and the facts
are disposed of by the opinion expressed in No. 239.
The decrees sustaining the demurrers in these cases are
therefore reversed and they are remanded for ftfrther
proceedings in accordance with the opinion in this and
in Dhniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. BERNHARD.
SAME v. HOWARD.
SAME v. LEONARD.
SAME v. WAKEFIELD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 241, 242, 243, 244.

Argued April 21, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Decided on authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
One who has complied with all necessary steps to obtain lieu lands
under the Forest Reserve Act of June 4, 1897, is not confined to the
remedy of mandamus against the Secretary of the Interior. He may
proceed by action against the party to whom the patent was issued.
Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, distinguished.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat

DANIELS v. BERNHARD.
237-U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. J. H. Carnahanfor appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The printed argument for the appellant in these four
cases was presented in the one brief embracing No. 239
and the other fourteen cases referred to in that case,
but they were separately briefed for the appellees. The
separate brief covers fifteen propositions of law, or it may
be in some aspects of intermingled law and fact, each
supported by a copious citation of authority. All but
one or two of the propositioas are directly or indirectly
urged as a means of support for the possession by the
Land Department of the discretionary power which the
Department assumed it possessed, and the possession
of which was sustained by the court below. As in No. 239
we have held that proposition to be without merit, it
follows that there is no necessity for reviewing the propositions relied upon, as they present the subject in no new
aspect. We say, however, without stopping to state
and review them, that many of the propositions but
enunciate elementary rules of construction about which
there could be no dispute but which are inapplicable to
the question here arising for decision.
Moreover, in concluding we observe that the proposition that Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, established
the doctrine that the sole remedy of the complainant
under the circumstances here disclosed was to have 'proceeded by mandamus against the Secretary of the Interior when his final decision was rendered, finds no support on the face of the case relied upon and is absolutely
in conflict with the elementary and settled doctrine to
the contrary.

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U S.

As these reasons, as well as those stated in No. 239, are
conclusive that the demurrers in these cases should not
have been sustained, it follows that the decrees sustaining
the demurrers in these cases must be and they are reversed and remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with this and the opinion in Danielsv. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. CRADDOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 248.

Argued April 21, 22, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Decided on authority of Daniels v. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat
Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Will R. King, Mr. F. M. Saxton and Mr. L. F.
Conn for appellees, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Included among the fifteen cases which were argued by
the appellant in a single brief, this case was separately
argued by the appellees. The brief pressed upon our
attention seven propositions. all of which we are of opinion

