OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

It is contended by defendant in error that the statute

is valid as an amendment to the charter of the Chicago,
Burlington & Northern Railway Company, a Wisconsin
corporation, and plaintiff in error's predecessor. This
contention seems not to have been urged on the Supreme
Court, and we may, therefore, decline to consider it; and,
besides, we would be very averse to deciding that, without
explicit declaration, every general law of the State applicable to corporations is enacted as an amendment to their
charters. If the Supreme Court of the State had so
thought it would have accepted that short way to the
decision of the case and not have occupied itself with
other and more complex questions. It is one thing to
decide that corporations are subject to the police power of
the State, and quite another to hold that every general
law is an amendment to their charters. See 97 Wisconsin,
418.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 204.

Argued March 16, 17, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

Where there is a deceptive representation.in the specifications as to the
material to be excavated which actually misleads the bidder who
obtains the contract, and it is admitted by the Government that
time did not permit borings to be made by the contractor to verify
the representations, the latter is entitled to an allowance for the
actual amount expended over what would have been the cost had
the boring sheets been accurate, notwithstanding there was no sinister
purpose whatever.
The legal aspects of such a case are not affected by the fact that the

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

omissions amounting to misrepresentations did not have a sinister
purpose.
Under the contract involved in this case, all that is cast upon the Government in establishing the "angle of repose" for the slopes of the
banks on each side of the excavation is an honest exercise of judgment by the engineers, and the contractors are not entitled to damages by reason of the sloughing of the banks on account of tbo sharp
an angle.
In this case the findings do not support claimants' contention that the
"angle of repose" was arbitrarily selected and adhered to.
The contractor, in this case, held not entitled under the terms of the
contract to recover the cost of recovering buried concrete forms which
according to the findings was done vo.ntarily so as tore-use the
forms.
The Government is not responsible to the contractor for a promise of
additional compensation for cofferdams to protect the work made by
an officer not having authority and whose promise is subsequently
revoked before the work of construction commences.
In this case held that the paragraph in a Government contract providing for extra work did not supersede the paragraph requiring work
to be done by the contractor himself; and that as the conditions
contemplated by the contract required the use of cofferdams to protect the work to the height ordered by the engineers, the contractor
was not entitled to extra compensation therefor.
48 Ct. Cl. 293, reversed on account of error as to one item claimed and
disallowed.

THE facts, which involve the rights of a contractor for
compensation for work done under a contract with the
United States for the construction of locks and dams on
the Warrior River, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. King and Mr. Frank Boughton Fox, with
whom Mr. Duane E. Fox was on the brief, for appellants:
There were erroneous and deceptive borings. Hollerbach v. United States, 233 U. S. 165; Pearson v. Dublin
Corporation, 1.907, App. Cas. 351; Boyd & Forrest v. glasgow Ry., 1914, 1 Scots Law Times Rep. 176; Hingston v.
Smith Company, 114 Fed. Rep. 294; Simpson v. United
States, 192 U. S. 272. There were misrepresentations by

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

237 U S.

agents of United States which were rightly relied upon.
The claim was made at the proper time and appellant is
entitled to damages.
The banks were not sloped to angles of repose. The
slope was not an angle of repose. The reasons for not
sloping are insufficient. There was a protest and demand
for compensation.
The order for additional cofferdams was a valid order
for extra work.
In support of these contentions see cases supra and
Abbot, Problems of the Panama Canal; Bayne v. United
States, 195 Fed. Rep. 236; Beckwith v. New York, 148
N. Y. App. Div. 658; Bowen & Dudy Co. v. United States,
211 U. S. 176; Callahan Constr. Co. v. United States, 47
C. Cls. 177; Central Trust Co. v. Louisville Ry. Co., 70
Fed. Rep. 282; Chatham Furnace Co. v. Moffatt, 147 Massachusetts, 404; Cooper v. Schlesinger, 111 U. S. 148;
Cramp. & Sons Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 494; Delafield v. Westfield, 28 N. Y. Sup. 440; S. C., 169 N. Y. 582;
Eaton v. Winnie, 20 Michigan, 156; Floyd, Acceptances, 7
Wall. 666; Fontanov. Robbins, 22 App. D. C. 253; Gleeson
v. Va. Midland R. R., 140 U. S. 435; Isthmian Canal Commission Report, 1913; Johnson v. Albany, 86 N. Y. App. Div.
567; Langley v. Rouss, 77 N. E. Rep. 1168; S. C., 185 N. Y.
201; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Hensey, 205 U. S. 298; Nesbit
v. L. C. & C. R. !R-, 2 Speers, 697; Old Colony Trust Co.
v. Dubuque Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 794; Peterson v. New York,
205 N. Y. 329; Pickley v. United States, 46 C. Cls. 77;
Railway Co. v. Donnegan, 111 Indiana, 179; Reynell v.
Sprye, 1 DeG., M. & G. 660; Richards v. May, 10 Queen's
Bench Div. 400; Ripley v. United States, 223 U. S. 695;
Samley District v. Ricker, 91 Fed. Rep. 833; Sharp v.
New York, 40 Barbour, 256; Smith v. Richards, 13 Peters,
26; Stage Co. v. United States, 39 C. Cls. 420; Thomas &
Watt, Improvement of Rivers, 2d ed. (1913), pt. 1, pp. 86,
199; United States v. Garbish, 222 U. S. 257; United States

CHRISTIE v. tN.ITED STATES.
237 V. S.

Argument for the United States.

v. Plumley, 226 U. S. 545; United States v. Stage Company,
199 U. S. 414; Water Commissioners v. Robbins, 74 Atl.
Rep. 938.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States:
As to the erroneous and deceptive borings:
Appellants had actual and presumptive knowledge of
the conditions, which was sufficient notice without indicating further on the, drawings, and excluded, charges
of erroneous and deceptive representations of borings.
The findings contradict the statement in appellants'
brief that a number of buried logs were- discovered in the
course of the borings.
The terms of the contract and the findings exclude the
idea of a warranty. Hollerbach v. The United States,
233 U. S.165, and other cases distinguished.
As to erroneous angles of repose:
The engineer officer being authorized to select the angle
of repose, in the absence of a finding charging bad faith,
his selection cannot be disputed.
No angle of repose would have remained stable during
the' abnormal season of 1900-1901.
The angle of repose selected being the customary one
under ordinary conditions, and not having been objected
to, appellants are foreclosed from asking.damages.
Appellants have been paid the contract price .for all
excavation removed.
. The claim for damages for excavating material which
buried certain timber frames -falls with the claim for
damages because of an alleged incorrect angle of repose.
As to. the construction of cofferdams:
The Government was not responsible for the cost of
cofferdams since it was provided that. the contractors
should build them at -their own expense.
In support of these contentions see. Bowe v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

States, 42 Fed. Rep. 778; Bowers Dredging Co. v. United
States, 211 U. S. 176; Boyd V. Glasgow W-stern Ry. Co., 1
Scots Law Times Rep., 1914, p. 171; Clapham v. Shillito,
7 Bevan's Rep. 149; Farrarv. Churchill, 135 U. S. 615;
Gleason v. United States, 175 U. S. 602; Hollerbachv. United
States, 233 U. S. 165; Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S.
398; Nesbit v. L. C. & C. R. R. Co., 2 Speers, 697; Pearson
v. Dublin Corporation, 1907, App. Cas. 351; Plumley v.
United States, 226 U. S. 545; Ripley v. United States, 223
U. S. 695; Chicago v. Ricker, 91 Fed. Rep. 833; Shapirio
v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232; Simpson v. United States, 172
U. S. 372; Slaughter's Admr. v. Gerson, 13 Wall. 379;
United States v. Barlow, 184 U. S. 123.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for damages in the sum of $207,304.50 brought
by appellants against the United States, growing out of a
contract with the United States on the nineteenth of
February, 1900, for the construction of three locks and
dams on the Warrior river in Alabama.
The work was completed and accepted in November,
1903.
The items of damage were: delay in permitting commencement of the work; for construction of wagon roads;
greater expense of excavation and pile driving due to
misrepresentation of the materials in the specifications
and drawings; increase in excavation due to the "angle
of repose" fixed by the officer in charge; extra work in the
construction of additional cofferdams, and other items.
The court rendered judgment for claimants upon two
items, based on findings 2 and 3, to-wit, $9,391.57 for
"delays in permitting the commencement of work" and
$100.00 for "construction of wagon roads," making a
total of $9.491.57.

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This appeal was then prosecuted, and three errors are
assigned-(1) in refusing to allow for the extra expense
due to the increased difficulty in pile driving and excavation on account of misrepresentation of the materials
to be penetrated and excavated; (2) in refusing to allow
$45,000.00 for excavation of material caused by defect
in the "angle of repose," and in refusing.,to allow the
further sum of $1,183.00 for excavation of material under
which certain concrete forms were buried; and (3) in
refusing to allow the cost of cofferdams built on the order
of the officer in charge.
We shall take these items up in their order.
(1) This item is based on a charge of erroneous and
deceptive borings and misrepresentations in the specifications and drawings.
By paragraph 48 of the specifications it is, among other
things, provided: "The material to be excavated, as far
as known [italics ours], is shown by borings, drawings
of which may be seen at this office, but bidders must
inform and satisfy themselves as to the nature of the
material."
It is upon this paragraph the contention turns.
The allegations of the petition of claimants are to the
effect that, invited by the above provision, claimants
examined the drawings and they "showed gravel, sand
and clay of various descriptions, and showed no other
material,"
That the material actually to be excavated "consisted
largely of stumps below the surface of the earth, buried
logs, of cemented sand and gravel (none of the sand or
gravel being described in the said drawings as cemented),.
and of sandstone conglomerate," and that such materials
were far more difficult and expensive to penetrate and
excavate than ordinary sand and gravel such as was described in the drawings.
That the existence of the more difficult and expensive

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

material was known'to the persons who made the borings
and to the resident engineer of the United States under
whose supervision they were made; and that the statement in the specifications was untrue in fact and misleading, causing the claimants to propose to do the work
upon the basis shown by the drawings and not upon the
basis of the more difficult arid expensive work, which in
point of fact existed and was known to the officers of the
United States. That claimants were forced to rely wholly
upon the information furnished them, the time not being
sufficient to permit them to make their own borings,
and they believed the information furnished them to be
accurate and reliable. That the erroneous and deceptive
drawings misled claimants and they were compelled tospend $10,510.30 over and above the rates named in
their proposal and contract, which rates were based
upon the materials shown by such drawings.
We think the findings substantially sustain the allegations. They establish that borings were made and that the
drill met "obstructions which from the particles broken
off and floating to the surface would indicate they might
be logs." These obstructions, though in some instances
noted because of the formation, were not indicated on the
drawings.
And this was found: "When such obstructions were
met, the apparatus was moved elsewhere until a place
was found where the drill would penetrate, and the result
was recorded as if taken at the place staked out." And,
further: "The boring sheets referred to in paragraph 48
of the specifications contained only the record of completed
borings and do not show any record of sunken logs, or of
cemented sand and gravel, or conglomerate impenetrable
by the drill."
The indications of buried logs were called to the attention of the resident engineer and he was asked if they
should be noted in the record of borings, to which he replied

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U.-S.

Opinion of the Court.

that he did not consider them of enough importance to
be noted. It was, however, found that the evidence did
not establish to the satisfaction of the court that the
statement of the engineer was other than an honest expression of his opinion, nor was it made to induce the
omission from the records of the borings of any logs
actually encountered, or for the purpose of concealing
the same from or misleading subsequent bidders.
It would seem as if there could be only one conclusion
from these findings. There was a deceptive representation
of the material, and it misled. In opposition to the seemingly irresistible conclusion that claimants were justified
in their reliance upon the drawings, it is contended that
the river was alluvial and its character warned claimants
of the possible conditions which existed and that besides
the court found "they admitted they had reason to, and.
did expect to, encounter some logs."
The contentions are attempted to be supported by the
alluvial character of the river, as we have said, its tortuosity, its fluctuations between high and ,low water in
winter and summer, and that for twenty years the United
States had operated snag boats for the removal of stumps
and sunken logs from the channel of the river. But inferences from such facts could only be general and indefinite, and were not considered by the Government as
superseding the necessity of special investigations and
special report. It assumed both were necessary for its
own purpose and subsequently would be to those whom it
invited to deal with it. Knowledge of the result of such
investigations would protect the Government, it might be,
.gainst an extravagant price based on conjecture of conditions, and enable contractors confidently to bid upon
ascertained and assured data. And how important
it was to know the conditions is established by the finding that claimants were put to an expense of $6,150.00 over
what would have been necessary "if the borings sheets
VOL. ccxxxvii-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

had represented the character of the ground with respect
to logs."
It makes no difference to the legal aspects of the case
that the omissions from the records of the results of the
borings did not have sinister purpose. There were representations made which were relied upon by claimants,
and properly relied upon by them, as they were positive.
Hollerbachv. United States, 233 U. S. 165. Besides it was
admitted at the argument that time did not permit borings
to be made by claimants. We think it was error, therefore, to have disallowed the damage resulting therefrom.
(2) The "angle of repose" is dealt with in the specifications as follows: "The limits of the excavation and
quantities to be excavated will depend upon the ascertained angles of repose. The limits shown on the drawings
and the amounts herein given are approximate, and may
be greater or less as the local conditions may demand or
justify."
The finding as to the "angles of repose" is that at the
outset of the work, under direction of the engineer officer,
"the slopes of all temporary excavation at the lock sites
were staked out on an angle of 1 on 1, or 450 from horizontal." This angle, it was further found, was adopted by the
engineer officer from his experience in similar work on the
Mississippi river and was "an angle at which the banks
would stand for the time necessary to complete the work
when not submerged from rises in the river or when in a
dry condition. There was no angle or slope which could
have been adopted by Which the banks would remain
stable when subjected to such rises of the river as were
liable to happen in times of flood." And, further, that
the conditions actually encountered during the work were
abnormal; floods, freshets and unlooked for rises of the
river were more numerous and of greater height and longer
duration than theretofore disclosed by the official records
of the engineer's office relating to the river.

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Other findings are as follows:
"To have sloped the banks to a flatter angle would have
reduced the sloughing, but the evidence does not show
to what extent. When the river rose the material in the
banks became saturated and heavy with water, and as the
river rece.ded such material, being deprived of the support
afforded by the water while up, sloughed or caved off into
thp lock pits below, where it had to be and was removed
by claimants in a wet and slimy condition at ,a higher
cost than if excavated from ts patural position in the bank.
The slopes of the excavation were not flattened by the
engineer officers because, in their opinion, there was no
practical angle at which the banks could have been sloped
which would have caused them to remain stable under the
abnormal conditions to which they were subjected, or
have prevented the banks from sloughing and caving as
the floods and rises in the river receded."
Claimants present a definition of an "angle of repose"
from lexicons of authority as follows: "The maximum
angle with the horizontal at which a mass of material,
as in a cut or embankment, will lie without sliding."
In addition to the definition reports of work on the
Panama Canal are quoted from to show the efficacy of
the proper angle and the necessity of varying it to meet
conditions. This and the correctness of the definition
may be conceded, but the question is, What were the
demands of claimants' contract in the situation described
by the findings? Or, to make. it more special: Was the
act of the engineering officer in prescribing the slope of
the work as 1 on 1 or 45' from horizontal a violation of the
contract?
As we have seen, the findings show that such angle had
been selected from experience in other work of like kind,
that it would have been adequate but for the-extraordinary
conditions which developed, and no angle under such
conditions would have been sufficient and, therefore, "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

slopes of the exc iation were not flattened by the engineer
officers because in their opinion, there was no practical
angle at which ,he banks could have been sloped which
would have caused them to remain stable under the abnormal conditions to which they were subjected, or have
prevented the banks from sloughing and caving as the
floods and rises in the river receded." And this judgment
was honestly exercised.
We are brought, therefore, to the question whether
such judgment was precluded by the. contract, or did
the contract impose an absolute duty on the Government
to anticipate and provide for all conditions to which the
banks of the excavation might be subjected?
Claimants insist upon an affirmative answer
and rely
upon paragraph 48 of the specifications, which provides
that "all dredged or excavated materials, of whatever
nature, will be classified as 'excavation.' All excavations
shall conform to such lines, slopes, and grades as may be
given by the engineer officer and anything taken out
beyond such given limits will not be paid for by the
United States. The price for excavation shall include the
removal of the material to its place of deposit. .
The limits of the excavation and quantities to be excavated
will depend upon the ascertained angles of repose." There
is nothing in this of definite, obligation, or which prevented
an exercise of judgment. The excavations, it is true,
were required to conform to the lines, slopes and grades
and their limits and quantities made to depend upon the
ascertained angles of repose; but how the angles 'of repose were to be ascertained was not expressed. According
to the findings they would depend upon the conditions,
and as to these judgment had to be exercised, and the specifications pointed out by whom. "These specifications," it
is provided in paragraph 89, "are intended to be full, clear
and complete. Any doubt as to their meaning, or any obscurity in the wording of them, will be explained by the

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Engineer Officer, who shall also have ,the right to correct
any errors or omissions in them whenever such errors or
omissions become apparent." Paragraph 78 declares: "In
all cases of dispute, the decision of the United States Engineer Officer in charge will be accepted as final and without appeal."
Claimants were, therefore, admonished that the judgment of the officers would necessarily be exercised throughout the work and they werespecially informed as to what
angle of repose would be selected. Mr Justice Howry,
speaking for the' Court of Claims, said: "The letting plans
did not show the slopes of the excavation. But the original
cross-section sheets, from which the estimated quantities
of excavation in the specifications had been calculated,
show in pencil the different angles of all slopes at 1 on 1
behind structures for temporary. work and a flatter slope
of 1 on 1Y2 to 1 on 2 during the period of the contract for
all permanent work. Both angles of repose were constructed accordingly. These cross-section sheets, although
not made part of the letting plans, were on file in the office
of the resident engineer and were open to examination
by bidders prior to submitting proposals and were, in
fact, examined by at least one of the prospective bidders.
There was no concealment and plaintiffs do not say there
was."
We do not think, therefore, that there is anything in the
contract which cast, upon the Government a prophecy
and anticipation of abnormal conditions or which relieved
claimants from the-risks of their occurrence or of whatever they might encounter in the work. It is to be sup,posed that contemplation and judgment were exercised
not only of certainties but-of contingencies and allowance
made for both at the time of bidding, with provision in the,
bid. Subsequent conditions could not lessen the obligation then incurred but, we may say, in order that all of
the facts bearing on the claimants' contention may appear,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

that the findings show that claimants, in July, 1900, prior
to the time when any sloughing had occurred, in a letter
to the resident engineer, suggested the use of sheathing to
protect the slopes, and in 1902 complained that the Government had not complied with the suggestion as provided
for in paragraph 51 of the specifications. But it is further
found that the suggestion was not yielded to because, in
the opinion of the engineer officer, paragraph 51 was not
intended to provide for protecting the slopes.
The paragraph reads as follows:
"51. Sheathing.-Curbing of rough planks and scantlings or poles, shall be used to reduce excavation as directed by the Engineer Officer, and shall be paid for as
'sheating,' poles being estimated by standard log measure.
It shall be left in the excavation or taken out at the option
of the Engineer Officer, and when used again shall be paid
for at half price."
It is further found that claimants made verbal protests
and complained to the resident engineer in regard to the
adoption of flatter slopes but no written protest or objection was made during the progress of the work and no
appeal from the decision of the engineer concerning the
same. Such an appeal seems to be provided for. It is
to be observed that the protest was made to the resident
engineer, but he was subordinate to the Engineer Officer
in charge, and it is provided in paragraph 78 that "in all
cases of dispute the decision" of that officer "will be accepted as final without appeal."
These findings, therefore, but exhibit the variant judgments of the resident engineer and the claimants as to what
action should be adopted in view of the conditions, and,
we repeat, we see nothing to cast inevitable obligation
upon the Government for every exercise of judgment by
its officer to whom was given the direction of its works
and whose decision, honestly exercised, its contracts made
final.

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is true, it is said that the. "angle of repose" was arbitrarily selected and arbitrarily adhered to, but the findings, as we have seen, do not support the charge.
It follows that the court committed no error in rejecting
the item. Nor, for the same reason, in refusing to allow
the sum of $1,183.41, the cost of recovering certain buried
concrete forms. It is found that this "was done voluntarily by claimants for the purpose of recovering the forms
to be re-used by them."
(3) The amount claimed for additional cofferdams is
$8,520.24.'
It is said by the court in its opinion that claimants did
not claim that this part of their demands was within the
contract, but that they were "entitled to recover therefor
on quantum meruit." The item was disallowed. This
action, we have seen, is assigned as error, and to support
the assignment paragraphs 45 and 88 of the specifications
are invoked. They are, respectively, as follows:
"45. Cofferdams.-All pumping, bailing, and temporary
works needed to -protect the permanent work from water,
during the construction, shall be done by the contractor
at his own expense, the cost of same to be included in his
prices for concrete, timber, etc. It is probable that the
sheet piling entering into permanent construction can,
with proper banking and shoring, be made to serve the
purpose of cofferdams, but the contractor must rely upon
his own judgment in regard to this. Should additional
cofferdams be needed they shall be built on plans approved
by the Engineer Officer, and, where liable to interfere
directly or indirectly with navigation, shall be removed
when no longer needed, the building, maintaining, and
removal of same to be without cost to the United States."
"88. Purchases Made or Work Done, Not Specified.If at any time it should become necessary, in the opinion
of the Engineer Officer in charge, to do any work or to
make any purchases not herein specified, for the proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

completion of this contract, the contractor will be required
to furnish the same at the current rates existing at the
time of said purchases or work. The current rates to be
determined by the Engineer Officer in charge."
The findings state that certain hydrographs showing the
gauge readings of the river taken at Tuscaloosa were shown
claimants and that the slope of the river indicated the
duration of the winter and spring floods and the effect
of such floods upon the continuity of the work; that floods
pass off rapidly at Tuscaloosa but their duration is several
days longer at the locations of locks 4, 5 and 6. The
hydrographs did not show the readings at those places,
nor were claimants informed of them, though the resident
engineer knew of them as they had been copied in a memorandum kept in his office at Tuscaloosa. In the court
below a charge of fraudulent representation was based
on those facts, but the court found adversely to it, and
it is not repeated here. We shall pass, therefore, to contentions based on other considerations.
The facts found by the court may be stated narratively
as follows: In order that the work might be continued
during the winter the resident engineer, on No-.ember 17,
1900, directed claimants to build cofferdams at locks 4, 5
and 6 in accordance with plans furnished them, and informed claimants that they would be paid for the same
at their contract price for sheet piles, and $3.00 per thousand feet board measure for such parts of the cofferdams as
they might be required to remove when no longer needed.
The order was accepted by claimants in writing on November 18, 1900, and the materials ordered for the same.
Three days after the receipt of the order and before the
construction of the dams had been commenced the river
rose and remained at such height that it was not possible
to build them that winter. It is found that doubts subsequently came to the officer as to his authority to pay for
the cofferdams, as the emergency for which they were

CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

intended to provide had passed-that is, their construction during the winter-and he expressed those doubts
in a letter to claimants dated May 4, 1901. Claimants
protested, and the matter was referred to the Chief
of Engineers, who referred it to the Secretary of War,
and the latter officer submitted it to the Judge-Advocate
General of the Army for opinion. That officer decided
that the Secretary of War had no authority to modify
the contract. This view was approved by the Secretary
and claimants were notified accordingly.
It will be observed that by paragraph 45 cofferdams are
represented as temporary work to protect the permanent
work, and the probability is expressed that the sheet
piling entering into the permanent construction could
serve the purpose of cofferdams, but as to this the claimants were to rely upon their own judgment. And it is also
to be observed that if additional cofferdams should be
needed they were to be built on plans approved by the
engineer officer and to be built, maintained and removed
without cost to the United States..
By paragraph 46 the probability is again expressed that
the dams could be built without cofferdaming, but as to
this the claimants were to rely on their own judgment,
and if cofferdams proved to be necessary they were to be
furnished by claimants without cost to the United States.
It seems very clear, therefore, that all cofferdams
necessary for the protection of the permanent work were
to be built by claimants at their own expense, and it is
found that, in figuring on their bid, they allowed $2000
for cofferdams for each of the three locks, or, in all, $6000.
It is further found that "the cofferdams were afterwards
constructed by the claimants to the heights necessary
to protect the work against floods," and that their cost
was $11,456.91, "of which amount the portion necessary
to protect the work against a rise of more than 8 feet was
$8,520.24.
. . And if claimants are entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

recover therefor on quantum meruit or otherwise," that
amount would be due.
Claimants, however, contend that they are entitled to
this cost as extra work and invoke paragraph 88 against
paragraphs 45 and 46. The paragraphs accord, or, rather,
each has its purpose. The extra work provided for in
paragraph 88 was not intended to supersede the work provided for and contracted to be performed by claimants
at their expense by paragraphs 45 and 46. Nor can we
yield to the contention that claimants had a discretion to
use or not use cofferdams which was taken away from
them by the order of the engineer officer and to comply
with which they incurred expense that they otherwise
would have not incurred.
The findings demonstrate that the flood conditions made
cofferdams necessary, and to the height that they were
constructed. The promise of payment made by the
engineer Officer was subsequently revoked before construction was commenced, and its revocation left the original
contract to prevail. The Court of Claims, therefore,
did not commit error by disallowing the demand.
For the error in not allowing the demand of the greater
expense of excavation and pile driving, due to the misrepresentation of materials in the specifications and
drawings, the judgment is reversed and case remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

ation and decision of this case.

took no part in the consider-

