WAU6H v. MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY.
237 U. S.

589

Statement of the Case.

WAUGH v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME -COURT OF THE STATE

OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 255.

Argued May 4, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

The equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
forbid classification based on obvious and rational distinctibns.
If a state police statute is not invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment, regulations of the proper officials" making it effective are not
invalid under that amendment.
A State may base a classification of the students in its educational institutions by putting those already connected with organizati6ns,
the joining of which is to be prohibited by a police statute, into an
excepted class by themselves; the classification is reasonable as legislation should not, on principles of construction and justice, be construed retrospectively.
What regulations a State may establish as to the discipline of its educational institutions, and how such regulations shall be enforced,
are ma.ters for the otate courts to determine, and unless they deny
due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment, the decision
of the state court is conclusive.
A State may establish the rule that students in its educational institutions shall not affiliate with fraternities, and even though such fraternities may be moral and beneficial in themselves, the prohibition
is a matter within the wisdom of the state legislature and does not
offend the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statute of Mississippi of 1912 prohibiting Greek-lettee fraternities
and other societies in the educational institutions of the State is not
unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment, either as denying students due process of law or as denying some of them the equal
protection of the law by reason of its permitting those students
already members of such societies to continue their membership
under specified conditions.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth An.2ndment of a statute of the State of Mississippi
prohibiting Greek Letter fraternities and other societies in

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

the educational institutions of the State, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. A. F. Fox, with whom Mr. Hamilton Douglas and
Mr. William G. Cavett were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The second section of said act and said order of the
Board of Trustees is unreasonable and ultra vires. 22 Am.
& Eng. Enc. 936; Bell's Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232; Cotting v. Goddard, 183 U. S. 79; Gulf, Col. &
Santa Fe R. R., v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 666; Lawton v. Steele,
150 U. S. 133; Miller v. Pittsburg, 180 Massachusetts, 32;
Tol., Wab. & West. R. R. v. Jacksonville, 67 Illinois, 37;
Lakeview v. Rosehill Cemetery, 70 Illinois, 191; Viemeister
v. White, 179 N. Y. 235; Words & Phrases, pp. 5427, 5431,
5432; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
See cases in regard to schools. •Bissell v. Davidson, 65
Connecticut, 183; Burdick v. Babcock, 31 Iowa, 562; Deskins v. Gose, 85 Missouri, 485; Dritt v. Snodgrass, 66 Missouri, 28; Hobbs v. Germany, 94 Mississippi, 469; Kinzer
v. Toms, 3 L. R. A. (N. S.) 496; Viemeister v. White, 179
N. Y. 234; Ward v. Flood, 48 California, 36.
For fraternity cases see Bradford v. Board of Education,
121 Pac. Rep. 929; Stallard v. White, 92 Indiana, 278;
Wayland v. School' Directors, 7 L. R. A. (N. S.) 352;
Wilson v. Chicago Board of Education, 233 Illinois,
464.
'Plaintiff in error is denied equal protection of law.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 61t; Cotting v. Goddard,
183 U. S. 79; Gulf, Col. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 66; McFarland v. Goins, 50 So. Rep. 493; Southern
Ry. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356.
The classification must be reasonable and in this case
it is unreasonable. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 66; Southern Railway v. Green, 216 U. S: 400.

WAUGH v. MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. William C.
McLean and Wim. E. Richardson were on the briet, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiff in error, herein called complainant, by a bill in
the chancery court of Lafayette County, State, qf Mississippi, attacked the validity and sought to restrain the
execution of an act of the State [act of Feb. 27, 1912, c. 177,
Miss. L. (1912), p. 192], prohibiting Greek letter fraternities and societies in the State's educational institutions.
Section 1 of the act designates by name certain societies
and declares that they "and other secret orders, chapters, fraternities, sororities, societies and organizations of
whatever name, or without a name, of similar name and
purpose, among students are hereby abolished and further prohibited to exist in the University of Mississippi
and in all other educational institutions supported, in
whole or in part, by the State."
By § 2 of the act any student in the University belonging to any of the prohibited societies is not permitted to
receive or compete for class honors, diplomas or distinctions nor contend for any prize or medal. But -it is provided that any student who is a member of any of the
prohibited orders or societies may, upon entrance to any
of the schools, "file with the Chancellor, President or
Superintendent, as the case may be, an agreement in
writing that he will not, during his attendance at said
school, affiliate with same, nor attend their meetings, nor
in any wise contribute any dues or donations to them,
and, thereafter so long as stch agreement is complied
with in good faith, such student shall not be subjected to
the restrictions created by this act."
Subsequent sections provide for the enforcement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

statute by the trustees and faculties of the institutions
by rules and punishments and for the removal of any
trustee or member of faculty if he fail or refuse to enforce
the act.
Complainant in his bill set out the act and alleged that
he was a resident, citizen and taxpayer in Goodman,
Holmes County, in the State of Mississippi. That he was
a member, and had 'been for several years, of what is
known as the Kappa Sigma Fraternity and was affiliated
and identified with the chapter of that fraternity at
Millsaps College, and that such fraternity is one of those
mentioned in the statute.
He also alleged that subsequent to the enactmient of the
statute the board of trustees of the Univer~ity adopted
an order which recited that the board desired it to be
understood that the statute was "not to be construed to
apply to students already entered .and who conducted
theniselves with that decorum always expected of Southern
Gentlemen."
Subsequently the board ordered that certain pledges
should be incorporated in the application of a student for
admission into the University. These were: that, he was
not pledged to become a member of any of the prohibited
fraternities, nor a member of any such; and that he would
pledge and promise not to join any such while 'he was a
student, or aid, abet or encourage the organization or
perpetuation of any of the orders. And, further, that he
would not apply for nor accept any scholarship or medal
or in any way be a beneficiary of any students' self-help
fund. That it would be his purpose and constant endeavor
so to act that no word or deed of his could be even- remotely construed as being violative of the letter and
spirit of the statute. The obligation- was to be binding
between the sessions of 1912-13 and 1913-14. The pledges
required were embodied in the application of students.
Complainant applied for admission into the law de-

WAUGH v. MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

partment of the University but was refused admission
because he declined to sign the pledges required, though he
alleged that he was otherwise eligible for admission under
the laws of the State and of the United States; that he
has never been a member of any of the prohibited fraternities organized among the students of the University or
located at the University, and, though he is affiliated with
and pays dues to the chapter of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity at Millsaps College, if admitted as a student to the
University of Mississippi, he has no intention or purpose
of encouraging the organization or continuance of any of
the prohibited fraternities or of affiliating with or paying
dues to any at the University.
The statute is charged to be in certain particulars in
violation of the constitution of Mississippi. It is also
charged to be in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States because it "without reason, deprives the complainant of his property and
property right, liberty and his harmless pursuit of happiness and denies to the complainant the equal protection
of the law of the State of Mississippi."
The charge is accentuated by the allegation that the
society of which complainant is a member "has for its
paramount purpose the promotion and enforcement o
good morals, the highest possible attainment and standing
[in the classes], and good order and discipline in the student
bodies of the different colleges with which it is connected."
A demurrer was filed to the bill on grounds which asserted the validity of the statute and the insufficiency of
the bill, and subsequently a motion was made to strike
out the praise of the purposes of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. The demurrer was overruled and the motion denied.
Defendants declined to plead further, and it was decreed, with recitation of details, that the statute was in
violation of the constitution of Mississippi "and in violation of that paragraph of Section 1 of Article Fourteen of
VOL.' ccxxxvii-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U.. S.

the Constitution of the United States, which provides
that no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." The statute was
declared to be "unconstitutional, null and void" and the
orders of .the trustees of the University "ultra vires, unreasonable and void." It was ordered that the injunction
theretofore granted be made perpetual.
The decree was reversed by the Supreme Court of the
State, the demurrer sustained and the bill dismissed.
The Supreme Court specifically rejected the contention
that the statute was not in accordance with the constitution of the State, and as specifically sustained the orders
of the trustees as being authorized by the statute.
The rulings cannot be oquestioned here; indeed, are not
questioned, for counsel say that the assignments of error
are all based on the contention that the statute is unconstitutional and void for the reason that it violates the
Fourteenth Amendment in denying to complainant "the
equal protection of law and the harmless pursuit of happiness, and that the various rules and regulations adopted
by the Board of Trustees are ultra ires and void, because
they are unreasonable, unnecessary, and deny plaintiff in
error the equal protection of the law and the harmless
pursuit of happiness;'? and deprive him of property and
property rights without due process of law and of the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States.
If the statute is valid, the orders of the board of trustees
are, and to keep up a distinction between them can only
lead to confusion. Counsel, however, seem to urge that
the statute may be adjudged valid and the orders of the
trustees declared "ultra vires and unwarranted even by: the
said act, and that the action of the Board of Trustees in
enforcing said regulation is arbitrary and unreasonable in
depriving complainant of his constitutional rights."
However, we need not dispute about the distinction,
but pass to the grounds of attack on the statute and orders

WAUGH v. MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and ask, Wherein does either offend against the Fourteenth
Amendment?-to be specific, Wherein do they deprive
plaintiff of the equal protection of the laws or obstruct his
pursuit of happiness?
The statute is universal in its prohibitions. None of
the named societies or others "of whatever name, or without name," are permitted to exist in the University; and
no student who is a member of any of them is permitted
to receive or compete for class honors nor contend for
prizes or medals. To secure this result one of the orders
of the trustees was directed.
But by another order of the trustees a distinction is
made. By it it is provided that the statute is not to*be
construed "to apply to students already entered and who
conduct themselves with that decorum always expected
of Southern Gentlemen." This order is assailed by plaintiff as "a clear discrimination between the 'ins' and 'outs,'
between those who were, at the time the statute was
enacted, students in the University and those who were
not on that date members of the student body and who
might desire to be admitted as such." The contention is
made much of by counsel and the order is denounced, as
irrational and arbitrary. But counsel overlook that it is
an obvious principle of construction, and sometimes of
justice, that laws are not to be construed retrospectively.
The trustees regarded and followed the principle and left
undisturbed the students already in the University, admonishing them, however, that their honor would be regarded as pledged not to abuse the right or the indulgence.
And whether it was a right or an indulgence-whether required by the statute or accorded by the trustees,-it was
based on an obvious and rational distinction, and the
Supreme Court sustained its competence.
The next contention of complainant has various elements., It assails the statute as an obstruction to his
pursuit of happiness, a deprivation of his property and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

property rights and of the privileges and immunities
guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.
Counsel have considered these elements separately and
built upon them elaborate and somewhat fervid arguments, but, after all, they depend upon one proposition:
whether the right to attend the University of Mississippi
is an absolute or cpnditional right. It may be put more
narrowly-whether under the constitution and laws of
Mississippi the public educational institutions of the State
are so far under the control of the legislature that it may
impose what the Supreme Court of the State calls "disciplinary regulations."
To this proposition we are confined and we are not concerned in its consideration with what the laws of other
States permit or prohibit. Its solution might be rested
upon the decision of the Supreme Court of the State.
That court said: "The legislature is. in control of the colleges and universities of the State, and has a right to legislate for their welfare, and to enact measures for their
discipline and to impose the duty upon the trustees of
each of these institutions to see that the requirements of
the legislature are enforced; and when the legislature has
done this, it is not subject to any control by the courts."
This being the power of the legislature under the constitution and laws of the State over its institutions maintained by public funds, what is urged against its exercise
tb which the Constitution of the United States gives its
sanction and supports by its prohibition?
It is said that the fraternity to.which complainant belofigs is a moral and of itself a disciplinary force. This
need not be denied. But whether such membership makes
against discipline was for the State of Mississippi to determine. It is to be remembered that the University was
established by the State and is under the control of the
State, and the enactment of the statute may have been
induced by the opinion that membership in the prohibited

CHARLESTON & CAR. R. R. v. VARNVILLE CO. 597
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

societies divided the attention of the students and distracted from that singleness of purpose which the State
desired to exist in its public educational institutions. It
is not for us to entertain conjectures in opposition to the
views of the State and annul its regulations upon disputable considerations of their wisdom or necessity. Nor
can we accommodate the regulations to the assertion of a
special purpose by the applying student, varying perhaps
with each one and dependent alone upon his promise.
This being our view of the power of the legislature, we
do not enter upon a consideration of the elements of complainant's contention. It is very trite to say that the
right to pursue happiness and exercise rights and liberty
are subject in some degree to the limitations of the law,
and the condition upon which the State of Mississippi
offers the complainant free instruction in its University,
that while a student there he renounce affiliation with a
society Which the State considers inimical to discipline,
finds no prohibition in the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

CHARLESTON & WESTERN CAROLINA RAILWAY
COMPANY v. VARNVILLE FURNITURE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TFW. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 273.

Argued May 12, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

A state law not contrived in aid of the policies of Congress, but to
enforce a policy of the State differently conceived, cannot be said
to be in aid of interstate commerce.
When Congress 'has taken the particular subject-matter in hand, coincidence of a state statute is as ineffective as opposition, and a

