NEW ORLEANS TAX PAYERS' v. SEWERAGE BD. 33
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of rent from a specified parcel of land. Unless its bare
existence as an intermediary was doing business, it is hard
to imagine how it could be less engaged.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusrIcE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of. this case.

NEW ORLEANS TAX PAYERS' PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION. v. SEWERAGE AND WATER BOARD
OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 192. Argued March 11, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.
The fact that water used for drinking and bathing goes into the sewer
after it has been used does not make it water for sewerage purposes.
Act No. 270, Louisiana, of 1908, and ordinance of the City of New
Orleans thereunder establishing rates for water for drinking and
domestic purposes other than sewerage is not unconstitutional as
impairing the obligation of the statute of August, 1897, providing
for free water for sewerage purposes.
Where the later Act complained of goes no farther than the prior act,
the obligation of whose contract is claimed to have been impaired,
there is no ground for invoking the jurisdiction of this court under
ยง 237, Jud. Coda, and the writ will be dismissed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
obligation of contract clause of the Federal Constitution
of certain statutes of Louisiana and ordinances of New
Orleans relative to drainage and water supply, are stated
in the opinion.
VOL. ccxxxvii-3
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

Mr. Charles Louque for plaintiff in error:
The taxpayers' petition for building a free sewerage
system with free water therefor was understood to mean
free water to all tax payers, connected to sewers. All
fixtures used for cleansing purposes connected to sewers
are entitled to free water. The Legislature had no power
to alter this intent and impair the obligations of this contract by substituting the word domestic water. As to
the status of the water companies see New Orleans Water
Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 680; N. 0. Gas Co. v. La. Light
Co., 115 U. S. 650; St. Tammany Water Works v. N. 0.
Waterworks, 120 U. S. 64; S. C., 164 U. S. 474.
Act No. 6 of 1899 created a contract under the Constitution of the United States.
The charter of the New Orleans Waterworks Co. was
declared forfeited by the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
because the company violated the conditions imposed
by its charter: it did not furnish clear water, as directed,
and it overcharged its customers, some to a greater extent
and others to a less amount. A writ of error was taken
to this court and dismissed for want of jurisdiction. State
v. New Orleans Water Co., 107 Louisiana, 3; New Orleans
Waterworks v. State, 185 U. S. 336.
-The property erected, and constructed by the tax payers,
and their board, under the authority of this act was in no
sense public property which'the legislature could take
away from them, and dispose of as they might wish.
It belongs to that species which is termed private property, which the legislature cannot take away from its
owners. See cases cited in N. 0., Mobile &c. R. R. v.
New Orleans, 27 Louisiana, 521.
By ยง 35 of the act chartering the Sewerage and Water
Board the act reserves to the General Assembly the right
and power to amend the act in any respect not impairing
the vested rights or the contract rights of the holders of
the bonds issued under its provisions.

NEW ORLEANS TAX PAYERS v. SEWERAGE BD.
237 U. S.

35

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The court should enforce one of the conditions of the
petition of the property tax payers, which cannot be
amended by the legislature.
Mr. Walter L. Gleason, with whom Mr. Isaiah D. Moore
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The contract clause of the Federal Constitution is not
directed against all impairments of contract obligations,
but only against such as result from a subsequent exertion
of the legislative power of the State. Cross Lake Club v.
Louisiana,224 U. S. 632.
When the state court gives no effect to the subsequent
law, but decides on grounds independent of that law, that
the right claimed was not conferred by the contract
claimed to have been impaired, the case stands as though
the subsequent law had not been passed and the court has
no jurisdiction. Missouri-KansasRy. v. Olathe, 222 U. S.
187; Fisher v. New Orleans, 218 U. S. 439; Hubert v. New
Orleans, 215 U. S. 175; New Orleans Water Works v.
Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336; Weber v. Rogan, 188 U. S. 14;
Central Land Co. v. Laidly, 159 U. S. 103; Missouri &c.
Ry. v. Kansas, 222 U. S. 187; New OrleansWater Works v.
Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 38; Mobile R. R. v. Mississippi, 210 U. S. 187; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207.
Where the constitution of the State provides, as it does
in this instance, for a special tax after an election and in
pursuance thereof an election was held and the property
tax payers of the municipality voted upon themselves a
special tax for a specified period for the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating a sewerage, water
and drainage system, the voting of the tax and the levying
of same does not constitute a contract between the citizen
tax payers and the State. No consideration moves to the
State, other than the general public welfare; and the imposition of the tax is an exercise of a fundamental sovereign
power. Saunders v. Kohnke, 109 Louisiana, 838; Hunter

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

v. Pittsburg, 207 U. S. 161; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 How.
575; West Wisconsin Railway v. Supervisor, 100 U. S. 597.
The grant by the General Assembly of a charter to a
municipal corporation, for the purpose of constructing,
controlling, maintaining and operating the public water
system, the public sewerage system and the drainage
system of the City, title whereof shall be in the City, does
not constitute a contract with the State, and the charter
is subject to legislative control, except where restricted
by the state constitution. Saunders v. Kohnke, 108
Louisiana, 838; Hunter v. Pittsburg,207 U. S. 161.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES.

This is a petition to have an act of the Louisiana legislature (1908, No. 270), and ordinances of the respondent
Board declared unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of a contract between the property tax payers and the
City of New Orleans. The statute makes it the duty of
the Board to require .ll inhabited premises in the City to
be connected with the mains of the public water system
'and to take therefrom at least such water supply as shall
be used on said premises for drinking and domestic purposes, exclusive of sewerage, at rates to be fixed.' The
contract supposed is that the water for drinking and
domestic purposes should be free. The constitution of the
State, Art. 232, forbids taxation above a limit, which has
been reached, except for permanent public improvements
by vote of the property tax payers in the place concerned.
In this case the tax payers petitioned the City to levy a
special tax of two mills per annum for forty-three years for
the acquisition of a system of water works and purification
of the water and for the construction 'of a free sewerage
system, with free water therefor.' The proposition was
adopted by special election, ordinance, statute and con-

NEW ORLEANS TAX PAYERS v. SEWERAGE BD. 37
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stitutional amendment, and this adoption is relied upon as
making a contract to the above effect. Under the rules
of the Board 1,000 gallons per quarter are allowed free,
for flushing closets, but rates are fixed and charged for
water otherwise used. These charges were held to be consistent with the actual contract, if any, by the Supreme
Court of the State.
The argument for the plaintiffs in error is that as all
water that goes into the sewers is sewerage after it gets
there, the arrangement required that all such water should
be free. But the character of the water that is to be
free is determined before it reaches the sewer. It is
water 'therefor '-that is for a free sewerage system; or, in
other words, water that is discharged into the sewers for
the purpose of ensuring the working of a free sewerage
system. According to the finding of the Supreme Court
the allowance for that purpose is liberal. The original
statute of August 18, 1899, that was ratified by the Constitutional Amendment itself, provided that the Board
should "have power to fix the rates to be charged private
consumers of water, and to collect the same from all persons who use water (except for sewerage purposes only),
from the public water supply of the City of New Orleans"
&c. ยง 21. Obviously drinking or bathing water is not used
for sewerage purposes, although it goes into the sewer
after it has served its end, whereas water used for flushing
closets does go into the sewer for sewerage purposes, simply
to make them Work. The Act of 1908 goes no farther
than that of 1899, and there is no grourd for invoking the
jurisdiction of this court.
Writ dismissed.

