MINN. & ST. PAUL RY. v. POPPLAR.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. POPPLAR, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 223.

Submitted April 14, 1915.-Decided April 26, 1915.

In this case the court finds no ground for reversal in the ruling of the
trial court that there was enough to go to the jury upon the question
whether in fact the appliance complained of was defective.
Where the power of this court to review the judgment is controlled by
ยง 237, Judicial Code, questions non-Federal in character may not be
considered, nor can thig court pass on whether a rule of the carrier
was or was not disobeyed in a case dependent upon the Safety Appliance Act.
The defense of contributory negligence is not dealt with by the Safety
Appliance Act.
121 Minnesota, 1413, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the state court for damages for personal injuries, are stated
in the opinion.
THE

Mr. M. D. Munn, with whom Mr. A. H. Bright and
Mr. J. L. Erdall were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES.

This action was brought in the state court by an administrator to recover damages for an injury causing the death
of the intestate. The injury was received, September 6,
1909, by the decedent, a brakeman, while he was unVOL. ccxxxvii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

coupling a car which was being 'kicked' to a siding, and
recovery was sought because of noncompliance with the
Federal Safety Appliance Act, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531; c. 976,
32 Stat. 943. Upon the trial a motion was made for a
direction of a verdict upon the grounds that the evidence
failed to show neglect on the part of the Railroad Company and did establish contributory negligence. Apart
from the exception to the denial of this motion, there were
no exceptions to the instructions given to the jury. There
was a finding for the plaintiff and the Railroad Company
moved for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, or for
a new trial; the motions were denied. The Supreme
Court of the State affirmed the judgment. 121 Minnesota,
413.
There was testimony that the decedent, on giving the
stop signal, attempted to uncouple the 'head car' that was
to be left to run of its own momentum on the siding; he
tried repeatedly to do this by pulling the coupling pin
with the lifter at the end of the next car, but without success, and then, stepping between the two cars, while they
were moving at the rate of about four miles an hour, in
order to effect the uncoupling by hand, he was run over
and killed. The conductor, a witness for the Company,
who examined the coupling apparatus soon after the accident, testified that it worked with difficulty and that he
would have reported it as a 'bad coupler' had it been
brought to'his attention. Without going into the evidence
in detail, it is sufficient to say that we find no ground for.
reversal in the ruling that there was enough to go to the
jury upon the question whether, in fact, the coupler was
defective. See Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Padgett,
236 U. S. 668.
It is urged that the right of recovery was barred by
reason of the fact that the decedent disobeyed a rule of
the Company which forbade him from going between
moving cars. The state court held that the jury might find

MINN. & ST. PAUL RY. v. POPPLAR.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that a practical necessity existed for the disobedience of
this rule and that the course which the decedent followed
in the emergency was that of a reasonably prudent man.
Our power to review the judgment is controlled by ยง 237
of the Judicial Code (Rev. Stat., 709) and we may not consider questions which are not Federal in character. St.
Louis & Iron Mountain Rwy. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281,
291; Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477,
487; Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668.
In the present case a Federal question could arise only under the Safety Appliance Act; while the cars were upon a
railroad which was a highway of interstate commerce and
hence this Act was applicable (Southern Railway Co. v.
United States, 222 U. S. 20), it is agreed that there was no
evidence that the decedent at the time of the accident was
engaged in interstate commerce and no question is presented under the Employers' Liability Act,-an enactment
which has a wider field. It is apparent that the ruling referred to does not involve the construction of the Federal
statuue or any right, or immunity from liability, which is
thereby conferred. The question is dehors the statute.
True, the state court said that the rule of the Company
should be construed in connection with the Safety Appliance Act, but, as the context shows, the court remarked this
in pointing out that the statute was designed to prevent
the necessity of going between the cars for the purpose of
uncoupling them, whether they were standing or moving,
and that the only way in which the decedent could uncouple the cars without going between them was to stop
the train and walk around to the pin lifter on the other
side. In the light of the testimony, the court concluded
that it could not be said as matter of law that the decedent
in the circumstances was bound to do this. The statute
was concerned only in so far as it defined the duty of the
Company to have couplers meeting the positive requirement; it did not preclude the defense of contributory

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

negligence, as distinguished from that of assumption of
risk. As this court has said,-' The defense of contributory
negligence was not dealt with by the statute.' Schle,,imer
v. Buffalo, Rochester & PittsburgRwy. Co., 220 U. S. 590,
595. Whether the rule of the Company applied in such
an emergency as that in which the decedent found himself,-whether he was guilty of contributory negligence
as matter of law, or could be excused upon the ground that
in an exceptional situation he acted with reasonable care,
were questions which the Federal act left untouched.
The action fell within the familiar category of cases involving the duty of a master to his servant. This duty is
defined by the common law, except as it may be modified
by legislation. The Federal statute, in the present case,
touched the duty of the master at a single point and, save
as provided in the statute, the right of the plaintiff to recover was left to be determined by .the law of the State.
It cannot be said, from any point of view, that any right
or immunity granted by the Act was denied to the plaintiff
in error.
Judgment affirmed.

McDOUGAL v. McKAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 676.

Argued April 14, 1915.-Decided April 26, 1915.

In construing an Act of Congress, its known purpose must be effectuated as nearly as may be.
This court will not disregard the effect of decisions of the state and
Federal courts in regard to descent of Indian allotments which
have become rules of property and on which many titles have been
acquired.
Under the Supplemental Creek agreement of June 20, 1902, the descent

