OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

It follows that the judgment of the District Court, discharging the appellees, must be reversed, and the case remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the
petition.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took
eration or decision of this case.

no part in the consid-

BOTHWELL v. BINGHAMY COUNTY, IDAHO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 266.

Argued May 6, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

The determinative fact of whether property formerly part of the public
domain of the United'States is subject to taxation by the State is
the absence of any beneficial interest in the land on the part of the
United States at the time of the assessment.
Neither the Carey Act of August.18, 1894, nor the agreement thereunder with the State of Idaho in regard to irrigation of arid lands
segregated from the public domain, purports to exempt the lands
from taxation or take them out of the settled rule respecting taxation
by the State of lands acquired under public land laws.
Wheie proceedings to acquire title to public land have reached the
point where nothing remains to be done by the entryman, and the
United States has no beneficial interest therein and does not exclude
the entryman from the use thereof, the entryman is regarded as
the beneficial owner and the land is subject to taxation, even though
the legal title may not have been passed to him; and in this respect
it is immaterial whether the title passes direct from the Goverrment
or through the State, under provisions of the Carey Act.
24 Idaho, 125, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Carey
Act of August 18, 1894, and the right of the State to tax

BOTHWELL v. BINGHAM COUNTY.
237 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.property taken up thereunder by an entryman after he
had become entitled to the patent, but before the patent
was issued, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Lee, with whom Mr. J. D. Skeen, Mr.
William H. Wilkins and Mr. Edward B. Critchlow were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 4, Article 7, of the constitution of the State of
Idaho, provides: that -the property of the United States,
the State, counties, towns, cities and other municipal corporations, and public libraries, shall be exempt from tpxation. This constitutional provision but affirms the law
of the United States. McCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316; Van Brocklin v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 151.
The principle is qualified, however, to the extent that
where the United States holds only the naked legal title
to the land and the full equitable title has passed by the
performance of every act going to the foundation of the
right, the land is subject to state taxation. Kansas Pacific
R. R. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Union Pacific R. R. v.
McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Central ColoradoImp. Co. v. Pueblo
County, 95 U. S. 259; Hussman v. Durham, 165 U. S. 144.
It follows that if, as in this case, the United States conveys land to a State in trust for a specific purpose, something more than a mere naked title is retained until the
trust is fully executed by the trustee. Every act going
to the foundation of the right is not performed until the
trustee divests itself of the trust property,, and in this case
it could be done only by the issuance of patent. Tucker
v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 572.
The issuance of the patent by the United States to the
State of Idaho did not terminate the control over the land
by the United States. By the terms of the grant its control was continued until actually disposed of by the issuance of the patents to the individual entrymen. While
it continued to hold. the title in trust, appeals to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Interior Department might have been made by the entrymen, and during the course of such appeals, action by
the State Land Board, acting for the trustee, would have
been stayed. McDaid v. Oklahoma, 150 U. S. 209; Sioux
City & St. Paul R. R. v. United States, 159 U. S. 350.
The rule, that the issuance of a final receipt in homestead and desert land olaims brings the land covered
within the class of property subject to taxation by the
State, has no application in this case, because by the
grrant a trust was created with the State as trustee, and by
the term of the trust, no individual entryman is entitled,
as a matter of right, to a patent until the trust is fully
executed.
No proof of reclamation was ever submitted by plaintiff
in error to the Secretary of the Interior, or by anyone authorized by him to receive and accept the same.
Whether the land came within the class of property
subject to taxation during the year 1911, is determined as
of the date of January 9, 1911, when the tax lien attached.
Union Padific R. R. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444.
The United States, or the State of Idaho, as its trustee,
by the contract, withheld the title until all the things required to constitute reclamation of the land had been
done.
Mr. R. W. Adair and Mr. J. H. Peterson, Attorney General of the State of Idaho, with whom Mr. E. G. Davis,
Assistant Attorney General of the State of Idaho, was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a suit to enjoin a proposed sale for taxes of 150
acres of land in Idaho acquired under the Carey Act of
August 18, 1894, § 4, c. 301, 28 Stat. 422, and the amenda-

BOTHWELL v. BINGHAM COUNTY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tory acts of June 11, 1896, c. 420, 29 Stat. 434, and
March 3, 1901, § 3, c. 853, 31 Stat. 1188, the objection
urged against the sale being that the proceedings for the
acquisition of the title had not at the time of the tax assessment reached the point where the land could be taxed
by the State. At a hearing upon an agreed statement of
facts the defendants prevailed and the Supreme Court of
the State affirmed the judgment. 24 Idaho, 125.
The tract was part of upwards of 50,000 acres of arid
lands which were segregated from the public domain in
July, 1899, pursuant to an agreement, sanctioned by the
Carey Act, whereby the State engaged to have the lands
irrigated, reclaimed and brought under cultivation, and
to dispose of them only to actual settlers in tracts of not
exceeding 160 acres. Originally the act required that the
reclamation be accomplished within ten years after the
date of the act, but the amendment of 1901 directed that
the ten years be computed from the approval of the
State's application for the segregation and empowered
the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, to prolong
the period five years.
In the original act there was a provision that "as fast
as any State may furnish satisfactory proof, according
to such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
Secretary of the Interior, that any of said lands are irrigated, reclaimed and occupied by actual settlers, patents
shall be issued to the State or its assigns for said lands so
reclaimed and settled," and the amendment of 1896
brought into the act a further provision that "when an
ample supply of water is actually furnished in a substantial ditch or canal, or by artesian wells or reservoirs, to
reclaim a particular tract or tracts of such lands, then
patents shall issue for the same to such State without regard to settlement or cultivation."
Following the segregation in 1899 the State took appropriate steps to provide canals and a supply of water

646,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S,

whereby the lands could be irrigated, reclaimed and
brought under cultivation, and before Decembek, 1910,
caused to be completed a suitable system of canals actually.
furnishing an ample supply of water to irrigate and reclaim 49,858.16 acres, including the tract in question.
Proof of this was made to the Secretary of the Interior in
the mode prescribed by existing regulations (see 26 L. D.
74; 37 L. D. 624, 631) and that officer, finding the proof
sufficient, directed that the 49,858.16 acres be patented
to the State. This direction was given December 21,
1910, and the patent was issued January 9, 1911.
While the canal system was in process of completion
and after water was provided for some of the lands, the
plaintiff, who possessed the necessary qualifications and
had acquired the requisite perpetual water right, applied
to the State to make entry of the tract in question and
made the prescribed preliminary payments. See Idaho
Rev. Codes, 1908, § 1626. The entry was allowed and the
plaintiff settled upon the tract, made it his place of residence, irrigated and reclaimed it, and brought it under
actual cultivation. 'Thereafter, on June 25, 1909, he submitted to the State due proof of what he had done, paidthe balance of the purchase price, and received from the
State a certificate of final entry. See Rev. Codes, § 1628.
Nothing more was required of him by the Carey Act, by
the law of Idaho, or by any regulation made under either.
He received a patent from the State February 11, 1911,
about g, month after it received one from the United
States.
January 9, 1911, the day the State received a patent
from the United States, was the date as of which property
was required by the law of Idaho to be assessed for taxation for the ensuing year. Rev. Codes, § 1653. This tract
was so assessed and the tax in question was based..upon
that assessment. The assessment, the tax and the intended sale were all free- from objection, if the tract was

BOTHWELL v. BINGHAM COUNTY.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the taxing power of the State on January 9,
1911.
At that time the United States no longer had any beneficial interest in the tract. Every condition upon which
the ownership was to be transferred to the plaintiff had
been fully performed. Thus the equitable title had passed
to him and he had a present right to the legal title. The
State received the latter as a trustee for him and was in
duty bound to give him a patent-a duty which it
promptly discharged, although not until after the time
for the assessment.
Neither the Carey Act nor the agreement thereunder
with the State purported to exempt the land from taxaticn or to take it out of the settled rule respecting the
taxing of lands acquired under the public land laws. According to that rule, as this court frequently has said,
when the proceedings for the acquisition of the title have
reached the point where nothing more remains to be done
by the entryman, and the Government no longer has any
beneficial interest in the land and does not exclude the
entryman from the use of it, he is regarded as the beneficial owner and the land as subject to taxation, even
though the duty of passing the legal title to him has not
been discharged-the principle underlying the rule being
that one who has acquired the beneficial ownership of
the land, and is not excluded from its enjoyment, cannot
be permitted to use the fact that the naked legal title
remains in the Government to avoid his just share of state
taxation. Carroll v. Safford, 3 How. 441; Witherspoon v.
Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Wisconsin Railroad Co. v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496, 505; Winona & St. Peter Land Co.
v. Minnesota' 159 U. S. 526, 530; Hussman v. Durham, 165
U. S. 144, 147; Sargent v. Herrick, 221 U. S. 404, 406.
That the title was being passed through the State to
the entryman or purchaser rather than by a direct conveyance is immaterial, the determinative fact being the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

absence of any beneficial interest in the land on the part
of the United States at the time of the assessment. It
follows that no Federal law or right was infringed by the
tax.
Judgment affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CRAFT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 776.

Argued May 12, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

In this case, as there was uncontradicted evidence that decedent survived his injuries, although only for something more than half an
hour, and that the injuries were such as to cause extreme pain if he
remained conscious, and there was conflicting evidence as to whether
he did remain conscious, those questions were properly submitted
to the jury; and the question for this court is not which way the
evidence preponderated but whether there was evidence from which
the jury could reasonably find that decedent did endure conscious
pain during the period between his injury and death.
While in this case, there was evidence to go to the jury on those questions, generally such pain and suffering as are substantially contemporaneous with death, or mere incidents to it, afford no estimation or award of damages under such. statutes as the Employers'
Liability Act.
By the common law the death of a human being, although wrongfully
caused, affords no basis for a recovery of damages, and a right
of action for personal injuries dies with the person injured; in
cases under the Employers' Liability Act, the right of recovery
depends entirely upon that statute, the state statutes being superseded thereby.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, as originally enacted in 1908,

