ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

United States. Judicial Code, § 24. But when, as here,
the foundation of the right claimed is a state law, the suit
to assert it arises under the state law none the less that
the state law has attached a condition that only alien legislation can fulfil. The state law is the sole determinant of
the conditions supposed, and its reference elsewhere for
their fulfilment is like the reference to a document that it
adopts and makes part of itself. The suit is not maintained by virtue of the Act of Congress but by virtue of
the Louisiana statute that allows itself to be satisfied by
that Act. See Interstate Street Ry. v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 79, 84.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE LAmAR

dis-

sent.

ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY AND MACHINE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 669. 'Submitted February 23, 1915.-Decided April 19, 1915.
In an action in personam the state court has jurisdiction to issue an
auxiliary attachment against the vessel whether or not the contract
be of a maritime nature.
While a proceeding in rem, as one essentially against the vessel itself,
is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty, an action in
personam with concurrent remedy of attachment to secure payment
of a personal judgment is within the jurisdiction of the state court
even though such attachment, if auxiliary to the remedy in personam,
runs specifically against the vessel under a state statute providing
for a lien.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

237 U. S.

A specific attachment in a suit against the owners of a vessel for repairs
made thereto, under the hen provisions of §§ 2480-2486, Kentucky
statutes, held to be an auxiliary lien attachment in a suit in personam
to protect the judgment and not a proceeding in rem and the case
was, therefore, within the jurisdiction of the state court.
159 Kentucky, 414, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and validity
of the laws of. the State of Kentucky, relating to liens on
vessels for repairs and the jurisdiction of the state court to
enforce such liens, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William T. Ellis, for plaintiffs in error, submitted:
Admiralty jurisdiction is not of obvious principle, or
very accurate history. Atl. Trans. Co. v. Imbrovek, 234
U. S. 39; The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 365.
This is a suit on a contract and this court has jurisdiction. The Philadelphia v. Towboat Co, 23 How. 209;
Alt. Trans. Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 59.

The state courts had no jurisdiction. Brookman v.
Hamill, 34 N. Y. 554; The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 436;
Pelham v. Schooner Woolsey, 3 Fed. Rep. 457; Terrell v.
Schooner Woolsey, 4 Fed. Rep. 552; Kentucky Statutes,
2480; Knapp v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 640; The Robert W.
Parsons, 191 U. S. 17.
This court is the sole judge as to whether or not a
Federal question- is here involved. 205 U. S. 360; Railway
v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Cohen v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264.
This is a suit in equity' and proceeding is against the
steam-boat. Kentucky Civil Code of Practice, § 249.
The cases cited by counsel for defendant in error are
not applicable to the facts of this case. Roach v. Chapman,
22 How . 129; People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393;
The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 355.
Mr. Claude Mercer, for defendant in error, submitted.

ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The Cloverport Foundry and Machine Company, the
defendant in error, brought this suit against F. T. Rounds
and S. A. Jesse, of Owensboro, Kentucky, in the Breckinridge Circuit Court of that State, to recover the sum of
$5,668.65 for work and materials furnished under a contract to repair and rebuild a steamboat formerly known
as the 'R; D. Kendall' and renamed the 'Golden Girl.'
The defendants were the owners of the vessel. A specific
attachment was issued under §§ 2480 to 2486 of the Kentucky Statutes which provided for a lien upon watercraft
for work and supplies, etc., and the defendants procured
a release of the boat by executing a forthcoming bond.
By special demurrer, the defendants challenged the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the action upon the
ground that the subject-matter was exclusively cognizable
in the admiralty. The demurrer was overruled, and the
defendants, reasserting the absence of authority in the
court, answered denying the allegations of the petition
abd setting up a counter-claim for damages alleged to
have been caused by defective work and by delay in completion. Upon the trial, the counter-claim was dismissed
and the Company had judgment against the defendants
for the amount demanded in its petition; it was further
adjudged that, by virtue of the attachment and the applicable law, the plaintiff had a lien upon the vessel for
the payment of the judgment and the vessel was ordered
to be sold and the proceeds applied to the debt. The
Court of Appeals of the State affirmed the judgment.
159 Kentucky, 414.
The.question presented on this writ of error relates
solely to the jurisdiction of the state court. It is contended
by the plaintiff in error that the contract in suit was for
repairs on the vessel and therefore was maritime in character; that the proceeding was in rem and beyond the
voL. ccxxxvii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

competency of the local tribunal. See The Moses Taylor,
4 Wall. 411; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555; The Belfast,
7 Wall. 624; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1; The Glide,
167 U. S.606; The Robert W. Parsons,191 U. S. 17; Act of
June 23, 1910, c. 373, 36 Stat. 604. On the other hand,
the defendant in error denies that the contract was maritime, contending that the old boat was dismantled, its
identity destroyed, and a new boat built, and that the
case in this aspect falls within the decisions relating to
contracts for the original construction of a vessel. The
People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393; Roach v. Chapman, 22 How. 129; Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532; The
Winnebago, 205 U. S.354. Further, it is urged in support
of the judgment that the proceeding was in personam,
and not in rem; that the attachment and direction for sale
were incidental to ihe suit against the owners and for the
purpose of securing satisfaction of the personal judgment.
Accordingly, it is said, the proceeding was within the scope
of the 'common law remedy.' saved to suitors by the
Judiciary Act. 1 Stat. 77; Rev. Stat., § 563; Judicial Code,
§ 24.
As the last point is plainly wel taken, it is unnecessary
to go further. It is well settled that in an action in personam the state court has jurisdiction to issue an auxiliary
attachment against the vessel;, and, whether or not the
contract in suit be deemed to be of a maritime nature, it
cannot be said that the state court transcended its authority. The proceeding in rem-which is within the exclusive jurisdiction of admiralty is one essentially against
the vessel itself as the debtor or offending thing,-in
which the vessel is itself 'seized and impleaded as the
defendant, and is judged and sentenced accordingly.' By
virtue of dominion over the thing all persons interested
in it are deemed to be parties to the suit; the decree binds
all the world and under it the property itself passes and
not merely the title or interest of a personal defendant.

ROUNDS v. CLOVERPORT FOUNDRY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126, 144; The Moses Taylor, supra;
The Hine v. Trevor, supra; The Belfast, suipra; The Glide,
supra; The Robert W. Parsons, supra; The Josephine, 39
N. Y. 19, 27. Actions in personam with a concurrent attachment to afford security for the payment of a personal
judgment are in a different category. The Belfast, supra;
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 598, 599; The Robert W.
Parsons, supra. And this is so not only in the case of an
attachment against the property of the defendant generally, but also where it runs specifically against the vessel
under a state statute providing for a lien, if it be found
that the attachment was auxiliary to the remedy in personam. Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185; see also Johnson v.
Chicago &c. Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 398, 399; Knapp,
Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638, 646, 648.
In the case of Leon v. Galceran, supra, the suit was in
personam, in a court of the State of Louisiana, to recover
mariner's wages. Under a statute of the State the vessel
was subject to a lien or privilege in favor of the mariner;
and accordingly at the beginning of the suit, on the application of the plaintiff who asserted his lien, a writ of sequestration was issued and levied upon the vessel which
was afterwards released upon the execution by the owner,
the defendant in the suit, of a forthcoming bond, with
surety. Judgment was recovered by the plaintiff for the
amount claimed, and the vessel not being returned, suit
was brought in the state court against the surety. Upon
writ of error from this court to review the judgment in the
latter action, it was contended, with respect to the issue
and levy of the writ of sequestration, that the vessel had
been seized under admiralty process in a proceeding in
rem over which the state court had no jurisdiction ratione
materice and hence that the bond was void. The contention was overruled and the jurisdiction of the state court
maintained. As this court said in Johnson v. Chicago &c.
Elevator Co., supra, in reviewing Leon v. Galceran, supra,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

it was held that 'the action in personam in the state
court was a proper one, because it was a common law
remedy, which the common law was competent to give,
although the state law gave a lien on the vessel in the
case, similar to a lien under the maritime law, and it was
made enforceable by a writ of sequestration in advance,
to hold the vessel as a security to respond to a judgment,
if recovered against her owner, as a defendant; that the
suit was not a proceeding in rem, nor was the writ of sequestration; that the bond given on the release of the vessel
became the substitute for her; that the common law is as
competent as the admiralty to give a remedy in all cases
where the suit is in pereonam against the owner of the
property; and that these views were not inconsistent with
any expressed in The Moses Taylor, in The Hine v. Trevor,
or in The Belfast.'
. The result of the decisions is thus stated in Knapp,
Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638, 646, 648. 'The
true distinction between such proceedings as are and such
as are not invasions of the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction
is this: If the cause of action be one cognizable in admiralty, and the suit be in rem against the thing itself,
though a monition be also issued to the owner, the proceeding is essentially one in admiralty. If, upon the other
hand, the cause of action be not one of which a court of
admiralty has jurisdiction, or if the suit be in personam
against an individual defendant, with an auxiliary attachment against a particular thing, or against the property
of the defendant in general, it is essentially a proceeding
according to the course of the common law, and within
the saving clause of the statute (§ 563) of a common law
remedy.'
In the present case, as we have said, the suit was in
personam and the attachment was in that suit. It had no
other effect than to provide security for the payment of
the personal judgment which was-recovered, and it was

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

for the purpose of satisfying this judgment that, in the
same proceeding and by the terms of the judgment, the
vessel was directed to be sold. It was within the scope of
the common law remedy to sell the property of the judgment debtors to pay their debt. We are not able to find
any encroachment upon the exclusive jurisdiction vested
in the Federal court in admiralty.
Judgment affirmed.

FRANK v. MANGUM, SHERIFF OF FULTON
COUNTY, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 775. Argued February 25, 26, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.
Petitioner was formally indicted for murder, placed on trial before a
court of competent jurisdiction with a jury lawfully constituted,
had a public trial deliberately conducted and with counsel for defense, was found guilty and sentenced pursuant to law of the State;
subsequently he twice moved the trial court to grant new trial, and
once to set verdict aside as a nullity, and was heard three times on
appeal by the court of last resort, and in all instances the trial court
was affirmed. Petitioner alleged that a hostile public sentiment improperly influenced the trial court and jury against him and in the,
court-room took the form of mob domination; that his lawful rights
were interfered with because he was not permitted to be present
when the verdict was rendered. The state courts however held, on
evidence presumably justifying such a finding but not produced in
the habeascorpus proceeding, that the allegations as to mob violence
and influence were not sustained and that the objection as to absence
on rendering the verdict had been waived by failure to raise it in
due season when fully informed as to the facts. Petitioner then
applied to the District Court of the United States for release on
habeas corpus on the ground that the conditions alleged to have
existed in the court-room amounted to mob domination and de-

