CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. GRAY.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of a limited number of employ~s in the coal mining business." And it is declared that "this is the exercise of an
arbitrary power, for an arbitrary private right, and against
a private business."
We have quoted counsels' language in order to give them
the strength of their own expressions of what they consider the vice of the law, but manifestly it is but a generalization from the particular objections which we have
considered, and those objections we have sufficiently
discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO

AND NORTHWESTERN
COMPANY v. GRAY.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 232.

Argued April 19, 20, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

This court will not express an opinion on the question of whether or
not the trial court should have found that the injured employ6
was engaged in interstate commerce, where the error, if any, did
the appellant no harm.
Where the claim of defendant railroad company against whom the verdict was rendered is that the plaintiff was engaged in interstate commerce and the case should have been tried under the Federal instead
of the state statute, and the finding of the jury was warranted by
the evidence, this court will not reverse if it does not appear that
the defendant's position was worse because the state, instead of the
Federal, law governed the case.
Under the Wisconsin law assumption of risk is merely a case of contributory negligence, and a finding of the jury that the plaintiff
was not guilty of contributory negligence excludes the possibility
that he assumed the risk.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages for personal injuries, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U, S.

Mr. Edward M. Smart for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Stephen J. McMahon for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action for personal injuries. The plaintiff,
Gray, was a hostler at Antigo, Wisconsin, having various
duties as to receiving and preparing engines for departure,
including the emptying of their ashes into the cinder pit
and seeing that the coals in the pit were wet down. Just
before the accident he had visited the cinder pit, to see
whether the cinder pit man was doing his work, and had
walked northward a short distance along a path between
the track and a coal shed to a point opposite a rest house
where he would await his next call to duty. He started to
cross the track to the rest house and was struck by an engine coming from the south. The defendant offered evidence showing that it was an interstate road and that the
round house and cinder pit served indifferently engines
that passed the state line and those moving within the
limits of the State, but did not attempt to show how the
engine that struck the plaintiff was engaged. The evidence was rejected and the Supreme Court of the State sustained the rejection on the ground that it did not appear
that the plaintiff's entire work consisted in the dispatching
of engines engaged in interstate commerce or that he was
employed in such commerce at the moment. It may be
assumed that the railway company sufficiently saved its
rights. The plaintiff got a large verdict, the jury finding
specially that the engine that hit the plaintiff went north
of the cinder pit in violation of the order of the defendant,
that the engineer's negligence was the proximate cause of
the injury, and that the plaintiff was guilty of no negligence that proximately contributed to the harm.

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. GRAY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Of course the argument for the railway company is
that Gray's employment on the cinder pit was employment
upon an instrument of interstate commerce and so an employment in interstate commerce as fully as that of the
track repairer in Pedersenv. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 229
U. S. 146; see also St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry. v.
Seale, 229 U. S. 156; and that he was on duty at the time
when he was struck as much as the fireman in North Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248. But we find it unnecessary to express an opinion upon this argument since
if there was an error it seems to have done the railway
company no harm.
There are differences and similarities between the Wisconsin and Federal statutes, but we do not perceive that
there is any difference that made the railway company's
position worse if tried on the hypothesis that the state law
governed. It is suggested that under the law of the United
States the defendant could have argued that the plaintiff
assumed the risk of this kind of negligence because he
knew that it was a common occurrence for engines to run
north of the cinder pit, not giving the proper signals.
Without considering whether the testimony at all warranted a finding that Gray assumed the risk of a fellow
servant's negligence, we deem it enough to say that by
the Wisconsin law assumption of risk is merely a case of
contributory negligence and that the finding of the jury
that the plaintiff was not guilty of contributory negligence
excludes the possibility that he assumed the risk. It also
makes it unnecessary to consider differences between state
and United States law that would have assumed importance had the finding upon contributory negligence been
the other way. It is enough to add that the finding of the
jury was warranted by the evidence. The plaintiff in error
suggests that the special verdict required under the state
law was improper under the United States law, but we
see no ground for complaint in that. We need go no
VOL. ccxxxvii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

farther as to the rest of the case than to say that no plain
error appears. Yazoo & Miss. Val. R. R. v. Wright, 235
U. S. 376, 378.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT OF AP-

PEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 580.

Argued December 18, 1915.-Decided May 3, 1915.

Railroad yards belonging to the same railroad but several miles apart,
such as those of the Erie Railroad at Jersey City, Weehawken and
Bergen, although important accessories pf the same terminal are
not actually one yard, and trains moving between them are not

engaged merely in switching operations, but are engaged in transportation within the purview of the air-brake provisions of the
Safety Appliance Act.
212 Fed. Rep. 853, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction and application of the Safety Appliance Acts, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Underwood for the
United States.
Mr. George S. Hobartand Mr. Gilbert Collins for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was a civil action by the United States to recover
from the Erie Railroad Company a penalty for each of

