OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Decree.

237 U. S.

scrip, and this in view of the manner in which the right
was asserted necessarily raises the question of the existence
of the discretionary power which was passed upon in the
Daniels Case, a result clearly indicated by the action of the
court below in basing its ruling in this case upon that which
it had previously made in the Daniels Case. We think
therefore that as our previous decision in the Daniels Case
unmistakably establishes that the ground upon which the
court maintained the demurrer in this case was an erroneous one, it must follow, as there is no ground independent of that upon which the action of the court can be
sustained, that the decree must be reversed and the case
remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER
COMPANY AND THE DUCKTOWN SULPHUR,
COPPER & IRON COMPANY, LIMITED.
MOTION TO ENTER A FINAL DECREE AGAINST THE DUCKTOWN SULPHUR, COPPER & IRON COMPANY, LIMITED.
No. 1, Origina.-Ordered to be entered June 1, 1915.

Decree entered pursuant to opinion delivered May 1915, ante, p. 475,
and appointing inspector to observe operations of plant of defendant, Ducktown Sulphur, Copper & Iron Company, Limited, and requiring said defendant to prevent escape of fumes carrying more

than a specified amount of sulphur.

DECREE
On consideration of the motion of complainant for final
injunction, the application of defendant Ducktown Sulphur, Copper & Iron Company, Limited, to show changed
conditions, the proof submitted thereon, and of the
argument of counsel thereupon had, and the Court being

GEORGIA v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
237 U. S.

Decree.

of opinion that by reducing the amount of sulphur discharged into the air said defendant probably can operate
its plant without subjecting the territory of Georgia
to serious danger of immediate injury, and deeming it
desirable to be more fully informed concerning the true
conditions and results which may be obtained by subduing
the noxious gases discharged,
IT IS ACCORDINGLY ordered, adjudged and decreed:
(1) That the defendant Ducktown Sulphur, Copper &
iron Company, Limited, shall hereafter keep daily records
showing fully and in detail the course and result of its
operations.
(2) That Dr.. John T. McGill, of Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, Tennessee, is hereby appointed Inspector to
observe the operations of said defendant's plant and works.
He shall be given by it at all times free and full access to its
books, records and premises, and during the next six
months he shall make frequent and careful observationsat least one each fortnight-of the conditions of the
plant and works, the manner of their operation, the
quantity and character of smoke emitted therefrom, and
the resulting effect upon vegetation within the vicinity
and in the State of Georgia. At the end of that time he
shall make a full report of his observations accompanied
by recommendations as to appropriate future action. To
cover necessary costs and expenses incident to these
services and thereasonable compensation of the Inspector,
the defendant Ducktown Sulphur, Copper & Iron Company, Limited, is hereby directed to deposit with the
Clerk of this Court, within ten days, the sum of five
thousand dollars. Of this sum not exceeding two thousand dollars shall be paid from time to time, prior to October 12th next, by the Clerk to the Inspector, upon his
written application, to cover costs, expenses, and on account of his services, etc.
(3) That said defendant hereafter shall not permit the

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Decree.

237 U. S.

escape into the air from its works of fumes carrying more
than 45% of the sulphur contained in the green ore subjected to smelting.
(4) That it shall not hereafter permit the escape into
the air of gases the total sulphur content of which shall
exceed twenty tons during one day from April 10th to
October 1st of each year -or exceed forty tons in one day
during any other season.
(5) That the cause will be retained upon the docket for
such further action as may be proper and either party
may at any time hereafter apply for relief as it may be
advised.
June 1, 1915.

