CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

no pleading raising such an issue, and there was no sufficient evidence as to the number of private cars received
by the Puritan, the Berwind-White, or other companies.
The information on that subject was peculiarly within the
knowledge of the carrier and proof adequate to furnish a
basis for the contention should have been offered-if,
indeed, the carrier could have been heard to insist that
private cars should have been counted when its own rule,
as well as the general practice in the United States, was to
exclude them in calculating the number of coal cars to
which each min6 was entitled. Neither need we inquire
whether the fact that the Commission subsequently announced a rule, under which private cars had to be taken
into account in making the distribution, could be given a
retrospective effect. For, be that as it may be, the exception was properly disallowed, because, as held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, no relevant evidence was
offered to support the c6ntention, and no point was raised
during the trial, that private cars should be counted in the
distribution.
Judgment affirmed.

CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 200.

Submitted March 11, 1915.-Decided April 5, 1915.

An issue as to the invalidity of a tax levy merely because excessive
does not raise a Federal question.
A statute providing for the sale of property for taxes giving an opportunity to be heard as to the fairness of the original assessment and
providing'notice be given of the place and time of sale with a right
of redemption for five years, does not deprive the owner of his prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

erty without due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment and so held as to ยง 3897 of the Civil Political
Code of California.
19 Cal. App. 132, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process of law provision of the Fourteenth Amendment
of certain provisions under the tax law of the State of
California, in regard to amount of property and its sale
for taxes, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ernest E. Wood, with whom Mr. Charles Lantz was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward F. Wehrle for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

The laws of California provide a means by which the
owner .of property can be heard before the Board of
Equalizers as to the fairness of the tax assessment. If no
objection is made and the taxes are not paid a delinquent
list is published. If default still continues the property,
instead of being offered to the highest bidder, is sold to the
State which holds the 'absolute title as of the date of the
expiration of five years from the time of the sale.' During
that period the owner has the right to redeem by paying
the original and accrued taxes, penalties and interest.
It is, however, not the policy of the State to retain separate parcels of land; and if the owner does not redeem
within the five years and if the State has not otherwise
disposed of the same the statute provides that the land or
so much thereof as the Controller may think necessary
shall after public advertisement and notice to the owner
be sold to the highest bidder.1
13897. "Whenever the State shall become the owner of any property sold for taxes and the deed to the State has been filed . .
the Controller may thereupon by a written authorization direct the

CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under these laws an assessment of $1.80 was made
against a lot in Los Angeles standing in the name of Givens.
It was regularly and duly sold on July 1, 1899. A certificate was made and recorded, whibh recited that the lot
had b;een sold to the State for $2.51 and that its title would
become absolute on July 2, 1904, unless in the meantime
redeemed as provided by law. There was no offer to redeem, and in January, 1905, the Controller having determined that past due and accrued taxes, penalties and costs
amounted to $16.19, directed the County Tax Collector
to sell the lot to the highest bidder for cash. After the
required publication and notice by mail, the property was
on February 11, 1905, sold to Zobelein, for the sum of $166.
A deed was made to him and the proceeds of the sale deposited with the Treasurer for the use of the State and
County as provided by law.
On March 19, 1908, William Chapman claiming to be
the owner of the lot made a tender of the original and
accrued taxes, penalties and interest to date. The tender
having been refused he fied a bill asking that his title be
quieted and that Zobelein's tax deed be canceled. On the
trial Chapman offered evidence to show that there were
tax-collector

.

.

.

to sell the property or any part thereof as in

his judgment he shall deem advisable in the manner following: he
must give notice of such sale by first publishing a notice for at least
three successive weeks . . . such notices must state specifically
the place . . . day and hour of sale . . . a description of
the property . . . a statement of all the delinquent taxes, penal-

ties, costs, interest and expenses up to the date of such sale
the name of the person to Whom the property was assessed. .
Said notice shall also embody a copy of the authorization received
from the controller. It shall be the duty of the tax-collector to mail
a copy of said notice, postage thereon prepaid, to the party to whom
the land was last assessed next before the sale, at his last known postoffice address. At the time set for such sale, the tax-collector must
sell the property described in the controller's authorization and said
notices, at public auction to the highest bidder for cash in lawful
money of the United States.

.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

those present at the sale who would have been willing to
pay $16.19, the full amount of the tax, for a strip ten feet
off of the easterly or northern end of the lot-leaving the
remainder to the owner; that the Collector had not offered to sell so much of the land as would bring the amount
of the tax but, instead, had sold the entire lot, 40 by 140
feet in size, and of the full value of $500 for $166, and that
the excess, $149.81, had been covered into the treasury.
By reason of these facts he claims that the sale was void
and that the statute in authorizing such a sale operated
to take his property without due process of law. The bill
to quiet title was dismissed, and that judgment having
been affirmed, the case is here on writ of error.
The plaintiff relies upon Slater v. Maxwell, 6 Wall. 268,
and other like cases, in which sales under an excessive levy
were held to be void. But those decisions are not applicable here, not only because an issue as to the invalidity
of a levy merely because excessive, does not raise a Federal
question, but because the statute here by giving a fiveyear period of redemption was intended in part to afford
the tax payer an opportunity to protect himself against
the sale of valuable property for an insignificant sum.
The statute in providing that the State should buy in the
property and holding it subject to redemption for five
years, intended to furnish relief to those who, for want of
ability to pay; or for want of notice of the levy, might
otherwise be deprived of their property by an ordinary
tax sale. Whatever the character of the title which the
State acquired at the first sale,-whether legal or equitable,-it was in any event defeasible by redemption within
five years.
The plaintiff in error insists, however, that at the second
sale property worth $500 was sold for $166 all of which
went to the State. He says that this was forfeiture pure
and simple, and that there can be no valid forfeiture without a judicial determination as to the existence of the facts

CHAPMAN v. ZOBELEIN.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

warranting so heavy a penalty. 2 Cooley on Taxation
(3d ed.), 858.
The plaintiff's contention must be limited to a consideration of the attack on the proceedings in which his lot was
sold in 1905. And, without undertaking to consider the
essentials of a valid forfeiture of property for non-payment
of taxes, it is sufficient to say that, in the present case, the
statute gave an opportunity to be heard as to the fairness
of the original assessment. It gave notice of the time and
place at which the property would be sold to the State
subject to the owner's right to redeem during a period of
five years. Under the California decisions the first sale,
at the end of five years, vested the State with the title.
King v. Mullen, 171 U. S. 417, 436. See also 2d Cooley
on Taxation, 3d ed., 862. The present case is even
stronger, for this is a bill attacking the title of the purchaser who bought at the second sale, after notice had
been given to the owner, by publication and mail of the
time and place when it would occur-his right to redeem
continuing up to the time the State actually entered or
sold. Santa Barbara v. Savings Society, 137 California,
463. Certainly such a sale, after the finding by the Controller of the amount of taxes due and after public and
special notice to the owner would "work the investment
of the title through the public act of the Government. . . . The sale was the public act which is
equivalent to office found." King v. Mullin, 171 U. S.
417, 436. That case shows that the defendant was not
deprived of his property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. All other questions raised by the record are concluded by the decision
of the state court. The judgment of the Supreme Court
of California is
Affirmed.

