DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

views which we have expressed will be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 239. Argued April 21, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
Under the Forest Act of June 4, 1897, c. 2, 30 Stat. 36, one whose land
was included in a forest reserve had the right to apply to the Land
Office, and, on surrendering his land, to obtain the right to enter an
equal amount of public lands on offering to do all that the law and
lawful regulations of the Land Department required.
The fact that an officer of the Land Department commits a wrong by
denying to an individual a right expressly conferred by law cannot
become the generating source of a discretionary power to make such
wrongful act legal. Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301,
distinguished.
One who has done everything essential, exacted either by law or the
lawful regulations of the Land Department, to obtain a right from
the Land Office conferred upon him by Congrcss, cannot be deprived of that right either by the exercise of discretion or by a wrong
committed by the Land Officers.
Error of law having been committed by the Land Department in assuming that it had a discretionary power to reject a lieu entry made
under the Forest Act of June 4, 1897, by one who had offered to
comply with the statute and lawful regulations of the Department,
its action is not sustainable, :upon general equitable considerations,
such as were made the basis for refusing to issue certificates in this

case.
Because a patent of the United States is involved, does not necessarily
require the United States to be a party to an action to determine
to whom it should have been issued.
205 Fed. Rep. 235, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

237 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the laws of the United States relating to the
public lands, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harrison G. Platt, with whom Mr. Robert Treat
Platt and Mr. Hugh Montgomery were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. J. H. Carnahan, with whom Mr. F. H. Mills was
on the brief, for appellee:
No vested right is acquired by the mere offer to file a
forest lieu selection which is rejected. Cosmos Co. v.
Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301; Pacific Land Co. v. Elwood
Co., 190 U. S. 314; Roughton v. Knight, 219 U. S. 536;
United States v. McClure, 174 Fed. Rep. 510; Clearwater
Timber Co. v. Shoshone Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 612; Osborn
v. Forsyth, 216 U. S. 570; Pacific Stock Co. v. Isaacs, 96
Pac. Rep. (Ore.) 464; Robinson v. Lundrigan, 178 Fed. Rep.
230; S. C., 227 U. S. 173; Miller v. Thomas, 36 L. D. 492;
Ehlainen v. Santa Fe Pac. R. R., 42 L. D. 578; Re Walker,
36 L. D. 495; Sherar v. Frazer, 40 L. D. 549; La Fayette
Lewis, 33 L. D. 43; William E. Moses, 33 L. D. 333; Smith
v. State, 40 L. 1). 554; Instructions, 24 L. D. 589, 592;
Instructions, 30 L. D. 28; Kern Oil Co. v. Clarke, 30 L. D.
550, 569; S. C., 31 L. D. 288; Gray Eagle Co. v. Clarke,
30 L. D. 570; Re Cobb, 31 L. D. 220; Santa Fe Pac. R. R.
v. State, 34 L. D. 12; Re Walker, 36 L. D. 495; Sherar v.
Veazie, 40 L. D. 549.
The administration of the Forest Reserve Lieu Land Act
of June 4, 1897, as amended by subsequent acts of Congress, is vested in the Land Department of the United
States. Cases supra and Wisconsin Cent. R. R. Co. v.
Price Co., 133 U. S. 460; Regulations of Int. Dep't under
act June 4, 1897, 24 L. 'D. 589; Nasqually v. Gibbon, 158
U. S. 155; Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 177;
In re Clarke, 32 L. D. 233, 235; Miller v. Thompson, 36
L. D. 492.

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

The decisions of the Land Department upon questions
of fact are conclusive. De Cambrav. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119;
Gertgen v. O'Connor, 191 U. S. 237; Johnson v. Drew, 171
U. S.93; Love v. Flahive, 205 U. S. 105; Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72; Marquez v. Frisbiv, 101 U. S. 473; Quimby v.
Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Burfenning v. Chicago, 163 U. S.
321; Whitcomb v. White, 214 U. S.15.
Likewise its decisions upon mixed questions of law and
fact. Quimby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Whitcomb v.
White, 214 U. S. 15; Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 114; Moore v.
Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S. 338.
The acts of the Executive Departments of the Government, when acquiesced in, and especially their interpretation of statutes which they arp called upon almost daily to
construe, if acquiesced in for a long time, are almost corclusive upon the courts. Roughton v. Knight, 219 U. S.
536; Osborn v. Forsyth, 216 U. S. 570; Orchardv. Alexander,
157 U. S. 373; Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S.161;
Parsonsv. Venzke, 164 U. S.89; Williams v. United States,
138 U. S. 514, 524; Kern Oil Co. v. Clarke, 31 L. D. 288,
300; Pacific Stock Co. v. Isaacs, 96 Pac. Rep. (Ore.) 464.
The Secretary of the Interior is vested with large discretionary powers in the administration of the public lanrd
system. Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524;
Knight v. Land Ass'n, 142 U. S.161, 177; Fowler v. Dennis,
41 L. D. 173.
The act of June 4, 1897, contemplates a common-law
exchange of equal estates, which requires the assent of
both parties thereto before the exchange is consummated.
See Co. Litt., 50a et seq.; Butler & Hargrave's Notes;
Shep. Touch. 294; 3 Words & Phrases, 2547; United
States v. McClure, 174 Fed. Rep. 510; Clearwater Timber
Co. v. Shoshone Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 612; Lessieur V. Price,
12 How. 59, 74; Roughton v. Knight, 156 California, 123;
S. C., 219 U. S.536;' Re Lewis, 33 L. D. 43; Re Moses, 33
L. D. 333; Re Hyde, 28 L. D. 286, 290; Opinions Asst.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

237 U. S.

Atty.-Gen. Van Devanter, 28 L: D. 312, 472; 30 L. D. 105;
Kern Oil Co. v. Clarke, 30 L. D. 550; S. C., 31 L. D. 288,
294; Gray Eagle Co. v. Clarke, 30 L. D. 570; Instructions,
31 L. D. 225; Re C. W. Clarke, 32 L. D. 233, 235; Miller
v. Thompson, 36 L. D. 492; Smith v. Idaho, 40 L. D. 554.
In case of rejection of lieu land applications the base
lands are not lost. Cases supra and Re Austin, 33 L. D.
589; Re Krebs, 37 L. D. 143.
The selector of land under the exchange provisions of
the act of June 4, 1897, is the owner of the base land and
must pay taxes thereon until the selection is approved by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the exchange consummated. Weyerhauser v. Hoyt, 219 U. S.
380, distinguished. Under the act of June 4, 1897, if the
selection fails, the selector still retains the land he attempted to relinquish to the United States, and loses
nothing. Cases supraand Sjorli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S..564;
Grant v. Railway Co., 54 Iowa, 673; Musser v. McRae,
38 Minnesota, 409; Page v. Price Co., 25 Washington, 6.
If dissatisfied, plaintiff should have brought mandamus
against the Secretary of the Interior when the selections
were finally rejected. Osborn v. Forsyth, 216 U. S. 570.
The decisions of the Interior Department construing
the laws specially intrusted to it for execution, and the
rules and regulations promulgated by it in the discharge
of its duties, should not be disturbed or reversed except for
the most cogent reasons. Rev. Stat., §§ 441, 453, 2478;
Knight v. Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, 167; Orchardv. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 375; Bishop of Nasqually v. Gibbon,
158 U. S. 155, 166; Parsons v. Venzke, 164 U. S. 89, 91;
Gray Eagle Co. v. Clarke, 31 L. D. 303, 306; McMichael
v. Murphy, 197 U. S. 304; Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425, 462 Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613; Small v.
Rakestraw, 196 U. S. 401.
Lands suspended from entry, or reserved by competent
authority, and lands occupied or covered by an entry,

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

selection or filing, and mineral lands, are not subject to
selection under the exchange provisions of the act of
June 4, 1897. Leaming v. McKenna, 31 L. D. 318; Kern
Oil Co. v. Clarke, 31 L. D. 288; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Pet. 498, 513; Walcott v. Des Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681, 688;
Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 381; Re Cal. Land Co.,
33 L. D. 595; Sante Fe Pac. R. R. v. California,34 L. D.
12; Re Santa Fe Pac. R. R., 34 L. D. 119.
The decision of the Secretary of the Interior in the
cases at bar followed a long line of decisions rendered by
his predecessors. Kern Oil Co. v. Clarke, 30 L. D. 550; Instructions, 24 L. D. 589, 592; Gray Eagle Oil Co. v. Clarke,
30 L. D. 570; Re Pavey, 31 L. D. 186; Re Cobb, 31 L. D.
220; Porter v. Landrum, 31 L. D. 352.
The regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the
Interior in pursuance of statute, have all the force and
effect of law. Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301;
Knight v. Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, 177; and see 2 L. D.
709; 5 L. D. 169; 6 L. D. 111; 9 L.D. 86, 189, 284, 353.
The law deals tenderly with the settler upon public lands.
Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, 543; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330, 338.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of
the regulations of the Land Department. Caha v. United
States, 152 U. S. 211; Leonard v. Lennox, 181 Fed. Rep.
764; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 216; Jenkins
v. Collord, 145 U. S. 546, 560.
The final decision of the Interior Department of February 17, 1910, shows that the selections were never accepted by the Lind Department, notwithstanding allegations in other parts of the amended bills of complaint to
the contrary.
That plaintiff was awarded a decision by the Interior
Department, prior to the final decision of February 17,
1910, in favor of defendants, gives him no standing, since
the final decision alone determines the rights of the parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Potter v. Hall, 189 U. S. 292; Greenameyer v. Coate, 212
U. S. 434.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Daniels, the appellant here, was plaintiff in the trial
court and appellant in the court below. In stating this
case in its opinion the court below mentioned that there
were fifteen other cases'under submission in which Daniels
also was the plaintiff in the trial court and the appellant
before it and that all the cases involved substantially the
same legal questions. The court, evidently considering
that its conclusions in this disposed of the other cases,
directed a judgment of affirmance not only in this but in
the other fifteen cases. It would seem, since only fourteen
of the cases besides this one are here, that in one of the
cases no appeal was taken, but otherwise the situation
which existed below obtains here, since this and fourteen
other cases are before us for decision. For the appellant
this case and the fourteen others were argued in one brief,
but for the appellees the cases in the briefs are divided into
groups presumably in consequence of what was assumed
to be some material difference of fact between them. In
passing upon the cases the court below subbtantially
rested its conclusion upon what it decided was the power
of the officers of the Larld Department over the land entries
which are the subject of the controversy, although in concluding its opinion the court intimated rather than decided
that even if its views on the question of power were mistaken, there was a state of fact in this (and presumably
in the other cases) which required a decision against
Daniels, the appellant. 205 Fed. Rep. 235.
In the argument before us for the appellant it is not
disputed that if the court below was right in its ruling as
to the power of the Land Department, its conclusion in

DANIELS v. WAGNER.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this and all the. other fifteen cases was correct and its
decrees must be affirmed, since under the hypothesis
stated there is no contention that there is any fact in this
or any of the other cases which would justify a different
conclusion. On the other hand, in the arguments for the
appellees, although it is not disputed that if the court
below erred in the proposition which it maintained concerning the power of the Land Department its d,,crees
were wrong, it is nevertheless insisted that putting the
proposition of power out of view, in some if not in all the
cases particular facts were established which when properly
considered would require an affirmance of the decrees.
Under these conditions to avoid repetition in the statement of the other cases, we proceed first in this case
to dispose of the proposition as to the power of the officers
of the Land Department in order, if it be found that such
propositioii was well founded, to decide this and all the
other cases without going any further. In following this
method we shall state the case on broad lines so as to
present in bold relief the legal question for decision, paying
no heed to facts not in any way involved in that question.
If, after doing so, the po wer upheld by the court below
be found not to exist we shall then examine the facts to
determine how far they may control or influence the decision of the case.
In June, 1902, the State of Oregon prepared lists selecting lands in place of certain designated school lands for
which it claimed to be entitled to be indemnified and these
lists were filed in the local land office and were transmitted
for approval to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office. The State before such approval sold to Daniels
the land covered by the lists including that with which
this controversy is concerned. The Land Department
subsequently-refused to approve the state lists because of
error concerning the school lands for which the right of
indemnity was asserted. Daniels, the purchaser from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

State, was therefore without right in and to the land.
Through the Governor of the State an arrangement was
made with the Land Department by which the State
might point out and substitute other school sections, the
right to which had been lost, for those previously stated,
and if it could not do so, on notice from the Department
that its lists would be cancelled the State might relinquish
its claim, if any, arising from the filing of the lists in favor
of its vendees who on presentation of the relinquishment

might enter the land which they had already bought
from the State. The Department directed attention to
the fact that in the meanwhile the right of the vendees

to make the proposed entry would be indubitably preserved as the filing of the previous lists by the State had
segregated the land and until the relinquishment was
presented that segregation would continue, and further
that if the relinquishment and the application to enter
the lands were filed together, no danger of loss of right
would exist. Daniels, to avail of this advantage, procured

the Aztec Land and Cattle Company and one Perrin who
owned land which had been included in the San Francisco
Mountains Forest Reserve, in his interest and for his

account to surrender said land to the United States
under the provisions of the act of Congress of June 4,
1897 (c. 2, 30 Stat. 36), and to apply for the benefit of
Daniels to enter as lieu land the land which he had bought
from the State of Oregon. To accomplish this purpose
it was understood that the relinquishments which the
State had made of its rights, if any, to such land resulting
from its filed lists should be delivered to the Land Office
in connection with the application to enter the lieu lands,
thus following the method suggested previously by the
Land Department. Carrying out this purpose after
compliance in every respect with the statute and with the
regulations of the Land Department the application for
the lieu lands was filed and the certificate of relinquish-

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment from the State was simultaneously handed to the
proper Land Office.
When the applications were made it is not disputed that
it was the duty of the local land officers on receipt of the
application to file and transmit it to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office for his approval, but for some
reason best known to themselves they rejected the application and allowed subsequent entries in favor of other
persons to be made under the homestead, timber and
stone and other laws. From this there resulted a controversy which led to repeated directions by the Land
Department to the local Land Office to allow the lieu entry,
but which for one reason or another were not carried out,
until finally in February, 1910, the whole subject came
before the Secretary of the Interior on appeal from a ruling
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office that the
lieu entry was valid and again directing that it be allowed
and consummated. In great detail reviewing the facts
concerning the Daniels purchase from the State of Oregon
and his obtaining the relinquishment conformably to the
instructions of the Department, after holding that his
perfect good faith was established and after finding as a
matter of fact that the application for the entry of the
lieu lands and the relinquishment from the State had been
filed simultaxieously in the local Land Office although the
relinquishment had not been marked by.the local officers
as filed until afterwards, the Secretary came to review the
controversy which had followed and to state his general
conclusions as to the entry of the lieu lands as follows:
"It is believed that these applications might have been
allowed, not as a matter of right, but in the discretion of
the Secretary of the Interior; and if the instructions of the
Secretary had been carried out, it would have been (!one
before the case became complicated by the counterequitable considerations arising upon the unfortunate allowance of the Homestead and Timber and Stone entries

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

for most of these lands. It is thought however, that in
instances where the Land Department has permitted these
entries and filings to go of record, where they have become
closed transactions, the Department would not be justified in cancelling such entries and filing, for the purpose of
protecting the equities of Daniels in these lands. It matters not if Daniels' application was in all respects regular
and might have been allowed when presented; yet it was
within the competency of the Land Department to dispose of the said lands to other persons; and having .done
so, Daniels will not now be heard to question the correctness of that disposition. See Hoyt v. Weyerhauser et al.
(161 Fed. Rep. 324)."
Giving effect to these opinions the Secretary of the Interior decided that the entries subsequent in date to the
Daniels or lieu land entries should be maintained except
as to certain of said subsequent claims which were held
to be subordinate to the Daniels or lieu land claims for
reasons which we need not notice. When this action of the
Secretary was carried into effect by the Land Department
this suit was brought charging that by error of law of the
Department of the Interior Daniels had*been deprived of
his right to enter the land and seeking to charge the defendants to whom the right to enter the land had been
awarded or those holding under them with a trust in favor
of DarnielN. The averments of the bill were full and embraced the facts above recited and the opinion of the
Secretary rendered in 1910 was made a part of the bill.
The bill was demurred to as stating no case for relief. It
was amended and again demurred to for the same reason.
The trial court sustained the demurrer and in substance
held that the Land Department had the discretionary
power to award the lands, without reference to the priority
of the applications, to the persons selected as a result of
taking into account the general equitable considerations
stated in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior which

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

we have already quoted. On appeal the decree of the
trial court was affirmed. It was held that the Land De
partment as to the character of the entries in question
possessed the discretionary power which was relied upon
by the &ecretary of the Interior as the basis for his action
although it was held or intimated in considering a decision
of this court that the discretionary power asserted could
not be applied to indemnity selections made by a railroad
company under a railroad grant. In concluding the court
said:
"But there is additional ground for sustaining it in the
fact that, at the time when the appellant's selection was
initiated on February 8, 1904, the lands involved herein
appeared upon the records of the local Land Office as selected by the State of Oregon by certain school indemnity
lists, and that those lists were not relinquished by the
State until February 10, 1904. This sufficiently appears
from the decision of the Secretary of the Interior, which is
made an exhibit to the bill and is controlling in so far as
it varies from the allegations of the bill. Greenameyer v.
Coate, 212 U. S. 434, 443,."
This brings us to determine whether the Land Department had a right to reject a prior lieu land entry or entries
and award the land to subsequent and subordinate applicants under the assumption that it possessed a discretionary right to do so, an authority the possession of
which-was sustained by both the courts below.
In primarily testing the proposition from the point of
view of principle it is well at once to exactly fix its true
import. In doing so it is to be conceded, a, that the act of
Congress gave the right to one wh]oe land had come to be
.included by operation of law in a forest or other reservation to apply to the Land Office and obtain the right to
enter an equal amount of public land upon the surrender
to the United States of the land situated in the reservation
and upon the doing and offering to do everything required

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

by the law or the lawful regulations of the Land Department to be done or offered to be done for that purpose; b,
that in the particular case the application to enter the
lieu land came within the grant of the statute and all
that was required by law or lawful regulation was done by
the applicant in order to obtain entry, and c, that it was
the plain duty of the proper authorities of the Department
on the filing of the entry in due course under the law to
grant it. When these conclusions are accepted it results
that the claim of discretionary power is substantially this:
That in a case where under an Act of Congress a right is
conferred to make an application to enter public land and
a duty imposed upon the Department to permit the entry,
the Department is authorized in its discretion to refuse to
allow that to be done which is commanded to be done
and thus deprive the individual of the right which the
law gives him. And it becomes moreover certain that the
necessary result of this assertion is thb following: That
although Congress may have the power to provide for
the disposition of the public domain and fix th6 terms and
conditions upon which the people may enjoy the right to
purchase, it has not done so, since every command which
it has expressed on this subject may be disregarded and
every right which it has conferred on the citizen may be
taken away by an unlimited and undefined discretion
which is vested by law in the administrative officers appointed for the purpose of giving effect to the law. When
the true character of the proposition is thus fixed it becomes unnecessary to go further to demonstrate its want
of foundation. And the inherent vice which thus clearly
appears from the mere statement of the proposition when
reduced to the ultimate conceptions which it involves is
not relieved by the suggestion that the action taken in
this case by the Department rested not upon the assumption that there was a general discretion, but upon the
assumption that such discretion arose because of the pri-

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mary mistake made by the local land officers concerning
the lieu entry and the allowance of the filing of claims which
were subsequent in date. We say this because thus seemingly to limit the discretionary power exerted would in
our opinion aggravate its manifest unsoundness for the
power as thus qualified would come to this: That the commission of a wrong by the officers of the Department in
disobeying the Act of Congress and in denying to an individual a right expressly conferred upon him by law would
become the generating source of a discretionary power to
make the disobedience of law lawful and the taking away
of the right of an individual legal. But this in another
form of statement brings the proposition back to its real
and essential basis.
Let us consider the subject from the point of view of the
authorities relied on as sustaining the possession of the
discretionary power by the Land Department, first, from
the point of view of the opinion expressed by the Secretary of the Interior and second, from that of the court
below in affirming the action of that officer. As to the
first, it is to be observed that the only authority referred
to was the case of Hoyt v. Weyerhaeuser, decided April 17,
1908, in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 161 Fed. Rep. 324, and that therefore the ruling was
not the result of any prior administrative rule or practice
of the Department asserting the existence of the administrative authority which the proposition involves. We do
not stop to point out that in our opinion the ruling in
Hoyt v. Weyerhaeuser did not sustain the right to exert
the discretionary authority which it exercised, since that
case after the action of the Land Department was reviewed
in this court and reversed upon reasoning which negatives
the assumption that the Department possessed the discretionary authority which it assumed it had. Weyerhaeuser
v. Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380.
As to the second, while the court below likewise re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ferred to no practice or ruling of the Land Department
asserting the possession by the Department of the latitude of discretion which it exercised, that power was
sustained and the lawfulness of its exertion in the present
case cstablished by the ruling in Cosmos Exploration
Co. v. Gray 'Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S.: 301. While thus
understanding the Cosmos Case the court recognized
that the decision in Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt was in conflict
with such view if that decision was applicable to the case
before it, which the court concluded was not the case
because it must be restricted to applications for indemnity selections made by a railroad company under a
railroad grant and therefore did not relate to lieu land
selections applied for under the Act of 1897. But we
are of opinion tha. this. interpretation of the Cosmos
Case cannot be justified. In the first place we can discover no reason for holding that the Cosmos Case either
expressly or by any reasonable implication sustained the
assumption that there existed in the Land Department
in the case of lieu land entries or any other the vast
latitude of discretion involved in the proposition which
was sustained. It is true in the Cosmos Case it was decided that courts would not interfere with the right of
the Department to pass upon a question which it had
the power to decide as a prerequisite to allowing a lieu
entry under the Act of 1897, but that ruling has no relation to the question of the- right of the Department
after it had passed on the prerequisites required for the
entry under the Act of 1897 and after it had decided
that they had all been complied with, to deny the right
of the applicant to enter and under the theory of a discretion possessed to permit a later applicant to take the
land, thus depriving the first applicant of the right conferred upon him by the Act of Congress. The difference
between the two is that which must obtain between the
power to decide on the. one hand whether the prerequisites

DANIELS v. WAGNkR.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to an entry exist and the right on the other of the Land
Department after finding, that an applicant has fully
complied with the law and is entitled to make the entry
which he asks, to permit somebody else to enter the
land under the assumption that the law vests a discrebe.done.
tion which enables that to
It is true again that in the Cosmos Case the court declined to hold that the Department was not at liberty
to determine the question as to the mineral pharacter
of the lands sought to be entered, because that inquiry
arose after entry and before its fifiaf allowance, a ruling
which but in a different form illustrates the broad distinction which we have just pointed out. It is also true
that Weyerhaeubr v. Hoyt concerned a question of the
selection of indemnity lands by a railroad company under
a railroad grant, but the reasoning in that case, we are
of opinion, in the very nature of things is repugnant to
the possibility of- the possession of the discretionary
power in the Department here asserted.
There being then no basis for the assumption of a discretionary power on the part of the Land Department
upon which the lieu land entry or entries were finally
rejected and the land awarded to other entrymen-who
were later in time, the bill stated a cause of action sustaining the relief prayed unless the demurrer was rightly
maintained for some other reason. And for the purpose
of considering that subject we state under one heading.
the questions involved in its solution.
From the point of view that it is established that error of
law was committed by the Land Department in assuming
that it had a discretion to reject the lieu entry, is its action
nevertheless sustainable because of the suggestion made by
the court below in closing its opinion, or for any other fact
or reason pressed in argument?
These considerations are, of course, as the matter
went off on a demurrer, to be determined by the bill
VOL. ccxxxvn-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

and the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior of 1910,
which was annexed to the bill. Although in considering
and disposing of the question of law we have given a
summary of the proceedings in the Land Department,
we refer more fully to the subject. The application to
make the lieu entry was presented to the local land office
February 8, 1904. After its rejection the applicant for
the entry appealed, the date not being given. On this
appeal the decision of the local land officers was affirmed
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the
date not being given, and on appeal to the Secretary of
the Interior, the local land officers andthe Commissioner
of the General Land Office were reversed, October 25,
1905, and the local officers were curected to allow the
lieu entry. This order was not carried out because the
local land officers declined to do so upon the ground
that the land covered by the lieu entry was included in a
named reservation, and on appeal taken by the lieu
entrymen the Commissioner of the General Land Office
reversed the action of the local officers, January 23, 1906,
and sent the matter back with directions to the local
land officers to allow the lieu entry or entries "as of date
February 8, 1904, the day on which they were originally
presented, if no other objection appeared." What then
ensued is thus stated by the Secretary in his opinion:
"Under dates of March 5, and June 11, 1906, the
Register submitted full reports to your office [General
Land Office]' upon the said applications, and stated there
were objections to the allowance of the same, in that
there were various homestead and timber and stone
applications which had been allowed subsequently to
the cancellation of the- State's list. The Register also
referred to the fact that Daniels had caused a contest
to be instituted against the State's selection, and questioned his good faith in the matter.,
"Separate appeals were taken by the Aztec Land and

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cattle Company and Perrin from this action of the local
officers, and the papers in connection with the application of the Aztec Company were transmitted to the
Department by your office, letter of May 9, 1906, for

further consideration in connection with the report of
the local office
"Upon consideration of the matter thus presented, the
Department held in its decision of June 26, 1906, that the
facts failed to show that Daniels was entitled to protection
as a bona fide purchaser from the State; that the 'State's
selections were filed January 28, 1902, while the lands were
sold on January 21st, preceding, at which time they were
public lands of the United States, and no one purchasing
them could claim to be a bona fide purchaser from the
State; that as late as October 5, 1903, Daniels was not
asserting that he was a purchaser in good faith from the
State, but was acting adversely to it and attempting to
contest the lists under which he later asked for recognition
as a bona fide purchaser and for equitable relief; that
this position then was inconsistent with the position later
assumed; and if he had since acquired assignments of the
State's certificates of sale, he had done so with' full knowledge of the invalidity of the State's claim; that the facts
set forth above were fatal to his contention that he was
a bona fide purchaser, and as such should be permitted
to file the State's relinquishment and obtain precedence
over others seeking' to appropriate the lands under the
general land laws; that to concede to him this privilege
under letters October 17 and 13, 1903, mentioned above,
would in effect, be to make such persons, as from time to
time might constitute the State Land Board, agents to
dispose of the public lands of the United States, within
the State, to such persons as they might favor by means
of sales of public land as state land, the subsequent filing
of the State's lists invalid for want of sufficient base, the
filing of the State's relinquishment, and the protection of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the purchaser from the State by grace of the Land Department. The Department accordingly held in that
decision that the lieu selection should be rejected.
"A motion for review of said decision of June 26th, 1906,
having been filed by Daniels, the Department, on May 15
and 18, 1907, rendered decisions holding that while Daniels
was not, strictly speaking, a bona fide purchaser from the
State, because the certificates of sale issued -by the State
antedated the filing of the school indemnity selections,
and therefore were made at a time when there was no
actual claim of the State pending, still Daniels had not
purchased the land until the month of April, 1902, nearly
three months after the lands had been actually selected
by the State, and that having paid a valuable consideration for the lands in an honest belief that a title was being
obtained, that was sufficient to constitute a bona fide purchase.
"The decision of June 26th, 1906, was therefore recalled,
and it was ordered that the lieu selection should be reinstated."
As additionally stated by the Secretary in his opinion,
the Commissioner of the General Land Office transmitted
the decision just stated to the local land officers along
with the lieu entry or entries for allowance and instructed
those officers to notify the parties who had been allowed
to make entries subsequent to the filing of the lieu applications to show cause why their entries, should not be cancelled.
Thereupon as further stated by the Secretary, ','a petition termed a motion for re-Teview of Departmental Decisions of May 15 and 18, 1907, was filed on behalf of Arthie
Johnson who claimed a part of .helands under a sale made
thereof under the Public Land Laws. This petition or
motion charged, in effect, that a conspiracy had been
formed fo the purpose of acquiring: the lands originally
by means of the State's selection involved; that the entire

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding by which title was sought to be acquired was
fraudulent, and that the parties thereto should not be
allowed to perfect title to the lands, to the injury of those
who in good faith had entered the same under the Public
Land Laws."
And it was the controvcrsy which arose from this petition which took the subject again before the Commissioner
of the General Land Office and to the Secretary of the Interior and which led to the final decision of the Department
of 1910 with which we are dealing maintaining the right
of the lieu entrymen, and in which as we have previously
seen in discussing the question of discretion the Department explicitly and finally found (1) that Daniels as a
matter of fact was in good faith in his dealings concerning
the purchase of the land from the State of Oregon and the
receipt from the State of its relinquishment, and (2) that
the application for the lieu entry or entries and the relinquishment by the State were presented to the Land Office
for filing at one and the same time. Because of its conclusive effect upon that aspect of the question we append
in the margin the finding made by the Secretary of the
Interior on this subject.1
'"It is true the record shows that the relinquishments were not
marked, filed, in the local office until February 10, 1904, which was two
days after the presentation of the scrip applications.
"It is further shown that it wa- the custom in that office to note the
filing of the relinquishments of entries and filings upon public lands on
the same day they were received in'the office; and a clerk in said office
gives it as his opinion that if these relinquishments had been received
on February 8, instead of February 10, the filing would have been
noted on the day they were received.
"lBut it is evident from the facts and circumstances surrounding the
incident that the scrip applications and the State's relinquishments
were, in fact, filed simultaneously.
"The filing was by mail, and the letter of transmittal was written by
Daniels' attorney, the said L. T. Barin.
"The letter recites that it contains the relinquishments in question,
and it was received at the local land office February 8. Moreover, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Under these conditions it is apparent that the suggestion
made in the opinion of the court below was either inadvertent or, if not, was clearly without foundation, a result as
to which there is no room for controversy in view of the
express finding by the Department of the simultaneous
presentation of the relinquishment and the application
for the lieu entry or entries, since it constitutes a finding
of fact by the Department which it was within its province
and its duty to make and which the courts have no power
to review. And from this it follows that any attempt to
base a right in favor of persons entering subsequently
because of the failure of the local land officers to file, would
reduce the case at once to the contention that one who
had done everything essential, exacted either by law or the
regulations of the Department, to obtain a right from the
Land Office conferred upon him by Congress, could be
deprived of the same either by the exercise of discretion
or by a wrong committed by the land officers.
In addition in the brief for the appellee in this case
action of the local officers at the time in rejecting the proffered scrip
applications is put upon the ground that part of the lands were covered
by pending homestead and timber and stone applications, whereas if
the State had not then relinquished its school indemnity selections, the
local officers would surely have assigned this as the reason for rejection
of said applications, because this reason would have applied to all of
the lands involved, instead of only a small portion of them, as was the
case with the reason assigned.
"It is worthy of [notice] too, that there has not been found any correspondence of record which would indicate that if the said Barin had
left these relinquishments out of his letter by inadvertence, they were
ever afterwards transmitted to the local land office, and no correspondence or record of correspondence showing that if he had been
guilty of such inadvertence he was ever advised thereof by the local
officers.
"I conclude, therefore, on this branch of the case that the relinquishments in question and the scrip-applications were filed at the same time,
as was suggested they might be in your office report of September 28th,
1903, above quoted."

DANIELS v. WAGNER.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

various mixed contentions of law and fact are stated under
six propositions which it is deemed establish that the demurrer was rightly sustained even although the Land
Department did not possess the discretion which it
assumed it had. Some of them we think too obviously
devoid of merit to require anything but statement. For
instance, the contention that because a patent of the
United States is involved, therefore the United States is a
necessary party. As to the others we think whatever be
their merit, as to which we intimate no opinion, they
plainly concern themselves with the merits of the case
and have no tendency to establish the proposition that the
demurrer was rightly sustained. Thus, so far as the final
action of the Secretary was concerned we think under the
averments of the bill and on the face of the Secretary's
opinion it is to be assumed that the necessary parties to
bnable the Secretary to act were before him and that this
carries with it, at least for the purposes of the hearing on
the merits, the question whether there was an insufficiency
of parties in the previous hearings.
Our conclusion therefore is that the judgment sustaining
the demurrer was wrong and it must be and is reversed and
the case is remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed.

