HEALY v. SEA GULL SPECIALTY CO.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

HEALY v. SEA GULL SPECIALTY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
'FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 253.

Argued May 3, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

Where it appears from the plaintiff's statement that his case is for
infringement and arose under the patent laws, the District Court
has jurisdiction, notwithstanding the fact that he may also rely
upon a contract as furnishing the mode in which the -damages
grounded -on infringement should be ascertained.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court in a case involving infringement of patent, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles Rosen and Mr. Henry B. Gayley for appellant.
Mr. Randolph Barton, Jr., with whom Mr. James E.
Zunts was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the appellants, alleging that Healy is the owner of patents for improvements
in boxes and machines for making boxes, and that the
Healy Box Corporation is the grantee of the exclusive
right to make and use the machines and to make, use and
sell the boxes containing the patented improvements.
The bill next alleges that the defendant is infringing the
patents and will continue to do so unless restrained. Then,
anticipating a defence, it sets forth a license to the defendant, a breach of its conditions and a termination of

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

the same. It adds that the license contained a stipulation that in case of any suit for infringement the measure
of recovery should be the same as the royalty agreed
upon for the use of the inventions, and another for the
return of the machines let to the defendant while the
license was in force. The bill prays for an ihjunction
against making, using or selling the boxes or machines,
for an account of profits received by reason of the infringement, for triple the damages measured as above stated,
and for the surrender of the machines. The jurisdiction
depended upon this being a case arising under the patent
laws, and the District Court thinking that it was merely a
matter of contract dismissed the bill. In our opinion its
decision was wrong.
It may be that the reasoning of The Fairv. Kohler Die &
Specialty Co., 228 U. S. 22, is more consistent with that of
Mr. Justice Bradley's dissent in Hartell v. Tilghman, 99
U. S. 547, 556 (a decision since explained and limited,
White v. Rankin, 144 U. S. 628), than with that of the
majority, but it is the deliberate judgment of the court
and governs this case. As stated there, the plaintiff is
absolute master of what jurisdiction he will appeal to;
and if he goes to the District Court for infringement of a
patent, unless the claim is frivolous or a pretence, the
District Court will have jurisdiction' on that ground,
even though the course of the subsequent pleadings
reveals other more serious disputes. Excelsior WoodenPipe Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282. Jurisdiction
generally depends upon the case made and relief demanded
by the plaintiff, and as it cannot be helped, so it cannot
be defeated by the replication to an actual qr anticipated
defence contained in what used to be the charging part of
the bill. For the same reason it does not matter whether
the validity, of the patent is admitted or denied.
As appears from the statement of it, the plaintiffs'
case arose under the patent law. It was not affected by

BOOTH-KELLY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
237 U. S.

481

Argument for Appellant.

the fact that the plaintiffs relied upon a contract as fixing
the mode of estimating damages or that they sought a
return of patented machines to wlhich if there was no license
they were entitled. These were incidents. The essential
features were the allegation of an infringement and prayers
for an injunction, an account of profits and triple damages
-the characteristic forms of relief granted by the patent
law. The damages were grounded on the infringement,
and the contract Was relied upon only as furnishing the
mode in which they should be ascertained.
Decree reversed.

BOOTH-KELLY LUMBER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 258.

Argued May 4, 5, 1915.-Decided May 17, 1915.

Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeal cancelling patents for timber
lands on the ground of fraud affirmed, the explanations of the
grantee who claimed to be a bona fide purchaser without notice
failing to escape the effect of incontrovertible facts which showed
participation in the fraud.
203 Fed. Rep. 423, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of patents to land
alleged by the United States to have issued as the result
of fraud in the entries, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. H. Tanner, with whom Mr. A. C. Woodcock
and Mr. John Van Zante were on the brief, for appellant:
There is nothing in the Timber and Stone Act to prevent
the entrymen from borrowing the money to pay the exVOL. CCXXXVII-31

