OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

237 U. S.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 482.

Submitted March 1, 1915.--Decided April 12, 1915.

A corporation created by an act of Congress is inherently entitled to
invoke the jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, even thouga such judgment would be final as
against another defendant not so incorporated.
Nothing in the record indicates that the trial court erred in not taking
the case from the jury.
Where the defendant after removing the case into the Federal court,
obtains a continuance in order to prepare its defense on the merits,
and does plead to the merits, such action amounts to a waiver of
objections to the jurisdiction of the state-court in which the action
was originally commenced.
The exclusion of jurors and the granting or refusal of postponements
arc matters within the discretion of the trial court and this court
will not interfere unless it appears that the limits of sound discretion were transcended.
Objections to the charge of the trial court to the jury in this case held
unfounded.
Whether the trial court erred in refusing a remittitur because of the
excessive amount of the verdict is not open in this court. Southern
Ry; v. Bennett, 233 U. S. 80.

facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
for damages for personal injuries, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. If. C. Carter, Mr. Magus Smith and Mr. Perry J.

Lewis for defendant in error in support of the motion.
Mr. George Thompson and Mr. T. D. Cobbs for plaintiff
in error in opposition to the motion.

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. HILL.

237 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
As a corporation created by an act of Congress the
plaintiff in error is inherently entitled to invoke our jurisdiction. Hence the motion to dismiss is without merit.
Both the record and the argument for reversal are
voluminous, the latter covering about one hundred and
thirty-five printed pages. We state some of the undisputed facts out of which the controversy arose and recapitulate such of the propositions relied on in argument

as we think need to be considered to make clear our
disposition of the case.
On December 22, 1911, while a passenger on a train of
the Texas & Pacific Railway moving between Longview
and Atlanta, Texas, a collision between two trains of
the road took place which, it was alleged, occasioned the

injuries to the defendant in error to compensate for which
she brought this suit. She was travelling on a through
ticket sold by the International & Great Northern Railway
Company at Pearsall, Frio County, Texas, where the defendant in error resided and where she was employed as
a clerk. The ticket covered a journey to Longview, where
the International connected with the Texas & Pacific,
and thence by that road to Atlanta. After the collision
the defendant in error went to the home of her parents
at Queen City near Atlanta, where she was treated by a
local physician. Under his advice she went to a sanitarium
at Texarkana. From there she returned to Queen City,
remained under treatment a while and went to her home
at Pearsall. Under the advice of a local physician and accompanied by him she subsequently went to San Antonio
for consultation with surgeons there. They advised an
operation but the advice was not immediately followed,
as the defendant in error returned to Pearsall and remained there some time under the care of her physician.
VOL.' ccxxxvii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

Not improving, again under his advice and accompanied
by him she went to San Antonio, submitted to an operation and after convalescence returned in an invalid condition to Pearsall where she was living at the time this
suit was commenced on August 24, 1912, in the District
Court of Frio County, Texas, against both the International, and the Texas & Pacific, the liability of both
being based on an allegation that they were partners.
The International pleaded to the jurisdiction on the ground
that although it operated a road and had an agent in Frio
County, it wa,: not susceptible of being sued there for an
alleged injury to a passenger. It was asserted that if the
jurisdiction was based on a law of Texas of 1905 which
was referred to, it did not apply, and if it did, the law was
void because repugnant to the state constitution for
reasons which were named. In addition in the same
paper a denial of the alleged partnership was made and
the exclusive liability of the Texas & Pacific for the injury,
if any injury had resulted, was asserted. On the same day
the Texas & Pacific as a corporation created by an act of
Congress, joined by the International, prayed and was
granted the right to remove the cause to the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of
Texas and consequently filed the record in that court on
the fourteenth of October, 1912. On the same day the
Texas & Pacific filed a paper styled in its heading "Answer
of Defendant," but on which was endorsed the title of the
case and the words "Pleas, Demurrer, and Answer of the
Defendant, T. & P. Ry. Co." The paper contained
four separate paragraphs each signed by the attorney.
The first, after referring to the plea to the jurisdiction
of the state court filed in that court by the International
and after alleging that the Texas & Pacific had no road
and did no business in Frio County, asked that if the plea
of the International should be sustained,. the suit should
abate as to the Texas & Pacific. The second paragraph

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. HILL.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

denied under oath the alleged partnership with the International. The third virtually demurred on the ground
of no cause of action, and the fourth was an answer to the
merits generally denying the averments of the petition
and setting up particular grounds of defense. On the third
of January, 1913, the plaintiff moved to remand to the
state court which was resisted in writing by the Texas &
Pacific in a paper in which it alleged that although it
was an inhabitant of the Northern District of Texas it had
the right to remove the cause to the District Court of the
Western District. This pleading contained no reservation
whatever of any question of jurisdiction of the state
court, but on the contrary alleged that the removal was
valid, had been joined in by the International and that
said road "joins in this motion contending that the case
is one under the law removable, and which controversy
between the parties this court has the sole and exclusive
jurisdiction by virtue of the removal therein." The motion to remand was denied. The case being at issue, and a
term at which it could be tried having either commenced
or being about to commence, the Texas & Pacific made a
written application for a continuance to enable it to prepare its defense on the merits. The application was
granted. Subsequently both the defendants in somewhat
amplified form reiterated the pleadings previously filed
by them except that the answer of the Texas & Pacific
contained averments disputing the existence of the injury
complained of, the necessity of the operation to which the
plaintiff had submitted, the skill of the surgeon by whom
it was performed and attacking the good faith of the
plaintiff on the ground that she was feigning an injury
not suffered for the purpose of recovering from the railroad damages to which she was not entitled.
When the case was called for trial on May 13, 1913, the
defendants directed the court's attention to the alleged
pleas in abatement concerning the jurisdiction of the

OCTOBER TERM. 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

state court and asked a ruling on the same. The court
thereupon overruled said pleas on the ground that the
parties had waived them by voluntarily submitting themselves to the jurisdiction of the court. In signing the bill
of exceptions on this subject the court said:
"The suit in this cause was filed jointly against the
International & Great Northern Railway Company and
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company in the District
Court of Frio County, Texas; the International & Great
Northern Railway Company joined the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company in an application to remove the cause
from said state court to this Court; the record in said
cause was filed in this Court for the December term, 1912;
at said term of this Court both defendants made a general
appearance without reservation and pleaded to the merits
of the cause. The plaintiff made a motion to remand the
cause to the state court. In reply to the motion to remand,
which was heard at the December term of this. Court,
defendants filed a written statement to the effect that this
Court had sole jurisdiction to try the case. After the motion to remand to the state court was overruled at the December term, defendants made an application in writing
for a continuance upon the ground that certain witnesses
were necessary for a proper defense on the merits of the
case. This motion was granted, and the cause continued
to the May term, 1913. When the cause was again called
for trial at the May term, 1913, defendants for the first
time offered the pleas in abatement mentioned in the bill
and the pleas were overruled. A reference to the pleas will
show that the defendant, Texas & Pacific Railway Company, only insisted upon its plea in abatement in event
the plea in abatement offered by the International & Great
Northern Railway Company, was granted."
During the trial when the physician in charge of the
sanitarium at Texarkana was testifying as a witness for
the defendants, he was asked on cross-examination as to

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. HILL.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the truth of statements that there had been improper or
indelicate actions or conduct on his part towards the
plaintiff while she was under his treatment. The defendants, claiming surprise, asked a postponement of the
case in order to produce witnesses as to the doctor's
character, which was refused and objection taken. Subsequently when the bill of exceptions was presented to the
court on the subject, it directed attention to the fact that
the bill embodied not only the objection as made but also
referred to a later period in the trial when the plaintiff
was testifying on her own behalf and therefore the court
said that as no request was made at such later time for
a postponement, the objection must be considered as
confined to the subject upon which the ruling had been
made.
The court instructed a verdict in favor of the International on the .ground that there was no proof of its
liability. There was a verdict against the Texas & Pacific
and after an unavailing effort to obtain a new trial error
was prosecuted from the Circuit Court of Appeals, seventeen grounds for reversal being assigned, The judgment
was affirmed without a written opinion. This writ of
error was then sued out, the assignments of error made for
the Circuit Court of Appeals being repeated with an
added ground predicating error on the fact that no opinion was written by the Circuit Court of Appeals in affirming the judgment.
After a consideration of all the assignments of error and
the arguments advanced to sustain them in the light
afforded by an examination of the entire record we are
of opinion that there is no ground whatever for holding
that reversible error was committed in the trial of the
cause, and therefore our duty is to affirm. We might well
content ourselves with this statement but we proceed to
refer to what we deem to be the more salient of the propositions relied upon 'in order in the briefest possible way to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

point ovt the reasons why we consider them to be wholly
devoid of merit.
(a) In so far as any or all of the contentions, as one or
more of them ultimately do, rest upon the proposition
that the case should have been taken from the jury because there was no proof tending to show a right to recover, we think they are wholly devoid of merit and it is
unnecessary to review the tendencies of the proof to point
out the reasons which lead us to this conclusion. Seaboard
Air Line Ry. v. Padgett, decided March 22, 1915, 236
U. S. 668.
(b) Without intimating in any degree that the contention as to want of jurisdiction was well founded on its
merits, we think the correctness of the action of the court
in overruling it is so manifestly clear from the statement
which we have reproduced made by the court in signing
the bill of exceptions and from a consideration of the state
of the record which we have recapitulated that no further
reference to the subject need be made.
(c) The action of the court complained of in excluding
two jurors as .a result of their preliminary examination
and in refusing to permit a postponement of the case
under the circumstances disclosed, it is elementary, involved matters within the sound discretion of the court
concerning which the record discloses no semblance of
ground for predicating a contention that the limits of
sound discretion were transcended.
(d) The various contentions concerning the alleged
want of liability on the part of the defendant as the result
of any asserted malpractice on the part of the surgeon
or surgeons who operated upon the plaintiff, we are of
opinion, are likewise devoid of all merit. The correctness of this conclusion is adequately demonstrated by a
consideration of the text of the charge given by the court
to the jury on the subject. In substance the charge with
clearness of statement excluded all liability on the pai t

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. MARCUS.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the defendant for any injury resulting from the intervening malpractice of the surgeon or surgeons, if such
malpractice was found to exist, if the plaintiff had failed
to exercise reasonable care in the selection of a competent
surgeon or surgeons and had in any respect fallen' below
the standard which reasonable prudence would have
exacted, not only in the employment of a reasonably
competent surgeon but in following his advice concerning
the necessity of the operation- to relieve from the consequences of the injury suffered from the collision, if in
fact such injury was found to have been suffered.
In conclusion we observe that the contention that error
was committed by the trial court in not directing a remittitur because of the assumed excessive amount of the
verdict is not open (Southern Ry. Co. v. Bennett, 233 U. S.
80), and it needs nothing but statement of the proposition
to demonstrate the want of all foundation for the contention that there is ground for reversing the trial court
because the court below affirmed the action of that court
without opinion.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MARCUS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 790.

Submitted March 1, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

A corporation created by an act of Congress has an inherent right to
invoke the jurisdiction of this court to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals.

On the record in this case this court sees no reversible error and affirms
the judgment.

