OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

237 U. S.

DORAN v. KENNEDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 224. Argued April 16, 1915.-Decided April 26, 1915.
Where the homesteader has made final proof before his death and become entitled to the patent, his heirs under § 2448, Rev. Stat., take
as such heirs and not directly under § 2291, Rev. Stat., and as its
beneficiaries.
The provision in Rev. Stat., § 2296, that no land acquired under the
Homestead Law shall be liable for debts contracted prior to the issuing of the patent does not deprive the probate court of jurisdiction
over land of which decedent was entitled to have the patent issued,
he having made final proof before death.
The probate court has jurisdiction to order a sale in compliance with
the law of the State of the property within a homestead entry on
which the homesteader had made final proof and become entitled
to patent before his decease.
If the probate court having jurisdiction to order a sale, erred in regard
to application of the ptoceeds, the remedy is by appeal, the judgment
cannot be collaterally attacked.
The fact that a party is entitled to a day i4 court does not entitle
him to two days in court.
THE facts, which involve the construction of Rev. Stat.,
§ 2296, and the jurisdiction of the state probate court over
the homestead entry of a deceased homesteader dying
after full payment and before patent has issued, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. John E. Samuelson, with whom Mr. Wm. E. Culkin
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The probate court had no jurisdiction over the land.
The land involved in this case was not the homesteader's
property; the homesteader had no title in fact and none
passed by the so-called deed of the administrator. The

DORAN v. KENNEDY.
237 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

facts were matters of public record and the defendants
were bound thereby.
The decree of the probate court being void is subject to
collateral attack. The probate court had no jurisdiction
to issue letters of administration.
These are not'mere irregularities. The court's action in
the attempted appointment of the administrator and the
attempted sale of the property of the heirs was in excess
of its jurisdiction, therefore null and void.
As the property could not be sold to pay debts incurred
prior to patent, it could not be sold for expenses of
administration incurred in attempting to' enforce such
debt.
Even though the homesteader had such property rights
in the land involved that it vested in his heirs, by descent,
the same was exempt from sale under both state and
Federal laws for debts incurred by him prior to patent.
Mr. F. J. McPartlin, with whom Mr. Marshall A.
Spooner was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The probate court had full jurisdiction over the land
embraced in the homestead entry.
The words of the statute explain themselves.
Plaintiff in error confuses § 2291, Rev. Stat., with
§ 2448, Rev. Stat., and the former is not in point.
The equitable title to this land passed to the homesteader as soon as he had complied with the terms of his
contract of purchase by offering final proof and payment.
The equitable title having vested in the homesteader
prior to his death, and patent having confirmed it in his
estate subsequent to his death, the probate court had jurisdiction which might be invoked by the application of
any person claiming an interest in the estate or otherwise
as disclosed by the record.
Plaintiff in error waived her rights of exemption under
§ 2296, Rev. Stat., by acquiescence or failure to appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

The question of waiver is not a Federal question and the
decision of the state court on that point must stand as conclusive, there being no question of the right of plaintiff in
error to waive her statutory exemption under § 2296,
Rev. Stat.
MR.JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit to quiet title to certain described lands brought by
plaintiff in error against defendants in error. The parties
were respectively plaintiff and defendants in the state
courts and we shall so designate them.
The facts are as follows:
On November 12, 1904, Edward 0. Norton made a
homestead entry under the laws of the United States of
the land in controversy. On April 10, 1906, he duly made
final proof upon his entry. September 6, 1906, he died,
leaving the plaintiff and four others as next of kin and sole
heirs at law.
The final receipt' of the Receiver of the United States
Land Office was issued to and in the name of Norton on
March 17, 1908, and on the eighth of September following
a patent was issued in his name.
After the death of Norton the other heirs conveyed their
respective rights, title and interest to plaintiff.
On March 2, 1909, letters of administration upon the
estate of Norton were issued out of the probate court of
Koochiching County, Minnesota,. to the defendant John
A. Kennedy, and on February 11, 1910, an order of license
to sell the real estate here involved for an alleged indebtedness incurred and, contracted by Norton prior to his death,
and for the expense of the administration, was by the
court issued to John A. Kennedy as administrator.
On April 16, 1910, Kennedy, as such administrator and
by virtue of the order of license, made a public sale of the

DORAN v. KENNEDY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

land for the consideration of $650 to the defendant George
N. Millard, and on the twenty-ninth of that month the
court made an order confirming the sale.
On May 2, 1910, Millard conveyed the property to the
defendant Paul Kennedy.
From the facts found as above the trial court concluded
that plaintiff was the owner in fee simple of the land and
that the defendants had no estate or interest in it, resting
the conclusion upon the fact that the indebtedness for
which it was sold was contracted by Norton before the
patent was issued; that under § 2296 of the Revised Statutes the land was protected from liability for "the satisfaction of any debt contracted prior to the issue of the
patent therefor," and that, therefore, the order of sale
exceeded the jurisdiction of the probate court and was
void.
Upon the appeal of the defendants the Supreme Court
of the State reversed the judgment. The latter court decided (1) that Norton was the equitable owner of the land
at the time of his death and that it descended according
to the laws of the State and was part of Norton's estate
to be administered. (2) The probate court hwving jurisdiction, its order of sale could not be attacked in a collateral proceeding such as, the court said, the proceeding
at bar was, and that it was unnecessary to determine
whether the land was exempt from liability under § 2296
of the Revised Statutes. A member of the court dissented
from the decision of the majority that the land was a part
of the estate of Norton when it was sold.
To review the judgment of the Supreme Court this writ
of error is prosecuted.
Plaintiff contends: (1) That the probate court had no
jurisdiction, the land being no part of Norton's estate.
(2) Even if part of his estate it was not subject to sale for
the payment of debts contracted before the patent was
issued.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

As an element in the first contention of plaintiff is the
extent of the estate, if any, Norton had in the land. None
whatever, is the assertion of plaintiff, and she adduces
§§ 2289, 2290 and 2291 of the Revised Statutes.
The first two sections provide who shall be entitled to
enter land as a homestead and upon what conditions. The
last section provides when a certificate shall be given or
patent. shall issue and to whom upon certain contingencies.
It shall not be issued until the expiration of five years after
entry and may be at any time within two years thereafter,
to "the person making such entry." If, however, he be
dead then to his widow or, in case of her death, to his heirs
or devisee, upon proving the necessary settlement and
qualification for the time prescribed.
This section, it is contended, made the heirs of Norton
(there being no widow) the direct beneficiaries of the statute--that is, the plaintiff and her. grantors. In other
words, they took directly under the statute, not from Norton; and such, it is further contended, is the effect of the
decisions of this court, citing McCune v. Essig, 199 U. S.
382; Wadkins v. Producers' Oil Company, 227 U. S. 368.
But it will be observed the cited section provides for
cases where the homesteader dies before final proof, other
sections applying when such proof has been made and
nothing is yet to be performed to entitle to a patent.
By § 2448 it is provided that "where patents for public
lands have been or may be issued, in pursuance of any
law of the United States, to a person who had died, or who
hereafter dies, before the date of such patent, the title to
the land designated therein shall inure to and become
vested in the heirs, devisees or assignees of such deceased
patentee as if the patent had issued to the deceased person
during life."
Such are the circumstances in the present case. Norton
had made his final proof before his death and had become
entitled to the patent. Plaintiff and her grantors, there-

DORAN v. KENNEDY.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore, could only receive the land as his heirs and not directly under § 2291 and as its beneficiaries..
Upon such proof Norton certainly became the equitable
owner of the land. Indeed, it practically became his absolute property, subject to his disposition by assignment
or by will or to the disposition of the law (United States v.
Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 328), and subject, therefore, upon his death, to the probate jurisdiction of the
State.
But, it is contended that even if he became such owner,
the land was not subject to sale for the satisfaction of debts
contracted before the patent was issued. The debt for
which it was sold was so contracted.
Section 2296 provides that "no land acquired under the
provisions of this chapter shall in any event become liable
to the satisfaction of any debt contracted prior to the
issuing of the patent therefor."
The prohibition is clear and direct, but does it involve
the consequences plaintiff asserts? Her contention is that
it took from the probate court all jurisdiction or power
over the land and that its order of sale was absolutely void
and can be collaterally attacked. The Supreme Court of
the State decided otherwise, as we have seen. It rejected
all of the contentions of plaintiff against the jurisdiction
of the court based on the laws of the State, and so far its
decision is binding here. It said that there was no pretense at either pleading or proof that Norton left no other
property or that such was the fact. It decided that the
probate court had jurisdiction over Norton's estate.
"That court," it was said, "had the unquestioned power
to authorize a sale of it to pay certain classes of obligations. It might be sold to pay liabilities arising out of torts
of deceased, 32 Cyc. 1084; Brun v. Mann, 131 Fed. Rep.
145. Had the patent issued when it should have issued it
might have been sold to pay debts incurred thereafter and
before the death of the deceased. Whether there were

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

facts to warrant a sale in any given case was a question
which the probate court was obliged to determine and
which that court and no other had jurisdiction to determine. This question was considered by the probate court
and was determined adversely to plaintiff. Then was the
time for the plaintiff to present her contention in court.
No fraud or artifice was practiced to prevent her doing so.
In fact, in her brief she claims that she did in fact appear.
If the determination of the probate court was wrong, her
remedy was to appeal from that determination. The heirs
were entitled to one day in court but not to two. When
a probate court with jurisdiction over property for purposes of administration, and for purposes of sale in certain cases, orders and confirms a sale of the same, it is the
right and duty of an heir to litigate the propriety of such
orders in that proceeding. The heir cannot sit by, permit
the sale to be made, and then bring another and collateral
action in another court to litigate again the propriety of
the sale, and to procure a decree declaring it to be void.
Such a practice would place no end to litigation."
The court further decided that certain sections of the
Revised Laws of the State accorded to the orders of the
probate court in the matter of administrators' sales the
same presumption as to the judgments of courts of superior common law jurisdiction.
It would be difficult to add anything to the reasoning of
the court, and it is in accord with the rulings in other
States. Watkins Land Mortgage Co. v. Mullen, 62 Kansas,
1; Gjerstadengen v. Van Duzen, 7 N. Dak. 612.. See also
Sigmond v. Bebber, 104 Iowa; 431, and § 319b, Freeman
on Judgments, 4th ed., and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

