FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

for the purpose of satisfying this judgment that, in the
same proceeding and by the terms of the judgment, the
vessel was directed to be sold. It was within the scope of
the common law remedy to sell the property of the judgment debtors to pay their debt. We are not able to find
any encroachment upon the exclusive jurisdiction vested
in the Federal court in admiralty.
Judgment affirmed.

FRANK v. MANGUM, SHERIFF OF FULTON
COUNTY, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 775. Argued February 25, 26, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.
Petitioner was formally indicted for murder, placed on trial before a
court of competent jurisdiction with a jury lawfully constituted,
had a public trial deliberately conducted and with counsel for defense, was found guilty and sentenced pursuant to law of the State;
subsequently he twice moved the trial court to grant new trial, and
once to set verdict aside as a nullity, and was heard three times on
appeal by the court of last resort, and in all instances the trial court
was affirmed. Petitioner alleged that a hostile public sentiment improperly influenced the trial court and jury against him and in the,
court-room took the form of mob domination; that his lawful rights
were interfered with because he was not permitted to be present
when the verdict was rendered. The state courts however held, on
evidence presumably justifying such a finding but not produced in
the habeascorpus proceeding, that the allegations as to mob violence
and influence were not sustained and that the objection as to absence
on rendering the verdict had been waived by failure to raise it in
due season when fully informed as to the facts. Petitioner then
applied to the District Court of the United States for release on
habeas corpus on the ground that the conditions alleged to have
existed in the court-room amounted to mob domination and de-

310

OCTOBER TERM' 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

prived the court of jurisdiction to receive a verdict and pronounce
sentence against him, that his involuntary absence from the courtroom was a deprivation of an essential part of the right of trial by
jury, and amounted to a denial of due process of law and that the
decision of the state court overruling his objections to his enforced
absence from court on rendition of verdict was so far inconsistent
with previous decisions of the same court as to be equivalent in
effect to an ex post facto law. His petition was denied and an appeal
allowed by a justice of this court. Held by this court that:
The question of deprivation of liberty without due process
of law involves not the jurisdiction of any particular court, but
the power and authority of the State itself, and where there is no
claim that the offense is based on an unconstitutional statute, the
question of whether the petitioner in habeas corpus has been deprived of his liberty in violation of constitutional rights cannot
be determined, with fairness to the State, until the conclusion of
the course of justice in its own courts, and the United States courts
must consider not merely the proceedings of the trial court, but
also those in the appellate court of the State.
Due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment
has regard to substance of right and not to matters of form and
procedure; and in determining whether one convicted of crime
has been denied due process, the entire course of proceedings, and
not merely a single step, must be considered.
Although petitioner's allegation that mob domination existed
in the trial court might, standing alone and if taken as true, show
a condition inconsistent with due process of law, if the record in
the habeas corpus proceedings in the Federal court also shows that
the same allegations had been considered by the state court and
upon evidence there taken but not disclosed in the Federal court,
had been found to be groundless, that finding cannot be regarded
as a nullity but must be taken as setting forth the truth until reasonable ground is shown for a contrary conclusion.
The due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
does not preclude a State from adopting and enforcing a rule of
procedure that an objection to absence of the prisoner from the
court-room on rendition of verdict by the jury cannot be taken on
motion to set aside the verdict as a nullity after a motion for new
trial had been made on other grounds, not including this one, and
denied. Such a regulation of practice is not unreasonable.
The due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
does not impose upon the State any particular form or mode of

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

procedure so long as essential rights of notice and hearing or opportunity to be heard before a competent tribunal are not interfered with; and it is within the power of the State to establish
a rule of practice that a defendant may waive his right to be
present on rendition of verdict.
The right of the State to abolish jury trial altogether without
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment includes the right to
limit the effect to be given to an error respecting an incident of
such trial-such as the presence of defendant when the jury renders its verdict.
The prohibition in the Federal Coiistitution against a State
passing an ex post facto law is directed against legislative action
only, and does not reach erroneous or inconsistent decisions of
the courts rf he State.
The petitioner in this case was not denied due process of law in
the conduct of his trial by the courts of first instance or appellate,
nor was the decision of the appellate court, by reason of inconsistency with prior decisions, equivalent to an ex post facto law.

LEO M. FRANK, the present appellant, being a prisoner

in the custody of the Sheriff in the jail of Fulton County,
Georgia, presented to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Georgia his petition
for a writ of habeas corpus under Rev. Stat., § 753, upon the
ground that he was in custody in violation of the Constitution of the United States, especially that clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment which declares that no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law. The District Court, upon consideration of the petition and accompanying exhibits, deeming
that upon his own showing petitioner was not entitled to
the relief sought, refused to award the writ.

Whether

this refusal was erroneous is the matter to be determined
upon the present appeal.
From the petition and exhibits it appears that in May,

1913, Frank was. indicted by the grand jury of Fulton
County for the murder of one Mary Phagan; he was

arraigned before the Superior Court of that county, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

on August 25, 1913, after a trial lasting four weeks, in
which he had the assistance of several attorneys, the jury
returned a verdict of guilty. On the following day, the
court rendered judgment sentencing him to death and
remanding him, meanwhile; to the custody of the sheriff
and jailer, the present appellee. On the same day, the
prisoner's counsel filed a written motion for a new trial,
which was amended about two months thereafter so as
to include 103 different grounds particularly specified.
Among these were several raising the contention that defendant did not have a fair and impartial trial, because of
alleged disorder in and about the court-room including
manifestations of public sentiment hostile to the defendant
sufficient to influence the jury. In. support of one of these,
and to show the state of sentiment as manifested, the
motion stated: "The defendant was not in the court room
when the verdict was rendered, his presence having been
waived by his counsel. This waiver was accepted and
acquiesced in by the court, because of the fear of violence
that might be done the defendant were he in court when the
verdict was rendered." But the absence of defendant at
the reception of the verdict, although thus mentioned,
was not specified or relied upon as a ground for a new
trial. Numerous affidavits were submitted by defendant
in support of the motion, including 18 that related to the
allegations of disorder; and rebutting affidavits were
submitted by the State. The trial court, having heard
argument, denied the motion on October 31. The cause
was then taken on writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Georgia, where the review included not only alleged
errors in admission and exclusion of evidence, and instructions to the jury, but also a consideration of the
allegations of disorder in and about the court-room and
the supporting and rebutting proofs. On February 17,
1914, the judgment of conviction was affirmed. (141
Georgia, 243.)

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Concerning the question of disorder, the findings and
conclusions of the court were, in substance (141 Georgia,
280): That the trial court, from the evidence submitted,
was warranted in finding that only two of the alleged
incidents occurred within the hearing or knowledge of
the jury. 1. Laughter by spectators while the defense
was examining one of its witnesses; there being nothing to
indicate what provoked it, other than a witty answer by
the witness or some other innocuous matter. The trial
court requested the sheriff to maintain order, and admonished those present that if there was further disorder nobody would be permitted in the court-room on the following day. The Supreme Court held that, in the absence
of anything. showing a detrimental effect, there was in
this occurrence no sufficient ground for a new trial. 2.
Spectators applauded the result of a colloquy between
the solicitor general and counsel for the aceused. The
latter complained of this conduct, and requested action
by the court. The Supreme Court said: "The [trial] court
directed the sheriff to find out who was making the noise,
and, presumably from what otherwise appears in the
recordi the action by the court was deemed satisfactory
at the time, and the orderly progress of the case was resumed without any further action being requested. The
general rule is that the conduct of a spectator during the
trial of a case will not be ground for a reversal of the
judgment, unless a ruling upon such conduct is invoked
from the judge at the time it occurs. [Citing cases].
.
The applause by the spectators, under the circumstances
as described in the record, is but an irregularity not calculated to be substantially harmful to the defendant;
and even if the irregularity should be regarded as of more
moment than we give it, we think the action of the court,
as a manifestation of the judicial disapproval, was a
sufficient cure for any possible harmful effect of the
irregularity, and deemed so sufficient by the counsel who,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

at the time, made no request for further action by the
court."
As to disorder during the polling of the jury, the court
said (141 Georgia, p. 281): "Just before the jury was
ushered into the court's presence for the purpose of rendering their verdict, the court had the room cleared of spectators. The verdict of the jury was received and published
in the usual manner. A request was made to poll the jury,
and just after the polling had begun loud cheering from
the crowd in the streets adjacent to the court-house was
heard. This cheering continued during the polling of the
jury. The plaintiff in error insists that the cheering on
the outside of the court-room, which was loud, and which
was heard by the jury, could not have been interpreted
otherwise than as expressive of gratification at the verdict which had been rendered, and of which the crowd
on the outside had in some way been informed, and was so
coercive in character as to affect the fairness of the poll
of the jury which was taken.-

.

.

.

[p. 282].

In order

that the occurrence complained of shall have the effect of
absolutely nullifying the poll of the jury taken before they
dispersed, it must appear that its- operation upon the
minds of the jury, or some.of them, was of such a controlling character that they were prevented, or likely to have
been prevented, from giving a truthful answer to the
questions of the court. We think that the affidavits of
jurors submitted in regard to this occurrence were sufficient to show that there was no likelihood that there was
any such result. Under such circumstances we do not
think that the occurrence complained of amounts to more
than an irregularity, which was not prejudicial to the
accused. There is a wide difference between an irregularity
produced by the juror himself, or by a party, and the
injection into a trial of an occurrence produced by some one
having no connection therewith."
After this decision by the Supreme Court, an extraor-

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

dinary motion for a new trial was made under Georgia
Code 1910, §§ 6089, 6092, upon the ground of newly discovered evidence; and this having been refused, the case
was again brought before the Supreme Court, and the
action of the trial court affirmed on October 14, 1914 (142
Georgia, 617; S. C., 83 S. E. Rep. 233).
On April 16, 1914, more than six months after his conviction, Frank for the first time raised the contention that
his absence from the court-room when the verdict was
rendered was involuntary, and that this vitiated the result. On that day, he filed in the Superior Court of Fulton
County a motion to set aside the verdict as a nullity 1 on
this ground (among others); stating that he did not waive
the right to be present nor authorize anybody to waive it
for him; that on the day the verdict was rendered, and
shortly before the presiding judge began his.charge to the
jury, the judge privately conversed with two of the prisoner's counsel, referred to the probable danger of violence
to the prisoner if he were present when the verdict was
rendered, in case it should be one of acquittal, or if the
jury should disagree, and requested counsel to agree that
the prisoner need not be present when the verdict was
rendered and the jury polled; that in the same conversation the judge expressed the view that even counsel might
be in danger of violence should they be present at the
reception of the verdict, and under these circumstances
they agreed that neither they nor the prisoner should be
present, but the prisoner knew nothing of the conversation
'The constitution of Georgia provides (Art. 1, § 1, Par. 8; Code 1911,
§ 6364): "No person shall be put in jeopardy of life, or liberty, more
than once for the same offence, save on his or her motion for a new trial
after conviction, or in case of mistrial." In some cases a distinction
has been taken between a motion for a new trial, and a motion to set
aside the verdict as 4 nullity. It seems that if a motion of the latter
kind is granted upon grounds such as were here urged, defendant, if
again put upon trial, can plead former jeopardy. Nolan v. State, 55
Georgia, 521; Bagwell v. State, 129 Georgia, 170.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

237 U. S.

or agreement until after the verdict and sentence; and
that the reception of the verdict during the involuntary
absence of defendant and his counsel was a violation of
that provision of the constitution of the State of Georgia
guaranteeing the right of trial by jury, and was also contrary to the "due process of law" clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The motion was also based upon allegations
of disorder in the court-room and in the adjacent street,
substantially the same as those previously submitted in
the first motion for a new trial. To this motion to set aside
the verdict the State interposed a demurrer, which, upon
hearing, was sustained by the Superior Court; and upon
exception taken and error assigned by Frank, this judgment came under review before the Supreme Court, and,
on November 14, 1914, was affirmed (83 S. E. Rep. 645;
142 Ga. 741).
The grounds of the decision were briefly: That by the
law of Georgia it is the right of a defendant on trial upon a
criminal indictment to be present at every stage of the
trial, but he may waive his presence at the reception of
the verdict (citing Cawthon v. State, 119 Georgia, 395,
412); that a defendant has the right by motion for a new
trial to review an adverse verdict and judgment for illegality or irregularity amounting to harmful error in the
trial, but where such a motion is made it must include all
proper grounds which are at the time known to the defendant or his counsel, or by reasonable diligence could
have been discovered (citing Leathers v. Leathers, 138
Georgia, 740); that objections to the reception of a verdict
during the enforced absence of defendant without his
consent, or to the taking by the trial court of other steps
in his absence and without his consent, can be made in a
motion for a new trial (citing Wade v. State, 12 Georgia,
25; Martin v. State, 51 Georgia, 567; Bonner v. State, 67
Georgia, 510; Wilson v. State, 87 Georgia, 583; Tiller v.
State, 96 Georgia, 430; and Hopson v. State, 116 Georgia,

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

90), and in such case the verdict rendered against the defendant will not be treated as a nullity; but will be set
aside and a new trial granted; and since Frank and his
counsel, when the motion for a new trial was made, were
fully aware of the facts respecting his absence when the
verdict of guilty was rendered against him, the failure to
include this ground in that motion precluded him, after
denial of the motion and affirmance of the judgment by
the Supreme Court, from seeking upon that ground to set
aside the verdict as a nullity. Respecting the allegations
of disorder, the court held that the questions raised were
substantially the same that were presented when the case
was under review upon the denial of the first motion for
a new trial (141 Georgia, 243), at which time they were
adjudicated adversely to the contentions of defendant,
and the court therefore declined to reconsider them. The
result was an affirmance of the judgment of the trial court
denying the motion to set aside the verdict.
Shortly after this decision, Frank unsuccessfully applied
to the Supreme Court of Georgia for the allowance of a
writ of error to review its judgment in this court. Thereafter he applied to several of the justices of this court,
and finally to the court itself, for the allowance of such a
writ. These applications were severally denied. (See 235
U. S. 694.)
Thereupon his application for a writ of habeas corpus
was made to the District Court, with the result already
mentioned. The petition purports to set forth the criminal proceedings pursuant to which appellant is detained
in custody, including the indictment, the trial and conviction, the motions, and the appeals above set forth.
It contains a statement in narrative form of the alleged
course of the trial, including allegations of disorder and
manifestations of hostile sentiment in and about the courtroom, and states that Frank was absent at the time the
verdict was rendered without his consent, pursuant to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

237 U. S.

suggestion from the trial judge to his counsel to the effect
that there was probably danger of violence to Frank and
to his counsel if he and they were present and there should
be a verdict of acquittal or a disagreement of the jury; and
that under these circumstances they consented (but without Frank's authority) that neither he nor they should be
present at the rendition of the verdict. From the averments of the petition it appears that the same allegations
were made the basis of the first motion for a new trial, and
also for the motion of April 16, 1914, to set aside the verdict. Accompanying the petition, as an exhibit, was a
copy of Frank's first motion for a new trial and the supporting affidavits.. The rebutting affidavits were not
included, nor were they in any way submitted to the District Court; therefore, of course, they have not been
brought before this court upon the present appeal. The
petition refers to the opinion of the Georgia Supreme Court
affirming the conviction and the denial of the motion for
a new trial (141 Georgia, 243); it also refers to the opinion
upon the affirmance of the motion to set aside the verdict
as a nullity (83 S. E. Rep. 645), and a copy of this was
submitted to the District Court as an exhibit. From these
opinions, and from the order of the Superior Court denying
the motion for new trial, which is included among the
exhibits, it appears that the rebutting affidavits were
considered and relied upon by both of the state courts
as the basis of their findings upon the questions of fact.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Henry C. Peeples
and Mr. Henry A. Alexander were on the brief, for appellant:
The reception by the Superior Court. of Fulton County
of the verdict by which the appellant was condemned to
death, in his absence and without his consent or authority,
and in the absence of his counsel, was such a violation of
due process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, as
to bring about a loss of jurisdiction of the court and the
nullification of the verdict and judgment. Hovey v. Elliott,
167 U. S. 409; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; B. & Q.
R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 34; Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 280282; Ex parte Riggins, 134 Fed. Rep. 404; Central of Georgia
Ry. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S.
385; Denver v. State Investment Co., 49 Colorado, 244; S. C.,
112 Pac. Rep. 789; Ong Chang Wing v. United States, 218
U. S. 280, distinguishing Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516; Allen v. Georgia,166 U. S. 138; Brown v. New Jersey,
175 U. S. 172; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Simon v. Craft,
182 U. S. 427; West v. Louisiana,194 U. S. 258; Howard v.
Kentucky, 200 U. S. 164; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78; Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322;
Jordan v. Massachusetts, 225 U. S. 167; Garland v. Washington, 232 U. S. 642.
The right of the accused to be present at every stage of
his trial, including the reception of the verdict, is essential
to the right to be heard. Nolan v. State, 55 Georgia, 522;
Prine v. Commonwealth, 18 Pa. St. 103; Lewis v. United
States, 146 U. S. 372; Rex v. Ladsingham, Sir T. Raym.
193; Dunn v. Commonwealth, 6 Pa. St. 384; Temple v.
Commonwealth, 14 Bush (Ky.), 769; Rhodes v. State, 128
Indiana, 189; 2 Moore on Facts, §§ 991-995; Cooley's
Const. Lim., 2d ed., § 452; McGehee on Due Process,
pp. 164, 165, 168; 1 Bishop's New Cr. Proc., 1913, §§ 265274; Nolan v. State, 53 Georgia, 137; Bonner v. State, 67
Georgia, 510; Barton v. State, 67 Georgia, 653; Bagwell
v. State, 129 Georgia, 170; Cawthon v. State, 119 Georgia,
395; Lyons v. State, 7 Ga. App. 50; Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S.
574; Ball v. United States, 140 U. S. 118; Schwab v. Berggren, 143 U. S. 442, 448; Dowdell v. United States, 221
U. S. 321; Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 455, and the
decisions of the courts of twenty-eight States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

237 U. S.

Not only was the appellant deprived of due process of
law, because he was by the action of the court, kept out
of the court-room when the verdict was rendered, but the
entire proceedings became coram non judice, because of
mob domination; to which the presiding judge succumbed
and which in effect wrought a dissolution of the court.
People v.. Wolf, 183 N. Y. 472; 5 Cyc. U. S. S. C. Rep. 618,
and cases cited; Massey v. State, 31 Tex. Cr. Rep. 371;
State v. Welden, 91 S. Car. 29; Sanders v. State, 85 Indiana,
319; People v. Fleming, 136 Pac. Rep. 291; Myers v. State,
97 Georgia, 76; Collier v. State, 115 Georgia, 803; Ex parte
Riggins, 134 Fed. Rep. 404; Ellerbee v. State, 75 Mississippi,
522; Blend v. People, 41 N. Y. 604; People v. Shaw, 3 Hun,
272, aff'd 63 N. Y. 36; Hinman v. People, 13 Hun, 266;
Hayes v. Georgia, 58 Georgia, 35; O'Brien v. People, 17
Colorado, 561; McClure v. State, 77 Indiana, 287; Pennoyer
v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; United States v. Shipp, 20a U. S. 563.
The'right of the prisoner to be present during the entire
trial, including the time of the rendition of the verdict, the
polling of the jury, and its discharge, is one which neither
he nor his counsel could waive or abjure. Barton v. State,
67 Georgia, 653; Robson v. State, 83 Georgia, 171; Cawthon v. State, 119 Georgia, 395; Lyons v. State, 7 Ga. App.
50;*Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S.' 579; Schwab v. Berggren, 143
U. S. 449; Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 373; Thompson
v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343; Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.
100, 135; Cancemi v. People, 18 N. Y. 128; Ball v. United
States, 140 U. S. 118; Dickinson v. United States, 159 Fed.
Rep. 801; Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 456.
It would seem to follow logically from the propositions
thus far discussed that if neither Frank nor his counsel
could expressly waive his right to be present at the rendition of the verdict, that right could not be waived by implication or in consequence of any pretended ratification
by him or acquiescence on his part in any action taken by
his counsel. Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343.

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

If, therefore, Frank's absence at the reception of the
verdict constituted an infraction of due process of law,
which could not be waived, directly or indirectly, expressly
or impliedly, before or after the rendition of the verdict,
the fact that he did not raise the jurisdictional question on his motion for a new trial, did not deprive him
of his constitutional right to attack the judgment as a
nullity.
Even if the decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia
were to be interpreted as deciding that a motion for a new
trial is the only method by which the constitutional
question with which we are now concerned can be raised,
then, we contend, that such a decision as applicable
to the present case would be in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, because it would be an
ex post facto law. Nolan v. State, 53 Georgia, 137; Lyons
v. State, 7 Ga. App. 50; Rawlins v. Mitchell, 127 Georgia,
24; Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 579; Laws of Georgia, Acts of
1858, p. 74, Georgia Code, 1882, § 217; Georgia Code,
1910, § 6207; Muhlker v. N. Y. & H. R. Co., 197 U. S.
544.
It follows from the propositions thus far discussed that
appellant's application for a writ of habeas. corpus is
squarely based on the contention that, when the verdict
against him was received and judgment was rendered
against him the court had lost such jurisdiction as it
previously possessed, and the verdict and judgment under
which he was detained were absolute nullities, thus making
habeas corpus the proper remedy to test the validity of
his detention thereunder. Rev. Stat., §§ 751-756; Matter of
Hans Nielsen, 131 U. S. 176; Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1;
In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242, 256; Felts v. Murphy, 201 U. S.
123; Valentina v. Mercer, 201 U. S. 131; Rogers v. Peck,
199 U. S. 425; Ex parte Bridges, 2 Woods, 428; S. C., 4
Fed. Cas. 105, 106; McClaughry v. Deming, 186 U. S. 49;
Oakley v. Aspinwall, 3 N. Y. 547; Kaizo v. Henry, 211
VOL. ccxxxvii-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

237 U. S.

U. S. 146; Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442; Stevens v.
McClaughry, 207 Fed. Rep. 18; Matter of Spencer, 228
U. S. 652; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226, 230.
The appellant had, before applying for a writ of habeas
corpus, exhausted all of his remedies in the state courts,
and had ineffectually applied for a writ of error to review
their determination. This remedy invoking the Federal
Constitution for the protection of his life is, therefore,
his last resort, and he conforms in every respect to the
practice which this court has pointed out as controlling
in like cases. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241; Ex parte
Charles W. Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; Wood v. Brush, 140
U. S. 278; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183; Ex parte Frederich,
149 U. S. 70; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89, 95; Pepke
v. Cronan, 155 U. S. 100; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211;
Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Baker v, Grice,
169 U. S. 284; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101; Fitts
v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516; Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S.
184; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499; Urquhart v.
Brown, 205 U. S. 179; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420;
Ex parte Spencer, 228 U. S. 652; Stevens v. McClaughry,
207 Fed. Rep. 18; Nolan v. State, 53 Georgia, 136; Nolan v.
State, 55 Georgia, 521; Georgia Laws, 1906, p. 24, Georgia
Code, 1910, § 6506; Lyons v. State, 7 Ga. App. 50; Georgia
Code, 1873, § 3719; Georgia Code, 1910, § 6089; Lampkin
v. State, 87 Georgia, 517.
Judge Newman entirely misconceived the decisions
which led to the denial of a writ of error to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia, and misapplied them. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S.
112; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149; Garr, Scott & Co.
v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 458.
In the present case, the Superior Court of Georgia
had jurisdiction over the appellant after his indictment
and down to the later stages of his trial. The verdict and
all subsequent proceedings, being nullities, he is entitled

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

to his discharge from the void judgment and to be relieved
from the void sentence of death. He does not, however,
contend that he cannot be held for further trial under
the indictment. Ex parte Badgley, 7 Cowen, 472; Medley,
Petitioner, 134 U. S. 160, 174; In re Bonner, 151 U. S.
256-259, 261, 262; Ex parte Scott, 70 Mississippi, 247;
People ex rel. Devoe v. Kelly, 97 N. Y. 212; Michaelson v.
Beemer, 72 Nebraska, 761.
Mr. Warren Grice and Mr. Hugh M. Dorsey, for appellee:
Appellant is asking this court to grant him a writ of
habeas corpus which will virtually overturn his conviction
'in the state court without submitting to the United States
courts important portions of the record on which the
judgment is based, and on which he is being held.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia holding
that Frank had not adopted the correct procedure in
invoking in the state court the effect of his absence when
the verdict was received was not the passage of an ex post
facto law but followed prior decisions.
Every question presented by the application for habeas
corpus having already been presented by him to the state
court and its decision invoked and its judgment rendered
adveroe to him, the principle of res judicata applies and
for that reason alone the questions cannot be reopened
here.
Where oral evidence is required to show want of jurisdiction, habeas corpus will not discharge the prisoner.
The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made use of to perform the functions of a writ of error.
Irregularities, no matter how gross, will not be sufficient
to obtain a release ,on habeas corpus.
The due process clause in the Fourteenth Amendment
does not overturn well settled principles and established
usages prevailing in States, nor deprive the States of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

power to establish other systems of law and procedure,
or alter the same at their will.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not require the presence of a defendant in court at the reception of a verdict
as such presence does not go to the jurisdiction of the
court.
Waivers such as were made in this case by the prisoner's
counsel are binding on the prisoner.
Petitioner Frank cannot repudiate the acts of his counsel.
The Supreme Court of the United $tates will not grant
the relief asked by Frank in this application in view of
what has heretofore taken place in the Supreme Court of
Georgia and by the Supreme Court of the United States
in denying him a writ of error.
The Supreme Court of the United States will not permit Frank to do by indirection that which it already has
held Frank could not do directly.
The Supreme Court of Georgia had jurisdiction to
determine whether Frank's counsel could waive his presence, and even if this court should think that ruling error,
habeas corpus cannot correct it.
The action of the court in permitting Frank's counsel
to waive his presence, if erroneous, was a mere irregularity
in the matter of procedure, and certainly habeas corpus
cannot avail to discharge the prisoner.
Numerous authorities support these propositions.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The points raised by the appellant may be reduced
to the following:
(1) It is contended that the disorder in and about the
court-room during the trial and up to and at the reception
of the verdict amounted to mob domination, that not only

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U'. S.

325

Opinion of the Court.

the jury but the presiding judge succumbed to it, and
that this in effect wrought a dissolution of the court,
so that the proceedings were coram non judice.
(2) That Frank's right to be present during the entire
trial until and at the return of the verdict was an essential
part of the right of trial by jury, which could not be
waived either by himself or his counsel.
(3). That his presence was so essential to a proper hearing
that the reception of th6 verdict in his absence, and in the
absence of his counsel, without his consent or authority,
was a departure from the due process of law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, sufficient to bring about
a loss. of jurisdiction of the trial court and to render the
verdict and judgment absolute nullities.
(4) That the failure of Frank and his counsel, upon the
first motion for a new trial, to allege as a ground of that
motion the known fact of Frank's absence at the reception of the verdict, or to raise any jurisdictional question
based upon it, did not deprive him of the right to afterwards attack the judgment as a nullity, as he did in the
motion to set~aside the verdict.
(5) And that the ground upon which the Supreme Court
of Georgia rested its decision affirming the denial of the
latter motion (83 S. E. Rep. 645),-viz., that the objection
based upon Frank's absence when the verdict was rendered was available on the motion for new trial and under
proper practice ought to have been then taken, and because not then taken could not be relied upon as a ground
for setting aside the verdict as -a nulity,-was itself in
conflict with the Constitution of the United States because equivalent in effect to an ex post facto law, since,
as is said, it departs from the practice settled by previous
decisions of the same court.
In dealing with these contentions, we should
have in
mind the nature and extent of the duty that is imposed
upon a Federal court on application for the writ of habeas

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

corpus under § 753, Rev. Stat. Under the terms of that
section, in order to entitle the present appellant to ,the
relief sought, it must appear that he is held in custody
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 434. Moreover, if he is
held in custody by reason of his conviction upon a criminal
charge before a court having plenary jurisdiction over
the subject-matter or offense, the place where it was committed, and the person of the prisoner, it results from the
nature of the writ itself that he cannot have relief on habeas
corpus. Mere errors in point of law, however serious,
committed by a criminal court in the exercise of its
jurisdiction over a case properly subject to its cognizance,
cannot be reviewed by habeas corpus. That writ cannot
be employed as a substitute for the writ of error. Ex
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 21; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.
371, 375; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 250; In re
Frederich, Pet'r, 149 U. S. 70, 75; Baker v. Grice, 169
U. S.284, 290; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101, 105;
Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S.184.
A3 to the "due process of law" that is required by the
Fourteenth Amendment, it is perfectly well settled that a
criminal prosecution in the courts of a State, based upon
a law not in itself repugnant to the Federal Constitution,
and conducted according to the settled course of judicial
proceedings as established by the law of the State, so
long as it includes notice, and a hearing, or an opportunity
to be heard, before a court of competent jurisdiction,
according to established modes of procedure, is "due
process" in the constitutional sense. Walker v. Sauvinet,
92 U. S. 90, 93; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516,
535; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.272, 276; Bergemann v.
Backer, 157. U. S. 655, 659; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S.425,
434; Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1,, 7; Felts v. Murphy,
201 U. S. 123, 129; Howard v. Kentucky, 200 U. S. 164.
It is, therefore, conceded by counsel for appellant that

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the present case we may "not review irregularities or
erroneous rulings upon the trial, however serious, and that
the writ of habeas corpus will lie only in case the judgment
under which the prisoner is detained is shown to be ab..
solutely void for want of jurisdiction in the court that
pronounced it, either because such jurisdiction was
absent at the beginning or because it was lost in the course
of the proceedings. And since no question is made respecting the original jurisdiction of the trial court, the
contention is- and must be that by the conditions that
surrounded the trial, and the absence of defendant when
the verdict was rendered, the court was deprived of jurisdiction to receive the verdict and pronounce the sentence.
But it would be clearly erroneous to confine the inquiry
to the proceedings and judgment of the trial court. The
laws of the State of Georgia (as will appear from decisions
elsewhere cited), provide for an appeal in criminal cases
to the Supreme Court of that State upon divers grounds,
including such as those upon. which it is here asserted
that the trial court was lacking in jurisdiction. And while
the Fourteenth Amendment does not require that a State
shall provide for an appellate review in criminal cases
(McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687; Andrews v.
Swartz, 156 U. S. 272, 275; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425,
435;.Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 508), it is perfectly
obvious that where such an appeal is provided for, and the
prisoner has had the benefit of it, the proceedings in the
appellate tribunal are to be regarded as a part of the process of law under which he is held in custody by the State,
and to .be considered in determining any question of -alleged deprivation of his life or liberty contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
In fact, such questions as are here presented under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, though
sometimes discussed as if involving merely the jurisdiction
of some court or other tribunal, in a larger and more ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

curate sense involve the power and authority of the State
itself. The prohibition is addressed to the State; if it be
violated, it makes no difference in a court of the United
States by what agency of the State this is done;, so, if a
violation be threatened by one agency of the State but
prevented by another agency of higher authority, there
is no violation by the State. It is for the State to determine what courts or other tribunals shall be established
for the trial of offenses against its criminal laws, and to
define their several jurisdictions and authority as between
themselves. And the question whether a State is depriving a prisoner of his liberty without due process of law,
where the offense for which he is prosecuted is based upon
a law that does no violence to the Federal Constitution,
cannot ordinarily be determined, with fairness to the
State, until the conclusion of the course of justice in its
courts. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S.313, 318; Civil Rghts
Cases,.109 U. S. 3, 11; McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S.684,
687; Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 83-84; Reetz v.
Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 507; Carfer v. Caldwell, 200 U. S.
293, 297; Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S.
86, 107; In re Frederich, Petitioner, 149 U. S.70, 75; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, 242; Baker v. Grice, 169
U. S. 284, 291; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499, 508,
Urquhartv. Brown, 205 U. S. 1793 182.
It is, indeed, settled by repeated decisions of this court
that where it is made to appear to a court of the United
States that an applicant for habeas corpus is in the custody
of a state officer in the ordinary cqurse of a crimlYiaTprosecution, under a law of the State not in itself repugnant
to the Federal Constitution, the writ, in the absence of
very special circumstances, ought not to be issued until
the state prosecution has .reached its conclusion, and not
even then until the Federal questions arising upon the
record have been brought before this court upon writ of
error. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251; In re Frederich,

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner, 149 U. S. 70, 77; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160
U. S. 231, 242; Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284, 291; Tinsley
v. Anderson, 171 U. S: 101, 105; Markuson v. Boucher, 175
U. S. 184; Urquhart v. Brown, 205 U. S. 179. And see
Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S.219, 228. Such cases as In re
Loney, 134 U. 5. 372, 376; and In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1;
are recognized as exceptional.
It follows as a logical consequence that where, as here,
a criminal prosecution has proceeded through all the courts
of the State, including the appellate as well as the trial
court, the result of the appellate review cannot be ignored
when afterwards the prisoner applies for his release on
the ground of a deprivation of Federal rights sufficient to
oust the State of its jurisdiction to proceed to judgment
and execution against him. This is not a mere matter
of comity, as seems to be supposed. The rule stands
upon a much higher plane, for it arises out of the very
nature and ground of the inquiry into the proceedings of
the state tribunals, and touches closely upon the relations
between the state and the Federal governments. As was
declared by this court in Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.241,
252-applying in a habeas corpus case what was said in
Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S.176, 182, a case of conflict of
jurisdiction:-" The forbearance which courts of co6rdinate jurisdiction, administered under a single system,
exercise towards each other, whereby conflicts are avoided,
by avoiding interference with the process of each other,
is a principle of comity, with perhaps no higher sanction
than the utility which comes from concord; but between
state courts and those of the United States it is something
more. It is a principle of right and of law, and, therefore,
of necessity." And see In re Tyler, Petitioner, 149 U. S.
164, 186.
It is objected by counsel for appellee that the alleged
loss of jurisdiction cannot be shown by evidence outside
of the record; that where a prisoner is held under a judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ment of conviction passed by a court having jurisdiction
of the subject-matter, and the indictment against him
states the case and is based upon a valid existing law,
habeas corpus is not an available remedy, save for want of
jurisdiction appearing upon the face of the record of the
court wherein he was convicted. The rule 9t the common
law, and under the act 31 Car. II, c. 2, and other acts of
Parliament prior to that of July 1, 1816 (56 Geo. III,
c. 100, § 3), seems to have been that a showing in the return to a writ of habeas corpus that the prisoner was held
under final process based upon a judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, closed the inquiry. So
it was held, under the judiciary act of 1789 (ch. 20, § 14,
1 Stat. 73, 81), in Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 202. And
the rule seems to have been the same under the act of
March 2, 1833 (ch. 57, § 7, 4 Stat. 632, 634), and that of
Aug. 29, 1842 (ch. 257, 5 Stat. 539). But when Congress,
in the act of February 5, 1867 (ch. 28, 14 Stat. 385), extended the writ of habeas corpus to all cases of persons
restrained of their liberty in violation of the Constitution
or a law or treaty 6f the United States, procedural regulations Were included, now found in Rev. Stat., §§ 754-761.
These require that the application for the writ shall be
made by complaint in writing signed by the applicant
and verified by his oath, setting forth the facts concerning
his detention, in whose custody he is detained, and by
virtue of what claim or authority, if known; require that
the return shall certify the true cause of the detention;
and provide that the prisoner may under oath deny any
of the facts set forth in the return or allege other material
facts, and that the court shall proceed in a summary way
to determine the facts by hearing testimony and arguments, and thereupon dispose of the party as law and
justice require. The effect is to substitute for the bare legal
review that seems to have been the limit of judicial authority under the common-law practice, and under the

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act of 31 Car. II, c. 2, a more searching investigation, in
which the applicant is put upon his oath to set forth the
truth of the matter respecting the causes of his detention,
and the court, upon determining ther actual facts, is to
"dispose of the party as law and justice require."
There being no doubt of the -uthority of the Congress
to thus liberalize the common law procedure on habeas
corpus in order to safeguard the liberty of all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States against infringement through any violation of the Constitution or
a law or treaty established thereunder, it results that under
the sections cited a prisoner in custody pursuant to the
final judgment of a state court of criminal jurisdiction may
have a judicial inquiry in a court of the United States into
the very truth and substance of the causes of his detention,
although it may become necessary to look behind and
beyond the record of his conviction to a sufficient extent
to test the jurisdiction of the state court to proceed to
judgment against him. Cuddy, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 280,
283, 286; In re Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107, 116; Whitten. v.
Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, 242; In re Watts and Sachs, 190
U.-S. 1, 35.
In the light, then, of these established rules and principles: that the due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment has regard to substance of right, and
not to matters of form or procedure; that it is open to
the courts of the United States upon an application for a
writ of habeas corpus to look beyond forms and inquire
into the very substance of the matter, to the extent of
deciding whether the prisoner has been deprived of his
liberty without due process of law, and for this purpose
to inquire into jurisdictional facts, whether they appear
upon the record or not; that an investigation into the
case of a prisoner held in custody by a State on conviction
of a crimuial offense must take into consideration the
entire course of proceedings in the courts of the State, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

not merely a single step in those proceedings; and that
it is incumbent upon the prisoner to set forth in his application a sworn statement of the facts concerning his
detention and by virtue of what claim or authority he is
detained; we proceed to consider the questions presented.
1. And first, the question of the disorder and hostile
sentiment that are said to have influenced the trial court
and jury to an extent amounting to mob domination.
The District Court having considered the case upon the
face of the petition, we must do the same, treating it as if
demurred to by the sheriff. There is no doubt of the
jurisdiction to issue the writ of habeas corpus. The question is as to the propriety of issuing it in the present case.
Under § 755, Rev. Stat., it was the duty of the court to
refuse the writ if it appeared from the petition itself that
appellant was not entitled to it. And see Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 201; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 110;
Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 301.
Now the obligation resting upon us, as upon the District
Court, to look through the form and into the very heart
and substance of the matter, applies as well to the averments of the petition as to the proceedings which the
petitioner attacks. We must regard not any single clause
or paragraph, but the entire petition, and the exhibits
that are made a part of it. Thus, the petition contains a
narrative of disorder, hostile manifestations, and uproar,
which, if it stood alone, and were to be taken as true, may
be conceded to show an environment inconsistent with a
fair trial and an impartial verdict. But to consider this
as standing alone is to take a wholly superficial view.
The narrative has no proper place in a petition addressed
to a court of the United States except as it may tend to
throw light upon the question whether the State of Georgia,
having regard to the entire course of the proceedings, in
the appellate as well as in the trial court, is depriving
appellant of his liberty and intending to deprive him of his

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

life without due process of law. Dealing with the narrative, then, in its essence, and in its relation to the context, it clearly appears to be only a reiteration of allegations that appellant had a right to submit, and did submit,
first to the trial court, and afterwards t5 the Supreme
Court of the State, as a ground for avoiding the consequences of the trial; that the allegations were considered
by those courts, successively, at times and places and
under circumstances wholly apart from the atmosphere
of the trial, and free from any suggestion of mob domination, or the like; and that the facts were examined by
those courts not only upon the affidavits and exhibits
submitted in behalf of the prisoner which are embodied
in his present petition as a part of his sworn account of
the causes of his detention, but also upon rebutting affidavits submitted in behalf of the State and which, for
reasons not explained, he has not included in the petition.
As appears from the prefatory statement, the allegations
of disorder were found by both of the state courts to be
groundless except in a few particulars as to which the
courts ruled that they were irregularities not harmful
in fact to defendant and therefore insufficient in law to
avoid the verdict. 141 Georgia, 243, 280. And it was
because the defendant was concluded by that finding
that the Supreme Court upon the subsequent motion to
set aside the verdict declined to again consider those
allegations. 83 S. E. Rep. 645, 655.
Whatever question is raised about the jurisdiction of
the trial court, no doubt is suggested but that the Supreme
Court had full jurisdiction to determine the matters of
fact and the questions of law arising out of this alleged
disorder; nor is there any reason to suppose that it did
not fairly and justly perform its duty. It is not easy to
see why appellant is not, upon general principles, bound
by its decision. It is a fundamental principle of jurisprudence, arising from the very nature of courts of justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

and the objects for which they are established, that a
question of fact or of law distinctly put in issue and directly
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction cannot
afterwards be disputed between the same parties. Southern Pacific Railroad v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48.
The principle is as applicable to the decisions of criminal
courts as to those of civil jurisdiction. As to its application in habeas corpus cases, with respect to decisions by

such courts of the facts pertaining to the jurisdiction
ever the prisoner, see Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 305,
310; Ex parte Columbia George, 144 Fed. Rep. 985, 986.
However, it is not necessary, for the purposes of the
present case, to invoke the doctrine of res adjudidata,
and, in view of the impropriety of limiting in the least
degree the authority of the courts of the United States
in investigating an alleged violation by a State of the due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment,
we put out of view'for the present the suggestion that even
the questions of fact bearing upon the jurisdiction of the
trial court could be conclusively determined against the
prisoner by the decision of the state court of last resort.
But this does not mean that that decision may be ignored or disregarded. To do this, as we have already
pointed out, would be not merely to disregard comity,
but to ignore the essential question before us, which
is not the guilt or innocence of the prisoner, or the truth
of any particular fact asserted by him, but whether the
State, taking into view the entire course of its procedure,
has deprived him of due process of law. This familiar
phrase does not meafi that the operations of the state
government shall be conducted without error or fault
in any particular case, nor that the Federal courts may
substitute their judgment for that of the state courts,
or exercise any general review over their proceedings, but
only that the fundamental rights of the prisoner shall
not be taken from him arbitrarily or without the right to

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be heard according to the usual course of law in such
cases.

We of course agree that if a trial is in fact dominated by
a mob, so that the jury is intimidated and the trial judge
yields, and so that there is an actual interference with
the course bf justice, there is, in that court, a departure
from due process of law in the proper sense of that term.
And if the State, supplying no corrective process, carries
into execution a judgment of death or imprisonment
based upon a verdict thus produced by mob domination,
the State deprives the accused of his life or liberty without
due process of law.
But the State may supply such corrective process as to
it seems proper. Georgia has adopted the familiar procedure of a motion for a new trial followed by an appeal
to its Supreme Court, not confined to the mere record
of conviction but going at large, and upon evidence
adduced outside of that record, into the question whether
the processes of justice have been interfered with in the
trial court. Repeated instances are reported of verdicts
and judgments set aside and new trials granted for disorder or mob violence interfering with the prisoner's
right to a fair trial. Myers v. State, 97 Georgia 76 (5), 99;
Collier v. State, 115 Georgia, 803.
Such an appeal was accorded to the prisoner in the
present case [Frdiik v. State, 141 Georgia, 243 (16), 280],
in a manner and under, circumstances already stated, and
the Supreme Court, upon a full review, decided appellant's
allegations of fact, so far as matters now material are
concerned, to be unfounded. Owing to considerations
already adverted to (arising not out of comity merely, but
out of the very right of the matter to be decided, in view
of the relations existing between the States and the Federal
Government), we hold that such a determination of the
facts as was thus made by the court of last resort of
Georgia respecting the alleged interference with the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

through disorder and manifestations of hostile sentiment
cannot in this collateral inquiry be treated as a nullity,
but must be taken as setting forth the truth of the matter,
certainly until some reasonable ground is shown for an
inference that the court which rendered it 'either was
wanting in jurisdiction, or at least erred in the exercise
of its jurisdiction; and that the mere assertion by the
prisoner that the facts of the matter are other than the
state court upon full investigation determined them to be
will not be deemed sufficient to raise an issue respecting
the correctness of that determination; especially not,
where the very evidence upon which the determination
was rested is withheld by him who attacks the finding.
It is argued that if in fact there was disorder such as to
cause a loss of jurisdiction in the trial court, jurisdiction
could not be restored by any decision of the Supreme
Court. This, we think, embodies more than one error of
reasoning. It regards a part only of the judicial proceedings, instead of considering the entire process of law. It
also begs the question of the existence of such disorder as
to cause a loss of jurisdiction in the trial cpurt; which
should not be assumed, in the face of the decision of the
reviewing court, without showing some adequate ground
for disregarding that decision. And these errors grow
out of the initial error of treating appellant's narrative
of disorder as the whole matter, instead of reading it in
connection with the context. The rule of law that in
ordinary cases requires a prisoner to exhaust his remedies
within the State before coming to the courts of the United
States for redress would lose the greater part of its salutary
force if the prisoner's mere allegations were to stand the
same in law after as before the state courts had passed
judgment upon them.
We are very far from intimating that manifestations of
public sentiment, or any other-form of disorder, calculated
to influence court or jury, are matters to be, lightly treated.

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The decisions of the Georgia courts in this and other cases
show that such disorder is repressed, where practicable,
by the direct intervention of the trial court and the officers
under its command; and that other means familiar to the
common-law practice, such as postponing the trial, changing the venue, and granting a new trial, are liberally
resorted to in order to protect persons accused of crime
in the right to a fair trial by an impartial jury. The argument for appellant amounts to saying that this is not
enough; that by force of the "due process of law" provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, when the first
attempt at a fair trial is rendered abortive through outside
interference, the State, instead of allowing a new trial
under better auspices, must abandon jurisdiction over the
accused and refrain from further inquiry into the question
of his guilt.
To establish this doctrine would, in a very practical
sense, impair the power of the States to repress and punish
crime; for it would render their courts powerless to act
in opposition to lawless public sentiment. The argument
is not only unsound in principle but is in conflict with the
practice that prevails in all of the States, so far as we are
aware. The cases cited do not sustain the contention that
disorder or other lawless conduct calculated to overawe
the jury or the trial judge can be treated as a dissolution
of the court or as rendering the proceedings coram non
judice, in any such sense as to bar further proceedings.
In Myers v. State, 97 Georgia, 76, (5), 99; Collier v. State,
115 Georgia, 803; Sanders v. State, 85 Indiana, 318; S. C.,
44 Am. Rep. 29; Massey v. State, 31 Tex. Cr. Rep. 371,
381; S. C., 20 S. W. Rep. 758; and State v. Weldon, 91 S.
Car. 29, 38; S. C., 39 L. R. A., N. S., 667, 669;--in all of
which it was held that the prisoner's right to a fair trial
had been interfered with by disorder or mob violence-it
was not held that jurisdiction over the prisoner had been
lost; on the contrary, ir each instance a new trial was
VOL. ccxxxvii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

awarded as the appropriate remedy. So, in the cases where
the trial judge abdicated his proper functions or absented
himself during the trial (Hayes v. 3tate, 58 Georgia, 36
(12), 49; Blend v. People, 41 N. Y. 604; Shaw v. People,
3 Hun, 272; aff'd 63 N. Y. 36; Hinman v. People, 13 Hun,
266; McClure v. State, 77 Indiana, 287; O'Brien v. People,
17 Colorado, 561; Ellerbe v. State, 75 Mississippi, '522; S. C.,
41 L. R. A. 569) the reviewing of the State in each instance simply set aside the verdict and awarded a new trial.
The Georgia courts, in the present case, proceeded
upon the theory that Frank would have been entitled
to this relief had his charges been true, and they refused
a new trial only because they found his charges untrue
save in a few minor particulars not amounting to snore than
irregularities, and not prejudicial to the accused. There
was here no denial of due process of law.
2. We come, next, to consider the effect to be given to
the fact, admitted for present purposes, that Frank was
not present in the court-room when the verdict was
rendered, his presence having been waived by his counsel,
but without his knowledge or consent. No question is
made but that at the common law and- under the Georgia
decisions it is the right of the prisoner to be present throughout the entire trial, from the commencement of the selection of the jury until the verdict is rendered and jury discharged. Wade v. State, 12 Georgia, 25, 29; Martin v.
State, 51 Georgia, 567; Nolan v. State, 53 Georgia, f37;
S. C., 55 Georgia, 521; Smith v. State, 59 Georgia, 513;
Bonner v. State, 67 Georgia, 510; Barton v. State, 67
Georgia, 653; Cawthon v. State, 119 Georgia, 395, 412;
Bagwell v. State, 129 Georgia, 17.0; Lyons v. State, 7 Ga.
App. 50. But the effect of these decisions is that the
prisoner may personally waive the right to be present
when the verdict is rendered, and perhaps may waive it
by authorized act of his counsel; and that where, without
his consent, the verdict is received in his absence, he may

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

treat this as an error, and by timely motion demand a
new trial, or (it seems) he may elect to treat the verdict
as a nullity by moving in due season to set it aside as such.
But we are unable to find that the courts of Georgia
have in any case held that, by receiving a verdict in the
absence of the prisoner and without his consent, the jurisdiction of the trial court was terminated, In the Nolan
Case, upra, the verdict was set aside as void on the ground
of the, absence 'of the prisoner; but this was not held to
deprive the trial court of its jurisdiction. On the contrary, !the jurisdiction was treated as remaining, and that
court proceeded to exercise it by arraigning the prisoner
a second time upon the same indictment, when he pleaded
specially, claiming hi discharge because of former jeopardy; the trial court overruled this plea, the defendant
excepted, anal the jury found the defendant guilty; and,
upon review, the Supreme Court reversed this judgment,
not for the want of juirisdiction in the trial court, but for
error committed in the exercise of jurisdiction. To the
.same effect is Bagwell v. State, supra.
In most of the other, States, where error is committed
by receiving a verdict of guilty during the involuntary
absence of the accused, it is treated as merely requiring
a new trial. In a few cases, the appellate court has ordered
the defendant to be discharged, upon the ground that he
had been once in jeopardy and a new trial would be futile.
However; the Georgia Supreme Court in the present
case (83 S. E. Rep. 645) held, as pointed out in the prefatory statement, that because Frank, shortly after the
verdict, was made. fully aware of the facts, and he then
made a motion for a new trial upon over 100 ground&,
without including this as one, and had the motion heard
by both the trial court and the Supreme Court, he could
not, after this motion had been finally adjudicated against
him, move to set aside the verdict as a nullity because
of his absence when the verdict was rendered. There is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.,

237 U. S.

nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent a
State from adopting and enforcing so reasonable a regulation of procedura, Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 77-80.
It is insisted that the enforced absence of Frank at
that time was not only a deprivation of trial by jury, but
was equally a deprivation of due process of law within
the meaning of the Amendment, in that it took from him
at a critical stage of the proceeding the right or opportunity
to be heard. But repeated decisiong of this court have
put it beyond the range of further debate that the "due
process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment has not the
effect of imposing upon the States any particular form or
mode of procedure, so long as the essential rights of notice
and a hearing, or opportunity to be heard, before a competent tribunal are not interfered with. Indictment by
grand jury is not essential to due process (Hurtado v.
California, 110 U. S.516, 532, 538; Lem Woon v' Oregon,
229 U. S. 586, 589, and cases cited). Trial by jury is not
essential to it, either in civil cases (Walker v. Sauvinet,
92 U. S.90), or in criminal (Hallingerv. Davis, 146 U. S.
314, 324; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.581, 594, 602, 604).
It is argued that a State may not, while providing for
trial by jury, permit the accused to waive the right to be
heard in the mode characteristic of such trial, including
the presence of the prisoner up to and at the time of the
rendition of the verdict. But the cases cited do not support this contention. In Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S.574, 578
(principally relied upon), the court had under review
a conviction in a territorial court after a trial subject to
the local code of criminal procedure, which declared:
If "the indictment is for a felony, the defendant must be
personally present at the trial."
The judgment was
reversed because of the action of the trial court in permitting certain challenges to jurors, based upon the ground
of bias, to be tried out of the presence of the court, the
defendant, and his counsel. The ground of the decision of

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this court was the violation of the plain mandate of the
local statute; and the power of the accused or his counsel
to dispense with the requirement as to his personal presence
was denied on the ground that his life could not be lawfully taken except in the mode prescribed by law. No
other question was involved. See Diaz v. United States,
223 U. S. 442, 455, 458.
The distinction between what the common law requires
with respect to trial by jury in criminal cases, and what
the States may enact without contravening the "due
process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, is very
clearly evidenced by Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314,
and Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370, which were
under consideration by the court at the same time, both
opinions being written by Mr. Justice Shiras. In the
Lewis Case, which was a conviction of murder in a Circuit
Court of the United States, the trial practice being regulated by the common law, it was held to be a leading
principle, pervading the entire law of criminal procedure,
that after indictment nothing should be done in the absence of the prisoner; that the making of challenges is an
essential part of the trial, and it was one of the substantial
rights of the prisoner to be brought face to face with the
jurors at the time the challenges were made; and that in
the absence of a statute, this right as it existed at common
law must not be abridged. But in the Hallinger Case,
where a State by legislative enactment had permitted one
charged with a capital offense to' waive a trial by jury and
elect to be tried by the court, it was held that this method
of procedure did not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. So in Howard v. Kentucky, 200 U. S.164, 175-a
case closely in point upon the question now presentedthis court, finding that by the law of the State an occasional
absence of the accused from the trial, from which no injury
resulted to his substantial rights, was not deemed material
error; held that the application of this rule of law did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

amount to a denial of due process within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In fact, this court has sustained the States in establishing a great variety of departures from the common law
procedure respecting jury trials. Thus, in Brown v. New
Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, 176; a statute providing for the
trial of murder cases by struck jury was sustained, notwithstanding it did not provide for twenty peremptory
challenges. Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427, 435, while not
a criminal case, involved the property of a person alleged
to be of unsound mind, and it was held that an Alabama
statute, under which the sheriff determined that Mrs.
Simon's health and safety would be endangered by her
presence at the trial of the question of her sanity, so that
while served with. notice she was detained in custody
and not allowed to be present at the hearing of the inquisition, did not deprive her of property without due
process of law. In Felts v. Murphy, 201 U. S. 123, 129,
where the prisoner was convicted of the crime of murder
and sentenced'to imprisonment for life, although he did
not hear a word of the evidence given upon the trial because of his almost total deafness, his inability to hear
being such that it required a person to speak through
an ear-trumpet close to his ear in order that such person
should be heard by him, and the trial court having failed
to see to it that the testimony in the case was repeated
to him through his ear-trumpet, this court said that this
was "at most an error, which did not take away from the
court its jurisdiction over the subject-matter and over
the person of the accused." In Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 101, 111, it was held that the exemption of a
prisoner from compulsory self-incrimination in the state
courts was not included in the guaranty of due process
of law contained in the Fourteenth Amendment. In
Jordan v. Massachusetts, 225. U. S. 167, 177, where one
of the jurors was subject to reasonable doubt as to his

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sanity, and the state court, pursuant to the local law of
criminal procedure, determined upon a mere preponderance of the evidence that he. was sane, the conviction was
affirmed. In Garland v. Washington, 232 U. S. 642, 645,
it was held that the want of a formal arraignment, treated
by the State as depriving the accused of no substantial
right and as having been waived and thereby lost, did
not amount to depriving defendant of his liberty'without
due process of law.
Our conclusion upon this branch of the case is, that the
practice established in the criminal courts of Georgia:
that a defendant may waive his right to be present when
the jury renders its verdict, and that such waiver may be
given after as well as before the event, and is to be inferred
from the making of a motion for new trial upon other
grounds alone, when the facts respecting the reception
of the verdict are within the prisoner's knowledge at the
time of making that motion; is a regulation of criminal
procedure that it is within the authority of the State to
adopt. In adopting it, the State declares in effect, as it
reasonably may declare, that the right of the accused to
be present at the reception of the verdict is but an incident
of the right of trial by jury; and since the State may,
without infringing the Fourteenth Amendment, abolish
trial by jury, it may limit the effect to be given to an error
respecting one of the incidents of such trial. The presence
of the prisoner when the verdict is rendered is not so essential a part of the hearing that a rule of practice permitting the accused to waive it and holding him bound by the
waiver amounts to a deprivation of "due process of law."
3. The insistence that the decision of the Supreme Court
of Georgia in affirming the denial of the motion to set
aside the verdict (83 S.E. Rep. 645) on the ground that
Frank's failure to raise the objection upon the motion for
a new trial amounted to a waiver of it, was inconsistent
with the previous practice as established in Nolan v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

State, 53 Georgia, 137; S. C., 55 Georgia, 521; and therefore amounted in effect to an ex post facto law in contravention of § 10 of Article I of the Federal Constitution,
negds but a word. Assuming the inconsistency, it is sufficient to say that the constitutional prohibition: "No
State shall . . . pass any bill of attainder, ex post
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts,"
as its terms indicate, is directed against legislative action
only, and does not reach erroneous or inconsistent decisions by the courts. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 389;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, 138; Kriiig v. Missouri, 107
U. S. 221, 227; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 351;
Cross Lake Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632, 638; Ross
v. Oregon, 227 U. S.150, 161.
4. To conclude: Taking appellant's petition as a whole,
and not regarding any particular portion of it to the exclusion of the rest-dealing with its true and substantial
meaning and not merely with its superficial import-it
shows that Frank, having been formally accused of a
grave crime, was placed on trial before a court of competent jurisdiction, with a jury lawfully constituted.;
he had a public trial, deliberately conducted, with the
benefit of counsel for his defense; he was found guilty and
sentenced pursuant to the laws of the State; twice he has moved the trial court to grant a new trial, and once to set
aside the verdict as a nullity; three times he has been
heard upon appeal before the court of last resort of that
State, and in every instance the adverse action. of the trial
court has been affirmed; his allegations of hostile public
sentiment and disorder in and about the court-room,
improperly influencing the trial court and the jury against
him, have been rejected because found untrue in point
of fact upon evidence presumably justifying that finding,
and which he has not produced'in the present proceeding;
his contention that his lawful rights were infringed because he was not permitted to be present when the jury

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

HOLMES and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

rendered its verdict, has been set aside because it was
waived by his failure to raise the objection in due season
when fully cognizant of the facts. In all of these proceedings the State, through its courts, has retained jurisdiction
over him, has accorded to him the fullest right and opportunity to be heard according to the established modes
of procedure, and now holds him in custody to pay the
penalty of the crime of which he has been adjudged guilty.
In our opinion, he is not shown to have been deprived of
any right guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth Amendment or any other provision of the Constitution or laws
of the United States; on the contrary, he has been convicted, and is now held in custody, under "due process of
law" within the meaning of the Constitution.
The final order of the District Court, refusing the application for a writ of habeas corpus, is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
HUGHES, dissenting.
Mr. Justice Hughes and I are of opinion that the judgment should be reversed. The only question before us is
whether the petition shows on its face that the writ of
habeas corpus should be denied, or whether the District
Court should have proceeded to try the facts. The allegations that appear to us material are these. The trial
began on July 28, 1913, at Atlanta, and was carried on in a
court packed with spectators and surrounded by a crowd
outside, all strongly hostile to the petitioner. On Saturday,
August 23, this hostility was sufficient to lead the judge
to confer in the presence of the jury with the Chief of
Police of Atlanta and the Colonel of the Fifth Georgia
Regiment stationed in that city, both of whom were
known to the jury. On the same day, the evidence seemingly having been closed, the public press, apprehending

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HOLMES and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

237 U. S.

danger, united in a request to the Court that the proceedings should not continue on that evening. Thereupon
the Court adjourned until Monday morning. On that
morning when the Solicitor General entered the court
he was greeted with applause, stamping of feet and claping of hands, and the judge before beginning his charge
had a private conversation with the petitioner's counsel
in which he expressed the opinion that there would be
'probable danger, of violence' if there should be an acquittal or a disagreement, and that it would be safer for
not only the petitioner but his counsel to be absent from
Court when the verdict was brought in. At the judge's
request they agreed that the petitioner and they should be
absent, and they kept their word. When the verdict
was rendered, and before more than one of the jurymen
had been polled there was such a roar of applause that the
polling could not go on until order was restored. The
noise outside was such that it was difficult for the judge
to hear the answers of the jurors although he was only
ten feet from them. With these specifications of fact, the
petitioner alleges that the trial was dominated by a hostile
mob and was nothing but an empty form.
We lay on one side the question whether the petitioner
could or did waive his right to be present at the *polling
of the jury. That question was apparent in the form of.
the trial and was raised by the application for a writ of
error; and although after the application to the full Court
we thought that the writ ought to be granted, we never
have been impressed by the argument that the presence
of the prisoner was required by the Constitution
of the
United States. - But habeas corpus cuts through all forms
and goes to the very tissue of the structure. It comes in
from the outside, not in subordination, to the proceedings,
and although every form may have been preserved opens
the inquiry whether they have been more than an empty
shell.

FRANK v. MANGUM,
237 U. S.

HoLMEs and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

The argument for the appellee in substance is that the
trial was in a court of competent jurisdiction, that it
retains jurisdiction although, in fact, it may be dominated
by a mob, and that the rulings of the state court as to the
fact of such domination cannot be reviewed. But the
argument seems to us inconclusive. Whatever disagreement there may be as to the scope of the phrase 'due
process of law," there can be no doubt that it embraces
the fundamental conception of a fair trial, with opportunity to be heard. Mob law does not become due process
of law by securing the assent of a terrorized jury. We are
not speaking of mere disorder, or mere irregularities in
procedtire, but of a case where the processes of justice
are actually subverted. In such a case, the Federal court
has jurisdiction to issue the writ. The fact that the state
court still has its general jurisdiction and is otherwise
a competent court does not make it impossible to find that
a jury has been subjected to intimidation in a particular
case. The loss of jurisdiction is not general but particular,
and proceeds from the control of a hostile influence.
When such a case is presented, it cannot be said, in
our view, that the state court decision makes the matter
res judicata. The State acts when by its agency it finds
the prisoner guilty and condemns him. We have held in a
civil case that it is no defence to the assertion of tht
Federal right in the Federal court that the State has
corrective procedure of its own-that still less does such
procedure draw to itself the final determination of the
Federal question. Simon v. Sohthern Ry., 236 U. S. 115,
122, 123. We see no reason for a less liberal rule in a
matter of life and death. When the decision of the question of fact is so interwoven witl the decision of the
question of constitutional right that the one necessarily
involves the other, the Federal court must examine the
facts. Kansas Southern Ry. v., C. H.'Albers Commission
Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591. Nor. & West. Ry. v. Conley,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HOLmES and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

237 U. S.

March 8,, 1915, 236 U. S. 605. Otherwise, the right will
be a. barren one. It is significant that the argument for
the State does not go so far as to say that in no case would
it be permissible on application for habeas corpus to override the findings of fact by the state courts. It would
indeed be a most serious thing if this Court were so to
hold, for we could not but regard it as a removal of what
is perhaps the most important guaranty of the Federal
Constitution. If, however, the argument stops short of
this, the whole structure built upon the state procedure
and decisions falls to the ground.
To put an extreme case and show what we mean, if
the trial and the later hearing before the Supreme Court
had taken place in the presence of an armed force known
to be ready to shoot if the result was not the one desired,
we do not suppose that this Court would allow itself to
be silenced by the suggestion that the record showed no
flaw. To go one step further, suppose that the trial had
taken place under such intimidation and that the Supreme
Court of the State on writ of error had discovered no error
in the record, we still imagine that this court would find
a sufficient one outside of the record, and that it would
not be disturbed in its conclusion by anything that the
Supreme Court of the State might have said. We therefore
lay the suggestion that the Supreme Court of the State
has. disposed of the present question by its judgment on
one side along with the question of the appellant's right
to be present. If the petition discloses facts that amount
to a loss of jurisdiction in the trial court, jurisdiction could
not be restored by any decision above. And notwithstanding the principle of comity and convenience (for in our
opinion it is nothing more, United States v. Sing Tuck, 194
U. S. 161, 168), that calls for a resort to the local appellate
tribunal before coming to the courts of the United States
for a writ of habeas corpus, when, as here, that resort has
been had in vain, the power to secure fundamental rights

FRANK v. MANGUM.
237 U. S.

HoLMEs and

HUGHES,

JJ., dissenting.

that had existed at every stage becomes a duty and must be
put forth.
The single question in our minds is whether a petition
alleging that the trial took place in the midst of a mob
savagely and manifestly intent on a single result, is shown
on its face unwarranted, by the specifications, which may
be presumed to set forth the strongest indications of the
fact at the petitioner's command. This is not a matter
for polite presumptions; we must look facts in the face.
Any judge who has sat with juries knows that in spite of
forms they are extremely likely to be impregnated by the
environing atmosphere. And when we find the judgment
of the expert on the spot, of the judge whose business it
was to preserve not only form but substance, to have
been that if one juryman yielded to the reasonable doubt
that he himself later expressed in court as the result of
most anxious deliberation, neither prisoner nor counsel
would be safe from the rage of the crowd, we think the
presumption overwhelming that the jury responded to
the passions oI the mob. Of course we are speaking only
of the case made by the petition, and whether it ought to
be heard. Upon allegations of this gravity in our opinion
it ought to be heard, whatever the decision of the state
court may have been, and it did not need to set forth
contradictory evidence, or matter of rebuttal, or to explain why the motions for a new trial and to set aside the
verdict were overruled by the state court. There is no
reason to fear an impairment of the authority of the State
to punish the guilty. We do not think it impracticable
in any part of this country to have trials free from outside
control. But to maintain this immunity it may be necessary that the supremacy of the law and of the Federal Constitution should be vindicated in a case like this. It may
be that on a hearing a different complexion would be
given to the judge's alleged request and expression of
fear. But supposing the alleged facts to be true, we are

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

of opinion that if they were before the Supreme Court it
sanctioned a situation upon which the Courts of the United
States should act, and if for any reason they were not
before the Supreme Court, it is our duty to act upon them
now and to declare lynch law as little valid when practiced by a regularly drawn jury as when administered by
one elected by a mob intent on death.

STEWART MINING COMPANY v. ONTARIO MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TOA THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF .IDAHO.
I

No. 205.

Argued March 17, 18, 1915.-Decided April 26, 1915.

The locator of "a mining claim has the right under § 2322, Rev. Stat.,
to the surface included within the line of his claim; and, if a vein has
its top or apex within the claim, he may follow such vein downward,
although it may depart from a perpendicular in its downward course,
outside of the vertical side lines of the location that is, into adjoining
grounds within the limited lines expressed in the statute.
The strike and the dip of a vein must not be confounded nor the rights
dependent upon them confused.
Where the state court does more than merely decide whether the apex
of a vein is or is not within the location, but also construes the statute
under which plaintiff in error asserts its right there is a question of
law as we[l'asof fact and this court has jurisdiction under § 237,
Judicial Code.
Extralateral rights to a vein under § 2322, Rev. Stat., depend upon the
position of Its top or apex.
Accepting the proper definition of apex of a vein as all that portion of
a terminal edge of a vein from which the vein has extension downward in the direction of the dip, it does not appear that the apex
of the vein involved in this action was within plaintiff's claim and
thereforeno extralateral rights exist under § 2322, Rev. Stat.
Quwere whether under § 2322 Rev. Stat. a vein can be pursued in the direction of its strike at an angle of less than 45 degrees to the course
thereof.
23 Idaho, 724, affirmed.

