ST. ANTHONY CHURCH v. PENNA. P. R.
237 U. S.

575

Syllabus.

are disposed of by the views announced in Daniels v.
Wagner, ante, p. 547 (No. 239), since the propositions all
in substance either conflict with the finding of the Secretary of the Interior as to the performance by the lieu
applicants of every essential requirement to entitle them

to make the entry, or directly or indirectly assert the
possession by the Land Department, at least as to the
lieu entries, of the discretionary power which was asserted
and recognized by the court below. It follows therefore
that for the reasons here stated and those expressed in
No. 239 the judgment must be and it is reversed and- the
case is remanded for further proceedings in accordance
with this and the opinion in Danielsv. Wagner, ante, p. 547.
Reversed.

ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH OF ST. ANTHONY
OF PADUA, JERSEY CITY,. v. THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 269. Argued May 7, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
This court cannot review the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

when the complaint alleged diversity of citizenship unless there
remain in the complaint, if the averments of such diversity were
disregarded, such averments as to existence of rights under the Constitution and laws of the United States as are adequate to sustain
jurisdiction.
Inadequacy of averments in the bill to sustain jurisdiction under the
Constitution and laws of the United States cannot be cured by showing that the nature and character of the acts relied upon are sufficient
to justify the implication that such Constitution and laws were
relied upon.
In this case the facts alleged in regard to damages caused by negligent

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

operation of its railroad by the carrier defendant exclude affixing
to such acts the character of state action so as to bring them within
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Qure whether the operation of a railroad, not on a public highway but
on private property, can be treated as state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Appeal from 207 Fed. Rep. 897, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeal,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank M. Hardenbrook, with whom Mr. Marshall
Van Winkle was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Albert C. Wall, with whom Mr. James B. Vredenburgh was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey and there decided, this case was
taken by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit where the decree of the Circuit Court was
affirmed. 207 Fed. Rep. 897. It is here on appeal upon
the assumption that the decree of affirmance is susceptible
of being here reviewed, and at the threshold because of a
motion to dismiss we come to consider whether the assumption of jurisdiction to review has any foundation.
There is no question concerning the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court of Appeals to review the action of that court, since the complaint expressly alleged diversity of citizenship. But as this court
has no pov er under the statute to review the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in a case where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked alone upon diversity

ST. ANTHONY CHURCH v. PENNA. R. R.
237 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

of citizenship,- it follows that whether we have jurisdiction
depends upon whether the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court Was by the pleadings invoked not alone because
of diverse citizenship, but also because rights under the
Constitution and laws of the United States were expressly
asserted in the pleadings as a basis for jurisdiction. In
other words, the inquiry is whether if the averments in the
complaint of diversity of citizenship were disregarded,
there would yet remain in the complaint such averments
as td the existence of rights under the Constitution and
laws of the United States as would be adequate to sustain
jurisdiction. Bagley v. General Fire Extinguisher Co., 212
U. S. 477; Weir v. Rountree, 216 U. S. 607; Shulthis v.
McDougal, 225 U. S. 561; Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 720.
The cause of action relied upon was injury inflicted on
the property of the complainant and wrong suffered by its
officers and agents in their persons occasioned by a nuisance produced by the operation of the trains of the Railroad Company along its tracks alleged to be situated on
Sixth Street in Jersey City. The ownership by the complainant of a church, a schoolhouse and other property
in the immediate vicinity of Sixth Street, the damage by
interruption of light and view and the injury by smoke and
dust and cinders were in the bill fully and graphically
described. But the only passage in the bill which in any
degree whatever gives basis for the assumption that jurisdiction was invoked because of a reliance on rights claimed
under the Constitution and laws of the United States is
Paragraph XI, which is as follows:
"XI. That the said acts of the defendant have taken
from your orator property consisting of the easement of
light and air to which your orator is legally entitled, and
deprives it of the same without due process of the law,
and without just compensation, or any compensation
whatever, and that such acts of the defendant in such
interference with and appropriation of said property of
VOL. ccxxxvII-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

your orator has been, and now is, a violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States."
As from any point of view it is impossible because of the
vagueness of these averments to escape, to say the least,
doubt as to whether the bill asserted rights under the
Constitution and laws of the United States which would
be adequate to sustain the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court if the allegations of diversity of citizenship were
stricken out, it follows that they are insufficient to sustain
the claim of jurisdiction, since the rule is that averments
to accomplish that result must be expressly and clearly
made. Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 720. Indeed, it is
apparent on the face of the paragraph of the bill which we
have quoted that it entirely fails even vaguely to manifest
the purpose to base the jurisdiction of the court upon the
fact that constitutional rights were relied upon. So completely is this the case that the argument made by the
appellant to sustain jurisdiction frankly admits that the
averments of the bill are inadequate for that purpose, but
suggests that the nature and character of the acts relied
upon are sufficient to justify the implication that the
Constitution of the United States was relied upon as a
basis for jurisdiction and thus to cure the insufficiency.
Thus in the argument it is said: "While reference to the
Constitution in the complaint is not sufficient to invoke
jurisdiction, the facts as alleged in the complaint of the
acts of nuisance committed by the defendant, the evidence
of which is entirely undisputed in the recoitd, show conclusively that the acts of the defendant in permitting
black smoke, particles of unconsumed carbon, soot, cinders, ashes, coal dust and noxious and unwholesome gases
and offensive odors and vapors from its said engines and
locomotives to falli upon or enter into the premises and
structures of the complainant in such appreciable quantities as to interfere with the reasonable use thcreof and
render uncomfortable the reasonable enjoyment of the

ST. ANTHONY CHURCH v. PENNA. R. R.
237 U. S.

579

Opinion Qf the Court.

same by the complainant and the priests connected therewith, the teachers and children connected with the school
and persons using the said respective structures of the
,complainant" amounted to a violation of the Constitution
of the United States.
But even if this impossible assumption were yielded
to there would yet be no ground upon which to rest jurisdiction, since the bill contains allegations which would
exclude the possibility of implying from the facts alleged
that there was an intention to base jurisdiction on rights
asserted under the Constitution of the United States.
We say this because paragraph XII of the bill' unmistakably charges that the acts complained of were the result of the negligence of the carrier in operating its trains,
thus excluding the possibility of affixing to them the
character of state action so as to bring them within the
Fourteenth Amendment. The paragraph in question
is as follows:
"XII. That the aforesaid acts, use, occupation of
and appropriation by the defendant as aforesaid constitute
and are a nuisance to and one of special injury to your
orator, and are unnecessary, avoidable and unreasonable,
and not necessarily connected with the construction or a
reasonable operation of the said railroad, and which acts
are continuous, and which will cause great and irreparable
loss to your orator and subject your orator to the prosecution of a multiplicity of suits for damages unless the defendant be restrained by injunction from the commission
thereof."
It is true that in the opinion of the court below it is said
that the case of the complainant was pressed upon it in
the argument upon two grounds: wrong resulting from
acts of mere negligent operation on the part of the railroad
and wrongs necessarily arising from even a careful operation by the railroad of its trains over its tracks situated
in the street as alleged in the complaint. But here again

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

237 U. S.

if we disregarded the pleadings and tested the jurisdiction
by the statements in the opinion of the court below as to
the arguments urged upon it, the situation as to the absence of a Federal question adequate to confer jurisdiction
would be manifested. We say this because the opinion
also states that it was established by the proof and not
controverted in the argument below that the tracks of the
railroad were not on Sixth street as alleged in the bill, but

were on a right of way not part of a street, a situation
which at once gives rise to the inquiry whether the operation of the road complained of could under this 'condition
be treated as state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

TOOP v. ULYSSES LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 284.

Submitted May 13, 1914.-Decided June 1, 1915.

This court cannot entertain jurisdiction of a direct writ of error to
review a judgment of the District Court under ยง 238, Judicial Code,
on frivolous grounds.
The contention that rights were denied under a treaty that did not go
into effect until two years after title had vested in defendants in error
or in their grantors under the state law, is too frivolous to sustain
jurisdiction of this court under ยง 238, Judicial Code.
Even though the widow had some use of the intestate's property after
his death which continued until after the treaty became operative,
if the title was net suspended, the treaty could have had no effect
thereon.
The contention that a state statute forbidding the ownership of real
estate by non-resident aliens is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment simply because it does forbid such ownership is also frivolous.

