RIVERSIDE MILLS v. MENEFEE.
237 U. S.

Syllabus.

ruptcy are not less, the Circuit Court of Appeals further
said: "As we pointed out in the Huxoll Case, the Michigan
decisions mean no more than that the assignee is by the
assignment given a lien upon the property which did
not before exist. The mere fact that a lien is created under
statutory assignment for the benefit of creditors does not
give a lien under the Bankruptcy Act. This conclusion
directly follows from the decision in York Mfg. Co. v.
Cassell, supra."
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals properly interpreted and applied the doctrine announced in York Mfg.
Co. v. Cassell, and are unable to see that it reached an
incorrect conclusion concerning the pertinent laws of
Michigan. Holt v. CrucibleSteel Co., 224 U. S. 262, 267.
The decree is
Affirmed.

RIVERSIDE AND DAN RIVER COTTON MILLS v.
MENEFEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 169.

Argued March 4,1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.

To condemn without a hearing is repugnant to the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Courts of one State cannot without violating the due process clause
extend their authority, beyond their jurisdiction so as to condemn
the resident of anQther State when neither his person nor his

property is within the jurisdiction of the former. Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714.
A corporation, no more than an individual, is subject to be condemned
without a hearing in violation of the due process clause; and the
mere fact that one who is a director, but who is not a resident agent,
of a foreign corporation resides within a State does not give the courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

of that State jurisdiction over a corporation which is not doing
business and has no resident agent therein. This applies to a judgment even though by implied reservation its effect is limited to the
confines of the State.
Wherever a provision of the Constitution is applicable the duty to
enforce it is all embracing and imperative. Due process cannot be
denied in fixing, by judgment, against one beyond jurisdiction of the
court, an amount due even though the enforcement of the judgment
be postponed until execution issue.
The fact that a judgment rendered without due process of law my not,
under the full faith and credit clause, be enforced in another State,
affords no ground for the court entering a judgment without jurisdiction in violation of due process of law.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of a judgment against a foreign corporation not doing business
within the State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. P. Hobgood, for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiff in error, a corporation called hereafter the
Riverside Mills, was sued in North Carolina by the defendant in error, a resident of that State, to recover for
personal injuries alleged to have been suffered by him
while working in Virginia as an employ6 in a cotton mill
operated by the. Riverside Mills. The summons directed
to the corporation was returned by the sheriff served as
follows: "by reading and leaving a copy of the within
summons with Thos. B. Fitzgerald, a director of the defendant corporation." The Riverside Mills filed a special
appearance and motion to dismiss in which it prayed for
the striking out of the return of service for the reason that

RIVERSIDE MILLS v. MENEFEE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"the defendant is a foreign corporation, not doing business
in North Carolina, and has not been domesticated and
has no agent upon whom service can be made and that
the service of the summons is invalid and does not amount
to due process of law as against this defendant." This
motion was supported by an affidavit of a person styling
himself secretary and treasurer of the company stating
the facts to be that the corporation was a Virgiaia one,
had its place of business in Virginia; carried on its factory
there, had never transacted business in North Carolina,
had no property there and that the person upon whom
service was made, although he was a director of the corporation and was a resident of North Carolina, had never
transacted any business in that State for the corporation.
The motion to strike out was refused although the court
found the facts to be in accordance with the statement
made in the motion and in the affidavit. The defendant
answered. There was a trial to a jury and despite the insistence upon the invalidity of the summons, there was a
verdict against the Riverside Mills to which it prosecuted
error to the Supreme Court of North Carolina. For the
purpose of that review an agreed case was made in which
the facts were found to be as stated in the affidavit supporting the motion to strike out and in considering the
case the court below stating the same facts reviewed the
ruling of the trial court upon that premise.
Coming first to consider the statutes of North Carolina
and various decisions of that State construing and applying them, the court held that as the plaintiff was a resident
of the State and the director upon whom the summons was
served also resided in the State, the summons was authorized, wholly irrespective of whether the foreign
corporation had transacted any business in the State,
had any property in the State, or whether the resident
director was carrying on business for the corporation in
North Carolina or had done so. The court came then to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

consider decisions of this court which it deemed related
to the question under consideration, for the purpose of
testing how far the due process clause relied upon operated
from a Federal point of view, that is, the Constitution of
the United States, to dominate and modify, if at all, the
state rule. In doing so reference was made to the ruling
in Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518, and Conley v.
Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406, in the first of which
it was held that there was no basis for asserting jurisdiction as the result of service of process on the president of a
foreign corporation in a State where he was temporarily
present and where the corporation did no business, had
no property and where the president was transacting no
business for the corporation in the State where he was
served; and in the second of which under like conditions
the same conclusion was reached where the service was
made on a director of a foreign corporation residing in the
State where the suit was brought. After briefly reviewing
these cases, which were both decided in courts of the
United States on removal from state courts, and directing
attention to the fact that in the Goldey Case it was observed, "Whatever effect a constructive service may be
allowed in the courts of the same government, it cannot
be recognized as valid by the courts of any other government," and that the same observation was reiterated in
the opinion in the Conley Case, it was in effect decided
that from the point of view of the Constitution of the
United States the due.'process clause relied upon did not
control the state law so as to prevent the taking of jurisdiction under the summons for the purpose of entering a
judgment, whatever effect. the due process clause might
have upon the power to enforce the judgment when rendered. The court said: "Under our decisions above quoted
and upon which the plaintiff relied in bringing his action
the service is sufficient for a valid judgment at least within
our jurisdiction." Concerning the judgment of affirmance

RIVERSIDE MILLS v. MENEFEE.
237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which it awarded, the court further said: "What opportunity or method the plaintiff may have to enforce his
judgment is not before us now for consideration." Two
members of the court dissented upon the ground that the
decisions of this court which were referred to in the
opinion of the court clearly established that there was no
power to render the judgment, and that the same conclusion was required as the result of the following additional
cases in this court: Old Wayne Life Association v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8; Kendall v. American Automatic
Loom Company, 198 U. S. 477; Connecticut Mutual Life
insuranceCompany v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; St. Clair v.
Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Barrow Steamship Company v. Kane,
170 U. S. 100; Construction Co. v. Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98.
To the judgment thus rendered (161 N. Car. 164) this
writ of error was prosecuted.
Was error committed in deciding that consistently with
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
there was jurisdiction to enter against the defendant a
money judgment, even although by implied reservation its
effect was limited to the confines of the State and the extent to which the judgment as so rendered was susceptible
of being executed was left open for future consideration
when the attempt to enforce the judgment would give
rise to the necessity for its solutiQn?
That to condemn without a hearing is repugnant to the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment needs
nothing but statement. Equally well settled is it that the
courts of one State cannot without a violation of the due
process clause, extend their authority beyond their jurisdiction so as .to condemn the resident of another State
when neither his person nor his property is within the
jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment, since
that doctrine was long ago established by the decision in
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, and has been without deviation upheld by a long line of cases, a few of the leading
VOL. ccxxxvii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

237 U. S.

ones being cited in the margin.' And that a corporation
no more than an individual is subject to be condemned
without a hearing or may be subjected to judicial power
in violation of the fundamental principles of due process
as recognized in Pennoyer v. Neff, is also established by
the cases referred to and many others.
Whatever long ago may have been the difficulty in
applying the principles of Pennoyer v. Neff to corporations,
that is, in determining when, if at all, a corporation created
by the laws of one State could be sued in the courts of
another sovereignty, because of the conception that as
an ideal being a corporation could not migrate and its
officers in going into another sovereignty did not take with
them their power to represent the corporation, such difficulty ceased to exist with the decision of this court rendered more than thirty years ago in St. Clair v. Cox, 106
U. S. 350, which, together with the leading cases which
have followed it, have been already referred to. And the
doctrine which they uphold with virtual unanimity has
been upheld by the courts of last resort of most of the
States in such a number of cases as to render their citation
unnecessary. Without restating the St. Clair Case or the
leading cases which have followed and applied it, we
content ourselves with saying that it results from them
that it is indubitably established that the courts of one
State may not without violating the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, render a judgment against
a corporation organized under the laws of another State
where such corporation has not come into such State for
the purpose of doing business therein, or has done no
business therein, or has no property therein, or has no
I St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Freemanv. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185;
Wilson v. Seligman, 144 U. S. 41; Scott v. )fcNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 432; Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S.
562; Clark v. Wells, 203 U. S. 164; Hunter v. Mutual Reserve Life Ins.
Co., 218 U. S. 573.

RIVERSIDE MILLS v. MENEFEE.

237 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

qualified agent therein upon whom process may be served;
and that the mere fact that an officer of a corporation may
temporarily be in the State or even permanently reside
therein, if not there for the purpose of transacting business
for the corporation or vested with authority by the corporation to transact business in such State, affords no
basis for acquiring jurisdiction or escaping the denial of
due process under the Fourteenth Amendment which
would result from decreeing against the corporation upon
a service had upon such an officer under such circumstances. And this makes clear why there is no ground'for
assuming that there was conflict between the ruling in
Goldey v. Morning News, supra, where it was held that
jurisdiction could not be acquired over a corporation of
one State in another and different State by service on the
president of the corporation temporarily in such State,
and the ruling in Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, supra,
that jurisdiction could not be acquired under the same
circumstances by service on a director permanently residing in the other State, since both cases were rested upon
the basis that not the character of the residence but the
character and power of the one served as an agent of the
corporation, was the test of the right to acquire jurisdiction.
It is self-evident that the application of these settled
principles establishes the error of the decision of the court
below unless it be that the distinction upon which the
court acted be well founded, that is, that the enforcement
of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment was
without influence upon the power to render the judgment
since that limitation was pertinent only to the determination of when and how the judgment after it was rendered
could be enforced. But this doctrine while admitting the
operation of the due process clause, simply declines to
make it effective. That is to say, it recognizes the right
to invoke the protection of the clause but denies its re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinidn of the Court.

237 U. S.

medial efficiency by postponing its operation and thus permitting that to be done which if the constitutional guarantee were applied would be absolutely prohibited. But
the obvious answer to the proposition is that wherever a
provision of the Constitution is applicable the duty to
enforce it is imperative and all-embracing and no ait
which it forbids may therefore be permitted. If the suggestion be that although under the jurisdiction which was
exerted in form a money judgment was entered, as no
harm could result until the execution, therefore no occasion for applying the due process clause arose, it suffices
to say that the proposition but assumes the issue for
decision since the very act of fixing by judicial action
without a. hearing a sum due, even although the method
of execution be left open, would be in and of itself a
manifestation of power repugnant to the due process
clause.
It is however, unnecessary to pursue the subject from
an original point of view, since in Pennoyer v. Neff, supra,
among other things it was. said that "proceedings in a
court of justice tp determine the personal rights and
obligations of parties over whom that court has no jurisdiction do not constitute due process of law." And see
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602, where
these principles were treated as self-evident. It is true
that in most of the decided cases questions concerning
judgments rendered without a hearing under the circumstances here disclosed have arisen from attempts to enforce such judgments in jurisdictions other than the one
wherein they were rendered, presumably because the defense of want of due process Was not made until the judgments had been entered and an effort to enforce them was
made. But the fact that because unobservedly or otherwise judgments have been rendered in violation of the
due process clause and their enforcement has been refused
under the full faith and credit clause affords no ground for

CHOTT v. EWING.
237 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

refusing to apply the due process clause and preventing
that from being done which is by it forbidden and which
if done would be void and not entitled to enforcement
under the full faith and credit clause. The two clauses
are harmonious and because the one may be applicable
to prevent a void judgment being enforced affords no
ground for denying efficacy to the other in order to permit

a void judgment. to be rendered.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. CHOTT v. EWING,
COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 194. Argued March 10, 11, 1915.-Decided April 12, 1915.
The provisions of the Judicial Code in regard to the jurisdiction of
this court were obviously intended not to increase its jurisdiction
but to reduce it.
Although when considered isolatedly there may be conflict between the
provisions of the fifth, and of the concluding paragraph of ยง 250 of
the Judicial Code, that conflict can be eliminated by applying the
elementary rules of construction of turning primarily to the context
of the section and secondarily to provisions in pari materia.
Paragraph V of ยง 250 of the Judicial Code, concerning the validity
of an authority of the United States, confers no jurisdiction on this
court to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia where the question of authority arises under the patent
laws of the United States; judgment in such cases is made final by
the concluding paragraph of ยง 250, unless this court exercises its
rights of certiorari or the Court of Appeals certifies questions to this
court as provided by that paragraph.
Writ of error to review 40 App. D. C. 591, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Court of Appeals of the Dis-

