CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

606
1821;

The Mutual
Assurance

(LOcAL LAw.)

Society
V.

Faxon.

TH.E IMUTUAL ASSURANCE

SOCIETY V.

FAXON el al.

Under the laws in relation to the Mutual Assurance Society of Virginia, property offered for insurance, on which the premium -has
not been paid, and which is sold without notice, is not liable forte
premium in the hands of the vendee.

Marai M1h.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case first came up on a. difference of opinion
certified from the-Circuit Court of Alexandria, but
the writ of error was dismissed, because that Court
could not, in law, or the nature of things, certify
such a difference to this Court.
It has since passed to a final decree, and although
the sum On the record is small, a special permission
*toappeal has been granted on cause shown, it being.a case affecting many others similarly situated.
The question is, whether property offered- for insurance, in which the premium has not been paid',
and which has been sold -without notice, remains
liable for the premium in.the hands of the vendee P
The case of the Mutual Assurance Soczety v. Executors of Watts, decided in February, 1816, in this
Court, 'is relied -on as authority for maintaining the
affirmatve.
1t is to be regretted, that the case referred to had
a 1 Wheat. Rep. 279.

607

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not been more fully reported.

As-it is not preceded

by any statement of facts, abstracts of the history
and laws of this sodiety, or the arguments of coun-

1821.
The- Mutual

sel, the insulated unexplained opinion of the Court,
as it is printed, must be ever unintelligible to all descriptions of'readers, except those whose professional
duties lead them to the study of the novel and extensive institution whose interests aie involved in it.
But there is enough exhibited, to show, that it
affords no precedent for the claim set up in this case.
It is true, that the Court occasionally uses the term
premzux, when speaking of the quota, but in every
instance it will be found to be used when reasoning
upon the quota as the purchase m6ney, in part ofthe
right of the insured to compensation, which, -by
analogy to other cases of insurance, is in that sense.
denominated a premzum.
But there exists no analogy undbr the laws of the
company, between the liability of property insured
for a premium and a quota.
The first is the sum paid down before the contract
entered into , tlie second, the occasional contribu-is
tion exacted of individuals to make up the losses
from time to time sustained. The 6th section of the
act of December 22d, 1794, gives an express lien for
the quota, and takes no notice 9f the premium, but
as the rule for graduating the respective quotas. In
the case alluded to, it was decided, that the lien thus
created, had its origin in contract, although enforced
by statute, and continued a mortgage on the premises,
unil vacated according to.the provisions of the several laws which regulated the company.

Assurance
'Society
V.
Faxon;

608

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1821.
The Mutual
Assurance
Society
V.

Faxof.

But the very -reasons upon which that decision
was placed, are fatal to the pretensions set. up in
this.
There is no express lien created in any of the
laws of the company, and there are no provisions in
any of those laws from which it could be inferred,
(if it were possible ever to infer a lien,) but those
which authorize a sale of land to satisfy the premium.
But a right to sell the land is completely satisfied by
subjecting it to such sale while in the hands of the
first holder) and there are two of the by-laws of the
company, which -expressly negative every pretence
for carrying it any further. The first is the 8th section, 4th articre, of -the act of January 29th, 1805,
which requires immediate payment of the premium
upon the acceptance of the declaration, and the seconci is, the 6th section of the 5th article, which declares, that insurance shall not commence until the
premium be paid.
Decree affirmed.

