176

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Smith

tonio Josef, and Josef Isnages, who formed no part
of the crew of the private armed brig Puyerredon,

V.

and as to so much of the said Decree as relates to

1821.

The Univer-

slnsuranc the said libellants Emanuel Rodrigues and others,
Company.

is further DECREED and ORDERED, by consent of
parties, by their counsel, that the Decree of the said
Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled. And it is further ORDERED, that the
said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court for
farther inquiry And that the proceeds of the said
Bello Corrunes and cargo lie in the Registry of the
said Circuit Court, to be paid over, under the order
of that Court, to the Spanish owners, as interest
shall be made to appear.
it

(INsUa!.cE.)

SMITH

et al. v. UNIVERSAL INSURANCE COMPANY.

Where, in a policy of insurance, a technical total loss is asserted as
the ground of recovery, the loss must be occasioned'by the immediate operation of some of the perils insured against, and it is not
sufficient that the voyage be abandoned for fear of the operation of
the peril.
The insurers do not undertake, that the voyage shall be performed
without delay, or that the perils insured against shall not occur;
they undertake only for losses sustained by those perils; and if any
peril does begin to act upon the subject, yet if it be removed before
any loss takes place. and the voyage is not thereby broken up, but
is, or may be, resumed, the insured cannot abandon foratotal loss.
Insurance on munitions of war, laden on board a neutral vessel, on

OF THE UNITED STATES
a voyage from New-York, to and Xt a port or ports, place or
1821.
places, m the Gulph of Mexico. frem the Balize to Campeachy,
both inclusive, and from either back to New-York, &c. with a meSmith
V.
nmoandum, that the, insurers should he free from any loss arising The Univerfrom illicitor prohibited trade. The goods insured were prohibited sal Insurance
from being imported into the ports of New Spain, in possession of Company.
the Royalists, by the laws of Old Spain, but were permitted to be
introduced into such ports as were in possession of the Insurgents.
The vessel and cargo arrived off"a place in possession of the patriot
General Mina, and the master made an agreement to sell the cargo
to him, deliverable from time to time, as he should want it, at St.
Ander. But before the cargo could be delivered, the vessel was
chased off by Spanish armed ships, and after making several attempts to return, was compelled to proceed to the Balize for re-pairs; after which she again approached the coast, but found it still
in possession of the Royalists, General Mina having retired into
the interior. The objects of the voyage being thus defeated, the
vessel returned to New-York with the original cargo on board,
and the insured then abandoned to the underwriters, not having
before had mformation of the breahihg up of the voyage. Held,
that the insured. were uot entitled to recover as for a total losg of
the voyage.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court of Maryland.

This was an action of covenant on a policy of insurance, underwritten by the defendants for the plaintiffs, on the 4th of February, 1817, on a voyage at
and from New-York, to and at a port or ports, place
or places, in the Gulph of Mexico, from the Balize
to Campeachy, both inclusive, and from either back
to New-York, or a port of discharge in the United
States, upon all kinds of lawful goods and merchandises laden, or to be laden, on board the schooner
Ellen Tooker. In another part of the policy, it is
stated to be " on cargo, consisting chiefly of muniVoL. VI.

23

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
S
Smith

v.
sal Insurance
Company.

tions of war."

There is a memorandum also in the.,

policy, whereby the underwriters are warranted by
the assured free from any. charge, damage, or loss,

which may arise in consequence of a seizure or detention of the property for or on account of any illicit or prohibited trade. The declaration alleges,
that the vessel, with the cargo, proceeded on the
voyage, and asserts as a loss within the contract,
that while on the voyage, the schooner, with her
cargo, was restrained and detained by certain persons acting under the authority of the King of Spain,
whereby the goods and merchandises became wholly
lost.
The material facts, as they appeared on the trial.,
are these- he Ellen Tooker having on board property of thf plaintiff of a greater value than the sum
insured, sailed from New-York, on the voyage insured, on the 31st of January, 1817. On the 25th
of February she arrived at the Balize. where the
master left the vessel and went to New-Orleans,
and having obtained information, that Nantla and
Talacuta were in possession of the Independents, to
which places American vessels might proceed, on his
return to the Balize, the schooner proceeded for
Nantla, and arrived off that place on the 23d of
March, and found it in possession of the Royalists.
The schooner then proceeded to Talacuta, and
having arrived off that place, a boat was sent ashore
for information, the crew of which were made prisoners. Concluding from this occurrence, that the
place was in possession of the Royalists, the schooner
put to sea, and on the 5th of April fell in with a fleet

OF THE UNITED STATF
1821.
of six sail under the command of General Mina,
t
with troops on board, bound for the bar of St. AnSmith
V.
der. The master having hac communication with The UniverGeneral Mina, and received encouragement from sal Insurance
him that he wQuId purchase the cargo, the schooner Company.
kept company with the fleet, and arrived off the bar
of St. Ander on the 28th of April, where the
schooner came to anchor in the open sea, the entrance being too shoal to permit her to cross the bar.
On the 1 th of May, the master left the schooner
and went up the river to Porto La Marina, (where
General Mina had his head quarters,) for the purpose of selling the cargo, which he accordingly did,
deliverable to General Mina, as he should want it,
from time to time, at St. Ander, the whole delivery
to be completed by the first of July. On the 18th
of May, while the master was on shore, a Spanish
frigate and two armed schooners of the Royalists
hove in sight, and the schooner was immediately
gotten under way for the purpose of escaping them,
and after four hours chase effected her escape. The
schooner made several attempts to return, but was
prevented by Spanish slups hovering about the place;
on the 26th of May, finding the coast clear, she yeturned to St. Ander, which was still in possession of
the Independents, and the master was taken on
board. The foremast of the schooner being found
to be loose in the step and injured, and the crew being short of water, the schooner proceeded to the
mouth of the Rio Grande for water and to examine
the foremast; and there the heel of the foremast be-ingfound to be gone, the schooner proceeded to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

"Smith
v.
"a

Uuiver-

sal Insurance

Company.

Balize for repairs, and arrived there on the sixth ofJune. The foremast was there repaired, and the
schooner sailed again, for St. Ander for the purpose
of delivering the cargo to General Mina according
to contract, and on her arrival there, on the -22d of
June, the place.was found to be in possession of the
Royalists, who occupied it with a military force. In
tonsequence of this, the schooner did not approach
the shore, but proceeded along the coast northward
to a place called Pass Cavellos, about 270 miles from
St. Ander, where information was received that St.
Ander, and-the coast, were completely in possession
of the Royalists. The objects of the voyage being
in this manner defeated, the schooner returned to
New-York with her original cargo on board, andi
arrived there on the 22d of July, 1817. The plaintiffs had no intelligence .9f the breaking up of the
voyage until the return of the schooner to NewYork, and then abandoned to the unaerwriters in
due time, assigning as a cause,.that the Ellen Tooker
was " compelled, by an armed force, to leave St.
Ander in the Gulph of Mexico, where she had arrived and was about to deliver her cargo, and was
prevented thereafter by a like force from re-entering
that place." This abandonment was not accepted.
It was also in evidence, that the cargo of the Ellen
Tooker was shipped, and intended to be sold to the
Independent party of Mexico, which was waging
war with the King of Spain, and that the same was
prohibited from importation into Mexico by the laws
of Spain, and would have been seised and confiscated if it had been carried into any of the ports in

OF THE U!ITED STATES..

possession of the Royalists, but would have been
ism.
freely admitted into any ports in possession of the Smith
r.
Independent party.
The Univer
Upon these facts a verdict was given, and judg- WInr-tie
ment rendered for the defendants, and the cause /was comfPy.
brought to this Court by wnt of error.
-Mr. WMader and Mr. RaImoizd, for the plaintiffs, Frb,&z 17th.
stated, that this was an action of covenant on a policy of insurance, and that the.breach assigned in the
declaration was a loss occasioned by the restraint
and detention of certain persons acting under the
authority of the King of Spain. The voyage was
broken up and destroyed by the constraint imposed
upon the vessel to leave St. Ander, in order to
avoid capture by the Spanish armed ships. The
insurers were apprized of the nature of the risk.
The port of St. Ander became the destination, and
the vessel' was prevented from entering it, by the
risks insured against. This is a restraint within
the meaning of the policy. Every restraint or control exerted by a people, prince or state, over the
subject matter insured, so as to defeat the voyage,
is a loss within the policy. Such are the restraints
of a blockade:, an embargo, limited in point of
time, or indefinite:' and the municipal law of a
a Schmidt v. Unit. Ins. Co. I Johns. Rep. 249.

Craig v

Unit. Ins. Co. 6 Johns. Rep. 226. Yeaton v. Fry, 6 Cranch,
335. Olivera v. Union Ins. Co. 3 Wheat. Rep. 183.

b M'Bride v. Mar. Ins. Co. 6 Johns. Rep. 299. Walden v.
Phcenix Ins. Co. 5 Johns. Rep. 310. Ogden v. Firemen Ins. Co.

182

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
gimith
TI

country which subjects the vessel and cargo to con~ fiscation, if it is morally certain that it applies to the

v.
UmverlU~rance

cozl*y.

vessel, and. would be enforced.a

So, if the port of

destuxation be. shut,. by being in possession' of an
enemy, or by interdiction of trade, it is a just cause
for breaking up the voyage. There is a great apparent discrepancy in the English authorities as to
,restraint of princes." But this Court has settled
the import and1 meanigCof the term.in the case of
Olivera v The Union Insurance Company.c But
it may be said that there is no proof that the blockade existed, at the time of the abandonment. To
which it is answered, that this principle does not apply to a .technical total loss produced by blockade.
In the case of an embargo or capture, the voyage is
not necessarily broken up, it is merely suspended :
but.in-that of a blockade, it is entirely defeated, and
the object of -the"voyage cannot be accomplished.
Though the restraint now under consideration, is
not that of a blockadE, yet it is equivalent , since
the master was :prevented by the.restraint from entering the port which he had selected, within the li-nuts prescribed by the policy. A reasonable fear of
loss by capture, seizure, &c. is a justifiable cause of
deviation , and consequently protects against all losses arising from deviation. In the case of Schmtdt
10 Johns. Rep. 177. Rhinelander v. Ins. Co. of Pennsylv. 4
Cranih, 29.

a Craig v. Unit. Ins. Co. 6 Johns. Rep. 226.
b 1 Johns. Rep. 268. Per KZKT, Ch. J. who cites 1. Emertg.
Des Assur. 242.

C 3 Wheat. ROY. 183.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

v. United Insurance Company, it is said to be " suf1821.
ficient to justify the master's conduct in caises of this "
Smith
kind, if he have good reason to apprehend that a capV.
ture will be the consequence of going on.1
sa InTher
Comp ny,

Mr. Pinmney, and Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra, argued, that in order to establish a technical total loss
in this case, the insured must show a restraint,
within the policy and declaration, and that it actually produced the breaking up of the voyage. The
onus probandi is on the plaintiffs,- and they must
trace the supposed consequences of the peril home to
its efficient cause. The'insurance was on munitions;
contraband of war, but the memorandum that the
underwriters were not to be liable for a loss by illicit
trade, secured them against any loss by mere mumcipal regulations. They have nothing to do with an
internal conflict, by which the port may change masters. The declaration alleges a loss by restraint of
princes. But this restraint must be the direct and
immediate agent in breaking up the voyage, as in
an embargo, or blockade, which being removed,
the peril instantly ceases. Here the restraint was
not only not the efficient cause of the loss, but it arose
out of illicit traffic. This part of the coast of Mexico
did not cease to be subject to the colonial code of
Spain, by the temporary possession of the insurgents.
The vessel attempted to escape, not merely from the
a Per LIVINGSTOi, J. 1 Johns. Rep. 262. and Targa. Ponderaz. c. 69. 291. Casaregts, Disc. 83. No. 84, cited by him-

See also I Emertg. des 4ssur 509.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ordinary peril of capture in war, but from that com0Smith bmed with the local prohibition. It was a loss from
v. a fear, which had it been realized, would not have
The UniverWInsurce made the underwriters liable. All the qtza timet
ComePay. ca'ses, are cases where they would be so liable. The
attempt is to make the underwriters find a lawful
market; whereas the insured stipulates to take that
upon himself by his warranty. Even if the market
were lawful for a time, its ceasing to be so is not at
the risk of the underwriters. So that the insured
have broken up the voyage for a technical total loss,
arising from perils not insured against.
1821.

Pebry 2I.

Mr. Justice STOy delivered the opinion of the
Court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows.
Upon these facts, the Circuit Court directed the
jury that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover;
and the propriety of this direction is the question
before us upon this writ of error.
Two points have been argued at the bar. 1. That
there was no actual restraint of persons acting under
the authority of Spain, whereby the voyage was defeated. 2. That if a technical total loss took place,
by the loss of the voyage, it was a loss occasioned by
engaging in an illicit and prohibited trade, for which,
by the memorandum in the policy, the underwriters
are not liable.
The declaration and the abandonment, both tie up
the case to a total loss of the voyage, by the restraint
of Spanish authorities. If this case be not made out
in proof, there is au end of the controversy.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
In cases of this sort, where a technical total loss is
asserted as a ground of recovery, it is not sufficient
that the voyage has been entirely frustrated and lost; The Y.
Unverbut the loss must be occasioned by some peril ac- sal1usu eCompay.
tually insured against. The peril must act directly, In
a claim for
to
a technical
and not circuitously, upon the subject of the insu- tal
los, the Ions
rance. It must be an immediate peril, and the loss must beoyag
b thoe
the proper consequence of it, and it is not sufficient imed
ration of a peril
t.
that the voyage be abandoned, for fear of the. ope- iure
ratiou of the peril.
The plaintiffs rely upon the fact, of the Ellen
Tooker's being chased away from St. Ander, and
being prevented for several days from returning to
that place by the presence of Spanish armed ships,
as decisive proof of actual restraint. But the voyage
was delayed only, and not broken up by this occurrence, for the vessel afterwardsreturned in safety to
be.
St. Ander. The insurers do not undertake that tietoaperil
act upor
subjecto yet
the voyage shall be performed without delay, or that gins
if it be removed

loss
br- the voyge
the perils insured against shall not occur, they unrISand
not ther
dertake only for losses sustained by those perils broken
up, but
be
or m the
is
it
if
yet
and if any peril does act upon the subject,
resumedt
suredcanot
for a
be removed before any loss takes place, and the voy- abandon
age be not thereby broken up, but is, or may be re- ttal loss.
sumed, the insured cannot abandon for a total loss.
If a vessel be captured during a voyage, and afterwards be recaptured, and performs, or may perform
it, there can be no abandonment after the recapture,
for a technical total loss. In the present case, the
vessel actually- did resume her voyage after the restraint ceased , and there is no evidence to show that
any object of the voyage was defeated by this temVOL. VI.

24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

porary restraint and delay to avoid capture. Then,
what was the real cause of the final destruction of
"
Smith
The univerthe voyage P It was, that St. Ander, which but for
ve
sal Insurance a short time was in the possession of the troops of
Company.
General .Mina, was, m transitu, again occupied by
1821.

the royalists, and the colonial. Government resumed
its functions, A trade was inhibited with that place,
by the ordinary. colonial laws of Spain,;. and the
voyage itself, in which the Ellen Tooker was engaged, placed her, and her cargo also, in the-character of an enemy. It was clear, .therefore, that a
proceeding into St. Ander, would have subjected
the Ellen Tooker to confiscation fora double cause';
for breach of the ordinary laws of trade, and for a
violation of neutral duties. The voyage then was
broken up from fear of loss,,by reason of the seizure
and confiscation of the property. It was abandoned
by the master quza tzmebat, and not because there
was any actual direct restraint, which prevented the
vessel from proceeding to the port ofdestination., The
case, therefore, falls directly within the authority of
The cases v.of the cases of Hadlnson v Robznson, 3 Bos. and
Hadkinm
Roqno3oss.Pull.388, and Lubbock v Rowcroft, 5 Esp. . 60.
and PulU. 388.
In the former case,
and
.ubboa
v.
Roma-^ft
5 which have never been shaken.
fi. good
. law.
R.. Lord Alvanley said, "any loss which necessarily
are
arises from capture or detention of princes, is a loss
within the policy, but here the Captain, learning
that if he entered the port.of destination, .the vessel
would be liable to confiscation, avoided that. port,
whereby the object of the voyage is defeated. This
does not operate to the total destruction of the
thing insured." There are precisely the same circum-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stances in the case now at bar. The underwriter
does not warrant that the vessel shall have a right to
trade at the port of destination; but only that notwithstanding the perils insured agamst4 the vessel
shall proceed to such port. If the plaintiffs,
in the .events which have occurred, were entitled to
abandon and recover, as for a technical total loss,
they would have been entitled to abandon for the
same cause at the time of the vessel's sailing from
New-York on the voyage ; for St. Ander was at
that time just as much shut against the vessel, and
she was just as liable to Confiscation for illegal traffic With that place, as she was at the time the voyage was broken up.
It is the unanimous opinion of the Court, that the
judgment of the Circuit Court'be affirmed, with
costs.

(INSTANifCE CoURntV)

The ROBERT EDWARDS.

Savage, Claiinaut.

A question of fact, under the 46th section of the Collection Law of
the 2a March, 1799, c. 128. exempting from duty ;1e wearing apparel, and other personal.baggage, ofpersons arrivingxa the United
States.
Where the res geuta, in a revenue cause, are incapable of explanation consistently with the innocenc-e of the party, condenmifiuon
.follows,.although there be no positive testimony of the offence Mving been committed. Circumstances are sometimes more convinci4 than the most positive evidence.

1e8,

The Robert
Edwar.

