CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT-

~O4
1821.
Anderson

(COXSTITUTZONAL

LAw.)

V.

ANDERSON V. DUNN.

Dunn.

To an action of trespass against the Sergeant.at Arms of the House of
Representatives of the United States, for an assault and battery
and false imprisonment, it is a legal justication and bar, to plead;
that a Congress was held and sitting-, during the period of the trespasses complained of, and that the House of Representatives had
resolved that the 'plaintiffhad been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, and of a high contempt of the dignity and authorityof the same, and bad ordered that the Speaker should issue
his warrant to the Sergeant at Arms, commanding hin to take the
plaintiff into custody, whei'ever to be found, and to have hun l efore
the said House, to answer to the said charge; and that the Speaker
did accordingly issue such a warrant, reciting the said resolution
and order, and commanding the Sergeant at Arms to take the plaintiff into custody, &c. anddelivered the said warrant to the defendant. By virtue of which warrant the defendant arrestbd the plaintiff, and conveyed him to the bar of the House, where he .was beard
in his defence, touching the matter of the said charge, and the examination being adjourned from day to days and the House having
ordered the plaintiff to be detained in custody, he was accordiigly
detained by the defendant, until he was finally adjudged to. be
guilty, and convicted of the charge aforesaid, and ordered to be
forthwith brought to the bar, and reprimanded by the. Speaaer,
and then discharged from custody; and after being thus reprimanded, was actually discharged from the arrest and custody aforesaid.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court of the District of Co-

lumbia.
This was an action of trespass, brought in the
Court below, by the plaintiff in error, against the de-

fendant in error, for an assault and battery, and false
imprisonment: to which the defendant pleaded the
general issue,.and a special plea ofjustificauon. The

W05

OF THE UNITED STATES.

plaintiff demurred generally to the special plea,
which was adjudged good, and the demurrer overruled : and judgment upon such demurrer was entered for the defendant- and a wtit of error brought by
the plaintiff. The question arising upon the demurrer will be best explained by giving the defendant's
plea at large, as pleaded and adjudged good upon
general. demurrer, in the Circuit Court, viZ..:
And the said Thomas, by the leave of the Court
here first had, further -defends the force and injury,
when, &c. And as to the coming 7ith force and
arms, or whatsoever is against the peace , and also
as to the assiulting, beating, bruising, battering, and
ill-treating of the said John,-in manner-and form as
the said John, in his said declaration, hath above supposed to be done,.the said Thomas salth that he is
not guilty thereof, and of this. he, as b for?, puts
himself upon the country- And as to the imprisonment of the said John, and the keeping and detaining him in confinement, at the time in the said declaration mentioned, to wit, on the said eighth day of
January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
eightepn, and for the space of two months in the said
declaration mentioned, the said Thomas saith, that
the-sadJohn ought-not to have or maintain his action aforesaid against him, because he saith tivit
long before and at the said time when, &c. in the
introduction of this plea mentioned, and during all
the time in the said declaration mentioned, a Con-'
gress of the United States was holden at the city of
Washington, in the county of Washington, and District of Columbra aforesaid, and wasthen and. there,

1821.
Anderson

v..
""t".

206

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

A
Anderson

V.
Dunn.

and during all the time aforesaid, assembled and sittin,,
. , and that long before and at the time when, &c.
in the introduction of this plea mentioned, and during all the time in the said declaration mentioned,
he the said Thomas was, and yet is, Sergeant at
Arms of the House of Representatives, (then and
there being one of the Houses whereof the said Con-.
gress of the United States consisted) and by virtue of
his said office, and by the tenor and effect of the
standing rules and orders ordained and established by
the said House for the determining of the rules of its
proceedings, and by the force and effect of the laws
and customs of the said House, and of the said Congress, was then and there, and during all the time
aforesaid, and yet is duly authorized and required,
amongst other things, to execute the commands of
the said House, from time to time, together with all
such process issued by authority thereof, as shall be
directed to him by the Speaker of the said House.
and that long before, and at the time when, &c. in
the introduction of this plea mentioned, and during
all the time in the declaration mentioned, one Henry
Clay was, and yet is, the Speaker of the said House
of Representatives, and by virtue of his said office,
and by the tenor and effect of such standing rules and
orders as aoresaid, and by the force and effect of
such laws and customs as aforesaid, then and there,
and during all the time aforesaid, was and yet is,
amongst othQr things, duly authorized and required
to subscribe with his proper hand, and to seal with
his seal, all writs, warrants, and subpoenas issued by
order of the said House. and that long before and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

207.

1821.
at the time when, &c. in the introduction of this
plea. mentioned, 'and during all the time in the said Anderson
V.
dedlarhtion mentioned, one Thomas Dougherty was
DuIM.
Repreof
House
said
the
of
Clerk
the
is,
yet
and
sentatives;. and by virtue of his said office, and by
the tenor and effect of such standing rules. and or-ders as aforesaid, and by the force and effect of such
laws and customs as aforesaid, then and there, and.
during all the time aforesaid, was and yet is, amongst
other things, duly authorized and required to attest
and subscribe with his proper hand, all such writs,
warrants,., and subpoenas issued by order of the said
house and that long before, and at-the time when,
&c. in the introduction of this plea mentioned, and
during all the time in the said declaration mentioned,
and ever since, it was and yet. is, amongst other
things, ordained, established, and practised, by and
under such standing rules and orders-as aforesaid,
and such laws and customs as aforesaid, that all
writs, warrants, subpoenas, and other process issued
by order of the said House, shall be under the hand
and seal of the said Speaker of the -said House, and
attested by the said Clerk of the said House, and
so being under the hand and seal of the said Speaker,
and attested by the. said Clerk as aforesaid, shall be
executed, pursuant to the tenor and effect of the
same, by the said Sergeant at Arms. And the said
Thomas, the defendant, further saith, that the said
Henry Clay, so being such Speaker of the said
House of Representatives as aforesaid, and the said
Thomas Dougherty, so being such Clerk of the
same House as aforesaid, and he the said defendant,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

208
1821.

v.
Dunin.

so being such Sergeant at Arms of the same House
as aforesaid, and the said Congress, so being assembled and sitting as aforesaid, 'heretofore and before
the said time when, &c. in the introduction of this
plea mentioned, to wit, on the seventh day of January, in- the year aforesaid, at Washington aforesaid,
in the county and district aforesaid, it was, in and
by-the said House, for good and sufficient cause to
the same appearing, resolved and ordered, pursuant
to the tenor and effect of such standing rules and or'ders so ordained and established as aforesaid, and
according to the force and effect of such laws and
customs as aforesaid, that the said John had been
guilty of a breach of the privileges of the said House,,
and of a high contempt of the dignity and authority
of the same wherefore, it was then and there, in
and by the said house, further resolved and ordered,
in the like pursuance of such standing rules and orders'as aforesaid, and of such laws and customs as
aforesaid, that the said Speaker should forthwith
issue. his warrant, directed to the Sergeant at Arms,
-commanding. him to take into custody the body of
the said John, wherever to be -found, and the same
forthwith to have before the said House, at the bar
thereof; then and there to answer to thd said charge,
&c. as by thejournal, record, and proceedings of the
said resolutions and order in the said House remaining, reference being thereto had, will more fully ap.pear. Whereupon, the said. Henzy Clay, so .-being
such Speaker as aforesaid, in pursuance of such
standing rules and orders as aforesaid, and according to such laws and customs - as aforesaid, did, for

209

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the execution of the resolutions and order aforesaid,
afterwards, and before the time when, &c. in the'introduction of this plea mentioned, to wit, on the :said
seventh day of January, in the year aforesaid, at
Washington aforesaid, in the county aforesaid, as
such Speaker as aforesaid, duly make and issue his
certain warrant, under his band and seal, duly directbd to the said Thomas, the defendant, as such
Sergeant at Arms as aforesaid, (to whom, so being
such Sergeant at Arms as aforesaid, the execution of
such warrant then and there belonged,) and by the
said Thomas Dougherty, so being such Clerk as
aforesaid ; in-and by said warrant, reciting that the
said House of Representatives had, that day, resolved
and adjudged, that the said John Anderson had been
guilty of a breach of the privileges of the. said
House, and df a high-contempt of its dignity and
authority ; and that the said House had thereupon
ordered the said Speaker to issue his warrant, directed to the siid Sergeant at Arms, commanding him)
the said Sergeant, to take into custody the body- of
the said John Anderson, wherever to be'found, and.
the same forthwith to have before the said Housei
at the bar thereof, then and there to answer to the
said charge, therefore, it was required That the. said
Thomas, the riefendant, as such Sergeant as afore-,
said, srould take into his custody the body of the
said John Anderson, and then forthwith to bring
him before the sdid House, at the bar thereof, then
and there to answer to the charge aforesaid, and to
be dealt with by the said House, according to the
constitution and laws of the United States and said
VOL. VI.

27

1821.
Auderson

v.
-Dunu.

210

CASES IN THE SUPREME"COURT

1821.

"
Anderson
V.
Dunn.

Henry Clay, so being such Speaker as aforesaid,
then and there, and before the said-time when, &c.
in the introduction of this plea mentioned, delivered
the said warrant to the said Thomas, so being sich
Sergeant as aforesaid, to be executed in due form oef
law. By virtue, and in execution of which"said war.rant, the said Thomas, as such Sergeant-as -aforesaid, afterwards, to wit, at the said time when, &c.
in the introduction of ihis plea mention6d, at Washington aforesaid, in order to arrest the said John,
and convey him in custody to -the bar.of the said
House, to answer to the charge aforesaid, and to be
dealt with by the said House, according to the constitution and laws of the United States, in obedience
to, the resolutions and order aforesaid, and to the tenor and effect of the said Warrant, so issued as aforesaid, went to the said .John, and then and there gently laid his hands on the.said John to arrest~him, and
did then and there arrest him by his body, and take
him into custody, and did then forthwith convey
him to the bar of the said House, as it Was lawful
for the said Thomas to do for the cause aforesaid:
and thereupon such prbceedings were had, in and by
the said House, that the said John was then and
there forthwith duly ekamined, and heard in his defence, before the said House, at the bar thereof,
touching the matter of the said charge; and that
such examination was, in and by the said House,
and by the resolutions and orders of the same, duly
adjourned and continued from day to day, from the
said time when, &c. in the introduction of this plea
mentioned, until the sixteenth day of January, in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.2

211

1821.
year aforesaid, which said examinations were then
so adjourned and continued, as aforesaid, from ne- A
v.
cessity, in order to go through and conclude the exDunnthe
touching
John,
said
the
amnation and defence of
matter of the said charge, before the said House;
neither the said examination, nor the said defence,
having been finished or concluded before the day
last aforesaid, during all which time, to wit, from
the said time when, &c. in the introduction of this
plea mentioned, until the day last aforesaid, it was,
in and by the said House, duly resolved and ordered,
from, day to day, as the said examination was adjourned and continued as aforesad, that the said
John should be remanded, kept, and detained in the
custody of the said Thomas, as such Sergeant as
aforesaid, by virtue anA in execution of the said
warrant,, in order to have such bis examinations and
defence finished and concluded, in due form; and
the said Thomas, as such Sergeant as afdresaid, afterwards, to wit, at and from the said time when,
&c. in the introduction of this plea mentioned, unil
the said sixteenth day of January,.in the year aforesaid, did, in pursuance of the last mentioned resolutions and orders of said House, and by virtue, and in
execution of the said warrant, keep and detain the
said John in custody as aforesaid, and him did bring
and have, from day -today, during the said time, before the said House, at the bar thereof, in order to undergo such examinations as aforesaid, and to be heard
in his defence .aforesaid, touching the matter of the
said charge, to wit, at Washington aforesaid, in the
county aforesaid, as it was also lawful for him, the

CASES IX THE SUPREME -COURT

2 i 111
1821.

-"--*
Anderson

v.
Dunn.

said Thomas, to do for the cause aforesaid and
thereupon afterwards, to wit, on the said last mentioned sixteenth day of January, in the year afore-

said, such further proceedings were had inmand by
th said House, that it was then and there finally resolved and adjudged, in and by the said House, that,
the said .John. was guilty, and convict of the charge
aforesaid, in the form aforesaid , and that ,he be
forthwith brought to the bar of the said House, and
there reprimanded by the said Speaker, for the outrage hy the said Jdhn committed, and then that he
be forthwith discharged from the custody of the said
Sergeant at Arms. and thereupon the said John was
then and there, in pursuance of the last mentioned
resolutions, order, and judgment, forthwith reprimanded by the said Speaker, and then forthwith
discharged from the arrest and custody atoresaid;
as by tne journals, record, and procepadings of- the
said resolutions, orders, and jodgment in the-said
House remaining, reference being thereto had, will.
uore folly appear which are the same several supposed trespasses in the introduction of this plea mentioned, and whereof the said John hath, above inhis
said declaration, complained against the said Thomas, and not other or different. With this, that the
said Thomas doth aver that the said John, the now
plaintiff, and the said John Anderson,. m the said
resolutions, orders, warrant, and judgment respectively mentioned, was, and is, one and",the same person. and that at the said several times in this plea
mentioned, and during all the time therein mentioned, the saad Congress of the United- States was

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

assembled and sittihg, to wit, at Washington aforesaid, in the county aforesaid- and this'the said Thomas is ready to verify: Wherefore he prays, judgment, if the said John ought to have or maintain his
aforesaid action thereof against him, &c.

215
1821.

"
Anderson
V.
Dunn.

Mr. Hall, for the plaintiff in error, made three February2O.
points.
1. That the House of Representatives had no'authority to issue the warrant.
2. That the warrant is illegal on the face of it.
3. That in either.case i it is no justification to the
officer who executed it.
1. If the-house had authority, it must be either in
virtue of the Constitution of the United States, of
usage and precedent, or as inherent in, and incidental to legislative bodies. In the Constitution there
are but two clauses which can be made to serve the
purpose. The first article, section eight, enables
Congress to make all laws which may be necessary
and proper to effectuate the powers expressly given.
But it is obvious, that this merely authorizes the
Legislature collectively, not one House separately,
to pass certain laws, not mere occasional sentences.
And the powers delegated to the United States, being in derogation of the rights of sovereign States,
must be construed strictly.4 'For the same reasons,
the authority to determine the rules of its proceedings, (art. 1. sec. 5.) cannot be construed to operate
beyond the walls of the House, except on its own
a 2

ass. Rep. 146.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

214
1821.
Anderson

V.
Dunn.

members, and its officers. It is. observable, also,
that this authority is coupled with an authority to
pumsh its members for misbehaviour, and to expel a
member. It is a rule of construction, that the text
should be considered in connection with the context.,
but the context, viz. the power to punish and to expel, relates solely to the internal polity and economy
of the House. The authority is to determine the
rules of its proceedings, not the proceedings themselves, for these are determined by the Constitution
itself in the first article. The fifth section of the
first article, authorizes the House to punish its members, el enumeratio unrus est excluso alterzus. The
power of issuing warrants is manifestly judiczal.
This-may be assumed as an axiom. The Con.titunon ordains, that the judicial power (which is equivalent to all the judicial power) shall be vested, in
one Supreme Court, and other inferior Courts,
(art. B. sec.-1 ) Thus, the right of the Courts to
exercise such a power, is exclusive, and an assumption of it by any other department, is an usurpatibn.
Nor can the authority be inferred from usage and
precedent. These must be, either of the two Houses
of Congress, the State Legislatures, or the British
Parliament. On the journals of the House of Representatives, are found the cases of Randal and
Whitney, and two others. On those of the Senate,
is the case of the editor of the Aurora, &c. Shall
we be told, that these proceedings were acquiesced
in P The want of spirit in the individual to resist
oppression, cannot fairly be construed into acquiescence on the part of the public; since that resistance

215

OF THE UNITED STATES.

could be made only by the person immediately affected. As to the usage of the State Legislatures, it
is either under colour of their unlimited powers, of
express provisions in their Constitution, or of the
common law and the usage of Parliament. In this
case, unlimited powers and express provision are not
pretended; the penal code of the common law is no
part of the federal system. Is, then, the authority
incident to legislative bodies P An incident is defined, " a thing necessaril, depending upon, or appertaining to, another that is more worthy, or principal." So the Constitution of the United States,
(art. 1. see. 8.) when regulating the incidental
powers of Congress, authorizes it to make such
law- only as may be " necessary" to effectuate the
express powers. Necessity, then, is the criterion of
incident. But is a power to punish the offer of a
bribe beyond the verge of the House necessary to.
enable Congress to perform its duties P The impunity of the offence being the only possible reason of
the necessity, if the offender may be adequately
punished by the Courts of justice in the ordinary
mode of proceeding, the supposed necessity ceases.
Bribery of a member of Congress is punishable in
the State Courts, and in the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, according to the course of the
common law. Redress may also be had before the
same tribunals, in case of the battery or libel of a
member , and if the existing remedies be insufficient,
an act of Congress may be made to supply the de.ficiency. And though the ordinary remedies should
iot reach every possible case, it is a rule, that "if the

1821.
Anderson

v.
"Dunn.

216

6 CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT

is2i.
words of a statute do not extend to a mischief which
%'
rgrely occurs, they shall not, by an equitable conAnerson
v
struction,, be extended to that mischief, -but it is a
casus omtssus, and the objects of statutes, are mis-

chiefs, quwfrequentrusacmdunt.' 'a It is evident, that
the framers of the Constitution deemed it mote prudent to leave such mere possible mischiefs unprovided for, than to incur a certain evil by vesting an extraordinary and dangerous prerogative for their suppression.
2. The warrant is illegal on the face of it. By
the fourth article of the amendments to the Constitution, it is provided, that 11no warrant shall issue
but on probahle cause, supported by oath or affirmatior." Thus, are. prohibited, all warrants which do
not rest on oath, and on probable cause. But it is
no less necessary,. that the warrant should recite the
cause in.special and the oath. The Constitution is
not satisfied with "tacause" so vague and indefinite, as " high contempt and breach of. privilege."
When it adopts a-term from the common law, it
adopts,'also,- the law regulating its incidents and properties; unless repugnant to that instrument. Now,
what are the incidentg and properties of a warrant at
common law ? It is said by Dalton, that ".the
warrant ought to contain the spectal cause and matter whereupon it is granted." ' b
3. If there be either a defect of authority in the
House, or illegality in the warrant, it is no justificanon. That it is none in the former case, bas long
a Vatigh. .373.

b Dalton's Sherj.f, 169.

OF THE UNITED STATES

since been settled In this Court.4 As to the latter
ilternative of the proposition, the constitution, by
prohibiting an act, renders it void, if done; otherwise, the prohibition were nugatory.1 Thus, the
warrant is a nullity. The rights of Congress on. the
subject of contempts, have been considered similar,
and equal to those of the federal Courts. But here
we must recur agaiin to the maxim, that when the
constitutiorn adopts a term from the common law, it
adopts, also, its incidents. At common law, the
power to punish contempt is incident to Courts.
But "-Congress,"' and the " House of Representa.,
tires," being terms unknown to the common law,
can derive no claims through it. Courts enforce the
laws; they tiust, therefore, be clothed with authority to compef obedience to them" whereas, the Legislature is merely deliberative. But. it is asked, are
the members to be insulted with impunity, in a manner which will not authorize the interference of a
Court ? If the insolence be merely by words or
gestures, not amounting to slander or assault, the
genius of our institutions does not admit of its punishmeht. Privilege of Congress is reduced by the
sixth section, art. 1. of the constitution, to exemption from arrest, and freedom of speech. From
the nature of the enumerated privileges, it is evident,
that the sole object of giving them was to prevent
interruption of the business of the Houses, not to
render the person and feelings of members more
sacred than those of other citizens. An attempt to
a Little v Barreme, 2 Cranch, 179.
b 4 Bl. Comm. 491.
voJ. V.
28

27
1s21.

d
Anders=

V.

218

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
bribe a member may be made in Maine or Missouri.
"d"so
The Speaker's warrant may be issued on a mere
Anderson
V.
allegation without oath, commanding the Sergeant
at Arms to arrest the accused " wherever found,"
and bring him to the bar of the House. So that he
may be dragged from the extreme 6f the Union, to
be tried by a legislative body. Yet -the constitution
(art.-3. see. 2.) provides, that " the trial of all crimes
-.shall be by jury; and that such trial shall be held in
the -State and District where the offence was committed ;" and, also, (art. 5. amendments,) that *" no
person shall be held to answer for an infamous
crime, except on the presentment or indictment -f a
grand jury; nor shall be deprived of liberty without
-due process of law" And further, that " in all
criminal .prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the
right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury of the State and District." It is only necessary
to compare the conduct of the House of Represen•tatives, in the case at bar, with these provisions, in
order to perceive its gross injustice and illegality.
The Attorney- Gezeral and Mr. Jones, contra, stated, that the only question before. the Court was,
whether the House of Representatives could exercise the power in question, either as incidental to its
legislative, or its judicial capacity.
1. The House being one branch of the Legislature,
.no legislative-act can be performed without its concurrence, and thereforean attack upon it, is an attack upon the whole Congress. The necessity of
self-defence is as incidental to legislative, as to j udi-

OF THE UNITED STATES..

This power is not a substantive provision 'ofthe common law adopted by us , it is rather a principle of universal law growing out of the
natural right of self-defence belonging -to all persons.
It is unnecessary to resort to the doctrine of constructive contempts, in order to vindicate the conduct of
dial authority.

the defendant as a ministeiial officer. He merely
executed the judgment of the House, pronouncing
the plaintiff guilty of a breach of privilege, and a
high contempt. It was confessedly within the competency of the House to render such a judgment in
some cases such as that of a direct interruption of
its proceedings by open violence within the walls.
But from the plea, non constat, what was the nature
of the offence committed by the plaintiff. Nor was
it necessary that the plea should set out the facts cowrstituting the contempt. It is sufficient for the protection of the officer, that the House has jurisdiction
to punish contempts, and that it had adjudged the
plaintiff guilty of a contempt. The power of punishing contempts is incidental to all Courts of justice,
and even to the most inferior magistrates, when in
the exercise of their public functions, and arises out
of the absolute necessity of the case, which renders
it indispensable that they should have such a power.
2. Each branch of the Legislature has certain powers of judicature under the constitution, and the
House of Representatives has the exclusive power
of impeachment, which necessarily involves the
authority of compelling the attendance of witnesses,

and punishing them for contempt. Even Lord
HOLT, who was an enemy of the extravagant privi-

219
1821.
Anaemn

V.
Duna.

CASES. IN THE"SUPREME COURT

2M
1921.
A
Duan.

o

leges of Parliament, admits that the power of impeachment residing in the House of Commons, necessarily involved the authority of committing the
accused, and of punishing contempts.0 The powers
of judging of elections, and of punishing.members
for disorderly conduct, necessarily involves all the
incidents of judicature. Nothing appears upon the
face of the record, to show that it was nmt m the exercise of these very powers, or in defence of the admitted privileges 'of the House, that the warrant issued. It need not appear on the face of the warrant
that the cause out of which the contempt grew, was
within the judicial powers of the house. The mere
question between the ministerial officer and the offender, is, whether the warrant was issued by a.
Court of competent jurisdiction, and whether he has
pursued the precept in the manner of executing it.
In other words, the only question is, whether the
House has, in any case, the power of punishing contempts.

If it has jurisdiction, it is a peculiar exclu-

sivejurisdiction, and its exercise cannot be questioned or re-examined elsewhere. The doctrine is settled and established in this Court, that the grant of
the powers expressly given to Congress in the constitution, involves all the incidental powers necessary
and proper to carry them into effect.b And the general grant of judicial powers to the Courts of the
United States. does not exclude the other branches
of the government froio the exercise of certain pora Regina v. Patyi 2 Lord Rayjm. 1105.
b

I'CuUo.b v. Maryland, 4 .Wheat. Rep. 316.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tions of judicial authority. The different departments of the government could not be divided m this
exact, artificial manner. . They all run into each
other. Even the President, though his functions are
principally executive, -has a portion of legislative
power; and the Congress is invested with certain

portions of judicial power. The whole of this subject has been thoroughly investigated, in two recent
cases in England, and the authorities cited on the
argument of those cases, renders. it unnecessary to
repeat a reference to them on the present occasion.*
a Burdett Y. Abbott, 14 East's Rep. 1. Burdeft v. Colman,
ib. 163.
In these cases, the pleas by the Speaker and Sergeant at
Arms of the House of Commons justified the supposed trespasses under a warrant reciting a resolution of the Huse that
" a letter signed ' Sir Francis Burdett,' and a further part of a
paper entitled, ' Argument,' in Cobbet's Weekly Register, of
Mafch 24, 1814, was a libellous and scandalous-paper, reflecting on the justrights and privileges of that House, and that Sir
Francis Burdett, who had admitted the letter and argument to
have been printed by his authority, has been thereby guilty of
a breach of the privileges of that House," and that it was thereupon ordered by the House, that the plaintiff, for his said offence, should be committed to the Tower, and that the Speaker should issue his warrants accordingly. The cases were car.
rined from the Court of King's Bench~to the Exchequer Chamber, where the judgments in favour.of the defendants were affirmed upon the same grounds stated by the judges of the K.
B. in East's Rep. The plaintiff, Sir Francis Burdett, having
brought a writ of error to the House of Lords, the cause was
argued for him by Mr. Brougham and Mr. Courtnay, in the
Session of 1816-1817. After the counsel for the plaintiff in error had been heard, Lord ELDON, (Ch ) proposed to their Lordships that t4 counsel for the defendants should not be heard,

18.21.
Anderson

V.
Dunn

2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18216

Anderson

V.

It is sufficient to say, that they fully establish the
doctrine that a legislative body has, from the necessity of the case, a right to commit persons for conuntil the House should have received the opinion of the Judges
on the following question, viz. "Whether, if the Court of Common Pleas, having adjudged an act to be a contempt of Court,
had committed for the contempt under a warrant, stating such
adjudication generally, without the particular circumstances,
and the matter were brought before the Court of King's
Bench, by return to a writ of habeas corpus, the return setting
forth the warrant, stating such adjudication of contempt generally, whether, in that case, the Court of King's Bench would
discharge the prisoner, because the particular facts and circumstances out of which the contempt arose, were not set forth in
the warrant."
The question being handed to the Judges, and they having
consulted among themselves for a few minutes, Lord Chief
Baron RwcnAins delivered their unanimous opinion that in such
a case the Court of King's Bench would not liberate.
Lord ELDON, (Ch.) That this is a case of very great importance none will dispute but, at the same time, I do not think it
a case of difficulty. If I did, I should be anxious to hear the
counsel for the defendants, before proceeding to judgment. But
in my view of the case, considering it as clear in law, that the
House of Commons have the power of committing for contempt,
that this was a commitment for contempt, that the general nature of the contempt, if that was necessary, was sufficiently set
forth in the warrant, and being of opinion that the objections,
in point of form, have not been sustained, unless any other noble Lord should express a wish to hear the counsel for the dePendants, I shall now move that the judgments in the Court below be affirmed.
LIrd ERSINE. When this matter wasfirstagitated, I under-

stood that the

Houee of Commons intended to pursue a very

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tempt, in breach. of their privileges ; that they are
the exclusive judges whether those privileges have
been violated in 'the particular instance and that
different course. I was therefore alarmed. I expressed myself, because I felt, with warmth. I have changed none of the
Qpinmons I then entertained, I then said that the HouAe of Commons ought to be jealous of such privileges as were necessary for
its protection. My opinion is, that thepe privileges are part of the
law of the land, and. upon this record there is nothing more
than the ordinary proceeding, the Speaker of the House of
Commons, like any other subject, putting himself on the country as to the fact, and pleading a justification in law, for this
was not a plea to the jurisdiction, but a plea in bar. This
course ofproceeding gave rise to the most heartfelt satisfaction;
for if the judgment had been adverse to the defendants, the
House would no doubt have submitted. It would be a libel on
the House of Commons to suppose that it would not. There,
fore, by this judgment, it appears that it is the law which protects the just privileges of the House ofCommons, as well a
the rights of thb subject.
The case has been argued with great propriety, but it was
contended that it was not alleged in the warrant that the libel
was publisWedi by the plaintiff. But it is alleged that the paper
was printed by his ai. ..ority. And if I send a manuscript to the
,printer of a periodical publication, and do not restram the
printing and publishing of it, and he does print and publish it in.
that publication, then I am the publisher. The word reflectsng, standing by itself, would not be sufficiently distinct. But.
the warrant recites that the letter had been adjudged to be a
libellous and scandalous paper, reflecting on the just rights and
privileges of the House of Commons, and the meaning there
must be, arraigning the just rights and privileges of the House.
I, myself, while I presided in the Court of Chancery, committed for contempt, in a case in which a pamphlet was sent to
me, the object of which was, by partial representation, and by

1821.
Anderson

v.

IDunni.

224

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
'ed

Anderson

v.
Bunin.

their decisions upon the subject cannot be questionin any other Court or place.
3. As to the form of the warrant, it is unnecessary
to describe the offence particularly in the warrant,
except for the purpose of letting the party see whether it is bailable ornot.' But this was only a warrant to arrest the plaintiff, and bring him before the
House; a preliminary proceeding absolutely necessary to exercise any sort of jurisdiction over the
matter.

March 2&

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the.opinion of the
Court. Notwithstanding the range which has been
taken by the plaintiff's counsel, in the discussion of
this cause, the merits of "t really lie in a very limited
compass. The pleadings have narrowed them down
to the simple inquiry, whether the House of Representatives can take cogmsance of contempts coinflattering the Judge, to procure a different species ofjudgment

from that which would be administered in the ordinary course
efjustice.

I might be wrong, but I do not think I was.

The

House of Commons, whether a Court or not, must, like every
other tribunal, have the power to protect itself from obstruction and insult, and to maintain its dignity and 'character. If
the dignity of the law is not sustained, its sun is set, never to be
lighted up again. So much I thought it necessary to say, feeling strongly for tfie dignity of the law, and have only to add,
that I fully concur in the opinion delivered by the judges.
The counsel were called in, and informed that the House did
not think it necessary to hear counsel for the defendants. And
then, without further proceeding, the judgments of the Court
below were affirmed. 5 Dow's Parl. Rep 165. 199.
a Chitty's Crtm. Law, and the authorities there cited.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mitted against themselves; under any circumstances?
The duress complained of was sustained under a
warrant issued to compel the party's appearance,
not for the actual infliction of punishment for an offence committed. Yet it cannot be denied, that the
power to institute, a prosecution must be degendent
upon the power to punish. If the House of Representatives possessed no authority to punish for contempt, the initiating process issued in the assertion of
that authority must have been illegal; there was a
want of jurisdiction to justify it.
It is certainly true, that there is no power given by
the constitution to either House to punish for contempts, except when committed by their own members. Nor does the judicial or criminal power given
to the United States, in any part, .exprpssly c tend
to the infliction of punishment for contempt of either
House, or any one co-ordinate branch of the government. Shall we, therefore, decide, ihat no such
.
power existg
It is true, that such a power, jf it exists, must be
derived from implication, and the genius and spirit
of our institutions are hostile to the exercise of implied powers. Had the faculties of man been competent to the framing of a system of government
which would have left nothing to implication, it cannot be doubted, that the effort would have been
made by the framers of the constitution. But what
is the fact P There is not in the whole of that admirable instrument, a grant of powers which does
not drav after it others, not expressed, but vital to
VOL. VI.

29

2W
i8i.
Auderson

fr.
Dann.

2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

"
Anderson
V.

Dunn.

their exercise, not -substantive an&.Mdependent, indeed, but auxiliary-and subordinate,
The idea is utopian, that government can exist
without leaving the exercise of discretiodi somewhere. Public security against the abuse of such
discretion must rest on. responsibility, and stated appeals to public approbation. Where all power is
derived from the people, and public .functionaries, at
short intervals, deposite it at the feet of the people,
to be resumed again only at their will, individual
fears may be alarmed by -the -monsters- of imagination, but individual liberty -can be in -little danger.
No one is so visionary as to dispute the assertion,
that the sole 9nd and aim of all our .institutions is
the safety and ilappiness of the citizen.. But the relation between-the action and the end, is not always
so direct and .palpable asto strike-the -eye. of every
observer. The science of government is the most
abstruse'of all sciences ; if, indeed, that can be called a science which has but few fixed principles, and
practically consists in little more than the exercise
of a sound discretion, applied - to the exigencies of
the state as they arise. It is the science of experiment.
But if there is one maxim which necessarily rides
over all others, in the practical application of government, it is) that the public functionaries must be left.
at liberty to exercise the powers which the people
have intrusted to them. The interests and dignity
of those who created them, require the exeruon of
the powers indispensable to the attainment of the
ends of their creation. Nor is a casual conflict with

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the rights of particular individuals any reason to be
urged against the exercise of such powers. The
wretch beneath the gallows may repine at the fate
which awaits him, and yet it is no less certain, that
the laws under which he suffers were made for his
security. The unreasonable murmurs of individuals
against the restraints of society, have a direct tendency to produce that worst of all despotisms, which
makes every individual the tyrant over his neighbour's rights.
That ".the safety of the people is the supreme
law," not only comports with, but is indispensable
to, the exercise of those powers in their public functionaries, without which that safety cannot be guarded. On this principle it is, that Courts of justice
are universally acknowledged to be vested, by their
very creation, with power to impose silence, respect,
and. decorum, in their presence, and submission to
their lawful mandates, and, as a corollary to this
proposition, to preserve themselves and their officers
from the approach and insults of pollution.
It is true, that the Courts of justice of the United
States are vested, by express statute provision, with
power to fine and imprison for contempts; but it
-does not follow, from this circumstance, thpt they
would not have exercised that power without the aid
of the statute, or not, in cases, if such should occur,
to which such statute provision may not extend, on.
the contrary, it is a legislative assertion of this right,
as incidental to a grant of judicial power, and can
only be considered either as an instance of abundant
caution, or a legislative declagation that the power

227
1821.

Anderson

v.
DunD.

228

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

n1ro
V.

of punishing for contempt shall not extend beyond
its known and acknowledged limits of fine and imprisonnient.

But it is contended, that if this
power in the
House of Representatives is to be asserted on the
plea of necessity, the ground is too broad, and the
result too indefinite ; that the executive, and every
co-ordinate, and even subordinate, branch of the
government, may resort to the same justification,
and the whole assume to themselves, in the exercise
of this power, the most tyrannical licentiousness.
This is unquestionably an evil to be guarded
against, and if the doctrine may be pushed to that
extent, it must be a bad doctrine, and is justly denounced.
But what is the alternative P The argument obviously leads to the total annihilation of the power
of the House of Representatives to guard itself from
contempts, and leaves it exposed to every indignity
and interruption that rudeness, caprice, or even conspiracy,. may meditate against it. This result is
fraught with too much absurdity not to bring into
doubt the soundness of any argument from which it
is derived. That *a deliberate assembly, clothed
with the majesty of the people, and charged with
the care of all that is dear to them , composed of the
most.distinguished citizens, selected and drawn together from every ;quarter of a great nation , whose
deliberations are required by public opinion to be
conducted under the eye of the public, and whose
decisions must be clothed with all that sanctity which

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W.

unlimited confidence in their wisdom and purity can

1821.

inspire, that such an assembly should not possess

AeOn
Anderson

the power to suppress rudeness, or repel insult, is a
supposition too wild to be suggested. And, accordingly, to avoid the pressure of these considerations,
it has been argued, that the right of the respective
Houses to exclude from their presence, and their
absolute control within their own walls, carry with
them the right to punish contempts committed in
their presence; while the absolute legislative power
given to Congress within this District, enables them
to provide by law against all other insults against
which there is any necessity for providing.
It is to be observed, that so far as the issue of this
cause is implicated, this argument yields all nght of
the plaintiff in error to a decsion in his favour, for,
non constat,from the 0leadings, but that this warrant
issued for an offence committed in the immediate
presence of the House.
Nor is it immaterial to notice what difficultes-the
negation of this right in the House of Representatives draws after it, when it is considered, that the
concession of the power, if exercised within their
walls, relinquishes the great grounds of the argu-

v.
Dunn.

ment, to wit

the want of an express grant, and the

unrestricted and undefined nature of the power here
set up. For why should the House be at liberty to
exercise an ungraited, an unlimited, and undefined
power within their walls, any more than without
them P If the analogy with individual right and
power be resorted to, it will reach no farther than to
exclusion, and it requires no exuberance of imagina-

230

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion to exhibit the ridiculous consequences which
Anderson Smight result from such a restriction, imposed upon
v.
the conduct of a deliberative assembly.
un.
Nor would their situation be materially relieved
1821.

by resorting to their legislative power within the
District. That power may, indeed, be applied to
many purposes, and was intended by the constitution
to extend to many purposes indispensable to the security and dignity of the general government; but
they are purposes of a more grave and general character- than the offences which may be denominated
contempts, and which, from their very nature,
aaImit of no precise definition. Judicial gravity will.
not admit of the illustrations which this remark
would admit of. Its correctness is easily tested by
pursuing, in imagination, a legislative attempt at defining the cases to which the epithet contempt might
be reasonably applied.
But although the offence be held undefinable, it is
justly contended, that the punshment need not be
indefinite. Nor is it so.
We are not now considering the extent to which
the punishing power of Congress, by a legislative
act, may be carried. On that subject, the bounds
of their power are to-be found in the provisions of
the constitution.
Tbe present question is, what is the extent of the
punishing power which the deliberative assemblies
of the Union may assume and exercise on th, principle of self-preservation P
Analogy, and the nature of the case, furnish the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

answer--" the least possible power adequate to the
exdproosed;" which is the power of imprisonment.
It may, at first view, and from the history of the
practice of our -legislative bodies, be thought to extend to other inflictions. But every other will be
found to be mere commutation for confinement;
since commitment alone is the alternative where the
individual proves contumacious. And even to the
duration of imprisonment a period is imposed by the
nature of things, since the existence of the power
that imprisons is indispensable to its continuance;
and although the legislative power continues perpetual, the legislative body ceases to exist on the moment of its adjournment or periodical dissolution.
It follows, that imprisonment must terminate with
that adjournment
This view of the subject necessarily sets bounds
to the exercise of a caprice which has sometimes
disgraced- deliberative assemblies, when under the influence of strong passions or wicked leaders, but the
instances of which have long since remained on -record only as historical facts, not as precedents for
imitation. In the present fixed and settled state of
English institutions, there is no more danger of their
being revived, probably, than in our own.
But the American legislative bodies have never
possessed, or pretended to the omnipotence which
constitutes the leading feature in the legislative assembly of Great Britain, and which may have led
occasionally to the exercise of caprice, under the
specious appearance of merited resentment.

231
1821.
A

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

v.

If it be mqnired, what security is there, that with
an officer avowing himself devoted to their will, the
House of Representatives will confine its punishing
power to the limits of imprisonment, and not
push it

to the infliction of corporal punishment, gr even
death, and exercise it in eases affecting the liberty of
speech and of the press P the reply is to be found in
the consideration, that the constitution was formed
in and for an advanced state of society, and rests at
.every point on received opinions and fixed ideas. It
is not a new creation, but a combination of existing
materials, whose properties and attributes were fami
iarly understo6d, and had been determined by reite
rated experiments. It is not, therefore, reasoning
upon things as they are, to suppose that any deliberative assembly, constituted under it, would ever
assert any other rights and powers than those which
had been established by long practice, and conceded
by public opinion. Melancholy, also, would be that
state of.distrust which rests not a hope upon a moral
influence. The most absolute tyranny could not
subsist where men could not be trusted with power
because they might abuse it, much less a governiment-which has no other basis than the sound morals, moderation, and good sense of those who compose it. Unreasonable jealousies not only blight the
pleasures, but dissolve the very texture of society.
But it is argued, that the inference, if any, arising
under the .constitution, is against the exercise of the
powers here asserted by the House of Representatives, that the express grant of power to punish their

OF THE UNITED STATES.

members respectively, and to expel them, by the application of a familiar maxim, raises an implication
%againstthe power to punish any other than their

Anderson -

v.
Dual.

own members.

This argument proves too much, for its direct application would lead to the annihilation of almost
every power of Congress. To enforce its laws upon
any subject without the sanction of punishment is
obviously impossible. Yet there is an express grant
of power to punish in one class of cases and one only,
and all the punishing power exercised by Congress
in any cases, except those which relate to piracy and
offences against the laws of nationsp is derived from
implication. Nor did the idea ever occur to any
one, that the express.grant in one class of cases repelled the assumption of the punishing power in any
other.
The truth is, that the exercise of the powers given
over their own members, was of such a delicate nature, that a constitutional provision became necessary
to assert or commuuicate it. Constituted, as that
body is, of the delegates of confederated States, some
such provision was necessary to guard against their
rutual jealousy, since every proceeding against a
representative would indirectly affect the honour or
interests of the state which sent him.
In reply to the suggestion that, on this same foua.
dation of necessity, might be raised a superstructure
of implied powers in the executive, and every -other
department, and even ministerial officer of the government, it would be sufficient to observe, that neither analogy nor precedent wouid support the assrVo,. V1.

1821.

30

CASESIX THE SUPREME COURT

234
1821.
Anderson
o

V.

Dunn.

tion of such powers in any other than a legislative
or.judicial body. Even corruption any where else
would not contaminate the source of political life.
In the retirement of the cabinet, it is not expected
that the executive can be approached by -ndignity
or insult; nor can it ever be necessary to the executive, or any other department, to hold a public deThese are not arguments;
liberative assembly.
the enjoyment of actual
mar
which
they are visions
blessings, with the attack or feint of the harpies of
imagination.
As to the minor points made in this case,-it is only
necessary to observe, that there is nothing on the
face of this record from which it can appear on what
evidence this warrant was issued. And we are not
to presume that the House of Representatives would
have issued it without duly establishing the fact
charged on the individual. And, as to the distance
to which the process might reach, it is very clear
that there exists no reason for confiningits operation
to the limits of the District of Columbia; After passing those limits, we know no bounds that can be
prescribed -to its range but those of the United States.
And why should it be restricted to other boundaries;'
Such are the limits of the legislating powers of that
body; and the inhabitant of Louisiana or Maine
may as probably charge them with bribery and corruption, or attempt, by letter, to induce the commission of either, as the inhabitant of any other section
of the Union. If the inconvenience be urged, the
reply is obvious : there is no difficulty in observing

OF THE UNITED STATES.

235

1821.
that respectful deportment which will render all apCo
1'
b
e
prehension chimerical.
The Concepa

Judgment affirmed.

(PBIZZL)

LA CONCEPTION.

The S ansh Consul, Claimant.

Where a capture is made of the property of the subjects of a nation io
amity with the United States, by a vessel built, armed, equipped,
and owned in the United States, such capture is illegal, and the
property, if brought within our territorial limits, will be restored to
the original owners.

Where a transfer of the capturing vessel in the ports of the belligerent State, under whose flag and commission she sails- on a cruize,
is set up in order to legalize the capture, the bona jdes of the sale

must be proved by the usual documentary evidence, in a satisfac,
tory manner.

APPEAL from

the Circuit Court of South Caro-

lina.
This was an allegation filed in the District Court
of South Carolina by the Vice Consul of his Catholic Majesty, claiming restitution of the ship La Conception and cargo, as the property of Spanish sub.
jects to him unknown, which had been illegally captured by the armed ship La Union,. sailing under
the flag of Buenos Ayres, and pretending to have a
commission or letter of marque from that government, but actually built, equipped, armed, and manned in the United States. A claim was interposed

tion.

