6W

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-AndIfit be admitted, that they might have exercised
the power of defining the principles on whioh surveys
should have been made, yet it is certainly incumbent
on him who would avail himself of that power, to
show that it was exercised, and to bring himself within the rules prescribed by their authority.
Decree reversed as to these appellants, and sent
back. for further proceedings.

1821.
Le

V.
Ins. Co.

The Marine

(CHANCERY.)
LEEDS

et al. v. "THE MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY.

Application of the law of set-off and lien in Equity, under peculiar
circumstances.

APPEAL from

the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This was a suit in -Equity, commenced in the
Court below by the respondents against the appellants, in which the mjunction obtained on the filing
of the bill was made perpetual. The facts are stated
in the opinion of the Court.
This cause was argued by Mr. Swann and Mr.
Jones for the-appellant, ,and by the Attorney- General
and Mr. Lee for the-respondents.

Marca 97t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

566
1821.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.

'
Leeds

The V.
Marine

This case involves a great many questions both of
ins. Co. law and fact; but we will consider it as it is affected
ar4 16th. by those circumstances, concerning which there is no
dispute.
Leeds and Straas beifig engaged in commercial
enterprizes, Straas employed Hodgson to effect insurance on the Sophia and her cargo. A note of Hodgson, with Patton and Dykes as endorsers, is taken
for the premium. Another adventure on the brig
Hope, grows out of the first, on the Sophia , and the
same agent, at the request of the same principal, effects insurance upon this also, with the same Company. The Sophia arrives in safety, but though
one of the endorsers is unquestionably sufficient, the
premium note remains unpaid. The Hope is lost,
and Hodgson professedly suing for the use of Straas
and Leeds, has recovered.judgment against the underwriters for the amount of the policy. From this
amount the premium note connected with that policy
was discounted, but that growing out of the insurance on the Sophia, was not pleaded, notwithstanding
the identity of the legal plaintiff in that action, with
the debtor to the company in the transaction on the
Sophia.
The note taken for the insurance on the Sophia,
is now set up against the policy on the Hope, in a
different form. This bill is filed to compel the parties in interest, Hodgson, Leeds and Straas, to discount it from thejudgment against the underwriters.
The equity of this demand is now to be tested.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

667

is=,1
The ixght to the discount considered with roference.to identity of parties, was clearjy a legal one.
Leeds
T.
the
m
injoined
been
Company
And had not the
Chancery of Virginia,.-during. the pendency- of.the 1 .are
suit. upon the policy, they must have lost all claim to
the niterpo.ftion of this Court, by failing to assert
their legal rights in the Court to which they properly belonged. But *the Chancery .of Virginia
might have considered the Compainy in contempt,
had they set up in discount a claim then pending,
and then injoined in the Courts of'that State. And,
therefore, we. may now be justified in considering
ihe legal rights of the Company, against the policy
on -the Hope, as -derived through the premium note
on the Sophia,. under all te-advantages that it would
have possessed, if pleaded as a set-off to the action.
at law.
The bill, it is true, does not expliqitly. rest on .this,
as the ground of its equity, but the facts are so set
out, and may be properly considered as making.up
the case.
What was the state of right as it stood at law
Hodgson, as holder of 'the policy wjich.he had, effected,.was, to the amount of his commissions, advances,.or even liability incurred in'the transaction;
a privileged creditor, and that possession could not be
violated until he was indennified or compensated.
If he be considered as the lhgal plaintiff.in the action
on the policy, and,. in tact, the legal owner of '%e
money recovered for the use of others, the.law would
not suffer him to be deprived i6y transactions between
Straas and Leeds, to which he-never assented, of any

W68

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

legal advantage derived from possession of that

Leed

money.
Suppose, to come up to the very case before us,
the
Company had _pleaded this note as a set-off to the

Led
The Marine

Il. Co.

suit on the policy, and ffodgson, the legal plaintiff,
had tendered a replication admitting the plea, in what
manner could the Company or himself have been
deprived of the benefit of its being thus disposed of .
That Hodgson was entitled to indemnity from Straas
at least, against this note, is unquestionable , and he
would, as against Straas, have, under any circumstances, been entitled to retain a sufficient.sum to
cover his liability. Then how could he, by the act
of Straas, either by assigning away- his interest, or
by impeding by an injunction, that act in a third
person, which would have secured. him in its consequences, be deprived of the benefit of compelling the
admission of this set-off P The case ih equity, as it
.now stands, is precisely that which would have arisen
at law, upon the state of things supposed. For,
Hodgsonin his answer to this bill, admits this set-off,
and solicits the Court to enforce the admission of it
by Leeds, who in the right of Straas, is thus endeavouring to deprive him of his legal right to indemnity.
The case in no part contests the reality of this state
of facts, but the defendant, Leeds, in every partf.it,
rests his defence upon the ground, that Straas has
succeeded in defeating the claims of Hodgson, and
deprived the Company of the benefit incident to the
assertion of those claims, first, by tying the hands
of the Company in a Court of Chancery, in a suit
in which he finally failed, and then by a transfer of a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

chattel interest, the evidence of which, or the contract itself, was in the hands of Hodgson, and legally
subject to his control, until the money due on it was
reduced into possession.
Iti s true, that had this set-off been pleaded at
law to Hodgson's suit upon the policy, and the
equitable interest of others been set up against such
plea, or against Hodgson's admission of it, the Court
of Common Pleas must, according to modern practice, have heard the parties on affidavit, before it determined to admit Hodgson"s replication on its files.
But, supposing the case to have been presented on
affidavit, such as it now appears to this Court, that
Court would not have taken upon itself to deprive
the legal plaintiff of a legal advantage, in favour of
an assignee of a chose in action, where the equity of
the case was so strong in the favour of the legal
plaintiff.
It is obvious, that the principal difficulties in this
case arise from the inverted and peculiar state of the
parties. Hodgson, (and with him his endorser,) who
is really the party to be relieved, appears in the character of defendant., and the question presents itself
why should the underwriters be at liberty to quit
their hold upon their note for indemnity, and come
upon the judgment holder on the policy for satisfaction in the first instance
But to this several answers present themselves.
Why, if the underwriters had several remedies,
should they, by the act of the opposite party, be deprived of any one of them P Why,.if they might
VoL. VI.

7

..69
1821.
Leeds

V.
Ira. Co.

The Manne

CAS9S IN THE SUPRPME COURT
1821.

legally have availed' themselves of their remedy by

discount, should theynow be deprived of it because
Y.
they were prevented, unconscientiously by their anThe -Marne
imh.co. tagonist, from asserting it in its proper place P And
'Ue&

why, if they can m this way certainly, save theft
money, should they be put .to the risk and labour of
prosecuting a recovery upon their note ?
But the case affords another answer of a more general nature. Notwithstanding Hodgson's insolvency, his claims upon this policy remain unpaid,.if it
be only for the purpose of shielding his endorsers;
and notwithstanding his appearance here as a codefendant, it is obvious, that dismissing, this bill
must give rise to new suits between. the persons liable to pay this note, and the assignee of Straas' interest under the policy. This consideration affords
•the .additional reason, that entertaining this suit terminates litigation, and the reverse would be the consequence of dismissing this bill. If having been deprived by his antagonist of his remedy at law, is a
sufficient ground for entertaining the suit of the complainant, it is certainly no objection to it, that relief
is at the same time extended to one who, though nominally a co-defendant, is essentially a co-plaintiff;
and might have been made such.
Had he been made such, the case-would have presented fewer difficulties. If Straas himself could
not have demanded of Hodgson this policy, or the
money recovered on it, without securing him against
the -premium note, neither can his assignee. Even
the Courts of law have recognised the lien of a bro-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ker on a chose in action for a general balance of 1821.
account, and much more so ought a Court of equity 'Leeds
in the application of a principle so peculiarly its own, The V.
Manne
as that which gives effect to a transfer by assignment Ins. co.
of a chose in action not in its nature negotiable.
The parties in this case sue only to be restored to
their legal advantages., as that cannot be done specifically, they certainly have a claim on this Court to
secure to them all the beneficial consequences that
would have resulted from them. And as Straas' interest in the Hope would have been amply sufficient
to enable Hodgson to pay this premium note, had the
money on the policy come into his hands, there is
nothing unreasonable in making it, in the hands of*
the officer of this Court, subject to be disposed of in
the same manner.
Let it be distinctly uiderstood, that the Court
does not, in this decision, countenance the idea, that
a separate debt may be set off to a joint action. -The
debtor and creditor at law are the same. And upon
Hodgson's reducing the money into possession, the
same identity of parties would exist. For Leeds
and Straas do not appear in the case at all, in the
relation of copartners in trade, but Leeds himself represents them as holding distinct interests, although
in the same subject. Leeds' defence, rests altogether
on Straas' assignment, not on thew blended rights,
nor does he pretend to ignorance of the off-set now
contended for, when he took the assignment, but
only observes, with a view, it is presumed, to show
he had no reason to believe it to be a subsisting debt,

CASE9 IN THE SUPREME COURT

672
1821.

o
Tf Union
Thie

Bank
V.

that it was at that time enjoined before the Chancellor of Virglnia. This is setting up a wrong iii
Straas to support a right in his assignee.

Iyde.

Decree affirmed.

(Paomissony NoTzs.)
THE UNION BANK V. HYDE.
A protest of an inland bill or. promissory note is not necessary, nor is
it evidence of the facts stated in it
The following undertaking of the endorser of bLpromssory note, "I
do request that hereafter any notel that may'fall due in the Umnba
Bank, in wbich I am, or may be endorser, shall not.be protested, as
I wilt consider myself bound in the same manner as if the said notes
had been or should be legally proteted," held to be ambignous as
to.whether it amounted to a waiver of demand and notice; and parol
proof admitted to show that.it was the understanding of the parties
that the demand and notice required by law to charge the endorser,
should be dispensed with.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
.Varch 14th.

9"c 16h.

This cause was argued by Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Swann and Mr. Key
for the defendant in error.
Mr, Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
court.

This cause turns upon the construction of a -writ-

