CASES IN THE SUPREM[E COURT

40
1821.

the State of New-York.

On inspection whereof, t

that the appeal, in,this cause, bei and.
from
the same is. hereby dismissed, it not appearing
steam Boat the record that there was a final decree in said Court
Company. for the Correction of Errors, &c. from which an ap-

Sullivan
The v.
Fulton

is. ORDERED,

peal was taken.a
a Aide 4 Johns. CW. Rep. 150. and 17 Johns. Rep. A88. where
-the learned reader will find the case reported as decided in the
State Courts.

(PAcTxcE.)

SULLIVAN

et at.

v.

THE

FULTON "STEAM BOAT

CoM-

PANY.

In order to maintain a suit m the Circuit Court, the junsdictionmmus
appear on the record, as if the suit~is between citizens ofdiftrent
States, the citizenship of the respective parties must be set firth.

the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New-York.
This was a bill in equity, filed in the Court below,
in which Sullivan, one of the plaintiffs, was de
scribed as a citizen of Massachusetts, and others of
the plaintiffs, as citizens of Connecticut and Vermont, and the defendants were described as a corporate body incorporated by the legislature of the
APPEAL from

OF THE UNITED STATES.

451

1821.
State of New-York, for the purpose of navigating,
by steam boats, the waterA of the East river, or Sullivan
V.
Long Island Sound,.ar said State. The object of
The Fulton
the bill was to obtain an injunction to prevent the Steam Boat
defendants from so exercising the privileges granted ¢ompauy.
to them by the said act, and by an assignment from
Livingston and Fulton of their rights under certain
other acts of the legislature of New-York, as to obstruct the plaintiffs in the right claimed by them under the constitution and laws of the United States,
and under a coasting license, of employing a certain
steam boat belonging to the plaintiffs in the transportation of goods and passengers in the waters of
the States of Connecticut and New-York. The
defendants demurred to the bill, and a decree dis.missing it was entered pro forma, by consent, and
the cause was brought by appeal to this ( ourt.

Mr. Webstyr, for the appellants, opened the record,
from which it not appearing that the Court below
had jurisdiction, as the respective parties were not
described as citizens of different States, the decree,
dismissing the bill, was affirmed.
DE.cRE:E. On motion of the appellants, by their
counsel, and on inspection of the transcript of the
record of the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New-York, it'iS DECREED and ORDERED, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court, in this case, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, it not appearing from
the record that the said Circuit Court had junsdic-

March 8th.

452
1821.
The Jon-

quille,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion in said cause. The said aflirmance to be without p;ejudice -to the complainants on the merits of
the case.

(PRACTICE.)

The

JONQUILLE;

An admialty suit, where an appe-l has been'aken from the Circuit
Court to this Court, but not prosecuteo, will be dismissed, upon
producing a certiicate from thp Court below, that the appeal has

been taken, and not prosecuted.

tarch SA!.

Mr. Wheaton,- ftr- the respondents, moved to
docket and.dismjss the appeal in the case, which
was a prize cause, commenced'in the Circuit Court
of North Caroliiia, in which a decree for costs and
damages had been. entered against the captors, from
which they appealed, but had not prosecuted their
appeal. He produced a certificate from the Court
below to that effect.
The COURT stated, that the case was within the
spirit of the 20th rule of Court, although that rule
applied, in terms, only to writs of error.
Motion granted.a
e Mce new rule of Court of the present term. .ite, Rule
XXXIL

