580

CASES IfX 'THE SUPREME COURT

clause in the absence of all words indicating a dif* ferent legislative intent, and in point of fact such is
Preston's
Heirs
understood to be the uniform construction of the act
V.
Bowmar. in the Courts of Ohio. The deed, then, in this case,
not being executed according to the laws of the
State, the evidence was properly rejected by the
Circuit Court.
The remaining point, as to the rejection of the
evidence of the deed from Smith to Graham, and the
proof to show, that it was given in exchange for the
land in controversy, has not been much relied on n
this Court. It is, indeed, too plain for argument,
that if a deed imperfectly executed would not convey any estate or interest in the land, a parol exchange, or parol proof of an intention to convey the
same in excl ange, cannot be permitted to have any
such efffect.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.
1821.

(LoCAL LAw.)

PRESTON'S HEIRS v. BOWMAR.
It is a universal rule, that course and distance yield to natural and
ascertained objects.

But where these objects are wanting, and the course and distance
cannot be reconciled, there is no universal rule that obliges us to
prefes the one. to the other.
Cases may exist in which the one or the other may be preferred ac.
cording to the circumstances.
In a case of doubtful construction, the claim of the party in actual

possession ought to be maintained, especially where it has been up.
held by the decisions of th.e State tribunals.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
This was an ejectment brought in the Court beERROR to

low, in which the lessor of the plaintiff claimed title
under a patent, describing the survey as "beginning
at an ash in the middle of a line of Glenn's land,
and with it north 20 degrees, east 800 poles, crossing
three branches to a hoop wood and sugar tre. corner
to Moffat's land, and with a line thereof north 70
degrees, west 100 poles, crossing the creek to a
sugar tree south 33 degrees, west 820 poles, crossing three forks of the creek to two sugar trees, south
70 degrees, east 300 poles, to the beginning." The
question arising upon the construction of this patent,
is stated.mn the opinion of the Court.

182l
restou'J

Hou
Bo Mar.

This cause was argued by Mr. B. Hardin,for the NIarh 121th.
plaintiff, and by Mr. Talbot, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the AarchA 1h..
Court.
Whatever might be our opinion (and we wish'to
be understood as expressing. none) if the question in
this case were entirely new, it cannot be affirmed,
that there has been such a clear mistake of construction, as that justice and law require us to depart from the decision of the local tribunals. The
question here is, whether the third and fourth lines
of this patent (following the order of the lines as
they are given in the patent) are to be continued
upon the courses called for by the patent until they
intersect, or whether the fourth line is to be extended from the beginning to the distance called for by

682

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the patent, and then the closing line is to be drawn, so
Preston's as to strike the termination of the second and fourth
lines at the patent distances. In the fbrmer case, the
Heira
V.
Ba. fourth line will be longer than the distance called
for by the patent; in the latter, the third line will
vary from the course called for by the patent. The
counsel have stated, that the question resolves itself
into this, whether the course shall yield to distance, or distance to the course. It may be laid
down as an universal rule, that course and distance
yield to natural and ascertained objects. But
Where these are wanting,. and the course and distance cannot be reconciled, there is no universal rule
that obliges us to prefer the one or the other. Cases
may exist in which the one -or the other may be preferred upon a minute examination of all the circumstances. In the present case, whichever construction
is adopted, the plaintiffs will hold a larger portion of
land than their patent calls for. We must consider
that the construction of the patent is somewhat
doubtful. That it is susceptible of two constructions, each of which has some reasons to support it.
If it be dbubtfifl, it would seem reasonable not to
press the broadest construction against a party who
is now in actual possession under a perfectly good
legal title. That possession ought not to be ousted
without a clear title in the other party, especially
where it has been upheld by the State tribunals.
This very case, between the same parties, has been
already adjudicated in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and that Court, upon full deliberation, de1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

us

cided in favour of the defendant.- It would be a
great mschief for the same title to be in perpetual
litigation from the conflict of opinion between the
Courts of the State and the federal Courts ; and we,
therefore, acquiesce in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals, upon the ground, that the point is one of
local law, has been fully considered in that Court,
and is a construction which cannot be pronounced
unreasonable, or founded in clear mistake.

zs i.
Oi
Otis

V.

Water.

Judgment affirmed.
a Preston's Heirs v. Bowmar, 2 Bibb. Rep. 493.

-JiSTRUCTION OF STATUTE,)

OTIS V. WALTER.
Under die Embargo Act ofthe 25th April, 1808, c. 170. Clxv.) ifa ves
zel, not actually arriving at her port of original destination, excites
an honest suspicion in the mind of the Collector, that her demand of
a permit to land the cargo was merely colourable, this is not i termination of t ie voyage so as to preclude the right of detentibn.
Under what circumstances the Collector has a right to land the cargo
of the vessel thus detained.

Tins cause was argued. by the Attorney- General Mfarh 121h.

for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Wheaton for the defendant in error.'
a They cited Otis v Bacon, 7 Cranch, 596. Crowell v.
M'Faddon, 8 Cranch, 98. Slocumr v. Mayberry, .2

Rep. 11.

Meat.

