OF TRE-UNITED STATES.
1821.
"(CMNca'r.)

Hughes.
-V.

Wake.
HUGHES V. BLIKE.
A decree-cannot be pronounced, on the testimnony of a single witness,
unaccompamed by corroborating circumstances, against a positive
denial, by the defendant, of any matter directly charged by the bill,
in the defendant's answer, or answer in support of his plea.
A replicatidn to a plea is an admissibn of the suficiency of the plea, as
much as ifit had been set down for argument and allowed, and all
that the defendant las to do, is to prove it in point of fact,

and a disnnssion of the bill on the hearing is then a matter ofco me.
nder what circumstances a plea of a former judgment at law, for the
cause of action, is a good bar in Equity.

from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
The object of the bill in equity filed in this case,
was to recover from the defendant, Blake, a sum of
money arising from the sale of a tract of land, called
Yazoo lands, alleged to have been made in 1796, by
the defendant, as agent of certain persons named in
the bill, in which lands the plaintiff, Hughes, claimed an equitable interest, in common with the immediate principals of the defendants, and, therefore, to
be entitled to a proportion of the proceeds resulting
from the sale. The bill also charged, that the defendant had rendered himself distinctly liable for a
specific sum of money, in virtue of a certain order,
having reference to the plaintiff's interest in the
lands, drawn by one Gibson, in September, 1796, in
favour of the plaintiff and accepted by the defendant,
with certain modifications and conditions, as particularly expressed in the acceptance.
APPEAL

CASES IN THE-SUPREME COURT

40
1s2.
'and

'

V.
Bhke.

The defendant pleaded in bar, both to the relief
the discovery sought by the bill, a former verdict
and judgment at law rendered in his, favour, in the
Supreme Court of-Massachusetts, in the year 1810,
upow.a suit commenced against him by the present
plainuffs, in 1804, beihg- long before the exhibition
ofthe present bill, for the.same cause of action. The
plea averred, that the judgment at law was still in
force ;. that the matters in controversy, -and the parties in both suits, were the same, that the whole merits of the case, as.stated by-the bill, were fulry heard,
tried, and determined, in -the action at.law, and -in a
Court of.tompetent jurisdinion.; and that the judgment was obtained- fairly, and without fraud, covin,
or misrepresentation, or the taking ny undue advantage. It was also averred-,by the plea, that no evidence has come to the plaintiff's knbwledge, since
the trial atlaw, respecting any of the facts alleged in
the bill, and which he did not, or might not have
produced on such-trial : and further, that the defendant has at no time, as .alleged in the bill, obtained
of a certain- E. Williams, any allowance-or payment,
for, or on account -ofhis,. the defendant's, being -liable
as bail for Gibson, in the plaintifPs bill mentioned,
and for which liability he has claimed in the action
at law an indemnity out of a fund on the credit of
which he had accepted the order in favour of-the
plointiff. The defendant, tnen-.without waiving his
plea, proceeded to answer- and deny the matters alleged by the bill;-as circumstances of equity to avoid
the effect of the proceedings at law, and which he
had already denied by the averment in his plea.

4.15

OF TH1E UNITED STATES,

1821.
To this plea and answer the' plaintiff filed a geneH"ghes
witnesses*.were
and
usual-form,
ral replication in the
V.
examined by both parties;
of adtion
causes
.of.the
identity
the
hearing,
the
I At
were sought to be established, without the aid of
collateral .proof, from a compaison of the matters
set:forth in the bill, -with the ave.rments'-contaiaetia
the several counts of the plaintiff?s- declaration; it
appearing, moreover, that, in the trial at law, the
plaintiff had .submitted -to the jurys in' -support of
these:,colunts,- the depositins of the same, witnesses,
on whose evidence he-relied, in support of his bill.
Te.pw. pal other questin of fact related to the

subject of the negotationrespecting the-lands before
mentioned), alleged in -the-plaintiff's bill to have' taken place, in 1814, between tlhe, defendant and E.
William whose testimony respecting it -was insisted-by'theplqamtiff-uot to be sufficient-to outweigh
the effect of the -postive denials contained in his
plea-and'aliswer.
. The cause being heard on the issue joined, and
tie proofs taken in it, the Court below decreed that
the plea was sufficiently -proved, and therefore dismissed the -bill With costs, and the cause was brought
by appeal to this-Court.
Mr. Pnkney, for the appellant, stated three questions for the consideration of the Court- (.) Whether the plea was in itself sufficient, supposing its
sufficiency to be now an open question P (2.) Whether it has been proved P (S.) Whether its sufficiency, supposing it to be proved, is now open for

Fc-,

i9Th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

456
1821.
Hughes

V.

Blake.

inquiry. P The first of these questions being answernegatively, and the third affirmatively, would produce a reversal of the decree" and let them be answered as they might, if the second be answered

Sed

negatively, a reversal would equally follow.
1. The plaintiff's allegations must be taken to be
true-, except so far as the averments in the plea, and
the answer in support of the plea, deny them. And
if the plea does-not deny whatever ip alleged, and if
true, would-make. the plea no-;bar, it is no plea 6 The
result of an examination of the allegations in the bill
will be. found to. be, that the defendant was the legal
owner of the notes -taken for the sale of the lands,
by taking and holding them in his own name ; that
the plaintiff, and the other persons interested,. wore
cestu que trusts according to their respective interests,-explained and known to the defendant, that
the defendant's conditional.acceptance of the order
in the plaintiff's favour, so far as it affected to. authorize him to apply the plaintiff's interest as an in.demnity for his liability as Gibson's bail, being without the plaintiff's consent, did not destroy the -defendant's character of trustee. That when he afterwards sold the plaintiffs interest, (it being still a
merely equitable one inrthe view of. Chancery, the
conditional acceptance beingof no force in equity,)
in order to apply the money to the wrongful purpose
of the, conditional acceptance, the dekndant still remained answerable, in equityi upon the foundation
a'E oe.-P2-231. 2 Atk. 155.
b Coop. P1. 226. 266.

Gilb. Ch. 158.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the original trust. That the defendant knew all
the material facts charged in the bill, out of which
arose the trust, and breach of trust, and his alleged
continuing accountability. That the defendant, insisting upon thus misapplying the money, the plaintiff, mistaking the proper forum, sued the defendant
at law, and a verdict and judgment passed against
him, .and the bill charges the defendant's breaches
of trust, and abuse of his power as legal owner in
taking advantage of the plaintiff, and fhe impossibility of his obtaining a full and fair trial of the whole
merits at law, as reasons why the verdict and judgment should not be suffered to prevent relief in
equity. The defendant, .notwithstanding all this,
pleads the verdict and judgment in bar of the relief
and discovery
The plea leaves uncontradicted
whatever in the bill showed a mere equitable trust,
and undue advantage taken of the defendant's character of legal owner and holder of the fund. Since,
then, the plaintiff could obtain relief no where, but
upon the mere trust, which was properly cognizable
in Chancery, and even if it were barely possible
that a Court of law could relieve, and that great difficulties only stood in the way arising out of the nature of the subject, his miscarriage at law ought not
to oust a Court of equity of its power of relief in a
matter appertaining to its jurisdiction. It cannot be
denied on the other side, that a judgment at law may
be relieved against in equity upon equitable inducements of various kinds. Cases of this sort furnish
the familiar and ordinary business of the Court of
VOL. VI.

58

457
1821.

","
Hughes
V.
Blake.

4N
1821.'
'

Hughes

V.
Bhkae.

CASES IN THE SUPREME-COURT

Chancery.' The only question, therefore, is, upon
what grounds will it relieve P I admit, with Lord
Chancellors Eldon and Redesdale, that mere mattenlion, omission, or neglect, however fatal the consequences may be, shall not -of itself be a ground of
equitable relief against a judgment at. law 6 But
where the matter is cognzable in equity, although
also cognizable at law, and effectual cognizance has
not, and cannot be taken at law, Chancery will relieve against a judgment at law; especially if the
matter is better adapted to equitable cognizance, and
forms a favourite-subject of that jurisdiction. The
instances put by Lord Redesdale of cases ix, which
equity will interfere, although a verdict and judg.
ment have been obtained, at law, are only put by
way of example.c They: are not all the excepted
cases: and the case actually before him, where he
refused to interfere, was a case of crassa negligentia
on the part of the defendant at law. If there has
been no such gross negligence, and if the Court of
law be not only of competent jurisdiction, but coinpetentto do justice in the case, from the nature of
the subject i and Its mode of proceeding, doubtless its
judgment is conclusive. But this does not exclude
the right of equity to control the judgment of a Court
of law, for equitable purposes. It is nojust reproach
to a Court of law, that it cannot do complete justice
in all cases where it may have jursdiction. The
a Coop. P1%141. Toth. Rep. 231. 1 Ch. Cas. 56.
b Ware v..Harwood, 14 Ves. jun. 31. Bateman v. Willoe,
t &ch. 4- Lef. 201.
0 i1 Wc. 4. *~ 205.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
question is, whether it has adequate jurisdiction:
interfere:
to
and if it has not, equity will and ought
Htughaes
V.
as m the case of a bond given for the purchase moBlake,
and
it;
upon
brought
law
at
ney of lands, and a suit
after judgment, a fatal defect discovered i the tide ;
a Court of equity will enjoin and relieve against the
judgment, although it has no natural jurisdiction
over a suit brought for a specialty or simple contract
debt. In the view of a Court of equity, a party who
elects an incompetent forum, is not concluded by its
judgment. The question still recurs, had he, and
could he have justice there P The terms of the
averment of the present plea, are also important to
be considered. The plea alleges, that the merits
were fully and fairly tried. But if it appears that,
in the nature of things, there were inherent difficulties in opposition to a full trial of the real merits, the
plea cannot be true. The general rule, that whatsoever night have been, and was litigated at law, is
concluded, need not be denied, if taken with this
qualification, that it be fully and fairly litigated, and
there be no equitable reason why the judgment
should be set aside. But if there be new evidence
discovered, or fraud, or an unconscientious advantage
taken by the opposite party, or matters of equity
which a Court of law could not effectually investigate and decide, then the judgment at law is not
conclusive.
Let us now see whether this case, as it appears on
the bill, and the record pleaded as a bar, was properly and effectually relievable at law. And, in order
to do this, it is necessary to examine the counts of

4W
1821.

"
Hughes
V.
Blike.

CASES IN THE SUPAEME COURT

the plaintitPs declaration -in the suit at law, which a
Court of equity will do with- a hypercritical eye,
when it becomes necessary to inquire whetheraju dgment of a Court of law is fit to bar its own jurisdiction. It does not act- on such an occasion as an appellate Court : but-it looks to the case with a view
to see whether-justice could be effectually done by
the.Court of law. Lord Redesdale, in the case before alluded to, inquired what was open before the
jury :' and an examination of the counts in this declaration has the same object, and thefurther object, to
ascertain whether any judgment could have been recovered upon them.
The learned counsel here entered into a minutq
analysis of the counts, in order to show that complete justice could not be.done in the action at law,
upon the equitable merits of the case, considered as
a case of trust, complicated accounts, and fraud.
The original trust was never tried, and could not
be tried. A declaration could not be framed to-try it
fully and effectually. A complicated account may
indeed be examined at law. There is no defect of
jurisdiction, but there is an insurmouhitable difficulty in doing justice. A Court of law is not adapted, although it has jurisdiction, to arrive at a just result on such a subject: and as matters of account
are a proper subject of equitable jurisdiction, equity
will interpose on the mere ,ground of that difficulty,
notwithstanding there 'has been a trial at law. The
want of the defendant's oath, which-this bill, in seeka I &ho. 4. Left. 204.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1s2.
ing relief, calls for., was alone an insurmountable ob'I'
stacle : This is not a bill for discovery merely , if it
v.
would
it
was, it-could not be maintained; for then
Blake.
plainthe
and
not be a case:for equitable cognizance,
tiff should have come here for a discovery during the
Us pendens at law. But although it is a bill for relief, discovery is most important to that relief. The
relief was always in the power of a Court of equity,
and one of the reasons why this Court ought not to
be satisfied with what has been done at law, is, that
at law, there could be no discovery. The examination into the trust, and its abuses, could not be complete without the defendant's oath. If the plaintiff
had come into equity seeking discovery and relief,
while the suit was depending at law, the Court of
equity would have taken the whole cause under its
care, and would have determined it as now required
to do and the plinciple is not altered by the suit at
law having proceeded to judgment, since the cause
has not yet been decided upon the defendant's oath.
Where a bill alleges that a verdict has been obtained,
on a matter of equitabJe cognizance, against' the defendant's knowledge of the merits, a reliance upon
such verdict is as much against conscience as to that
defendant, as the alleged breach of trust itself. In
this case, the plea is no bar to the relief, it fhc defendant's knowledge makes-the verdict unconscientious. Ajudgment may, indeed, be ple'aded: in bar,
where the matter has been fully tried, and where the
judgment is not impea tched through the conscience of
the defendant. If the bill alleges nothing, that if
true, convicts the defendant of -knowledge that his

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

V.

Blake.

verdict is against conscience, the plea is good. But
a Court of equity ought not to relinquish its jurisdiction, until the defendant has maintained the verdict, on a matter of equitable cognizance, by his
oath.
2. It has already been shown, that the merits of
the cause could not have been fully and fairly tried
at law, and the j odge's charge shows that they were
not. But it is 'said that the plaintiff ought then to
have moved for a new trial. find certainly upon a
matter which a Court of law only had a right to dispose of, this would have been the proper course:
But this is a matter of equity, and if the party will
set up a trial at law as a bar to equitable relief, he
must show 'it, as he alleges it to be, a full and fair
trial, and that the equitable merits, were really left
open to the jury.
3. But supposing the plea to be proved, is its sufficiency now open for inquiry And certainly the general rule would exclude that inquiry pleas are not
usually forestalled by the bill but if the bill shows
what, if true, would invalidate the plea, taking issue
on it does not cure the defect.a But, it has been before shown, that this bill does allege such matter, and
the plea admits the whole of it by not denying it. It
is true that the defendant cannot amend his plea, but
he may be ordered to answer, reserving him the benefit of his plea at the.hearing, and in that mode justice will be done.
a Coop. P1. 227.

463

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

Mr. Webster, and Mr. Jones, c(ntra, -insisted, that
no question could arise on.the sufficiency of the plea
in point of law, for by going. to issue on the facts alleged in the plea, the parties have waived all objections of that nature: or, in the words of Gilbert, " if
a party replies to. a plea before it comes on to be argued, this is as full an admission of the plea,-as if it
had been argued and' allowed, for the plea by this
replication is allowed. to be good ; only the-defendant is put to the proof thereof, and-so he may be,
when it is argued and allowed1. But-if he proves his
plea,. the bill must be dismissed at the'hearing. a
Thus, if the defendant, )n pleading a purchase for a
valuable consideration, oits to deny notice,. if -the
plaintiff replies to it, all that the defendant has to do,
is to prove his purchase; and even if the plaintiff
proves, notice, it is inmaterial ; for it is the-plaintitfs
own fault if he does not set down the plea to be argued, in Which case it would -be overruled.' So here,
if the plea had been bad, the plaintiff should have set
it down for argument. The plea consists of two material parts , italleges a judgment at law, for the
same cause of action,. in a Court of competent jurisdiction , and it avers that there is no ground to impeach that judgment, and no new evidence discovered to enable the plaintiff to go behind it. There
is the same strictness of pleading in equity, as at
law:c but if the rule were not so, this plea is
a Gilb. For Rom. 98. Mitf. P1. 244. Beames' Eq. P1. 317
2 Eq. Abr 79, Wyatt's Prac. Reg. 376. 1 Scho. + Lefr. ,725.
b Harris v Ingleden, 3 P Wins. 95.
c 2 Aek. 632.

1821.
Hugbo

V.
Wake.

464

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
sufficient. The general principle is clear, that
%.000, a judgment in a competent Court, is a bar
V. to a proceeding for the same cause of action
Blake.
in any other Court. It is conclusive as to
every matter which might have been litigated and
decided in the first suit. The rule in equity is the
same in this respect as at law.a Nor does it make
any difference, that the case is proper, in itself, for
equity jurisdiction. If so, a judgment at law could
never be pleaded in bar of a suit in equity. Questions of fraud and trust are not the peculiar and exclusive subjects of equity jurisdiction. Whenever
Courts of common law can reach these subjects, they
dispose bf them effectually and conclusively.' If a
particular subject is common to the two jurisdictions, the judgment of that tribunal which first appropriates it to itself, must necessarily be conclusive,
otherwise the party might speculate upon his chances
of recovery in both. and as the Courts of the Union
are npw constituted, we should be presented with the
novel spectacle of a party suing on both sides of the
Circuit Court for the same cause of action. Here
the judgment is as good a bar to the discovery as to
the relief.c So, a plea of the statute of limitations,
or the statute of frauds, is a bar to discovery as well
as relief.d And it is now the settled course of proceedingi that if a bill is filed for discovery and relief,
a 3 Atk. 626.
6 I ZUsrr. 396. Miff. Pl. 90. 3 Bl. Com. 431.
156. 1 P Wms. 154.
.cMitf. P1. 193.
d Coop. P1. 251. 255. 257. 1 Bra. Ch. 305.

2 P Wims.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and the .plea is sufficient -to.bar the relief; it is held
sufficient to bar the discovery.a It is the general
rule, that a plea confesses and avoids, but that principle does not apply in this case, where the. defendant denies every allegation of the bill,,and supports
his denial by the former trial and verdict. Had it
been a plea of payment, or release, or of the statute
of frauds, or limitations, the rule might be applicable. The real defence is,-that this matter has been
before tried, and found against the plaintiff. If thb
defendant had answered more, he would have overruled his own plea.
Where is the authority for asserting, that it is no
objection to the present bill, that a discovery was inot
soughtyendente lite 9 What use could now be made
of a discovery P It could not aid any proceeding
elsewhere: and could only be used as a ground for
relief in the present suit. The whole of :the argument on the. other side, on this point, rests on the
notion, that the plaintiff may sue at law, and being
defeated there, may, of course, file a bill in equity
for the same matter. The unavoidable consequence
of that doctrine would be, that in no case could the
judgment of a Court of law be pleaded in bar to a
suit in equity. Here the cause of action is equally
within the jurisdiction of a Court of law, which has
pronounced upon it, and whose judgment must,
therefore, be conclusive in all other Courts and the
argument against its conclusiveness, in this case, goes
on the supposition, that the defendant cannot set up
a .9 Pes. 3un. 75.
VOL. VL-.

59

465
1821,

"
V.

Hughes

Blake.

W,6

CASESIN THE SUPREME COURT

the judgment without. undertaking to prove, that it
HughesSwas a correct judgment'on the merits, or, in other
words, .without going through -he whole process of
V.
trial again. -The plaintiff had to choose betweenh
Make.
1821.

three different courses. He might sue in. cquity.;
he might sue at law, and file abill for. discovery
lite pendente, or he might bring.an action -at law,
and -go to trial with ut the. aid of a. discovery He
elected the -atter course, and..must be bound .by
it.. The verdict and judgment constitute a flat
bar. The plaintiff is ' not now entitleo -to -a :discovery, unless he. is enutled to relief; he -is not
entitled to relief, because- it is a reg judicate. A
Court of equity cannot -try -over - agai..the merits
which were.full tried in the, former cause. To revise the"merits uf a cause which has been -once-tried
between the saime .parties, and in a competent Court,
is the province of an appellate Court and not of a
co-ordinate tribunal, or-one of .a diffierent.jurisdiction. Parties must prosecute their rigts in due
time, and before the proper forum-, and having onc
elected their forum, the decision is, conclusive,, not
only as-to the matter actually adjudged, but- . 'to
everymatter which might have been litig-4ted and
decided.a In- the action at law, the judge's charge
night have been eq.cepted to, if- erroneous, and a
new trial granted, which is in itself a sort of equitable right ; but if -the charge was correct, no injus.
tice has been done. The'present bill avows it to be
for.the same-cause of action, and does not allege any
a Le Guen v. Gouverneur, I John.. Cas. 436. Per KENT,
C.J. Bateman v. Wiloe

I &h. 4- Lef. 201.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

467

incompetency, in the jurisdiction of the Court of law.
is i.
"""
that
It sets up no new right, but merely contends,
Hughea
V.
the plaintiff had a right then, on matter discovered
Bake.
now
question
The
time.
the
at
existing
but
since,
is, not as to the goodness of the counts in the plaintiff's declaration, but whether the merits have been
substantially tried upon them not intending, however, to admit, that the counts were not sufficient.
The regular course of the Court of Chancery, in
such a case, is to refer them to the master to report whether the cause of action be substantially the
same. a
As to the principles which govern Courts of equity in setting aside verdicts as against equity: it must
be shown that at the time of the trial at law some
material fact existed, within the defendant's own
knowledge, different from the finding of the jury. b
Here there is no .such fact and even if there had
been, if it was also within the plaintifl's knowledge,
he should have filed a bill of discovery, lite pendente,
to obtain the defendant's answer on oath. Supposing the testimony of E. Williams to be true, it establishes no fact existing at'the time, which is essential
to entle the plaintiff to relief in equity.; But his
testinony is explicitly contradicted by the defendant's answer and the plea must thierefore stand, being supported by the answer, and contradicted by
the testimony of a single witness only, unsupported
a I Vern. 310. .Note. RaiLthby's ed.
b Lee v. Williams, 3 Alk. 224.
c Standish v. Radley, 2 Alk. 178.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUT
182i.

Hughes
V.

by circumstances to strengthen its.credibility. ' The
between the parties took place more
than twenty years ago. The plaintiff had an opportunity of establishing his pretende] claim in the tribunal which he had elected, and in which he failed;
and the defendant has a just right to avail himself ol
that failure- as a bar. to any further proceedings in a
case where, besides the solemn trial which has 'already been had at law, he has now purged his conscience of the allegations of fraud, which'have been
made against him without the slightest foundation
in the facts and circum'stances of the case.

Stransactions

"make.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of
the Court, and after stating the pleadings, proceeded
as follows.
In-examining whether there be any error In the
decree of the Court below, we shall have to inquire
whether the plea of the respondent is proved; and
if so, whether any other decree, except that of dismissing the bill, could have been made by the Court
below.
The defendIn examining the question of fact, that is, whether
ant's denial, in
o hi the plea were proved or not, it will be borne in mind,
hspor
support of his
Mirh i0Ua

sive.0lessbyon.
the
tradicted
testimony
of
mnre than one
witn,,
or one
witness accorn.paed
with
cornyborating
cwrumstances.

that no decree can be made against a positive denial
Of the defendant, of any matter directly charged in
the bill, on the testimony of a single witness, unaccoMpanied by some corroborating circumstance.
a Walton v. Hobbes, I .k. 19, and the cases there cited.
2 Ms. jun. 243. 1 Bro. Ch. 62. 1 Johns. Ch. Ca. 459. 3 Fes.
jun. 170.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

There is no pretence that there is any thing untrue
in any of the averments which the plea contains on
the subject of the proceedings at law-such as that a
judgment was obtained by the respondent-that the
same is in full force, &c. The first averment in
the plea, which will require a more particular consideration, is the one denying that the respondent had
at any time obtained from E. Williams , any allowance or payment, for, or on account of his being bail
for Gibson, in an action brought against -him by one
Evans. The respondent had been permitted, as appears by the facts of the case, to retain out of a fund,
on which the appellant had a claim, a considerable
sum to save him harmless against this responsibility,
and which was, in all probability, allowed to him, on
the trial at law. If, therefore, it could have been
shown that Blake had been fully indemnified, or
paid for this liability from any other quarter, and that
this fact had come to the appellantls knowledge
since the judgment at law, it would seem no more.
than equitable, notwithstanding these proceedings,
thus far to open the account between them. But
has this been done P The allegation of the bill in
substance is, that Blake has been twice indemnified
for the same loss, or, in other words, that he had
been twice reinbursed the monies which he paid as
the bail of Gibson. This fraud, which is so unhesitatingly charged upon the respondent, is not made
out by any testimony in the cause. Independent of
Blake's positive and absolute denial, which is equivalent to the testimony of one witness, there is nothing in the deposition of Williams, who is the only

469
1821.

Hughes

V.

Blake.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Th21.

witness to this point, to establish the fact as stated in

bill. This gentleman has been twice examined,
once in the year 1805, as a witness in the trial at
law, and again, as a witness in this cause. On his

Sthe

Hugbes

v.

Blake.

first examination, he stated that he was informed by Blake that he held in his hand about
6,300" doilars, which had been received of Henry
Newman, -as an indemnity for hfs having become
bail for Gibson in an action by some person whose
name he did not recollect, on which pretence Blake
refused to pay him this sum. In his second deposition, which was taken in this cause, he swears that
he was informed by Blake, that he had received from
Newman about 600 dollars, which he should retain, in consequence of his liability to Evans, as the
bail of Gibson, and that he, Williams) allowed the
respondent to apply this money for that purpose.
Now, admitting that Blake retained these monies,
and with the consent of Williams, who, it appears
however, had no interest in, or control over them,
with intent to, apply them in this way, where is there
any proof .whatever, in contradiction of Blake's answer that he ever did make that use of them. He
might have securities of Gibson of various kinds,
he avails of which he might have a right to retain
for the same object, but if he actually made only
one appropriation for such object, no one could
complain. That the fund spoken of by Williams, which arose out of Newman's note, was
not applied to the indemnity which has so often been
mentioned,appears not only by an averment in Blake's
plea to that effect, but by the testimony of Gibson

OF THE UNITED STATES.

himself, a witness of the appellant, who declares,
that the note of Newman was.subject to his order
that-no privity episted between Williams and Blake

placed
respecting the same-; and that it had not been
in Blake's bands as an indemnity for becoming his
bail. It follows, therefore, that -Blake could not
have obtained from. Williams any allowance or payment on account of this responsibility ; and we aecordingly find, from the bill atself, that on a settlement which took-place- between Blake and Gibson,
in .November, 1796, aboat two months after the acceptance in favour- of the -appellant, the former fell
in debt to the latter a sum exceeding two thousand
dollars, the payment -ofwhich, by"Blake, is one -subject of complaint in the appellant's bill. Now,'it is
more than probable, that in this .settlement, Gibson
received a credit for the very mobey of which Williams speaks, as Gibson acknowledges it to have
been a finaf settlement of all the accounts between
him and, Blake. The Court, therefore, is entirely
satisfied, that the averment in the respondent's plea,
Which it has just been considering, is fully established, and that the proof is such as to leave no room
whatever to believe, that Blake was ever r'epaid the
moneys he advanced as the bail of Gibson, from any
other fund than that which the appellant had consented should stand pledged for that purpose. As
little truth is there in the allegatioa, that what Williams could testify on this subject, was unknown to
Hughes during the pendency of the aation at law;
for Williams, who is examined as a witness for the

1821.
Hughes

Hughes

v.
'Ba

472

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

plaintiff in this suit, swears to the very fact, which he
"
had been produced to prove in the action at law reHughes
V.
specting the declarations of Blake concerning NewBlake.
man's note, and this he does without any
variation
from his former testimony, materially affecting the
present suit. The other averment, therefore, in the
plea, that no new evidence has come to the appellant's knowledge respecting the matters in litigation,
is fully and satisfactorily established.
Areplication
The truth -of the plea being thus made out, what
(oa plea is an
admission
ofitsin is to be the consequence P If the rule of Courts of
i ffciency
1821.

._to

deeadant hs

equity in England is to be. applied, there can be no

doubt. If a plea, i the apprehension of the comof factPo- plainant, be good in matter, but not true in fact, he

prove
to
to dqjitinto
POiat

may reply to it, as has been done here, and proceed
to examine witnesses in the same way as in case of
a replication to an answer: but such a pror-eeding is
always an admission of the sufficiency of the plea
itself, as much so, as if it had been set down for argument and allowed ; and if the facts relied on by the
plea are proved, a dismission of the bill on the hearing is a matter of course. Whatever objection there
may be to adhering strictly to this course of proceedIng in every description of cases, it is considered as
the long and established practice of a Court of equity, which ought not lightly to be departed from. It
is not perceived, that any serious mischief can arise
from it. Counsel will generally be able to decide
on the merits of any defence which may be spread
on a plea, and if insufficient, it is not probable they
will do otherwise than set it down for argument.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

473

Nor will they ever take issue on it, but in a case
1821.
which presents a very clear and sufficient defence, if 1
Hughes
the facts be proved. If a replication should be filed
r.
inadvertently, the Court would have no difficulty in Blake.
permitting it to be withdrawn. But if the plaintiff
will persevere in putting the defendant to the trouble and expense of proving his plea, it must be from
an entire conviction that it contains a substantial defence, and in such case there is no hardship in a
Court's considering it in the same light. But without applying the rule which has been mentioned, to
the present case, the Court has no difficulty in saying, that the matters set forth in this plea, which has
been drawn with great care and judgment, constitute
a complete defence to the present action, and that
the appellant has failed in showing any good cause
why the judgment at law should not be conclusive
on all the matters stated in the bill. Whatever claim
he may at one time have had on Blake for one fourth
of 75,000 dollars, secured by Barrel's notes, if Blake
knew at the time of taking them of his interest to
that extent, or for not taking a note for that amount
in the name of Hughes himself, it is very certain,
that with a full knowledge on his part, that Blake
utterly denied a liability to account with any one but
Gibson, he came to a settlement with him, by allowing him to accept of Gibson's draft, in his favour,
in such way as to charge the fund on which it was
drawn with so many deductions as entirely to exhaust it. And when he is apprised of this conditional acceptance by his agent, or the person who
VOL VT

60

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

V74
1821.

Hughes

V.

Blake.

presented the draft, instead of returning it, or making
any complaint, he acquiesces in it for seven or eight
years, -and then brings an action -to enforce this very
contract of acceptance, which he must have known
put.it in the power of the acceptor to make all the
deductions from.,the fund in his hands, which were
designat-d in the act of acceptance. After. six years
litigation in a Court of law, it is now attempted to
revive the same controversy, at least in part, on an
allegation that Blake received a compensation in
some other way than out of the fund, on which the
bill in his favour was drawn, for one of the liabilities mentioned in 'the acceptance. That this was
not the case, is abundantly proved. But if Blake
had other funds of Gibson, besides the note of Barrel, which lie also considered as under Gibson's exclusive control, out of--whieh his indemnity as bail
might have .been obtained, what right has Hughes
now to complain, that such other funds were not
applied in that way,-after he had agreed or consented that this indemnity should come out of those
funds of Gibson in the hands of-Blake, out of which
he was to be paid. Having -come into the arrAi-nement, Blake might well think himself at liberty, as
it seems he did, to apply the other funds of Gibson
in any otber way which he and Gibson might think
proper. Whether Gibson be liable to the appellant
for the subtraction of' any part of his fund for the
payment of his debt, is a question not before the
Court, but we cannot see that an application of
them in express conformity with the agreemrnnt of

4715

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the parties to this suit, can give the appellant any
claim on the respondent. At any rate, the plea
having denied all the allegations which were relied
on as grounds for removing the bar which it was antiipated would be interposed to the appellant's bill,
and all the matters stated in the plea, on which issue
was taken, having been fully proved, the Court is of
opinion, that the decree of the Circuit Court must
be affirmed, with costs.

i8ai.
Bartle

Y.
Coleman.

Decree affirmed.a
a Vide 1 Mtason's Rep. 515.

(LOCAL LAw.
BARTLE V

S. C.

PnACTICE.)
COLEMAN.

Under the act of Assembly of Virginia, the defendant may. enter special bail, and defend the suit at any time before the entering up of
judgment upon a writ of inquiry executed, and the appearance -of
the defendant, or the entry of special bail, before such judgment,
discharges the appearance bail.
If the defendant does not appear, or give special bail, the appearance
bail may defend the suit, and is liable to the same judgment as the
defendant would have been liable to; but the defendant cannot appear and consent to a reference, the report and judgment on which
is to bind the appearance bail as well as himself. Such a joint judg'ment is erroneous, and will be reversed as to both.

THIS

cause was argued by Mr. Swann, for the ma

