CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

240
1821.
Willinks

v.

(Commorr L

.)

Hollings.
worth.
WILLINKS V. HOLLINGSWORTH

et

aL

IL and others, merchants in Baltimore, consigned a vessel and cargo
to W and others, merchants in Amsterdam, with instructions to
them respectint her ulterior destination, which showed, that on the
failure of'getting a freight to Batavia, or of selling the vessel at a
price limited, she was to proceed to St. Petersburg, 4nd there take
in a return cargo of Russiangoods for the United States, but with
instructions to the master committing to ,hun the management of
*the ulterior voyage. No freightto Batavia cotild be obtained, and
the vessel could not be .uord for the price litnited-at Amsterdam,
and W and others, purchased i .-2msterdai, with the c9ncurrence
of the master, a return cargo of Russian goods, partly with the
money of H. and others, and partly with money advanced by themselves. On the return of the vessel to Baltimore, H. anad others
objected'to the purchase of this cargo in Amsterdam, as being contrary to express Qrders, and gave, notice to W and others, of their
determination to hold them. responsible for all losses sustained in
consequence of this breadh 9f instructions; but received the goods
and sold them. W and others brought an assumpsit against H.
and others, to recover from them. thp, monies advanced. The declation contained the three usual money counts. Held, Ist That the
plaintiffs had a demand in law against the defendants, which could
be maintained ic-this form of action. 2dly. That whether the plaintiffs could, or could not, be made responsible in any form of action
which might be devised for the possible loss resulting -from the
breaking up of the intended voyage to St. Petersburgh, the defendants were not entitled to a deduction from the plaintiffs' demand, for
the amount of such loss.

THis was an action of assumpsit brought in the
Circuit Court of Maryland, by the plaintiffs, who
wtre merchants of Amsterdam, to recover from the
defendants, merchants of Baltimore, a sum of money

advanced by the plaintiffs m Amsterdam, for the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cargo of the Henry Clay a vessel belonging to the
defendants, which had been consigned by them to
the plaintiff's, with an outward cargo, and with
orders respecting her ulterior destination, which
showed, that on the failure of getting a freight to
Batavia, or of -selling her at Amsterdam, she was to
go to St. Petersburg, and there take in a return cargo
of Russian goods for the United States. The plaintiffs purchased in Amsterdam, with the concurrence
of the master, a return cargo for the Henry Clay,
partly with the money of the defendants, and partly
with money advanced by themselves. On her arrival at Baltimore, the defendants objected to the purchase of this cargo in Amsterdam, as being contrary
to express orders, and immediately gave notice to
the plaintiffs of their disapprobation of the transaction, and of their determination to hold them responsible for all. losses sustamed.in consequence of this
departure from instructions. They, however, received the cargo, and sold it.
The declaration contained three counts. the lflst,
for money lent and advanced to the defendants; the
second, for money laid out and expended for their
use; and the third, for money received by them for
the use of the plaintiffs.
On the trial of the cause m the Circuit Court, the
defendants prayed the Court to instruct the jury,
that upon the whole evidence, which is spread on
the record, "the plaintiffs have not any demand in
law against the defendants which can be maintained
in this action , but that, if they have, the defendants
Vo0L. VI.

31

1821.
WiflinU

V.
worth.

Hollings-

242

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Willinks

'amount

V.
woth.

are entitled to a deduct on from the same, -of the
of the loss which the jury- shall find the said
dfendants sustained, by reason of the. alteration
aforesaid, in the destination to St. Petersburg, of the
said ship, and the loading her as aforesaid at-Amsedam." On this motion the Judges were divided in
opinion, and the division certified to this Court.
The evidence principally consisted of two letters
dated the 29th of April, .1815, written by. M'Kim,
one of the defendants, addressed; the one to the.plaiit-tiffs, the other to the master.of the Henry Qlay.That to the plaintiffs -was as follows " Gentlemen--The ownfers of-the ship Henry
Clay having appointed- me. the-'ship9s husband for
this voyage, and from the iltroduction of our mutual
friends, Robert 'Gilmor and Sons, I have been directed by the owners to consign the ship to your
house, also that part of her cargo- which I consider
belongs to her owners.jointly, agreeable to the invoice, amounting to 1,363 dollars 40 cents.
" You will find, that the owners of the ship have
shippel tobacco on their separate accounts, the proceeds are to be placed to the credit of John -M'Kim,
jun. to remain a fund for the purpose- of lbading the
ship if she should proceed to St. Petersburg. The
freight and primage, and also Captain Charles
Gantt's bills, which are now enclosed, drawn on
you for the sum of 6,550 guilders, are to constitute
part of the funds for the loading of the ship.
" Our wish is, in the first place, if a good freight
or, charter can be had for the ship to Batavia, that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

she should proceed there in preference to any other
place.

"And, secondly, if the ship can be sold for 8,000
pounds sterling, you will dispose of her rather than
send her to St. Petersburg."
The letter then proceeds to give such a description
of the ship as might enhance her value in the estimation of a purchaser, and then adds, " If the Henry Clay proceeds to St. Petersburg, we must depend
on your placing funds there to purchase a cargo of
iron, hemp, and other goods. If the funds we have
placed in your hands should fall short of loading
her, Messrs. Gilmor and Sons have written you to
make us any advances that may be deficient. Agreeable to the estimate, what. we have ordered from St.
Petersburg, Will not exceed 45,000 dollars, and you
may rest assured, that any sum advanced us will be
remitted to you as soon as we know the amount. ,"
The letter to the master was in ihese words:
"Dear Sir-The ship Henry Clay is given you
in charge, that you proceed with all possible despatch for Amsterdam, and it is recommended that
you sail north-about at this fine season of the year.
The owners of the ship have the greatest confidence
in your good management; that you will take care
that your disbursements in every foreign port may
be as moderate as possible; that you will purchase
every article yourself on the lowest terms that may.
be required. for the ship, that you will use the
greitest. economy in all your expenditures. After
your arnval at Amsterdam, your first object is a

243
18fl.
Wiuinks

Willinl

r.

Hoflingsworth.

2U

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.

good charter for Batavia, and if what you know to

W
Willinks

be a good charter is obtained, you will of course ac-

V.
Hollings-

cept it in preference to any thing else.
1'And if a good freight cannot be had to Batavia,

worth.

and the ship can be sold for 8,000 pounds sterling,
you have orders to sell her, and we confidently expect that she will bring more, as she cost upwards of
14,000 pounds sterling, and never made one voyage.
I hope that every exertion will be made to proceed
to St. Petersburg immediately, if you do not go to
Batavia, and the ship cannot be sold , as the season is
far advanced, no time must be lost. The same industry must be used to get away from St. Petersburg, for fear that you might be detained there all the
winter. The owners must also depend on your attention at St Petersburg, that the hemp is good that
you receive." The letter then gives instructions
respecting pilots, protests, &c., and then adds,
"Messrs. Willinks will of course endeavour to consign the ship to a friend of theirs at St. Petersburg,
but we have great confidence in a house recommended by Mr. Cumberland D. Williams, Messrs. Meyer
and Buxner, and we could wish you to consign the
ship to them. If any freight should offer from St.
Petersburg to Baltimore, of course, you will accept
of it, and if any goods for Philadelphia or NewYork should be there, you can inform the shippers
how easy- they may be sent," &c.
It was also.proved, that no freight to Batavia could
be obtained, and that the vessel could not be sold at
the price limited.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M4

Mr. Harperand Mr. Winder, for the plaintiffs, arl18i.
gued, (.) That the present action could be main- w"'w'
o.
tained by the plaintiffs for the monies advanced by
them at Amsterdam, for the purchase of the return wortb.
cargo. received by the defendants at Baltimore. FRbuar 2d.
Even supposing that the defendants might have
refused to receive it, yet having actually sold it,
and received the proceeds of the sale, this raises
an assumpsit to pay the money thus received.
In the case of Manella v. Barry, foreign merchants, sent by their general agent, written orders to
their factor in this country, to purchase goods here
upon their account, but to ship the goods in the
name of the factor, and by those orders the. factor
was referred to the verbal communicafions of the general agent, who nndertook to order the goods to be
shipped in the name of another person, and declared
that he had authority from the foreign merchants
thus to control and vary their orders , the factor was
held to be justified in obeying the new orders of the
general agent, though contrary to the first written
orders. So, here the consignment of the ship to the
plaintiffs was limited to her transactions at Amsterdam, and the control of her ulterior movements was
left to the master. The learned counsel here entered
into a minute examination of the correspondence, to
show that this was its import.
2. The defendants cannot claim a deduction. from
the plaintiffs' demand of the amount of the supposed
loss sustained by the alteration of the intended desa 3 Cranch. 415.

CASES IN THE. SUPREME COURT
ian.

tination of the vessel to St. Petersburg, and the load-

ing her at Amsterdam. This questin depends not
WialinksV.
on the English statute of set-off, but on the act ot
HollingsAssembly of Maryland, of November, 1785, c.. 46.
worth.
s. 7. This act provides, " That in case any suit
shall hereafter be brought on any judgment,-or on
any bond, or other writing sealed by- the party, -and
the defendants shall have.-any -demand or claim
against the plaintiff, upon judgment, bond, or other
instrument urter seal, or upon note, agreement, assumpsit, or account proved, as by this act is allowed
the defendant, or otherwise according to law, shall be
at liberty to file his account in bar, or plead discount
to the plaintiff's claim, and judgment shall be given
for the plaintiff for the sum only which remains due
after just discount made, provided the sum which
shall remain due after such discount be sufficient to.
support a judgment in the court where the cause
may be tried, according to its established jurisdiction;
and in. all cases of suits upon simple contracts, tb.
defendant may file an -accountin bar, or plead dis
count of any claim he may have againstthe plaintiff,
proved as aforesaid, or otherwise proved accordingto
law, which may be of an equal or superiornature to
the plaint.ff's claim, and judgment shall be given as
aforesaid." Unliquidated damages cannot be admitted by way of discount, according to the very.letter
of the law, and the uniform decisions of the local
Courts of Maryland. But even the English statute
has received the same construction.0 Damages for
a Montagu on Set-Q,

21. and the authorities there cited.

OP 'THE UNITED STATES.

a breach of the implied contract of an,agentare, and
necessarily must be, unliquiated. If then -such da.'
mages cannot- be set off under 'the statute, neither
can they be-admitted incidentally, by Way of deduction, upon the equitable principles of an action for
money had and receiyed. 4I[would be an evasion-of
the- law- to permit such an -equitable deduction,
which sounds rother in tot than contract. The policy of the-law is to prevent two distinct issues, involving controverted questions, from being tried-at.
the same time, thus confounding the simplicity of actions and of proceedings ia a Court of law.
Mr. Pinkney and Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra, (I.)
insisted, that the action could ,not be maintained by
the pldintiffs,-there having been. a manifest breach of
Tstrutons.Qn their parts not justified by .the pretended approbation of the master. (2.) -The defendants have a right to a deductiQn for the loss sustained by -them in breaking up the. intended, voyage
to St. Petersburg. No part of the money,'for which
the action is brought, can be said to be received -to
the use of -the plaintiffs, which, by the very nature
of their claim, ought in conscience to be applied to
the indemnity of the defendants against the breach
of contract which originated the plaintiffs' demand.
The claim of the plaintiffs arises from a breach of
their duty to the defendants. That breach. of duty
forced the money in question into- the hands of the
Brown v. Cuming, 2 Catnes' Rep. 33. and Note (a). Winchester
v. Hackley, 2 Cranch, 341.

1821.

r.
HolHijgi.
wb .

2W8
1i1.
''in

Walnks

CASES IN THE-SUPREME COURT

defendants.

If the plaintiffs should obtain a judg-

ment for the whole of this money, it cannot be

Vi

doubted that Chancery would enjoin execution until

worth,

the extent of the injury inflicted upon the defendants by the acts which produced the judgment could
be ascertained by a jury. And surely m this action
for money had and received, a Court of law will proceed with the same view, if the existence of the defendants' right tocomplain is ascertainable (although
the exact quantum of the injury is not) by the same
evidence, and through the same circumstances, which
properly belong to the case of the plaintiffs. The
acknowledged nature of the action for money had
and received, will otherwise cease, and it will differ
in nothing from any other form of action. If we are
not to. inquire in this action, how,.and under what
circumstances money was received, in order that we
may determine whether, ex &,quoet bono, the defendants may retain the whole, or any:part of it, and if
nothing'can prevent a recovery of the whole, but a
plea of discount, or a notice of set-off,.or such other
defence as in ordinary actiois may be competent, the
character given in the books of the action for money
had. and received, is a perfect delusion. The case of
Dale v. Sellet,a goes the whole length of this doctrine. The deduction there claimed might, perhaps,
have been used as a discount or set-off under the statute.; although as the claim was not a liquidated
one, it probably could not; -but at any rate it was
not so used, and consequently, as a discount or seta 4 Burr. 2133.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

off, no advantage co.uld be taken of it at the trial.
Why then was it allowed in that case P Because of
the equitable nature of the plaintiff's action, and of
the intimate connection between the claim and the
defence, out of which arose the conclusion that the
defendant might retain, or stop so much of the money, although it was in fact the plaintiff's money
which he received, and although there was no precise contract that it should be stopped out of the money received. The right in that case to stop a reasonable compensation (which the parties had not
defined) out of the whole sum which had come to
the defendant's possession, was exactly such a right
as we now insist upon. It stood, as ours does, upon
the qualities of that sort of suit which the plaintiffhad
instituted, and upon the union of the claim and the defence. The defence, indeed, was less complicated in
that case than it is in the present one: but so, too, was
the plaiiitiff's demand. And, besides, a defence is
not the less a good defence, or an examinable defence, because it does not depend upon a single fact,
or does depend on many facts. Ajurycandeal with it,
nevertheless, and does deal with such defences every
day: and there would be a defect ofjustice if they did
not. The defence in this case rests, incontestiblyupon
contract, as it did in that. The deduction claimed
was in that, as in this, unliquidated in amoutit. The
rzght to the deduction arose in that, out of the whole
circumstances of the. case. It does so equally in
this. The amount was, in that case, as well as in
this, part of the case itself2 as respected the demand
of the plaintiff. Evidence was necessary on the
VOL. VI.

32

249
1821.

T.
worth

250
1i2.

Williaks

V.
worth,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

part of the defendant, to ascertain there-the quantum
of the deduction, as much as it is here. What case
could the Ilaintiffs in this cause have shown upoi
any of the counts in their declaration, without expq.sing,.or letting in an exposition, of the whole matter on- which the defendants rely ;' Of necessitythe
entire transaction was before the jury, and t'is upo.r
that, as in Dale v. Sollet, that we contend for tb.
admissibility of a defence Which .e entire transaction brings under the notice of the .Cpurt.andjury.
And it should seem to be monstrous, that when the
whole is regularly, and necessarily presented, .iid~the
.result is that the defendaps, ought, in ,conscience
and equity, to be permitted t. retain an ascertainablepart of' the money reeved by them fortheir QwuI
use, they should be turned round' to"a crQss aefien
against persons who appear in their writ to be-foreigners, and are .not therefore, amenable to our judicatures, or that. (being probably remediless at law,.if
they are compelled to part with.. the whole of the
money in their hands) they should be, driven into
Chancery for an injunction upon grounds of equity,
equally available, as we are-taught by the- authorities,, in an action for money had and received..
The cross action, to which the other side refer us,
must, in truth, try the present- action over again;
and a verdict for the present defendants, in such an
action, could scarcely be reconciled with a verdict in
tins cause for the whole amount of the.plaintiffs'
claim. A cross action, which is to unravel the action now sub judice,, and which upon the same circumstances is to establish that the present- plaintiffs

OF" THE UNITIED STATES.

-oughtnot-to have what it is now contended they
1821.
ought to have, seems to be supererogation at least. Wiffinlq
When a cross action is unavoidable, the necessity Hoiv.
must be submitted to , and it ts unavoidable where
woK.
the matters of inquiry are not combined in their nature. But, where so combined, an action for money
had and received, opens the entire investigation, and
can doample'justice withoutother assistance. Indeed,
it cannot do justice at all on such occasions without
exhausting the whole investigation. And to affect
to administer equity by shutting out one half of the
real case, (upon wich the equity of the other half depends,) would be a mere mockery. Cross actions
are always avoided. when it is possible; and here it
is no.t only possible, but absolutely required by -the
facts.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- .,ar
nion of the' Court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as f6llows :
On.the first branch of the question certified from
the Circuit Court,. no doubt can be entertained.
The defendants having received the cargo of the
Henry Clay, and sold it, are accountable for the
proceeds, although the cargo should be considered as
the property of the plaintiffs. Whether the defendants are liable for tie moneys actually advanced in
Amsterdam, or for the net amount of sales in Baltmore, considering the goods as the property of the
plaintiffs, still they are liable for something, and, of
consequence, the action issustainable.

8th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2
1821.

"

Willinks
WonV.

worth

In deciding on the second branch of the istructions which were required, it becomes material to
examine the orders which were carried out by the
Henry Clay on her voyage from Baltimore to Amsterdam, contained in the letters of the 25th of April,
the one to the plaintiffs, the other to the master.
It is admitted, that no freight to Batavia could be
obtained, and that the vessel could not be sold at the
limited price, consequently, the only deviation from
orders alleged by the defendants is, the purchase of
the Russian goods for the return cargo at Amsterdam, instead of sending the Hdnry Clay to St. Petersburg.
That the orders of the defendants to send their
ship to St. Petersburg, in the evemt which had occurred, were positive, and that no authority was
given to purchase her return cargo at Amsterdam,
under any circumstances, are too apparent for controversy. That this purchase, thus made without
authority, whether with, or without, the consent
and concurrence of the master, must have been made
at the risk of the plaintiffs, is also too clear for argument. But the liability of the plaintiffs for any
loss which the defendants may have sustained by the
breaking up of the voyage to St. Petersburg, depends
on the question, whether the control of that voyage
was committed to them, or tQ the master. In considering this question, it is proper to take into view all
the instructions which were given, and to compare
the two letters written by the defendants with each
other.
In the commencement of the letter written by

OF TAE UNITED STATES.

Mr. M'Kim, on the part of the defendants, he says,
it I have been directed by the owners to consign the
ship to your house, also that part of the cargo which
I consider belongs to the owners jointly."
Whether this contsignment was limited to the
transactions in Amsterdam, or extended to any subsequent voyage" in which the Henry Clay might be
directed to engage, depends on other parts of the
letter.
Mr. M'Kim then proceeds to direct, that certain
parts of the outward cargo should "remain as a
fund for the purpose of loading the ship, if she
should proceed to St. Petersburg."
These orders-are precise and.explicit, with respect
to the funds which are to remain in the hands of the
plaintiffs for the purchase of the cargo in St. Petersburg, but are silent respecting any agency of the
plaintiffs in making that purchase.
After communicating the desire of the defendants,
that a freight should be obtained for Batavia, the
letter proceeds to say, " And secondly, if the ship
can be sold for 8,000 pounds sterling, you will dispose of her rather than send her to St. Petersburg."
This part of the letter may indicate, that in some
other part of it, might be found an express order to
send the Henry Clay to St. Petersburg, if the primary objects of the defendants should be unattainable,
but does not in itself amount to such express order.
The writer does not say, " we request you, if the
vessel.cannot be sold, to send her to St. Petersburg;
but, " you will dispose of her, rather than send her
to St. Petersburg ;" as if there were some authority

253
1821.
WViffinks

V.
worth.

254
1821.

W
V.
Hollingsworth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

not communicated by these words'- to which they
have allusion. There is no such authority, unless it
be implied in -the general consignment of the vessel.
That consignment is completely satisfied by the
agency which was to be exercised.in Amsterdam.
If it was designed to extend it to the eventual voyage to. St. Petersburg, the Messrs. Willinks would
naturally expect -to find some instructions respecting
that voyage, respecting the articles of which the
cargo was to consist, and their conduct in the purchase of -them. But they could find no such instructions. In a subsequent part of the letter, Mr.
M'Kim states the estimated value of the cargo he
had ordered, and is explicit in his request,-that they
would advance, the necessary funds fr laying it in,
should those placed in their hands be insufficient;
but he is entirely silent with respect to their having
any other agency in the voyage.
It was impossible for these gentlemen to read this
letter without, at least, doubting their power to interfere -farther, with respect to the voyage to St.
Petersburg, than to advance the money which might
be required for -the cargo to be purchased at that
place. The letter contains all the information, and
all the power which was necessary for this purpose,
but contains neither information nor power, for any
other purpose.
It was natural for the Messrs. Willinks to require
farther information on this subject, and to seek it
from the master. He could have no motive for
withholding his.letter of instructions from them, and
in.
that they would find, that the management of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

voyage was committed to him, 'and that, the utmost
confidence was.reposed inhis iiateligence;and:integrity. "I hope " says M'Kim, "that every exertion
will be, made -to.proceed to.St. Petersburg immediately. if you do not go to Batavia, and the ship cannot lie.sold." These exertions were to be made by
the master; he was to proceed immediately to St.
Petersburg'; and as no referenceis -here made tothe
1egsrs. Willifxks, the-fair inference seems to he that
he.waswexpeeted to proceed, not in. consequence of
any. orders .heshould. receive 'rom them, but in-consequefce.f.the orders'"he had received from .the
Qwers. ','The.sameindustry$"-he is told, "mustbe
used to gut'.away from.St. Petersburg." The letter
ihen 'adtls; ",the owners must also depend on your
attention at St, Pet rsbarg, that the hemp is: good
that youi receive."
'Aut the part-of.the letter which §eems to be conclaive on; this pjon, is :that which- relates to the
1'Thd.Messrs. Willinks,"
consgnment :of the ship.
says' the writer, " will Qf-course endeavour to consign the ship" to a friend of-theirs at. St. Petersburg,
but we have great confidence in a house recommended-.by Mr. Cumberland D. Williams, Messrs. Meyer
and Buxner, and' we-wish you to consign the ship
to them,"
The owners then did not-suppose, that-they-had
empowered the plaintiffs to order. tfie sip t6 St.
Petersburg. They did not suppose, that their -ori,
ginal .consignment of the Hnry- Clay ti. the Messrs.
Willinks, implied a control over her after the transaqaons-at Amsterdam should be terminated. Had

265
1821.

V.
w6ft

9-56

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

such a control existed, those gentlemen would not
Wi*ik
have consigned her to one of their friends. But
Wilfinks
these words show conclusively, that the defendants
v.
Hollingsworth. themselves directed the consignment of the ship from
Amsterdam to St. Petersburg, and in executing their
orders, the master is not merely directed to proceed
without consulting the Messrs. Willinks, he is directed to disregard their advice should it be offered.
The plaintiffs could not compare this letter with
that addressed to themselves, without perceiving that,
with respect to the voyage to St. Petersburg, every
order was given directly to the master without reference to them, farther than to show, that their interference, with respect to the consignment of the
ship, was to be disregarded; and that their agency
was confined to advancing the necessary fidnds for
the purchase of the return cargo.
Both the master and the Messrs. Willinks appear
to have acted on this construction of their respective
powers. The correspondence between them contains no indication of an opinion in either, that the
voyage to St. Petersburg depended on the orders of
those gentlemen. The master does not require their
orders, but asks their advice, they do not attempt
to order, they only advise. This advice may have
been dictated by their best judgment; or may have
been dictated by a view to personal interest , still it
is mere advice, and was both given and received as
advice.
The, conduct of the parties, then, is full proof of
the opinion each entertained of tie authority of each,
and the first letters written after they had met in
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Amsterdam, show that free communications had
taken place.between theta. In a letter of the 19th
of June, addressed to Captain Gantt, the Messrs.
Willinks say, "We have not received yet the promised note of the Russian goods that would be
wanted for the Henry Clay." And in the captain's
letter from the Helder, of the 18th of June, he says,
"Herewith, I annex you a copy of the order for
Russian produce, which the owners of the Henry
Clay wish to constiiute her return cargo.")
These letters strengthen the probability, that in
the verbal commumcations which were made at
Amsterdam, the captain had stated his orders relative to the voyage to St. Petersburg, at any rate,
they show, thai the note for the cargo, which had
not been transmitted to the Messrs. Willinks, hadThete is an expression in
been entrusted to iii.
the last letter of the plaintiffs to the defendants,
which seems.tohave some bearing on the question,
whether the captain had-communcated to them his
letter of instructions. They say, " You cannot expect, gentlemen, that we shall enter here into all the
'details of this buginess, which has been conducted
by -us, bonafide,.with a view to your greatest benefit
and advantage, faithfully relying on your promises,
and considering the incomplete state of your instructions to us, that your captain was furnished with
more particular orders."1
There is a vagueness in these expressions, arising,
probably, from the unskilfulness of the translation,
if ;they were not written in our language, which
VOL. VL

33

267
1821.
Wiffinks

V.
worth.

Hollings.

2658

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

1821.
wilinka

v.

uouings-_

worth.

rieaves it? in some measure, uncertain, whether-the
plaintiffs meant to assert, that the captain, was furnished with-more particular orders, or that they inferred -this fact from the incQmplete state of the instructions to themselves If the case depended entirely on the question, it-might,.perhaps,.be proppr
to refer to the original, but we do not think-, tIat
the right of the defendants to the deducnon they
claim from the demand, depends entirelv on the fact,
that their orders to their captain were shown to the
plaintifis. Their.letter to the plaintiffs was at best
'equivocal, and any evidence showing, that the construction which the plaintiffs put on that letter, cor.
formed to the inteqtion of the defendants, will justify
-the plaintiffs, altho~gh that evidence was not in their
possession pending the transactron. The defendaits
cannot b6 permitted to say, ",It is true, we,did-not
intend to consign the Henry Clay to you, farthEr
thn, was necoessry; -to .your agency in.
Amsterdam.
We did not inteadc toogive you.any control over her
voyage.to-St.'Petersburg. We had committed that
whole suibjqct to our captain, and- had given him
precise orders respecting, it. We had even gone-. so
far -as to direct him to disregard your consignment
of the vessel, should yQu -endeavour to make one;
But -you did not see these orders, and we will, therefore, make you respensible for not having understood
-our letter to you, as -creating a duty which we did
not intend it should'ereate. This, certainly, cannot
be permitted. As little can they, be permitted' to
charge the Messrs. Willinks, in consequence of the

OF THE--VMTED STATE'S.

advice they gpve, with the"profitsi*hich might pbssibly have- been made on the voyage to St. Peters.
burg. Although the orders were broken-with their
advice, still they were broken by the master, to
whom their execution was confided, not by the
Messrs. Willinks, to whom their execution had not
been confided.
Were it even pbssible, that the Mesgrs. Willinks
could -be made responsible in any form of action
which could be devised, for the possible loss resulting from the breaking up of the voyage to St. Petersburg, they cannot, we think, be made responsibleift
this. Having loaded the Henry Clay at Amsterdam;
clearly without authority, the cargo was shipped
at their risk. The defendants might have refused
it altogether. But they have sold it, and receiVed
the money. This creates an assumpsit to pay the
money received. This action, then, so far as respects the count for money received by the defendants
to the pladintiffs' use, is founded on the transactions in
Baltimore ; and-, were it even possible, which -we
are far from admitting, that the defendants -could lie
allowed to make. a deduction of this supposed lss,
from -the sum- to be recovered on the count for money
laid out and expended to their use, provided- that
count could be- supported, yet they cannot be allowed to make that deduction from the sum to be recovered on -the count for money had'and received to
the use of the plaintiffs, for goods sold as the, goods
of the plaintiffs.

22%9
1i8s.
Wiflinks

V.
worm.

260

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Green

v.

WVatkins.

This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript-of the record of the Circuit Court,
for the fourth Circuit and District of Maryland, and
CERTIFICATE.

on the question on which the Judges of said
Court

were divided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the
plaintiffs have a demand in law against the defendants, which can be maintained in the action now depending in the Circuit Court, and that the defendants are not entitled to a deduction from the same
for the amount of any loss which may have been
sustained by them by reason of the alteration in the
destination of the ship Henry Clay to St. Petersburg, and the loading her at Amsterdam. Which
opinion is direc .ed to be certified to the Circuit
Court.

(PRACTICE.)

GREEN V. WATKINS.
In real or personal actions, at common law, the death of parties, be.
fore judgment, abates the suit, and it requires tWe aid of some-sta.
tutorv Drovision, like that of the 31st section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, c. 20. to enable. the suit to be prosecuted by, or against the
personal representative or heir of the deceased, where the cause of
action survives.
In writs of error upon judgments already rendered, in personal actions,
if the plaintiff in error dies before assignment of errors the writ
abates at common law; but if after assignment of errors, the defendant may join in error, and proceed to get the judgment affirm-

