260

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Green

v.

WVatkins.

This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript-of the record of the Circuit Court,
for the fourth Circuit and District of Maryland, and
CERTIFICATE.

on the question on which the Judges of said
Court

were divided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the
plaintiffs have a demand in law against the defendants, which can be maintained in the action now depending in the Circuit Court, and that the defendants are not entitled to a deduction from the same
for the amount of any loss which may have been
sustained by them by reason of the alteration in the
destination of the ship Henry Clay to St. Petersburg, and the loading her at Amsterdam. Which
opinion is direc .ed to be certified to the Circuit
Court.

(PRACTICE.)

GREEN V. WATKINS.
In real or personal actions, at common law, the death of parties, be.
fore judgment, abates the suit, and it requires tWe aid of some-sta.
tutorv Drovision, like that of the 31st section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, c. 20. to enable. the suit to be prosecuted by, or against the
personal representative or heir of the deceased, where the cause of
action survives.
In writs of error upon judgments already rendered, in personal actions,
if the plaintiff in error dies before assignment of errors the writ
abates at common law; but if after assignment of errors, the defendant may join in error, and proceed to get the judgment affirm-

OF THE 'UNITED STATES.
ed, ifnot erroneous, and may then revive it against the representatires of the plaintiff.
But a writ of error, in personal actions, does not abate by the death
of the defendant in error, whether it happen before or after errors
assigned, and the personal representatives may not only be admitted voluntarily to become parties, but a scire facaas may issue to
compel them.
By the rules of this Court, if either party, in real or personal actions,
-die, pendibg the writ of error, his representatives in the personalty
or realty, may voluntarily become parties, or may be compelled to
become parties, in the manner prescribed by the rule.

Mr. B. Hardin,for the defendant in error, moved
to dismiss the writ of error n this case, which was
a-real action, upon a suggestion of the death of the
demandant and plaintiff in error, pending tihe proceedings in this Court. He insisted that, at common
law, the death of either party, any time beforefinal

261
1821.
Green
V.
Watkins.

Marc is'.

judgment, would have abated the suit ;a that the ju-

diciary act of 1789, c. 20. s. 31. made no provision
for this case, since it merely extended to the case of
the death of parties, in personal actions, before judgment ; and that the statute 17 Car. If. c. 8.. and the
act of Kentucky, showed the sense of Parliament
and the local legislature, that real actions abated by
the death of the parties, before judgment, upon writ
of error on judgments already rendered.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The preliminary qtestiou which has been argued
at the bar, is, whether the writ of error in this case,
a Tidd's Prac. 1024. Bac. .br fit. Abatement.

arc sth.

262

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Green

V.

Watkins.

which is a writ of right, has abated by the death of
demandant, who is the plaintiff in error, pending
the proceedings in this Court. There is a material
distinction tetween the death of parties before judg-

Sthe

ment and after judgment, and while a writ of error-.
is depending. In the former case, all personal actions by the common law abate, and it required the
aid of some statute, like that of the thirty-first section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20. to enable
the action to be prosecuted by or against the personal representative of the deceased, when the caust"of
adtion survived. In real actions, the like principle
prevails, for a still stronger reason, for, by the death
of either party, the right descends to the heir, and a
new cause of action springs up; and the plea is not,
therefore, in the same condition as it was in the lifetime of the party
But, in cases of writs of error upon judgments already rendered, a different rule prevails. In personal
actions, if the plaintiff in error dies before assignment
of error, it is said that by the course of proceedings
at common law, the writ abates, but if, after assignment of errors, it is otherwise. In this latter case,
the defendant may join in error, and proceed to get
the judgment affirmed, if not erroneous, and he may
then revive it against the representatives of the plaintiff. But in no case does a writ of error in personal
-actions abate by the death of the defendant in error,
whether it happen before or after errors assigned. If
it happen before, and the plaintiff will not assign errors, the representatives of the defendant may have a
scirefactas quare executio non, in order to compel

OF THE-UNITED. STATES;

263

him ;- if itihappen. after, they..must :proceed as if the
is21.
defendants were, living, till. judgment be affirmed, 'Green
""
and then reive by scirefacas. And the plaintiff, in wv.
order to .compel the representati-'es of the defendant
.in error, to join in error, may sue out a scirefaczas ad
audiendum ertores, either generally, or naming them.
Such is the. doctrine of approved authorities." It is
dlear, therefore, that at commonlaw, in these cases,
a writ of error does not necessarily abate and that
the personal representatives may not only be admitted volinitarily to become parties, but a sctre faczas
may issue to require them td become parties. And
such has been the practice hitherto adopted in this
Court in all personal actions, whether there has
been an assignment of errors or not; for, a specific
assignment of errors has never been insisted on here.
as a preliminary to the argument, or decision of the
cause.
In respecf to real actions; this is the first time the
question has presented itself upon a writ of error,
where the. death of either party has occurred Pendente lite. There is no doubt that the heir or
privy in estate, who is injured by an erroneous
judgment, may prosecute a writ of'error to reverse it.
And there seems no good reason why, in case of the
death of his ancestor, pending proceedings, he may
-not be admitted to become a party, or be cited to become a party, to pursue or defend the writ, in the
same manner as in personal actions. The death of
neither party produces any change ini the condition
a 2 Tidd's Pr ch. 43. Error,p. 1096

CASES IN THE SUPREM-E COUVRT

,aai.

,Colns
Virgiia.

of the cause, or in the rights of the parties. It would
seem reasonable, therefore, that the suit should proceed, and not be dismissed or abated. -In
the absence of all authority which binds the Court to a
different course, we are disposed to adopt this doctrine, and shall promulgate a general rule on the
subject.
Rule accordingly.

(CONSTiTUTInAL LAw.)

COHENS V. VIRGINIA.
Thia Court has, constitutionally, appellate jurisdiction under the judi.cary act of 1789, c. 20. s. 25. from the -final judgment or decree of
the highest Court of law or equity of a State, having juiisdiction of
the ,ubject matter of the suit, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United'States, and the decision is against their validity; or where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, .or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their beingrepugnant to the
constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision
is. in fayour of such, their validity; or of the constitution, or of a
-treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United States,
and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption,
specially set up or claimed, by either party. under such clause of
the constitution, treaty, statute, or commission.
Iris no ob
ntio
to the exercise of this appellate jurisdiction, that one
of the parties is a State, and the other a citizen of that State.

a Vide new order of Court of the present term. Ante, Rule
XXXII.

