OF THE UNITED STATES.

235

1821.
that respectful deportment which will render all apCo
1'
b
e
prehension chimerical.
The Concepa

Judgment affirmed.

(PBIZZL)

LA CONCEPTION.

The S ansh Consul, Claimant.

Where a capture is made of the property of the subjects of a nation io
amity with the United States, by a vessel built, armed, equipped,
and owned in the United States, such capture is illegal, and the
property, if brought within our territorial limits, will be restored to
the original owners.

Where a transfer of the capturing vessel in the ports of the belligerent State, under whose flag and commission she sails- on a cruize,
is set up in order to legalize the capture, the bona jdes of the sale

must be proved by the usual documentary evidence, in a satisfac,
tory manner.

APPEAL from

the Circuit Court of South Caro-

lina.
This was an allegation filed in the District Court
of South Carolina by the Vice Consul of his Catholic Majesty, claiming restitution of the ship La Conception and cargo, as the property of Spanish sub.
jects to him unknown, which had been illegally captured by the armed ship La Union,. sailing under
the flag of Buenos Ayres, and pretending to have a
commission or letter of marque from that government, but actually built, equipped, armed, and manned in the United States. A claim was interposed

tion.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUftT

by one Brown, claiming the property as having been
1821..
taken by him, as commander of La Union, on the
-,
The Cbncep.
high seas, under a commission from the government
Uto.
of Buenos Ayres, authorizing him to capture the property of the subjects of Spain. The District and
Circuit Courts decreed restitution of the property to
the captors,. no sufficient evidence being produced of
the capturing vessel havnig been equipped, or having augmented her force in the ports of the United
States. On appeal to -this Court, -farther proof was
taken, showing conclusively, that the capturing vessel was originally built, owned, and equipped in this
country, and after proceeding to -Buenos Ayres, and
sailing from that port-on -a cruize, had touched at the
port of New-Orleans, and there illegally augmented
her force, since which, the capture in- question was
made. This evidence was attempted to be -repelled
on the part of the captors, by-testimony tending to
show a transfer of the capturing vessel at Buenos
Ayreg to domiciled subjects of that country, and that
the subsequent -augmentation of her. force at NewOrleans, if any, was very trifling, and only amounted to a-replacement of her former equipment.
March e&

The Attorney- General, and Mr.. Hopkinson, for
the appellant and claimant, the Spanish Consul, argued, that the original owners were entitled to restitution, accordingto the uniform series of decisions in
thts Court, upon the ground that .the capturing ship
was built and equipped in the 'United .:tates, with
the intention of criizing against -the subjects of
Spain, m v"ition of our neutrality, and actually be-

OF THE UNITED STATE$.

23-7

1821.
longed to citizens of the United States, when the
c
T Concepp3resent capture was made; or -had illegally aug- The
tion.
mented -herforce in our ports, previous to the capture.
That the pretended transfer at.Buenos Ayres was
evidently colourable, and was not proved by the producliom of the bill of sale, or any of-the other documentary evidence usually expected by maritime
Courts, to establish a -change of this species of property. That the enlistment.of additional seamen to the
crew at New-Orleans, being prived, the onus was
-thrown back upon the captors, to show that the persons so enlisted were subjects of Buenos Ayres, tran-

siendy within the UnitediStates.b

Mr. Winder, contra, insisted, that it must be a clear
case of the violation of our neutral rights, or, the
Court would-not interfere to, restore a capture made
undera commission from a sovereign state,, and that
the onus prdbandifor this purpose was on the Spaish claimant.0 We have an unquestionable right to
build ships for sale, and to export any kind of contraband subject to the risk of capture. And even if a
ship be expressly built for war, it may be-sold to a
belligerent, and afterwards equipped n his own ports
tp cruise against his enemyil Here the purchaser
a The Alerta, 9 Cranch, 359. The Divina Pastora, 4
Wear. Rep. 298. The Estrella, 4 Wheat. Rep. 298. La
Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat Rep. 385. The Bello Corrunes,
ante, p. 152.
b The Estrella, 4 Wheat. Rep. 298.

c La Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat. Rep. 385.
d The Alfred, 3 Dali. 387.

258
1821.

The Concep.
tion.

2ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
was actually domiciled at Buenos Ayres, and there
is nothing to impeach the bonafides of the transaction. He then sailed again from Buenos Ayres on
a cruize, and the alleged augmentation of the crew
at New-Orleans was, in.effect, nothing but a replacement of the original force, the vessel having lost by
desertion nearly the same number of men which she
acquired by enlistment. Such a replacement, this
Court has already determined not to afford a ground.
for restitution. It is true, that the case cited was
under the French treaty of 1778. But the 19th article of that treaty provides nothing more than a
right of asylum and hospitality., the same as is enjoyed by the South American cruizers -in our ports,
under the-President's instructions.
The counsel on both sides also argued on the
same grounas which are stated in the case of the
Bello Corrunes, ante, p. 155. and which it is not
thought necessary to repeat.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case, if the cause had stood solely upon
the evidence before the Circuit Court, we should
have no difficulty in affirming its decision. But
upon the new proofs which have been since taken,
and are now produced to this Court, it is apparent
that the capturing vessel was originally built, equipped, manned, and armed in the United States for a
cruize, being owned by citizens of tins country, and
a Moodie Y.the Phoebe Ann, 3 Dall. 319.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M

1821.
sailed- with the intent of cruizing against Spain. It
sailed
and
Ayres,
to
Buenos
is true that she went
The Concep.
(tion.
under the colours of that government on a second
cruize, during which this capture was made; but,
there is no satisfactory evidence that the American
ownership ever ceased, or that there was a real,
-bonajfdesale at Buenos Ayres. If such a sale- had
really taken place, it was perfectly in the power df
the captors to have proved it, in the clearest manner. A bill of sale is the customary and universal
document by which the ownership of vessels is evidenced.; and the want of any doeument of'this nature, or of any direct and -positive evidence of an -actual sale, leaves no doubt in the mind of the. Court,
that no such sale ever was made. The consequence
is, that the capturing vessel must still be considered,
as owned in the Unitdd States; and, according.to.
the decisions Which have already been made, the
capture was illegal, and the property must be restored to the original Spanish owners;
Sentence reversed.

