REPORTS
&V

THE DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITkD STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1821.

(Pazz.)

The AMiABLE ISABELLA, -znoso Claimant.
Whether the capture is made by a duly commissioned captor, or not, iw
a question between the Government and the captor, srith wich the
claimant has nothing to do;
Ifthe calture be made by a non-commissioned captor, the Government
may contest the right of the captor after a decree of condemnation,
and before a distribution of the. prize proceeds; and.the condemla.ton must be to the Government.
The 17th article of the Spanur treaty of 1795, so far as it purports to
give any effect to passports.' mlperfect and inoperative, in conse.quence of the omission to annex the form of paskport to the treaty.
Quare-Whether, if the form bad been annexed, and the passport
were obtained. by fraud and upon 4Lhe suggestions, it would have
the conclusive effect attributed to it by the treaty ?
-uere-Whether
sailing under enemy's convoy be a subsiantive
cause of-ondemnation?
By the Spanish treaty of 1795, free shps nIke free good;
but the form of the passport, by wlich the freedom of the
ship was to have been conclusively established, never having been
duly annexed to the treaty, the proprietary interest of the &Upis to
Von V.
I

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
if
be prqved according to the ordinary rules of the Prize Court, :.end
to
whomon-board,
cargo
the
protect
will
be
Spanish,
to
thus shewn
soever the latter may belong.
The Amiable
By the rules ofthe Prize Court, the onus probandiof a neutralinterest
Isabella.
1821.

rests on the claimant.
The evidence to acquit or condemn, must come, m the 4rst instance,
from the ship's papers, and thei '3amination of the captured persons.
Where these are not satisfactory, farther proofmay be admitted, if the
claimant has not forfeited his right to it.by a breach of good faith.
On the production of faitber proof, if the neutrality of the property :is
not established beyond reasonable doubt, condemnation follows..
The assertion of a false claim, in whole or m part, by'an agent, or.in
connivance with the real dwner, is a substantive cause of condemnation.

AI'PEAL from the Circuit Court of North Caro-

lina.
Thins was tl-e case of a ship and cargo, sailing unand captured -hy the priviteer
I
der Spanish aloursi
on an ostengible voyage
master,"
Quarles,
Roger,
a As the form of the commission issued to 'the privateer, in
this case, is one. of the points discussed in the -argument, it is
thought necessary to insert'lt.

James Madisos, Pietidnt of the Uuited States of America., to
all wh1o shall-se the e presents, gfeeifng:
Be it known, that in jrseance of an act of Congress passed
on the 26th day of June, one thousand eight hufidred and
twelve, I have commissioned, and by'these presents do commission, the private armed schooner called the Roger, of the
burthen of 184 tons,.or thereabouts, owned by Thomas E. Gary,
Hy. Gary, James *B.Cogbill & Co. Brogg & Jones, Hannon &
High, Robert Ritchie, Robert Birch~ett, Joh'Wright, Win. C.
Boswell, Samuel Turner," John G. Heslop, Win. & Charles
Carling, Thomas Shbe, Richard B. Butte, Richard Drummond,
Littlebury Estambuck, John Davis, Spencer Drummond, Peter
Nestell, and Roger Quarles, mounting fourteen carriage guns,
and nayvgated by ninety men, hereby authorizing C.aptamin-,

OF THE UNITED STATES

from Havana to Hamburg, but really destined for
1821.
London, or with an alternative destination, and or- The
*a Amiable
ders to touch in England for information as to mrr- Isabella.
kets, and further instructions. The ship sailed from
the Havana, on the 24th of November, 1814, under
and John Davis, Lieutenant of the said Schooner Roger, and the
other officers and crew thereof, to subdue, -seize, and take any
armed or unarmed British vessel, public or private, which
shall be found in the jurisdictional limits of the United States,
or elsewhere, on the high seas, or withm the waters of the
British dominions, and such captured vessel, with her apparel,
guns and appurtenances, and the goods or effects which sball
be found on board the same. together with all the British persons and olhers,who shall be found acting on board, to bring
withi some port of the United States, and also to retake any
vessels. goods, and effects; of the people of the United States,
which may have been captured by any British armed vessels,
in order that proceedings may be had concerning such capture
or recapture, in due'form of law, and as to right and justice
,shall appertain. The-said. is
further authorized to detain, seize, and take all vessels and
effects, to whomsoever belonging, wich shall be liable thereto,
according to the law of natinsi and the rightsI of the United
States, as a power at war, and to bring the same within some
port of the United States, in order thatdue proceedings may be
had thereon-,-ths commission to continue in force during the
pleasure- of the President of the United States, for the tinge
being.
Given undir my hand; and the seal of the United Stptes of
America, at the City of Washington, ibe 24th day of.
April, .rnthe year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirteen, and of the Vidependence of the said
States the thirty-seventh.
(Signed)
JAMES MADISON.
By the President,
(Signed)
J3zics Moioz, Secretary of State.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18 i.
7.o Armabe

Isableua

convoy of-the British. frigate Ister, with which 9he
parted company on the ist of December, the frigate
having gone in chace of an American prvateer, and

on the 43d.of December, was captured by the privateer Roger, and carned into Wilmington, North Carolina, for ad~udication.- The ship and cargo were
condemned'as prize of war in the District Court of
North Carolina, -and-- the .sentence was, after the
-admission of farther proof in the Circuit Cqurt, .affirmed by that Court. An appeal was then allowed.
to this Court, with permission to introduce new
proof here, if thkis Court, should choose to receive it.
The original evidence consisted. of the papers
found on board the t'.pturd vessel, and delivered up
to the captors, by the master,, at, the time of the capture, and of -certain 6ther documents afterwards.
found concealed on board, or in the possesion of
Rahlives, the supercargo, or..of, one Masuco, alias
Btirr, a passenger on board the Isabella., Some of
the sfiip's papers were mutilated, and attempted to
be destroyed, and others were thrown overbbard,
and spoliated.

The.paper of. which the follbo.ing is a translation, was the only one delivered-up by th master, at
the time of the capture: " Doe Jose Sedano, Adibinistrator" General of the Royal Revenues of thisport of Havana, in the island of Cuba, &c. certify
that .by authotity and knowledge. of the General
Administrator of the Revenues under my charge,
permission has been given to ship in the Spanish
ship called the Isabel, Captain Don Francisco Cacho, with destination for Hamburg, viz.:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Don Alonzo Benigno Munos,
registered on the day of this date,
six hundred and seventy-six boxes
brown sugar, two hundred and
twenty-eight boxes white ditto,
M I a 676
M + 201 a 228 and two hundred quintals dyeI a .40. wood, which he has shipped on
his own account and risk, consigned to Don Juan Carlos Rahlives, and paid 6290, and that it
may so appear, I sign the present.
SEDANO."
(Signed)
Havana, 10th Nov. 1814.
Among the papers found on board, and .brouaht
int, the Registry, with an explanation of the
ciriu.astances under which they were discovered,
w ere,

..1 ,"

(.) A passport or license granted by the Governor
and Captain General'of the island of Cuba,.of which
the lbllowing is a translation:
Number 94.
PROVINCE OF THE HAVANA.

Don. Juan Ruiz de Apodaca y Eliza, President,
Governor, Captain General of the place of Havana,
and island of Cuba, Commandant General of the
Naval. Forces of the Apostedero, &c. &c.
For want of royal passports, I dbspatcli this document in favour of Captain Don Francisco Cacho,
inhabitant of the city of Havana, that with his Spa-

1821.
The Amiable
Isabella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

T Amiable
'
The
Isabella.

nish merchant ship called Amable Isabel, of the burthen of 2081 tons, he may sail from this port, with
cargo and register of free trade, and proceed to that
of Hamburg, there to trade, and return to his port of
departure, with the express condition of'performing
his voyage outward and inward, directly to the fixed
places of his destination, without deviating, or touching at any port, national or foreign, in the islands or
continent of the Indies, unless compelled by inevitable accident.
Gratis.
(Signed)
APODACA,
a
Sebastian de la Cadena.
a The original of this passport, or license, is as follows
.Numero 94.
PROVINCrA DE

LA HABAiNA.

D. Juan Rutz de Apodaca y Eliza, Presidente, Gobernador,
Capitan Generhi1, de Ia -plaza de Ia Habana,.e bla de Cuba, y
Comandante GenerM de Marina del Apostadero, &c. &c.
A, falta de Reales Pasaportes expido este documento ; favor
del Capitan Do. Franc. Cacho Vecino ce esta Ciudad de Ia Habana para que con su Fragata mercantile Espafiola nombada
Amable Ysabel
de porte de 208toneladas, pueda salir de este Puerto, con carg y registro del
libre comercio, y transferirse al de Hamburgo
para comerciar en el, y. restituirse al de su salida con expres,
condicion, de hacer su derrota de ida y vaelta directamente i
los senalados parages de so destino sin extraviarse n hacer arribada a Puertos nacionales, 6 extrangeros, en islas, 6 tierra
firme de Indias'1 meanos de verse obligado de accidentes de
otia suerte. jio remediables. Habana, diez de Novembre de
mil ochocientoz cat6rze.
Gratis.
(Signed)
APODACA.
SEBASTIAN -DE LA CADEA.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

(2.) A clearance granted by Don Pedro Acevido,
captain of the port of Havana, permitting the said
Cacho "to proceed with the Spanish ship La Amable.Isabel, from this port to England," with a muster roll of the officers and crew annexed. (3.) A
letter of instructions from Muuios, the claimant,
to C.acho, -of .which the following is a translationHavana, 1Oth Nov. 1814.
acDon Francisco Cacho.
"SIR.

" Intrusted as you are with my.ship La Amarble Isabel, which sails bound for Hamburg, or some
other port of that continent, or for those of England,
I hope that you will perform -your duty with 'the-exactness ypu have always used, and which was my
motive for making choice of you. Consequently I
will omit all further advicei particularly as there goes
in the vessel the supercargo, Don Juan Rahlives,
with my full power and instructions. You will observe all his direitions as if they were dictated by

myself. Wishing you a prosperous voyage, &c.
(Signed)

MuNos.

(4.) Articles of agreement between Munos and
the master and crew of the ship. (5.) A general
procuration from Munos to one Von Harten of London,. dated at Havana, May 29th, 1812, with a
substitution by the latter to. Rahlives the .supercargo,
executed at London. (6.) A letter fiom one Tieson, dated London, November 4th, 1813, to his brother F. Tieson, at-Rio Janibro, introducing Rahilves,

1321.
The Amiable

Isabella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
7821.

4
The Amiable

Isabella.

as the conductor of certain commercral operations,
which he had concerted with several friends, referring his correspondent to Rahlives himself for the
details. (7) A letter from one Rhodes, dated Londot, to Messrs. Glover & Co. at Rio Janeiro, introducing Rahlives, who the writer states "goes as supercargo in the ship Isis, and acts for Mr. John Goble of Havana, and Mr. Von [arten of London,"
&c. (8.) A letter from Hawkes & Malloret, dated
Liverpool, October 28th, 1803, to Brown & Co., at
Rio Janieror, introducing Rahlives as " particularly
connected with our intimate and respeAtable friend
Mdr. George Von Harten of London, and John Gobel of Havanna, on whose behalf he will probably
visit you very shortly. It is probable Mr. Rahlives
may entrust to your management some transactions
for account of said friends, and others, and we beg
to assure you we feel convinced every satisfaction
will result from such business as he may have to conduct."

(9.)

The following circular . 11 Havana,

1st May, 1812. On the 15th last May, we took the
liberty of addressing our friends from London, requesting their countenance to an establishment we
intended to form in this city under the firm of Von
Harten, Gobel & Co. We now have the satisfaction
to inform you of our complete success in organizing
and *consolidatingtbh same, and tliat we are in every
respect enabled to, procure to our correspondents all
those advantages which may result from intelligence,
activity, and the most respectable connections in this
island. Political considerations, however, induce us
to carry on our aflirs for the future under the sole

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821
name and firm of Mr. John Gobel, who is perma_j
T
ac,
An
.(10.)
&c.
country"
this
in
nently to reside
count of sales, dated. Havana, November.16th, 1814; l
signed by J. Gobel, of the cargo c'the English'brig
Portsea, received from Rio de Janeiro, on account
of Messrs. Brown, Weston & Co. and.of Rahlivs
amounting to 20,3 1 3 dollars net proceeds, leaving to
the credit of Rahlives. in Gobel's hands, half of that.
sum. (11.) A charter party, executed t Rio-de
Janeiro, May I Ith, 18 14, between Westo and Gobell
letting to him the Portsea, and consigning the cargo.
to the charterer. (12.) The following letter froM
Munos to Rahlives: "Havana, .10th- Nov. 1814.
Sir, I enclose you invoice and bill* of lading shewing to have shipped in my ship called La Amablk
Isabel, Capt. Don Francisco Cacho, 1,104 boxes of
sugar, and 40 half boxes of ditto, and 200 qo.ntals
of dye-wood, the principal amount of which and
charges amounts to $60,642 3, which cargo consigned to you, yoa will please -to take charge of on
your arrival at Hamburg, or at any other port- you
may find convenient to go, proceeding to sell it on
the most advantageous terms you can obtain, that
with the proceeds you may make the returns according to the instructions I have verbally communicated
to you. In like manner I recommend to you, and
place under your care, my said- vessel, in order that
the adventure may have the most favourable termination, to which end I have given definitive orders
to the Captain, Don Francisco Cacho, that lhe may
observe the instructions you -may communicate to
him in my namer As I am so well satisfied with
VOL. VI

2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1s8i.
Tie Amiable

IDabella.

your care and diligence, and the friendship my house
entertains for you- I shall omit any further'advice,
wishing you a prosperous voyage, and that you may
duly advise me of your proceedings, and commumcate such instructions as you may think fit. Yours,
&c.1 (13.) A oill of lading signed by the master,
Cacho, acknowledging the receipt of the, cargo, and
engaging to deliver it to Rahlives at Hamburgi or at
the port where his register might be verified. (14.)
A manifest, entitled "Manifest of the cargo of the
Spanish ship La Amable Isabel, in its voyage-from
this port of Havana to that of London ;" and siganed -by the master; being stated in the margin that he
had signed bills of lading therefor "1to Don Alonzo
Benigno Munos, which he has registered on his own
account and risk, and to the-consignment of Horace
Solly of London."
Amongthe mutilated papers found on board were,
(1.) various accounts between Rahlives and F Thieson. (2.) An invoice of jerked beef and tallow,
shipped from Rio de Janeiro to Havana. (3.) Another invoice of the same, " for account and risk of
Mr. Alonzo Benigno Munos at Havana," per brig
Isis, Capt. Brenmer, amounting to 22,371 dollars.
(4.) Invoice of sugars, &L.shipped on board the Isis
at Havana by order of Rahlives, signed by Gobel,
and amountink to 5D6,671 dollars. (b.) Another invoice of the same, shipped on board the Isis, " for
Falmouth and a market, to the orders of G. Van
H-arten, Esq. in London," signed by Rahlives, and
various accounts between the different parties.

OF TftE UNITED STATES.

A claim was given in for the ship and cargo, as the
i821.
property of Don Alonzo Benigao Munos, by Rah- The""'
Amiable
lives, the supercargo, as agent for the alleged owner; Isabella.
and. ihe -captured persons were examined on the
standing interrogatories.
Upon the 6rder for tarthdr -proof,the affidavits of
the claimant and his clerks, to the proprietary interest of the ship -and cargo, in him, were produced,
and the proceedings before the tribunal of the Consulado, at the Havana, under which the ship- which
had arrived at that port from New-Providence, was
sold under the bottomry bond alleged to be given
for repairs by one John Cook, to the claimant, and*
was naturalized as a Spafhish vessel. A great mass
of testimony. was also produced, tending, (among
other things,) to show that the claimant, who was
father-in-law of Gbbel, had not been actively engaged in trade for many years before this shipment
was made; and that Gobel, not being a Spanish
subject, all his foreign business, and his transactions
with the custom- house,. had constantly been carried
on in the-name of Munos.
Mr. Gaston, for the appellant and claimant, argued, 1. that the prize allegation, in this case, ought
to be- dismissed, because the libellants had shown no
lawful authority to make 'the capture in -question,
and, thereforei condemnation could-not be pronounced in favour of the capt6is, but, even if the proprietary "itterest were proved to be enemy's, ift must
be condemned -as a droit of admiralty tb the iigla of
the government. It is a well established ptinciple

z bs,
.
1820.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

T Atmable
a
The
Iuabella.

of the law of prize, that the captors must show an
authority to capture as prize, and exhibit their title
deeds.a Here the commission is issued to the vessel
itself, without naming the commander who is to direct her operations as a cruizer. The commInder,
by whom the seizure was actually made, had no
commission or.authority whatever, other than what
was delegated to him by the owners of the vessel.
The cap.ture is, therefore, null, so far as respects -the
captors. On. general principlesi no persons can
rightfully carry on war but those .whohave a particular authority ftom the sovereign power of the
state. With regard to private armed vessels, unless
they have a public commission, their acts are absoluiely unlavful, and .all on board may be treated as
pirates.b At all events, they. can derive no title under captures thus made, unless they have a commission. In bellopartacedunt reimpublice), and all the
rights of prize are derived from the grant of the
sovereign power. Nor can the commission he: issu-.
ed to the inanimate machine. It must be to the organized association of, human beings who are to
control and direct its force. Without a head to control atid govern them, such an association would be
nothing but a band of pirates. The interests of
mankind will not tolerate the existence of such a
monster as a ship"6f war without a lawful commander. Even when thus governed, they require to be
watched with vigilance, and controlled by the government, least 'itey involve the nation with its ala The -Melomasne, 5 Rob. 43.
&Vatd,Draigdes Gems, . 3. c. 1. s.226.

OF THE UNITEID STATES.

For this purpose it is necessary that the government should designate and commLssion thoir officers. So -sfrict is the doctrine of
the Court of Admiralty on this subject, that a capture
made by a public commissioned ship, the commander not being on board at the time, is regarded as if
made without a commission.b So, also, by our own
law, the act declaring war, June 18th, 1812, c. 425.,
-authorises the President to issue commissions or letters of marque and reprisal., in such form as he shall
think proper to dictate" and in the form which he
has actually prescribed, the names of the captain
and lieutenant are required to be inserted. The
Prize Act of June 26th, 1812, c. 430., imposes very
strict duties upon the commander, which he is to
perform personally, and cannot devolve upon another. He:is, among other things, to give bond, and
is made responsible for his:own misconduct and that
of the.crew; is to receive and execute the President's
instructions; .is to keep.a journal of the ship's transactions; and by his personal negligence-or misconduct, may forfeit the commission, and the rights of
prize derived under it. Most clearly the Government +as a right to judge of the merits and qualifications of the person to be invested with a trust so
high and important. out the Government has not
delegated it to the captors, in the present case, and,
therefore, they have no fight to demand condemnation to their use. Nor has the Government itself
lies, or with neutrals;,

a The Thomas Gibbons 8 Crand, 421.
b The Charlotte, 5 Rob. 251.

1821.
The Amiable

Isabelta.

CASES- IN THE SUPREME COURT
8l1.

interposed , nor, indeed) can it interpose, to require

71e Amiableecondemnation

Isabella.

to its.own, use, until the-preliminary

question of prize or no prize is determined, and the
Court is about to distribute-the proceeds.a No final
decree of condemnation can, therefore, now be pronounced.
2. The testimony furnished -by the papers found
on board the-captured vessel, is-such, as, according
to the treaty- between the United States and Spain
of 1795, is. conclusive on the. question, and. entitles
the claimant to immediate restitution. This treaty
forms a conventional law on the subject of neutral
commerce,- essentially different from the-general law
on the sam.e subjectb By the 15h article it is stipulated, that the ships..of -either.nation may sail from
any port to those of a country which -may be at war
with either or both nations, and may go to neutral
places) or to other -enemy ports , and that every article on board, except contraband, to whomsoever
belonging, shall be free. In order to carry into
effect this stipulation for the unlimited liberty of
commerce, and that free ships shall make free goods,
it is provided by the 17th article, that the vessel
shall be furnishea with a passport expressing her
national character, and with certificates to show,
that the cargo is not contraband. To this passport
a conclusive effect is attributed. It establishes the
national character of the ship; and that being proct The Thomas Gibbons, 8 Cranch, 421.

b For the provisions of this treaty, =sde
Wo. I.

APPENDIX,

Note

'OF THE UNITED STATES.
1s82.
ved,.renders it immaterial -to inquire respecting the
cargo, except so far as to ascertain by the certificate, T
that it is, not contraband. The I8th article requires. Iabella.
the cruisers -of either .party, meeting the merchant
vessels of the other uponuthe high seas, to remain out
of cannon .shot, and only authorises them to-send on
board two or'three'men, -and if the-passport --be exhibited, the vessel is not to' be molested ; and by -the
17th article- if the prescribed documents are not-ex,hibitbd, she may.be sent in for adjudication, and condemned as prize, unless testimony-entirelyequvalent
.sall be-produced'. The ship-.-now in question,. was
furnished with such a.passport and -certificate as -the
-treaty prescribes. It is true, that' the form of passpbrt; intended to have been annexed to the treaty,
never was, in fact, annexed by the negociators, owing to accident or negligence, or some other cause
which we cabunot now exphlin. We are not, however, Without the means of ascertaining what will
satisfy the requisitions of the treaty. A. passport,
or sea letter, is a Well known document in the usage
of maritime commerce, and is defined to be a permission from a neutral State to the master of a ship
to- proceed on his proposed voyage, usually contaimiing ls name- and residence, and the name,
propbrty, tonnage, and destination of the ship.0
Although it evidences the permission of the State
to navigate the seas, yet it does not, therefore, follow,
that it must issue directly from the supreme power
a Marshallon Ins. 406.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
TtoAmiable
The
Isabella.

of the State, and some authority ought to be- shown
support such a position. This erroneous notion,
probably, arises from the practice of our own country, which is different from that of all other nations.
Previous to the year 1793, no other documents were
furnished to the merchant vessels of -the United
States but the certificate of registry and clearance,
but the depredations upon our commerce having
commenced with the European war which broke
out in that year, a form of sea letter was devised,
and to give it greater effect, was signed by the. President. On the 28th of November, 1795, a treaty
was made With Algiers, by which a passport was to
protect our vessels from capture by Algerine cruisers.
By the act of the 1st. of June, 1796, c. 339. Congress authorised the Secretary of State to prepare a
form, which, when approved by the President, should
be the form of the passport. Neither the treaty nor
the law required the President's signatur?, but the
form prepared was signed by the President, as the
sea letter had been. But this,.our peculiar practice,
forms no rule of conduct obligatory on others, anl
will not authorize us to give a more restricted meaning to the term used in a treaty than the general
usage of nations will warrant. The word passport,
thus used, is taken from the same word, sigpifying a
permission given to individuals to remove from one
a "Passaporte. Passeport. Lettre on brevet d'un prince ou
d'un commandant pour donner la libertd de voyager, d'entrer
et de sortir librement de ses terres. Fdes publica." &orsno,

NoU. Dict. Etpagol, Franfats, et Latin.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i821.
place to another, and the documents are analogous.
The Amia
Vattel states, that, " like every other act of supreme The
Amiable
cognizance, all safe-conducts or passports flow from Isabella.
the sovereign authority, but the Prince may delegate to his officers the power of furnishing them,
and with this they are invested, either by express
commission, or in consequence of the nature of their
functions. A General of an army, from the nature
of his post, can grant them , and as they are derived, though mediately, from the same Prince, all
his generals are bound to respect them.11a So, also,
Blackstone speaks of the offence of violatinrg passports, or safe-conducts. -granted by the King or hs
Ambassadors." ' It is then incidental to the commission of an Admiral or Genera, or public Minister, to
issue these documents of protection for persons or
property. By the usage of all commercial countries, they are issued by the superior officers superintending the marine affairs of the kingdom, provmce, city, or colony, where granted, and as representing the Sovereign in those places. In France,
they have alwAys been issued by the Admiral
of Fran'ce, except during the revolution, when
they were issued by the- Minister of Marine'.,
a

Vattl, Droitdes Gent, 1. 3 c. 17. s. 265. et seq.
b 4 Bl. Cbmm; 68.
c Wheat. Capt. 59.
- d "PsSez oRT. C'est une permtssson de l'Jmtralpour voy-

ager en suretd et 6tre reconnue par tout. C'eqt sur ce passeport que les bitimens de commerce naviguent." Encyclop.
Mo.art. Maine.
VOL. V1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
In the King of Prussia's ordinance of neutrality,
The Ambe passports and sea-letters are spoken of as issuing
Iaba. from Admiralties, Maritime- Colleges, or magistrates
of cities.a And in the celebrated answer to te

Prussian Exposition des Motifs, it is said, that until
the year. 1746, the usual -document was a certificate
from the Admiralty that the. ship was Prussian. Afterwards a- pass under the royal -seal of the regency
of Pomerania at.Stettin was used.b In our treaty
with Holland, the form of a sea letter is given,
which is in the -name of the burgomasters and regents of the city, acting-under an ordinance of the
States General. In England, such -documenta are
issued by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, as is shown by the papers in the case of the
Nerezde in this Court :' and on foreign stations, they
may be issued by the Admirals commanding those
stations. In the famous Black Book of the Admzratty, we find it laid down, that all intercourse with
the enemy is prohib~tqd, unless under a special license
from the King or his Admiral.d In the case of the
ships taken at Genoa,e Sir W. Scott declarbs, that
Lord Keith, as Admiral commanding the expedition,
had a right to grant passports to protect.the ships
sailing under them. And in this Court; the licenses
issued by Admiral Sawyer, and countersigned by a
a 2 Azun, Appx. No. 9. p. 401. Johinsor'sTranst.
6 Wkeat. Capt. Appx. No. I. p. 334. Report of Sir George
Lee, ,c. Vide APPEri'Dwx, Note No. II.
c 9 Cratich, 38.

d WhIeat. Capt. 159.
a 4 Rob.. 317.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
British Consul, were determined to be passports
which would protect against British capturer At The"Amiabj#
Gibraltar, these documents are issued in the name of, Igabella.
and signed by, the Commissibners 6f the Admiralty
at that place.' As to the usage of Spain, it appears,
by a royat passport, found on board the Isabella, and
issiled for another snip called the Clara, to be usually issued at home by the Secretary of the Marine
in the King's name; but it also appears by an mdorsement on this very paper, that the Spanish commandants of foreign stations, or Apostaderos, may
alter such passports, and grant liberty to change the
course of the voyage.., And they may also issue origihal passports, in their own name, where there is a
deficiency of royal passports, and the v.essel has not
been previously documented. Such is the passport
which was issued to the Isabella in the present case.
The. power to issue such documents of protection, is
necessarily incident to .the vast authorities conferred
on the Spanish colonial governors; 'and the case of
the British ship of war Eliza, which was compelled
to enter the port of Havana in distress, in time of
war, and to which the Captain General, after.relieving her wants, gave a passport to protect her
from capture, is an example of the exercise of the
power in question highly honourable to the generosity
of the'Spanish character.' The treaty under which
a The Julia, 8 Cranch, 181.

The Aurora, 8 Cranch,. 203.

The Hiram, 8 Cranch, 444. The Ariadne, 2 Wheat. Rep. 143.
Z Reevea' Law of S7 p. Appx. No. 9, n fin.

c Ray~nal Hisi. tom. 7. p. 455.

-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1s2i.
TmAmiable
The
Isabella,

protection is now claimed, was conceived m the spi.
t of that benevolent policy so long cherished by the

United States, and which Spain has reciprotated.
It has for its object to limit the range of warfare on
the high seas, and to extend the immunities of the
neutral flag.

In this spirit it ought to be construed.

A comparison of its provisions with those of other
conventions for the same object, will show the correctness of the interpretation for which-we contend.
In the'French treaty of 1778,a which was-the forerunner of the armed beutrality of 1780, a passport-or sea
letter in a certain form is provided to protect the ship.
But there is nothing from which it can be inferred that
this document is to issue from the supreme executive
of the respective nations. To show how subordinate a
consideration was that of form, it is deserving of remark, that the form actually annexed to the treaty,
omits a circumstance which the text of fhe treaty
expressly requires - - the place of residence of the
master." So that a passport precisely corresponding with the form annexed, was adjudged by the
Court of K. B. in England, who had not seen the
annexed form, to be substantially defective in this
respect, and thus to- falsify the warranty of neutrality in a policy of insurance.b So the treaty with
Holland of 1782,e contains analogous stiPulations
with those of the Spanish treaty. It gives the form
a For the provisions of this treaty, mea
No. III.
b Baring v Christie, 5 Easts Rep. 398.
c For the provisions of this treaty, see

No. III.

APPENDIX,

APPENDIX,

Note

Note

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of a passport, and-of a sea letter, which are after-

1821.

wards spoken of as' the same, or at least, as equi-

a
e Amnlable
The

pollent documents. The passport does not show by
whom it is to be signed; but it shows, that it may
be issued by individuals signing their own names,
and affixing their own private seals, and that it was
not thought necessary, that it should issue in the
name of the chief magistrate ; and the sea letter is
unequivocally to be issued by an ,adthority less than
the supreme power -of the 'State. The treaty of
1783, with Sweden, repeaW the -same stipulations
of the unlimited liberty of commerce, and that free
ships should make free goods; and to prevent disputes, a passport or sea letter is to be furnished,
-showing that the vessel belongs to a subject, which
i to protect from all further inquiry, and is to be
ipade out m "1good.form.?' Here the form is avowedly left to the exercise of an honest discretion on
each side. Iii'the treaty with Prussia, of 178 5,b the
same conclusive effect is ittributed to the sea letter
or passport, the form of which was to be subsequently concerted by the contracting parties. From these
the -treaty with Spain was copied, whose Govern.
ment gloried in being the first among the southern
powers of Europe that acceded to the principles of
the armed neutrality.' One of the leading principles asserted by that confederacy, went to exclude

Isabela.

a For the provisions of this treaty, see APPENDIX, Note

No. Ill.
b For its provisions, see APrPNmx, ib.
c 2 Azun:, Appendix,. No. 31.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

'The

Ile Amiable

habella.

from the jurisdiction of the belligerent Prize Courts
whatever Was done under the neutral flag, and
to
render it matter of negociation between State andState. A national contract made to carry into effect
this principle, is to be construed according to its intention and spirit, which meant to rely upon the justice and honour of -both nations, that neither would
imparc to enemy vessels the immunities which were
intended to be confined to neutral property. Enlightened views of interest would induce the neutral
State not to permit any but its own subjects to avail
themselves of the concession, and though every possible abuse might not be prevented, yet cases of
fraud would rarely occur, and the evils prodUced
would be far outweighed by the immense importance
of the general security of commerce, and the consequent mitigation of the evils of war. The authority of the Spanish Government, to issue a passport
certifying the proprietary interest in the vessels of
its own subjects is unquestionable, and the local law
and usage must determine its form, and the authority
by which it is to be issued.
3. But supposing the passport produced not to be
precisely such as the treaty intended, yet it is insisted, that, with the other documents, it furnishes testimony " entirely equivalent," according to the expression used in the 17th article. It is importait.to
fix the precise.meaning of the last clause of that article.
The preceding clauses stipulated, that the ship shall
have a passport to show that she belongs to the
neutral State, and a certificate to show.that ner cargo

OF THE UNITED STATES.

(to whomsoever belonging) is not contraband.

By

1821.

the 18th article, if she is furnished with these docu- The Amiable

ments, she is to be exempt from all detention or mo- Isabella.
lestation. If not furnished with them, she may be
carried in for adjudication, and then must account
for the omission, and furnish other testimony, which,
considering all the circumstances, shall be of equal
value with that omitted. Suppose the omission satisfactorily accounted for what is the equivalent
testimony required by the treatv P Most certainly
it is, that which completely proves the same facts
which the omitted documents would have proved.
Even a passport, in due form, does not prove that
the ship is, in fact, neutral. With whatever formal
solemnities it may be cloathed, it must issue from the
custom house of the power by whom it is granted. It
may be issued improperly. The officers authorized to
issue it, may be deceived by fraud and perjury. The
possession of the document only proves the fact that
the property of the ship has been decided to be
neutral by the competent authorities, by those to
whom the sovereign power of the State has entrusted the examination of the question. Their determinations are made conclusive by the treaty, and
import absolute verity, in the same manner as the
solemn judgments of the Courts of justice. If, then.
this document cannot be had, but its absence is accounted for, and other papers are produced, which
however inferior in formal solemnity, unequivocally
prove such a decision by the competent authority of
the neutral State, then this secondary evidence is
completely equivalent tQ the passport and certificate

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

for in the treaty. This exposition is the
consistent with the spirit of the treaty, and
is in furtherance of its avowed object, which was that
the flag should protect the property sailing under it,
if used by authority of the neutral nation. This exposition is conformable to the English version of the
treaty, but is absolutely required by the Spanish;
and even if there-were any difference of meaning,
we are bound in honour and good faith to adopt the.
latter, since Spain has always acted upon it, and. has
seldom or never thought it necessary to document
her ships.according to the literal requisitions of the
treaty. Unless this expQsition is admitted, the whole
of the clause int question is nugatory. 'By the u~iiversal law and usage of nations, every captured ves.
sel is at.liberty to account *for the wafit of formal
documents.' It would, therefore, have been superfluous to insert a provisinointhe treaty to this effect.
Something more must have been intended by the use
of terms, which are.to be fbund. in no other treatyIn the case now before the Court, the omission. of the
required document is fdlly accounted for by the actual state of the.mother country at the time, and by
the. declaration ot the col6hial Governcr when he
granted the substituted document. This ought to
be considered as equivalent proof, because it is next
in dignity, and approaches very nearly to a level
with the royal passport itself. It is issued by an
officer who is only not King, who would have been
charged With the delivery and control of royal passnorts, who expressly declares, that it was issued ih

provided
1821.
TheAiableonly one

Tie Amiable

lsabella.

a The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep. 244.

OF THE .UNITED STATES-

lieu of such, and certifies every fact which would
have been stated in a royal passport. The other
documents are superadded to that which would
alone have been required, had- the formal requisitions
of the treaty been complied with, and are- abundantly sufficient to' establish -the proprietary interest in
the ship. They are supported by the depositions of
the captured crew, who are required by the navigation laws of Spain to be Spanish subjects, and whose
national character conforms to this requisition.
4. 'Again. If there be no passport such as is required by the treaty, and no such equivalent testimony as the treaty provides, still the -claim to the
9lup is established by evidence such as the law of
nations requires to establish it, and if the property
of the ship is shown to be Spanish, that as sufficient
to protect the cargo to whomsoever belonging."
She' is furnished with all the usual documents, and
none are of a suspicious or irregular character. They
are supported by the testimony of all the witnesses,
except one; and he was improperly examined, not
being produce1 in his regular ordbr, but kept back
until other witnesses had been examined, contrary
to the well-known rule of the Prize Court, which
.requires the captors to introduce all the witnesses
in succession.' Even if the proprietary interest in
the cargo should be thought doubtful, that being included in the same claim with the ship, will not necessarily involve both in condemiiation, for, an ata The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep. 227.
b The Speculation, 2 Rob. 242. The Willipir
4 Rob. 312.
I'ob. IV.

& Mary,

isel.
The Amiable

Isabella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
e Amiable
The
Isabella.

tempt to conceal enemy's property only affects the
to farther proof.4 But we insist that farther
right
Z
proof is not required in this case, and if the national character of the ship be established by the original evidence, the conventional law entitles us to
restitution of the cargo, as a matter of course.'
5. Lastly. Supposing the original evidence in the
cause insufficient to entitle the claimant to restitution, either according to the provisions of the treaty,
or by the general law of nations, it is insisted that
all the difficulties of the case are removed by the
farther proof produced, which establishes the proprietary interest of both ship and cargo as claimed.
Mr. Weaton, for the captors and respondents,
1. answered the objection taken by the claimant's
counsel to the validity of the commission under
which the capture was made. This is exclusively a
question between the captors and the United States.
The claimant has no persona standi tnjudicto to assert the rights of the United States, and it is not
until after the determination of the principal question of prize or no prize, that the claim of the government can be interposed.c This is not only our
own practice, but is the prize law of France, and
England, and of the whole maritime world."

Even

a The Madonna del Burso, 4 Rob.

b The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep 127.
c The Do1 Hermanos, 2 Wheat. Rep. 94.
d 2 Bro. Civ. 4, Adm. Law, 524. 2 Woodes. Lect. 432.
3 Butsir Rep. 27. 4 Inst. 152 154. Zouch. Mdm. Jurutd. c. 4.

p. 101. Comyn's Dig. (it. Admiralty E. 3. The Georgiana, I
Dadson's Rep. 397. The Diligentia, I Dodsons's Rep. 403. VWn.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
if the present capture be a droit of admiralty, as taken by non-commissioned captors, that will not in- The Amiale
validate the capture, if it be of enemy's property. Isabella.
This is to be determined after - general decree of condemnation is entered, and befGre !i final distribution of
theprize proceeds. If the Government shall interpose
a claim at that stage of the proceedings, it will then
be time enough to consider. a question in which the
foreign claimant has no interest or. right to interfere.
2. The vessel and cargo in this case are liable to
condemnation as prize of war, having left the Hava•na with a false destination. The claim sets up an
alternative destination, to an enemy's or a neutral
port; but it is contradicted by the documentary evi'dence and the depositions of the captured persons.
This false destination is not excusable on the ground
of the necessity of deceiving an enemy by clearing
out for a neutral port. Spain was at that time at
peace with all the world, except her revolted colonies; and both London and Hamburg were equally
neutral ports in. respect to the South-Amencan criizers. A false destination under such circumstances
is damnatory,. if -he case be so infirm as to require
farther proof; because it could only be intended to
conceal enemy interests, and if alternative, it ought.
to appear to be such on the face of the papers, in order that captors may not be misled.a

Comm. 1.3. tit. "9. des Prises,art. 1. Pothter,de ProprdF .No.
93. Casaregis.Disc. 24. Consolato del Mare, c. 287.
a The Juffrouw Anna, I Rob. 125. The Welvaart, I Rob.
122. The Nancy, 3 Rob. 125. The Mars, 6 Rob. 79. 86. The
Vrouw Herouna, I Rob. 164.

CASES IN THE StU;IREME COURT
1821.
Tginal
Tbe
Amiable

IVabella.

3. The proofs of proprietary interest, upon the orievidence, are not such as to entitle the claimant
to restitutio , without farther proof. As to the shtp,
there is no dcubt that if bona fide Spanish property,
and documented according to the' treaty, she must
not only be restorer., out the cargo also must be included in the restitution, even if proved to be enemy's
property. But it is insisted that the treaty does not
extend to a fraudulent use of the. Spanish flag to cover enemy's property in the ship as well as the cargo.
The passport, even supposing it to be such as the
treaty. requires, is falsified by the muster-roll and
other documents: and it was not produced, as the
treaty requires: to the captors, but found on board after the. capture. Fraud will vitiate even a judgmentj,
and the most solemn Instruments and assurances.
This is a principle.,of universal law, and it would be
indecent to suppose that Spain countenances such an
improper use of her-flag and pass. Is there, then,
that equivalent'testimony which the treaty substitutes-for the formal passports ? The law very properly requires the-bill of sale to be- on board where
the vessel is transferred from the original proprietor.b
Even Hubner, the great champion of neutral rights,
admits this to be the rule., But here the vessel is
not Spanish built, yet no- bill of sale is found
on
I
a The Minerva, I Marrott's Adm. Dec. 235. Tle Cittade

de Lisboa, 6 Rob. 358. The Eendraught, lb. Note (a.)
Estern, 2 Dzll. 36."
b The Welvaart, 1 Rob. 122.
-c D- la Sats. des .Bairn. ZvleutW, Part.. 1, c. 3. s. 10.

The

OF THE UNITED STATES.

board, and the circumstances strongly point to the

1821.

previous existence of enemy interests in the vessel,2 The Amiable
which it appears came from New-Providence. The Isatella.
purchase of enemy's vessels by neutrals is entirely
prohibited by the ordinances of some countries, and
our law regards it as suspicious.a If still continued
to be employed in the enemy's trade, or under the
control of an enemy, this is deemed a badge of fraud,
and conclusive- evidence that there lias been no bona
fide.transferb The ship then is not documented boNa fide, as the treaty reqires, nor is the substituted
proof equivalent to that for which it is subsfituted.
The s/ntp therefore, will not protect the cargo, nor is
the latter so documented as to protect itself, 'or avoid
being inyolved in the same fate with the vessel. To
be sure, there are the usual f6rmal documents, and
so there are in. every case. But they contradict each
other, and being fraudulently blended in the same
false claim with the ship, they must be included' in
the same condempation: Both being alleged to belong to the same-claimant, and he, having. attempted
to assert a false'claim to the ship, the entire claim must
be rejected as a penalty for his frauduleit.conduct.c
4. But the'passport in -this casej even supposing
itnot to have been fraudently obtained and usea, is
not such as. the treaty Yequires, being issued by ztn
authority incompetent to grant such a document of
a The Bernon, 1 Rob. 102. The Sechs Gedthwistern,. 1
Rob. 100. The Argo, 1 Rob. 163.
b The Jemmy, 4 Rob. 31. The Omnibus, 6 Rob. 71.
c The St. Nicholas, I Wheat. Re. 417. The Fortuna, 3
Wheat. Rep. 236.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
a
Ihe Amiable
Isabella.

protection. It is insisted that nothing less than the
solemnly pledged faith of the supreme power of the
neutral state to the verity of the facts stated in the
passport can possibly satisfy the belligerent. The
terms used in the treaty are "sea letters or passports."
One of the contracting parties might understand.it
as intending a document in the nature of a perma-nent muninment of the title to the ship. Our laws
recognize no other such document, than one signed
by the President. The presumption, therefore, is,
that our vessels were to be furnished with a se%: letter thus sqned, and the Spanish vessels with a royal
passport signed by the king. The cases cited on
the other side, to show that such a document of protection may be granted by an authority inferior to
the supreme power of the state, are not in point. In
,he Brtlish license cases, although this Court condemned our vessels sailing under them, yet the Bntish prize Courts denied the authority of their admirals and consuls to issue them, and condemned the
vessels taken by British cruizers although sailing
under these licenses.a All the other cases cited are
of passports issued by the Lord High Admirals of
England or France, acting as the immediate delegates of the royal prerogative, and as the ministers
of the crown. There is no doubt, that Admirals
and Generals, commanding fleets or armies, have
the power of issuing passports for the temporary protection of persons or property, within the limits of
their command. But this arises from the necessity
of the case, and is mcidental to the performance of
a The Hope, 1 Dodson's Rep. 226.

Id. Appendix, (D.)

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

their official dunes. But it is not incidental to any
official 4uty of the Governor and Captain General

TAb
The Amiable

of the Island of Cuba, that he should have the power

Inbell.

1821.

of naturalizing foreign ships, giving them all the privileges of Spanish built vessels, and grant passports
to protect them against belligerent scrutiny Non
ez ret preponztur. It i. highly improbable that the
Government of this country would have agreed to
a stipulation so improvident, under which the whole
navigation of our enemy might be screened from
capture by a mere fictitious adoption, fraudulently or
corruptly obtained for this purpose. The form of
this important document being omitted, either from
accident or design, there is the more necessity of
looking to the substance of the contract; since, if
-the form had been annexed, there is no doubt that it
would have required the highest authority of the
State to grant a document so conclusive. The passport or sea letter provided by this treaty, is not ,a
mere ordinary license or safe conduct given by aGeneral or Admiral, for a temporary purpose, and
within the limits of his command. It is the supreme
power of the neutral State solemnly pledging itself
to the belligerent, that the property of the ship is
truly and bonafide neutral. The doctrine contended for on the part of ihe claimant, would go the
length of entirely abolishing maritime captures.
since the passport may be issued by any authority,
however inferior and however remote his functions
may be from such a duty. The treaty provides,
that the certificates which are required relative to the
cargo, shall be issued by the officer of the place

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
The
Thave
4mable

Isabell.

whence the vessel sails, and the same proviso would
been made as to the passport, had it been intended to entrust the local magistrates with the
power of granting it. Neither does an examination
of the forms of similar documents annexed to other
treaties, containing the same stipulatibn, that free
ships shall make free goods, justify the inference,.that they may be issued by any authority less than
the highest. So, also, the celebrated convention of
1801, between Great Britain and Russia, though it
does not contain such a stipulation, but, on the contrary, subjects enemy's property in neutral vessels to.
capture,, yet it provides for similar, documonts.of protection, and in the formula annexed, itis stated, that
they are " to be delivered in the respective A4dmralties of the two .hzgh contractingp.arties." a But the
qnestion has already been determined in this Court,
in the case of the Pizarro.b In that case, the Court
say,- ,"It- is certainly true, that the vessel was.not
furnished with "such a sea letter, &c:, as are described in 'the 17th article." But she had on board
the proceedings under which she wasnaturalized in
East Florida, and. a certificate from the Spanish
Consul at Liverpool, c6rtifying, that " Captain Don
Antonio Martinez,"-commanding the Spanish ship
called the Pizarro, of the burthen of 273 tons, registered at the port of St. Augustine de Ia Florida,
which came to this port from the Island of Amelia,
with a cargo, now sails for the port of Corunna. in'
.a For the provisions of this treaty, vide

No. IV
& 2 Wheat. Rep. 244.

APPENDIx,

Note

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
Spain. ,) Here, then, was a certificate, stating the
name, burthen, and property of the ship, and the The
T -Amiable
ma
name of the master, and issued by an authority as Iaboeli.
Competeit as the Governor 6f'Ctba. Yet'tAfe Court
hdl~dit not to be a compliance with the terms of the
treaty, and required iarther proof of the proprietary
interest.
5. Suppoging, however, this vessel and cargo to be
documented as the treaty requires.. it is insisted that
they are liable to condemnation far sailing under the
protection 6f"enemy's convoy. It is- time, that the
Isabella parted.,company witl the convoying ship
before the capture, but it was a mere temporary.'e.
paration, the latter having gone -in.pursuit pf oneof
our privateers , Although the -Court ha§ determined,
ii' the cases of the Mereidda and the Atalanta,b that a
niutral may lawrully put bi§ goods'on board an armed: enemy's vessel; yet it has not determined that
he mqy put his vessel and goods' under convoy of
ihe enemy's fleet. The distinction between the two
clases ofcases is stated by one of the learned Judges
of.this Court, in delivering his opinion in the'iAtalanae. andthe Lords of Appeal in England have held
the .offence of sailing under. the protection pf oneity's convoy to be a conclusive catise of .condemnati66u -So, also, where certain dierchant ships belonging:-to the Hanse tow4s had put themselves under
a 9 Cranch, 388.
" 3 Whean. Rep. 409.
3 Wheat. Rep. 423.
hd.
.- Sampson, Barney, cited by Mr. Justice STORY,
note to the Nereide, 9 Cranch, 442.
VOL. VI.
5
c Per Mr. Justice JoHxs0i,

In a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Te0 Amal

The Amiable

Isabella.

the protection of Swedish convoy, the latter having
assumed a hostile character for the purpose of resisting the right of search, they were equally held liable to confiscation.a Such, also, is the law'of Denmark, a state that has always professed to maintain
the mildest principles of prize law b In his correspondence with the Danish government, IVr. Erving,
our minister, admits the extreme difficulty of upholding the contrary doctrine, and only seeks to escape
from it by contending that the rule could not extend
to vessels forced into the convoy, or acezdentally involved in the enemy's fleet and this may readily be
admitted without at all weakening the force of the
general rule.
-. rhis is an aggravated case of spoliation and
concealment of papers. Were this Spaniard to be
tried by his own law, he would be instantly con&memned. By the law of the whole world, except that
of the United States and Great-Britain, spoliation
of papers is per se a cause of confiscation and by
our law it is all but damnatory. If the spoliation is
unexplained, or the explanation is unsatisfactory , if
the cause labours under heavy suspicions or gross
prevarications, farther proof is denied, and condemnation inevitably follows.c And it is a relaxation
of the rules of the Prize Court to allow farther proof
even where there has been a mere concealment of
a The Elsebe, 5 Rob. 173
b 4 Hall's Law Journ. 467. Ordonn. of 1810.
c The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep. 241. The Rising Sun, 2 Rol,
106. The Hunter, I Dodson's Rep. 486.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

papers.a But here are both suppression and spolia1821.
tion, and a case which escapes from this imputation,. The Amiable
(to use the emphatic language of Sir W. Scott) c is Isabella.
saved as by fire."" In the present case, the spoliation and concealment are not only unexplained, but
inflame the otlier circumstances of suspicion. The
acts of the supercargo, in this respect, bind the
owners, because he is their confidential agent , and the
phip-owner is always bound by the misconduct of
the master in all respects.c So, also, the act of the
master binds the owner of the cargo, if he is also the
owner of the shtp;' and according to a decision of
the Lords of Appeal, whether he is owner of the ship
or not.e The act of the agent or consignee of the
cargo is conclusive upon the owner of the cargo.
And if the case be such as to require farther proof,
it is to be granted or denied under the Spanish treaty,
precisely in the same circumstances in which it
would be granted or denied by the pre-existing law
of nations.' But by the general law, this is a case in
.0 The Fortuna, 3 Wheat. Rep. 245.
b The Hunter, I Dodson's Rep. 4.

c The Rising Sun, 2"Rob. 10N. The Vrow Judith, I Rob.
150. The Adorns, 5 Rob. 256. The Imina, 3 Rob. 16-7. The
'Mars, 6 Rob. 79.

2 Valin Comm. 253.

1 Emengon des .Assur

449.
d The Rosalie & Betty, 2 Rob. 343. The Alexander, 4 Rob.
93.. The Elsebe, 5 Rob. 173.
e The Franklin, 2 .Acton, 106.
f The St. Nicholas, 1 Wheat. Rep. 417. The Vrow Judith,
I Rob. 150. The Baltic, I Acton, 14. 2 Binnei, 308. 15
East's Rep. 78.
g The Pizarro, -2 Wheat. Rep. 242.

CASES TN 'THE SUPREME COURT

which it would be refused, and therefore it is air ex-

1221.

~ ception to the immunity secured by-the treaty..
7 Finally. Even if farther proof were admissible, the farther proof produced does not establish the
proprietary interest in a satisfactory manner. It is
not incumbent on the captors to show to whom the
property really belongs. It is sufficient that it does
not belong as claiined-a

The Amiable
-Isabella.

The Attorney- General, on the same side, insisted
ihat the ease Was not-within the protection of the
treaty, because the"vessel- was not documented accbrdingto its provisions, and the only paper which
could possibly answer to the description .ofthe sealetter or passport, required by the 17th .article, was
concealed;:and not'-shown by the master to the captor s, as provided by the -I8th, so that they had a
rght to detain and send inthe vessel fof adjudication. Being thus stubje&ed to the ordinary jurisdiction of the Prize Court, she is to be tried by the ordinary rules of the prize law, independent of the
treaty. This Court has already determined in another case, thht the equivalent testimony requiied by
the 17th article is to be such as the Prize Court
would require, independent of the stipulations of'the
treaty b No other'testimony could give the "legal
satsfaction" which the treaty demands. In a case
requiring farther proof, the equivalent testimony is
that farther proof and the grant or denial of -this
a The Odin, 1 Rob. 227. The Neptunus, 4 Rob. 68.
6 The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep. 242.

OF TI-E UNITED STATES.

must rest upon the ordinary rules of the Court.

is2.

B.ut here the claimant has forfeited his right to farther proof, by his own aggravated -misconduct m

The Amiable

concealing the destination, and spoliatmg and suppressing the ship's papers, which it was his duty,
both by the treaty and the general law of nations, to
exhibit to. the captors voluntarily and fairly. But
supposing the passport to have been delivered to the
captors at the time of the seizure, as it ought to have
beeni' and suppose the usage of Spain to supply
the omission of -the form being annexed to the
treaty, still the document produced is not such a passport as that usage requifi.s. This. is shown by the
very terms of 'the- document produced, which state
.it
tohave been issued "for want of royal passports."
It is said that this is justified by -the local -usages of
the colony; but. we are not. bound to know those
usages, or to admit -that this Governor had the authqrity to substitute his passport for one signed by
the King. The document required by the treaty,
then, not being -found on board, the parties are to
give " legal satisfaction of their property by testimony entirely equivalent." This testimony is to be,
according to the course of the Prize Court, the papers found on board, and the examinations in preparatono. But these papers and depositions, so far
from satisfying the conscience of the Court, increase
the suspicions excited by the want of the documents
required by the treaty, documents so easily7 procured
where the property is really Spanish, and the vessel
a The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Rep. 242.

Isabella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1s1.

fairly entitled to the privileges of a Spanish ship,

Amiable that it is incredible any such vessel should want
Ile""I
them. The onus probandi is on the claimant in
Isabella.
such a case under the treaty, precisely as it would
be by the general law of nations, independent of
the special provisions of the treaty, and the question of proprietary interest is to be determined just
as that question would be in any other case of prize.
The investigation in the Prize Court is substituted in
lieu of the ihvestigation by the captors at sea, which
last was to be entirely concluded by the treaty documnents, if ihe ship was furnished with them, if
not i she was liable to be brought in to ascertain the
character of the shzp, which, if adjudged to be Sparnsh, the same consequence of protection to the cargo will follow, as if the ship had been regularly documented according to the treaty. It is not the possession of papers equivalent, in formal effect, to those
required by the treaty which will protect her from
farther inquiry, but she must have papers which will
produce the effect of giving satisfactory evidence of
the proprietary interest according to the ordinary
rules of the Prize Court. If the substituted documents were fraudulently obtained and used, would
that be satisfactory evidence ? The spirit and intention of a treaty is always to be regarded in its interpretation.6 Every object of such a treaty would
be entirely defeated by permitting an enemy to avail
himself of 'provisions contained in it, and intended
for the exclusive benefit of a friend, and even if a

a Vatlel. Droit des Gens, 1. 2. c. 17. s. 268-270. 274-28.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Spanish subject, by perpetrating a fraud upon his
1821.
own government, lends the protection of its flag to The Amiable
a foreigner, that Spaniard becomes himself an ene- IsabeUl
my, and cannot justly complain if he suffers the fate
of an enemy. It is no disrespect to Spain, or disregard of her national rights, to refuse the benefit of her
flag and pass, where they have been obtained by practsing an imposition upon her officers. She can claim
no greater respect for their acts than is conceded to
ihe judgments of the highest Courts of justice. But
even these are vitiated by fraud, according to the
law of every country. Great Britain so understands the effect of a similar treaty stipulation.
In the case of the Cittade de IZsboaa which was determined under
the British treaty with Portugal, conI
taining the principle offree shts,free goods, though
the vessel had. the Portuguese flag and pass, she was
condemned because a box of papers was found on
board falsifying the claim, and showing the property-to be enemy's, and to give More solemnity to the
judgment of the Court, the Portuguese Consul was
called-in o witness it, and admonished to advise his
government to be more vigilant over the conduct of
its oAcers in this respect. - So, also, our own Court
of Appeals.in prize causes, during the war of the revolution,'held the general maxim of free slapsfree
goods, which had been temporarily recognized in an
ordinance of Congress, not to extend to a case of
fraudulent combination between the enemy aid neutrals to defeat the belligrent rights of the United
States and her ally? In that case, the Court oba 6 Rob. 3M8.

b,Darby v. The Esterp, 2 Dali. 35.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18i2.
The-Amiable

Isabella.

served, that Congress had not said that a vzolated
neutrality-should
protect, and the mention of some
I
exceptions to the general immunity, (such as contraband, &c.) does not exclude others-, equally flagrant, though not mentioned. So in this case, the exceptions of blockade and contraband, do not exclude
other cases of unneutral conduct, and soe implied
exceptions there must be, or how could the Court
engraft the exceptions of the propery, of citizens of
the United States trading with the enemy, or of Spaisb subjects not actually domiciled within the dominions of Spain, both of which cases are excluded from
the. general operation of the treaty, according to the
opinion of this Court in the Pizarro.a If, then, thh
case is not within the protection of the treaty, does
either the original evidence, or the farther proof, satisfy the Court of the property of the ship and cargo
being as claimed This inquiry cannot be limited to
the shzp, because if that was really Spanish, it would
be sufficient to protect the cargo also- but both are
included in the same. claim, which is given for the
same person, and if the claim for the cargo be false,
that will also affect the claim to the ship. If the
ship was Spanish property, why seek to show that
the cargo was Spanish dlso P The proprietary interest i" the ship is supposed to have been acquired
under a judicial sale upon a bottomry bond. But
the previous history of the ship is not satisfactorily
explained, and so far as it is given, points to an
enemy origin and the proceedings under which the
a 2 W1heat. Rep. 245. 246.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
182i.
sale was had, are manifestly collusive and fraudub
lent. The claim to the cargo is also supported by The"Armable
mere formal documents, unsupported by the oaths of lsabefal
witnesses, and contradicted by the evidentta rtz.
The spoliation and concealme..t ,f the papers are
Such explanation
not satisfactorily explained.
could only proceed upon the ground of the papers
'being innocent in themselves, and that they were
destroyed from a necessity unconnected with an -attempt to evade the right of search. But as to the
papers thrown overboard, all that we know of their
character is, that they came from the compting
house of the claimant, who ordered them to be
thrown overboard, in case of capture, and as to the
supposed necessity of destroying them, the only reason alleged is. the fear of South American cruizers.
This could not be the true reason, since the papers
retained on board would equally show the Spanish
ownership of the ship and cargo, which it is now insisted they are sufficient to establish. And as to the
papers mutilated and concealed, a careful inspection
of them will satisfy the Court, that they point to the
English orinm of the adventure, and to English interests in its results. The learned counsel concluded
by a very minute and able analysis of the proofs of.
proprietary interest.

Mr. Harper,for the claimant and appellant, in reply,
(1.) insisted that the destination of the vessel, in this
case, was not a false destination, and that even a false
destination is not a substantive cause of condemnaVOL. V3-

6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

A false destination, is an unlawful destination
but here the alternative destination did,
The Amiable
in fact, appear on the face of the papers, and both
Isabella.
London and Hamburg were equally lawful ports for
Spanish vessels to trade with. In the cases of theJuffrouwAnnao and t;ie Welvaart,b the false destination was
combined with other circumstances of illegal conduct
or suspicion, and the condemnation did not proceed
upon that ground alone. In the case of the Nancy,c
it was also connected with. the offence of carrying
contraband goods on the outward voyage. So the
case of the Mars,d was that of engaging in the colonial trade of the enemy, attempted to be concealed by
a false destination,. and farther proof being necessary, it was refused on account of those circumstances of fraud and illegality.
2. Nor. ought the present case to be affected by
the fact of the.yessel having set saiL from the Htavana
under convoy of a British frigate. This protection
was necessary against South American cru'izers, to
whom Spanish property would have been good
prize. But the Isabella intended to-leave her convoy off the coast of Florida. and such an intention
admits of a locus penitentue which was availed of"
for she had in fact left the fleet, before the capture.
The case of the Hanse vessels taken under Swedish
convoy was very different from this.' The Swedish
1821.

tion.

Sconcealed

a 1 Rob. 125.
b
c
d
e

1 Rob. 122.
3 Rob. 125.
6 Rob. 79.
The Elsebe, 5 Rob. 173.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

armed vessels prepared to resist, and only yielded to
1821.
the terror of a superior force, and the Hanse vessels The
"
Amiable
were affected by what was considered as an actual Isabella.
resistance of the convoy, having associated -themselves under its protection.
3. As to the spoliation and concealment of papers,
the facts do not warrant the inference of its having
been done for unlawful purposes. There is no evidence whatever that the papers thrown overboard
were connected with this transaction. The coitcealeO1 papers were innocent, and were even essential to show the Spanish interest in the cargo- and
as -to the miptiItion, if practised at all, it must have
been by the captors themselves, as they alone had an
interest in defacing papers which were material to
the claimant's proofs of property The fact as to the
papers thrown overboard was frankly and -freely disclosed by the parties who alone-had any knowledge
of it, and a satisfactory reason for their conduct ptssigned by them on their first examination. Even
supposing, however, that the fact of the spoliation
and suppression of papers would, under other circumstances, exclude the claimant from the benefit of
farther proof, it is now too late for the captors to object, an order for farther proof having been-granted in
the Court below, without any objection on their
part.6
4. The passport in this case is sufficient to establish-the national character of the ship, so as to protect both her and the cargo under the treaty with
a The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. Bep. 227. 240.

CASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

T Amiable
Th~e

It is one of a series of passports issued. by
the Governor of the island of Cuba; is numbered

Isabella.

94, showing that many more of the same kind had

1821.

Spain.

been issued, and the words ",For want of royal
passports" are printed, which circumstance shows
that it was an established formula. The circumstances of the Spanish nation at that perod, when
Ferdinand had been just restored to the throne, sufficiently explain the cause of-the defect of passports,
with the king's sign-manual. The very act of exercising such an authority. on the part of the colonial
Governor, is strong pnmafacze evidence of.his possessmg-the power; and until rebutted by some contrary proof, must be -considered as conclusive that
such is the usage of Spain, There is no substantial
differenqe between such a~document and royal passr.
ports, since the latter must be issued m .blank, and
sent to the different ports throughout the extent 9f
the Spanish dominions, and the distribution, of them
entrusted to subordinate officers, so that the same
frauds may be perpetrated as are imagined in the
present instance. What better security have we
that the royal papsport itself will not be employed to
protect the trade of our enemy P It. may be safely
admitted, that you may inquire so far as to ascertain
that the pasiport is not forged,, or obtained by criminal means, or fraudulently applied to a vessel, for
which it was not issued But if none of these circumstances occur, and the passport regularly issues,
from an authority which is competent to grant it
according to the local usages of the neutral country,
the treaty makes it conusive, on the question of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

property. In this case, the passport was.granted,
under a judicial decree, of the Consukado, at the
Havana, proceeding according to the course of the
Court of Admiralty; to inforce a bottomry -bond,
given for repairs to the ship.. The sentences of foreign
tribunals, having jurisdiction of the.subject matter,
rem,-are considered as conclusive,
and procedding zin
bythelawof this, and every other country, wherever
the title to the thing comes incidentally, or directly,
incontroversy. Here it is the very question in issue
befire the Court, 'and the decision of the Spanish
tribunal not only warranted the, Governor of Cuba
in granting the passport, but even if he had not
issued it, -would bind this Court to consider the property as -Spanish. Therefore, admitting that the
captors had a right to bring in -this vessel for-adjudication, because she had =not the passport required by
the *treaty, or because it was not exhibited to them
it the time of the capture, still the eqtiivalent, proof
s more than sufficient to supply the want of a passport in any f6rm that can be conceived ; because, it
shows, that the ship was entitled to every document
which could prove her to be a Spanish ship, the tribunal of the Ccnsulado lhaving adjudged her to, be
Spanish property. The captors may possibly be
exempt from costs and damages; hut it does not,
therefore, follow, that the case is taken entirely out
of the special provisions of the- treaty, and-left at
large to be determined under the law of nations.
The object of the treaty was-to provide, that neutral
vessels should protect goods to whomsoever belonging, with the exception of contraband only. The

1821.
The Ammable

Isabella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

.

Tne Amiable
babeiia.

passport was to be conclusive of the neutrality of
the ship, and the certificate was to show, that the
cargo was not contraband. If these documents are
wanting, then the property of the ship is to be established by equivalent testimony, and that being
shown to be neutral, will protect the cargo, even if
enemy's property, unless, indeed, it consist of contraband.articles. The " equivalent testimony" required, must mean, that other documents shall be
produced which will prove precisely the same facts
that were intended to be proved by the passport and
certificate, and not that sort of evidence which the
technical rules of the Prize Court demand in a case
requiring farther proof. Doubtless the intention of
the contracting parties is to be regarded in constraiag treaties, as it is in the interpretation of all other
injstruments, but that intention is to be gathered
from the words they use. Although there are many
treaties consecrating the maxim, that free ships shall
make free.goods, there is no other example of a treaty
stipulating what should be conclusive evidence of the
freedom of the ship. The parties to this treaty intended to exclude thejunsdiction of the Prize Courts
of the belligerent as far as Pl6ssible, by forbidding
the detention of vessels having the required.documents, and where they were carried in for adjudication for want of these documents, limiting the inquiry of the Prize Courts to such testimony as
should be eqtivalent. All the cases cited on the
other side, of the supposed excepion to the general
immunity, are cases arising under treaties or ordinances, maerely recogmsing the principle, that free

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ships should make free goods, without providing any
rule of evidence to establish the national character
of the ship, and Jeaving that question to be determited by the general law -of nations. But here the
coplventional law adopts a new rule of evidence, from
Which the Court is not at liberty to depart.
The.learned counsel also argued ;the question of
proprietary interest with great minuteness and ability;

i821.
The Amiable

Isabella.

The Cottrt directed the cause to. be. reargued, up- Mtarch

on the -oint as to the form and effect of, the. passport-.
The Attorney-General ,forthe captors and respondents,, insisted, that theform of passport to which an
effect so important was attributed, not having been
annexed to the original treaty, by the contractiig
parties, could not now be supplied by the judicial
tribumals of either. Such an attempt would be an
encrvachment on the treaty-making -power, which,
in our government, is exclusively confided to the
President andSenate. The office of this Court is to
construe, not to make or.amend treaties. The treaty
(art. 17.) provides, that "1the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or people of the other party,
must. be furnished with sea letters or passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the shtp,
as also the -name and place of habtation of the master of.the said ship, that it may appear thereby that
the ship really and truly belongs to the subjects of one
of the parties, which passport shall be made out and
granted according.to the form annexed to this treaty."
These particulars were required to be inserted for

18.

.4,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the purpose of identifying the vessel to which the
was intended to apply, and to satisfy the
The- AmiableSpassport
other contracting party that she is really entitled to
Isabella.
the immunities stipulated in the treaty. The passport in -the present case was either intended to certify that the ship was Captain Cacho's, or not. The
Cacho, with his Spansh.
words are, "Captain
shp called," &c. If Cacho was ineant to be certified
to be the owner, the claim does not conform to it.
He expressly swears that it is not his, but that it belongs exclusively' to Munos, who claims. Nobody
else can have restitution but the actual claimant, and
he is not certified in the pa.ssport to be the owner.
But the term-'his Spantsh ship," is evidently-a mere
figurative expressioni and means nothing more than
the ship of which he is master. What thea.is the
import of the term , Spanish ship ?" A certificate
that aship of a certain name, and bulk, and master,
is a Spantsh shtp, is not a certificate that it is Spanish property, or in other words, the property 6f Spanish subjects, which is alone intended to be protected by the express terms of the article. A vessel may
be a Spansh shp by adoption, by havibg a license
to trade with the Indies, without ceasing to be the
property of foreigners, cr becoming the property- of
Spanish subjects. It is not sufficient to certify the
national character of the ship merely. There must
be a certificate that Itls the individual property of
particular subjects of Spain, for to such alone does
the protection of the treaty extend. The treaty being left imperfect in omitting to annex the form of
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES

passport, it is very questionable whether the stipu1s21.
lation as to its effect as evidence, is not wholly void. T'€'aThe Amiable
But admitting that the Court can supply the form, isibella.
how is it to-be done? Two modes may be selected.
First, to take the literal words of the treaty; and then
the passport should have stated the ship to be the
property of Munos, the claimant, or, secondly, the
form may be supplied by referring ta other treaties
similar in their nature. In the form of passport annexed to the French treaties of 1778 and 180 , the
master is required to swear that "the ship belongs to
one or more of the subjects of--.
The act
whereof shall beput at the end of these presents,"
&c. 'No foim of the oath which is to be thus appended iagiven, but the Dutch treaty of 1782, shows
what tie form of the -oath would probably be: " C.
D. of, personally appeared before us, and declared by solemn oath, that the ship or *essel called,
&c. does rightfully and properly belong to him or
thpm only;" &c. The terms of these- treaties are
the same with the Spanish treaty, and require "the
name, the propertly and the burthen of the vessel,"
to be expressed. It is not property in the abstract,
the national character merely, acquired by a fictitious
adoption into the navigation of Spain, but the idividual proprietary interest of some Spanish domiciled subject, that is to be protected.
Mr. Harper,contra, contended, that the.treaty mere-,
ly required the national character of the property, and
not its ihdividual ownership, to be expressed in the
passport. There can be no doubtt hat this passport
VOL. VT.

7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1321.

"

The Amiable

Isabella.

Wgarlc13th,

82.

must be according to the regular Spanish form, because
both this and the royal passport for the Clara, which
was-also found on board, have the same expression,
vIZ. "his Spanish ship." This is precisely equivalent to a certificate that the ship belongs to Spanish
subjects. A warranty in a policy of insurance that
a ship is an Amerncan -stp,is a warranty that she-is
the property of citizens of the United States. The
form of passport which was intended to have been
annexed having ,been omitted. good -faith requires
that it should be supplied by construction, since it
must be concluded that the parties intended to wive
it. A construction has been -given to- the stipulation
by the usage of. the two countries, whi&h is sufficient for all practical purposes. What good purpose would be answered by inserting the-name of
the owner P The Court could not inquire even
whether such a person existed, much less as to his
national character or domicil. The contlusive etfict
attributed to the passport, would-prevent any such
extrin§ic Investigation) and therefore a fictitious
name might be inserted which would satisfy all the
requisites of the treaty So that a general certificate
of the nalional character of the property is as effi acious as would be a certificate that it was the property of some particular person.
The cause was again argued, bpon the application
of the executive Government, to the Court, on the
question of the construction of the Spanish treaty.
and the form and. effect-of the passports,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
Mr. Pinkhey, for the captors and respondents,
stated four points for the consideration of the Court. The Amiablb
1st. That the passport produced in this case, was Isabella.
not within the terms of the treaty, because it was
obtained by fraud.
2dly. That it was not within the treaty, because
.not issued by the Spanish sovereign, or his known
authorized substitute.
3d. That it was not within the same, because the
only article which professes to provide for it, is incomplete and inofficious, theform-never having been
annexed, according to the terms of' the article.
4th. Because the passport issued for this ship, is
not conformable either with,.the terms or the substance of the article , since it does not state that the
ship is the property of a Sparnsh subject, nor name
any Spanish subject as the owner.
This treaty is, unquestionably, to be interpreted
by a just regard to the public faith, but only so far
as the public faith is actually pledged by it. The
spirit which animated the parties to the armed neutrality is to be regarded', but it must be remembered,
tiat the celebrated.confederacy which has received
that name, -was intended to introduce new rules, to
the disparagement and repeal of those which then
existed, and in derogaton of the ancient law of nations. The intention of the parties to. the Spanish
treaty, is also to be taken into view. But this intention is to be collected from the language they
have used, if that be clear and plain, there is no
room for interpretatior; but, if ambiguous in itself,
then the intention may be fairly collected from the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

object and circumstances of the stipulation in quesTh AmiableI tion. In a word, the treaty is to be executed as it
The
Imbella. is, and no new treaty to be made by the labour of
exposition.
1. The object of the stipulation is expressed in
the article to be "Ithe ships and vessels belonging to
the subjects or people of the other party," &c This,
necessarily, excludes all other ships or vessels.
Consequently, it cannot be applied to vessels
which are not really those, of Spanish subjects,
but only fraudulently represented to be such. It
is a principle, not only of the common-law, but
of universal jurisprudence, that-fraud vitiates every
act, whether public or private, contract§, deeds,
and judgments, are all affected by it, even as to bona
fde purchasers. No record, however solemn,'estops
an allegation of fraud. Judgments of Courts .of
competent jurisdiction import absolute verity, wherever they are brought in question., but if obtained
by fraud, they are set aside, either in the same or
any other tribunal, -and a person affucted by the
fraud may show it and avoid the judgment, though
not a party to the suit. Thus a stranger may avoid
a recovery in a real action, if covenous or fra udulent,
and he is prejudiced by it. These analogies of the
municipal law are applicable to similar cases arising
under the law of nations. The comity which is due
to foreign States, does not require us to respect the
acts of their administrative or judicial officers when
they are contaminated with fraud, and still less
where this fraud has deceived those very officers,
and induced them to issue Spamsh papers to a Bri1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tilsh ship. In such a case, even if a royal passport

1821.

vA6'
had been issued, we should have a right to say, in T
The Amiable
habeia.
has
King
"1
the
law.,
common
the
of
language
the
been deceived in his grant." A repetition of such
transactions as the present case discloses, would
bring the entire treaty into jeopardy. The-fionour
and interest of both nations equally require that they
shouli be repressed. The only mode-of preserving
the amicable relations between the two powers, is by
judicial interposition, preventing the effect of such
iiolations of-the spirit of the treaty before they grow
too mighfy to be. controlled by diplomatic remonstrance. Make these frauds successful, and encourage them by your decisions, and such viblations will
be frequent. On the other hand, by arresting them
in Zimine,,the presumed and declared purposes of the
contracting parties will be fulfilled, and dissentions
and hostilities prevented. That there must be some
implied exceptions to .the conclusive effect attributed
to the passport by the letter of the treaty, is manifest.
Such would be the case of a royal passport, signed
Jin blank, obtained by corruption, of the officer in
whose custody it was, and filled up fraudulently, and
apjlied to a vessel not entitled to the privilege.
Here -is a passport de facto, with all the solemnities.
upon -its face, yet certainly examinable in this particular; and if shown by extrinsic evidence to-be
thus fraudulently obtained and used, not only would
the captors be excused from-costs and damages for
detaining the vessel, but she. must be condemned
*under the ordinary rules of.pnze law. So that all
the mischiefs of stopping vessels at sea may arise

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
"

The Amiable

TnbeU.

notwithstanding this stipulation, and, indeed, all
such attempts to limit the range of mantume-warfare
will be found.n practice to be quite illusory, unless,
indeed, the capture of private property be..entirely
prohibited, and even then contraband and breach
of blockade must be excepted. A passport, as in
the present case, actually filled up by the proper
authority, and 'intended for the ship for which it is
actually usdd, if issued upon false suggestions, is no
more a legal passport than .the one just supposed.
The will of the.,grantor does not concur. The fraud
makes it no passport.-But it is objected, tjiat by the
18th. article, the passport,, if in due form, is to be
conclusive when- shown at sea, and the belligerent
capnot detain the vessel after this document is-exhibited. If the precise etter of the treaty be adhered to, this objection will be found to be groundless.
" If the shtps of the sail subjects, &c. shall be'met
with," &c. "the master or commander of such ship
shall exhibit his passports concerning the property of
the ship, made out according to the form inserted in
this present treaty," &c. Suppose a ship exhibiting
such a passport, should be proved by other evidence
found on board, not to be a "s hzp of the said subjects ;iT then the letter of the treaty does not apply
to her. If not a " ship of the- said subjects," her
passport is no absolute and conclusive protection.
On the other hand, if the spzrit of Ahe treaty be regarded, the restih isprecisely the same. The intention of the contracting parties was to protect Spanish
ships, and not- enemy ships; to give effect to the

OF ,THE -UNITED STATE.1821.
maxim-of free ships, ftee.goods, not to make-erieadmitting,
Even
goods.
enemy
protect
ships
my
Amable
ontrctinThe
that.the
that. the contracting parties meait to confide in -the Isabella.
good faith of each other, that they would grapt their
respective- passports only to their own vessels-; -still
it is not to be supposed, that, they meant to confide
in. -the 'good faith :of their- enemies, that .these last
would not.attempt to -deceive their officers. It
would, indeed, be an imputation on theirgood faith,
to suppose that they wished -uclx frauds to be successful. Every such national stipulation must receive-a fair and reasonable construction. One which
'subverts its object,-which encourages fraud and perJf6r.y,-and makes the stipulatinoR destructive to the
rights of both' parties, -'and-benefits their, enemies
onlyi cannot-be just. .So pei'ncious a construction
destroys all the advantages of the-treaty. Look'at
its" consequences to our belligerent rights. The
•passport,1iowever obtained, and attended with whatever concomitant proof of fraud and falsehood, is
supposed to be incontrovertible. However clumsy
and barefaced the imposition may be, still it must
prevail, and while-our enemy is'warrng upon us in
all directioos, and by every means, we'must suffer
his trade to psss unmolested in his own ships, wearing a Spanish veil which disguises nothing, and .only
compelq us to affect blindness. On the o~her side,
the evils flowing from the interpretation we -insist
upon amount to nothing. The passport.is still-pro.tecting evidence to all reasonable and .honest purposes. The captor Who disregards it, does so atothe

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

peril of exemplary costs and damages, to be mflicted

min the discretion of the Court,. according to the. peTie Amiable
Isabella.
culiar circumstances of every case. There isy then,

the moral restraint of a great responsibility. It is
sufficient to give protection where it is due, and was
intended to be given. It provides for the consequen-.
ces-of slavish submission to the letter of the instrument on the one. hand, and guards-against vexatious
interruptions of neutral commerce on the other.
2. But, if the document can be issued by any inferior functionary, the argument on the first point is
entitled to still more- weight. It is impossible to
conceive that any nation would be so unwise as to
consent that subordinate officers, at a distance from
the sovereign authority, of great facility, surrounded
by corrupt a~ehts, or perhaps themselves corrupt,
should grant such an omnipotent document, sacred,
infallible, and conclusive even against the manifest
fact and truth. Where is the authority of this Court
to countenance the issuing (if
such a document, by
an authority less than the highest P The tfeaty is
here silent. If theform had been anpexed, it would
probably have made provision on this subject also.
If this omission is to be supplied by construction,
the Court will remember the high dignity and vast
power ofthe document, and will not too easily confide in the responsibility of subordinate agents, remote from the control of their sovereign. The passport now m question, professes to be issued "sfor
want of royal passports." But why want them?
Their absence proves a want of confidence in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
officer who has here assumel the authority to substitute his own, for the passport of his prince. In The Amfablbthe absence of any evidence .of a right to exercise an Isabeta.
authority so -high, or of the :fact that laiyvroyal passporfs had ever been entrusted to his distribution, the
Court cannot recognize the validity of a document
thus issued.
3. The- 17th and 18th hrticles 6f the treaty, so
faras they pryvide for.-the form and effect of passports, are inofficious .and incomplete, for want-of the
annexation of the- form-intended. The 17th provides, that the "passport , shall be made out, and
granted'accordingto 1e form annlexed to this treaty."
The ships of the two nations-are to be " provided
with passports as above mentioned," &c. "without
wlhw reqpsites they may be sent to one of the
ports," &c. The 18th, stipulates -that the master
"shall exhibit his passports, concerming.the property
of the shipi made.out according to the form znserted
-n thtspresent treat,,.and the ship, when she shall
have showed -such passport,shall be free; and at liberty to pursue her voyage-," &c. So that there is
nothing in these articles which gives a conclusive
effect to any other passport than one, which ii is impossible to have under the treaty, -as the parties have
left it. The first part of the 17th article does indeed
give some of the qualities of the passport, but it
must have others, and they are unattainable by reason of the omission of the form. The Court then
must either strik.e out the reference to a form, or
imagine a form, and annex it. To do either, would
b.a high act-of legislation, to Which the Courtjs

VOL. Vl.

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

a
M~e Amiable

incompetent. But let us try to discover the f6rm
and taking the 17th articl6 for a- guide, it mustex-

labna.

press. the name, property, and bulk of the ship, and

1821.

"theename and- habitation .of the master. Still th&e
are several things more to be ascertained. Whoe it
authorized to grant the passport? This is- an..essential circumstance, is ascertained by the forms of
passport annexed to several- treaties, and- would
probably -have been exoressed in this-form hid it
been annexed. How is the proprietary interest to
be stated --as the general property of the subjectsvot
-the state .or as-the special-property, of some- wdividuaI 'named.? Is the national character of'the Thip,
as a part of the navigation of the country.under
whose flag.she sails, sufficient; or must-it appear to
be'the prbperty of subjects in general, or- of some
individual owner' Under what sanctions and' olemnitres, and accompanied by what proofs, is the
document to -issue? These,.too, are regpilated by the
forms annexed to several treaties, which were
brought to the notice of-the: Court; at the former argumpnt. The Coutt may supply, these requists,
cobjecturally, but it can have no assurance that it
willpot -err, and defeat, instead of promoting-the in,tentzon of the partie& The stipulations of-the treaty
are nothing, Rn0l profess to be noth'ing without-the
form of. passport. The contracting parties- -have
made no effectual- contract on -this watter, without
the forni. The Court cannot finish, whatihey nave
left .imperfect,- any. more than it-could.frame new
articles, and insert them-in the treaty. The contractwg parties give gonclusiveness to no.passport

OF THE UNITED STATES.

but one according to a form to be annexed. The
Court knows not what that form would have been.
It might have -explained, varied, or added to the requisites of the passport contained in the body. of the
treaty. Can the Court give conclusive effect to any
other passport than the one intended to be provided
by the treaty P If it ean, the treaty would, to a certain extent, be made by the Court. But the Judiciary has no portion of the treaty-making power
under our constitution ; and cannot exercise it under
the pretext of interpreting treaties made by the President and Senate. Here is no room for interpretation. The language of the treaty is expriss and intdlligible, as far as it goes. It creates but one casus
fweders. The Court cannot vary it, 'or superadd
another. The 14th. article of the Prussian treaty
of 1785, contains a similar.stipulation with that of
the Spanish treaty. The passport is to express the
tc name, property, and burden of the vessel, as also
the-name and habitation of the master, which passports shall be made out in good and due forms, (to
be settled by conventions between the parties, whenever occaswn shall require,") &c. Suppose that no
such conventions were ever concluded, (and in fact
they never were,) could the Court supply the form,
or. give effect to the stipulation in the- treaty with
Prussia Yet the two, cases are the same. for
the omission of a convention settling the, form, ori
of the annexation of the form, equally fail to
tomplete the stipulation. If bne can -be judi6ially
supplied, -why cannot the other P It is a gratuitous
assumption to say, that by the non-annexatioi, the

1821.
The Awiablp

Labella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182I.
The A
At able
Isabeia.

parties intended to refer the form to each other's good
faith and discretion. If they had changed their minds
in this respect, when they executed the treaty, a supplemental article would have been added. and the only fair inference from their silence is,-that they meant
to leave the stipulation .of free shtps, free goods, to
support itself by the ordinary rules of evidence as
tothe property of the ship. The Court cannot alter
the treaty bj mere implication, and that too, not a
necessary implication, for the non-annexation might
have been the result of inadvertence. It might, also,
have been the result of an intention to abandon the
scheme of conclusive passports, or of passports more
than usually efficacious, by omitting to perfect the
treaty in that.respect. If the defect proceeded from
accident, the parties might: have supplied it,by a subsequent convention, and if they have not thought
fit to do it, the proper inference is, that they did not
wish to do it ,. and if wishing it, they have neglected it, they have no reason to complain that the Court
acts upon. the treaty as it finds it. The inadvertence, therefore, was remediable, in a regular manner, by the treaty-making power on, both sides, and
the Court has no tight to say that it was not an.inadvertence , or if by design, that it was not intended
to leave the stipulation abortive as to. the effect of
passports. And where is. the mighty mischief of
leaving it unaccomplished P The great object-of -the
treaty was -the principle of free-skips, .free-goods.
Take away the.conlusiveness of the -passport, and
that principle -remains in full -force.. It stands in
many a treaty without it, The passport would still

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
Eiave its proper effect. It would be entitled to reb
spect, as prmafaae evidence, but it would not be The Aualp
conclusive.-against further exaiination. No doubt IsaBelfa.
the public- fith is to be preserved, but -the care of it
is devolvedi upon this Court to a limited extent only,
the executive government is answerable for. the"rest.
Thejundiction of the Court to carry the treaty into
efict, arises: out -of the constitution, which declares
-it to be the supreme law of the land, -and it is only
-s a law-that. the Court can deal with it. "Where a
*treatygives a legal rule, the Court may enforce it
directly in the exercise of its ordinary and. regular
jurisdiction. "But where it fails fo give such a rule,
the Court is without-ower. As a Court of the.law
of nations, it cann6t, by analogy tb- its equitable jurisdiction, supply the defective execution of a tteaty,
as -Chancery-supplies the defective, .execution of a
power, or a trust. A-Court of Equity supplies.-remedy-where there is a right merely eqqitable. It
has a control over-the parties to compel -them to ido
justice, although -there be no lgal obligation. But
-this Court - cannot deal with treaties m this manner.
It must execute them as, it finds them,- since- it arts
upon them as- written laws merely, .and has no control over ithe parties t6 make them conform their conventions to their actual intntionS. Sippose the
United. States. had refused to make a convention
.providing the -form of passports under the Prussian
".treaty, could this Court compel the Governmnt .to'
doit, or coisider-it to be done', because in, equity it
ought to be done P An. equitable jurisdiction over
treaties, implies a control over pariies. But the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

power of the Court over treaties is incidental merely,

a
The Amiable

it makes the treaty act where it professes to act, and

Isabaa.

does not supply rules of conduct which the treaty
does not give. Its province is interpretative, as in
the case pf other laws and it can no more assume
the treaty-making power, than any other legislative
power.
. But putting the last objection out of the question, the passport produced does not conform to the
17th article of the Spanish treaty. The requisition
of.the treaty is, that the passport shall state " the
name, property and bulk of the ship," &c. "that at
may appear thereby that the shtp really and truly belongs to the subjects of one of the parties," &c. But
this passport metel i licenses the master, by names
"to proceed in his Spanish shzp,11 &c. How does
it appear by this,that the ship is the property-of any
subject of Spain P The words of the treaty, or absolute .synonymes, are essential, and cannot be dispense.d with without frustrating tfhe object..of the stipulation. Unless, therefore, the substituted words
necessarily,. and under all cirgumstances, mean the
same thing, and give t4e same security to the belligerenti the departure is fatal. The pronoun
"hs," as here usea, does not relate to property, but
to the official character of the master, nor is it pretended that he is owner. The words "'Spansh
ship," do not necessarily denote Spanish property.
Spain may adopt, or naturalize foreign vessels, for
temporary, or for permanent, purposes, without making their owners her subjects. Even a Spanish
passport given to a vessel, documented in other respects as a foreign vessel, may be held to communi-

OF-THE.- UNITED STATES.

cate the Spanish national -character.- It depends- on
Spain to make-any vessels:-Spanish •vessels, and thus

1821.
""'
The
Amiable
to give the- protection of her'flag and pass to the .ebena;"

whole navigatiot of-our enemy. The -words here
substituted, donot then. necessarily import the,salue
with .the-words of-the treaty; they are-usceptible.of.
'evasion; they may bW-true, ai#',ye '.the reqdisitions
of the treaty remain unsatisfied.
Mr. Harw,cbntra; feferred. tb- the former argument on-,the, part of the-claimant and-appallant on,all
the, pointr except that relative to.the omission of the
-torm of -passport provided, by, the treaty, which he
iosisted did -not defeat the conclusive effect meant to
lie attributed, to the passport. by the treaty. The
congtiuction contended for, on the part-of the -captorl, would de'stroy the benevolent ojject of the coiltradting parties. -Itig highly improbable that the two
nations would have suffered- so important an alteration to be,worked -in their.rlguial ;intentipns, either
by.an accidental or -designed omission ofthe Torm of
passport. The annpxation could hardly have been
omitted from negligence; and if the entire effect of
the stipulation was meant to have been waived,
the .prues would haie distinctly -expressed this
fhir inference, tbqre-change in their views. The
J
fore, is, that they meant. to refer, the form to each
other's good faith, and to be satisfied if it contained
a.compliance with the substaiftial requisitions of
the -treaty, Under this confidence our vessels have
been furnished with the sea letter, and the vessels of
Spain with: a royal-passport, or a passport substitu-

-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
v
The Amiable

rsabella.

ted for it by the Spanish authorities, to whom the
issuing of royal passports is entrusted, and containing the same particulars as to the. property of the
ship, &c., which the royal- passport contains. It is
not contended, that the passport may be Issued by
any Spanish authority, however inferior, or- however
alien his functions to the matter in question, but
only by such officers as the Spanish Government
authorizes to grant them. If, notwithstanding a
vessel -has such a passport or sea letter an board,
she is liable to be interrupted in her voyage, and
carried in for adjudication, under the ordinary rules
of the: Prize Court,-independentof the conventional
law, -the object'of the contracting parties will be entirely defeated. It is true, that free ships will still
make free goods, but if the freedom of the ship
must be .established by the tedious process of judicial investigation, notwithstanding the provisions--of
the treaty intended to exclude sucf investigation,
very little will be gained for the security of neutral
conmerce. The terms used in the -passport, with
which this ship was furaished, are precisely synonymous with those of the treaty.. The-treaty -does.not
say, that the passport shall express the, individual
proprietary interest of any particular Spanish.subject, but that it shall express the property of -the
ship. Wow can-a ship be a "Spanish ship," wit4out .bqiig Spanish property P And. bpw caa it be
Spanish property, without being the property of the
subjects. of Spain P This is the effect of the terms,
as used in a policy of. insurancei, and other comimeri I transactions, A mere license toa-foreign slp,

OF THE UNITED- STATES.

documented as a foreign ship, conferring-on, he* the
of Spanish trade, by a fictitious -adoption
privileges
similar to that which gave rise .to the. British ruleof
1756, relative to the colonial trade, would not make
her a-Spanish ship. And even if Spain should abuse
the immunity conferred by the treaty, it is no reason
why this Court shoul& dispense with its obligations.
It. is f6r the legislative authority to determine when
political considerations will justify this country in

1821.
The-Amiable

Isabella.

strspendhig any.of the provisibns of a foreign treaty.

The Court must take the law from the treaty-making power, or from the higher legislative power
dispensing with the obligatiois of a treaty.
The cause was continued to the next 'term for advisement.
At the present term the opinion 6f the Court was Prym;.
1821.
delivered-by
Mr. Justice STOitY. This cause was.heard upon
the whoIb evidence,, iitroduced" b4 both partieg, at
the last term ; and as it embraced, several points of
gret importande and-dificulty, thd Court, ex. wero
motu., directed one of those points to be reargued;
and-.another, including a .final construction of the
Spanish treaty in matters of deep and universal interest, was reargued. upon tho application of the
Government itself. The last argument was heard
,at so late -aperiod of the session, thit it was found
impracticable for all of-us -to prepare deliberate opinions, and the. ause was ordered by the Court tobe
VoL. VL

9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

continued for advisement. The Court has, now
to-a result, which I-am. directedtopronounce.,
aecome
e .Amiable'
The
A preliminary questidn was raised at the orgnal
Isbelia.
Whether a si- argument, that the libel ought to be dismissed, be.,
be a drit
zure Admlralty,
of
"thorIis a questio cause the capture was made without public
entirely behether.
ten th bo- ty, and by a: non-commissibned vessel.
1821.

vernment

the

and

pto.r

with which the
claimantto do.has
nothing

ths be so or not, we do not think t matefia! now to

inquire.

It is a-question..between the Government

and the captors,""with whichotheelaimant hqs nothing

to do. If the ship and cargo be enemys property,.
it cannot be restored to.the claimant. If the paptors.
made the capture without a.-y,legalcommissr'on, and
it is decreed good. prize,. the eiinemnation must,
tjnder such circumstances, .be.-to -the Government
itself. If with a.comnision, then it mray be to the
captors. But in any. vjew, thequestion is matter-of
subsequent inquiry... after the principal question of
prize is disposed of; and the Government may, if
it-chooses, contest the right of the captors by an interlocutory application aftera, decree. of condemnation has pased, and before distribution is-decreed.
The claimant can have no just.interest in that question, and cannot be permitted-to moot it, before this
Court.
Having disposed of this point, which, indeed, has
been long recogfiised as a settled princile .of'the law
of prize, the path is open for the coasideration of the
other points of the cause.
The. captors contend, that the whole evidence establishes, that the ship-and cargo are enemies propefty, the property of British subjects disguised qder
Spanish documents, and. bound to a British port.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
That the voyage had its origin, in Loddon, and was
to terminate there; and 'that the usual frauds of false The Amiage
papers, fase destination, and suppression of evi- Is8ibUa.
dence, have been resorted to for the purpose of giving a neutral characteik to hostile interests.
The -counsel for the claimant deny the matter- of
fact, and assert, that -.the proprietary interest of ship
and cargo is bozafide Spanish ;. and'endeavour, with
great ingenuity and force, to explain away the difficulti.s with whiih it. is admitted, on -all sides, this
part of the cause is . urrounded. If this ground
should be thought not to be. entirely and satisfactorily made out). the counse.for the claimant farther
contend, that the s§hrp was Auly documented as a
Spmansh ship, accordIng 'to the' stipulations of tke
Spanish treaty of 17-95., and that the effect of those
stipulations is to. preclude all inquiry into the pro-prietary interest of ship and cargo. Of the former,
becaus6 the passport is conclusive evidence of the
national -character and ownership of the ship, .whidh
all -persons are estopped to deny, of the latter, 'because, by the treaty, free ships make free goods, and
the national character of the cargo becomes wholly
immaterial.
To-this point, which, if settled one-way, is decisive of the cause, the counsel for the captors have
given several Answers. 1.. That-the passport of this
ship was obtained by fraud, and ihis is alwiays inquirable into, and vitiates all, even the most sacred instruments and records. 2. That the passport is not
conformable to the treaty, not having been issued by
royal authority, or authenticated by the royal Go-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

Tand
The
Amiable
Isabella.

vernment, but issued bY a mere colonial Governor,
that, such as it is,. it does not state the ship to
be owned by Spanish subjects, which is indispensable under the treaty. 3. That the substituted proof
required by the 17th article of the treaty, where the
passport is not regular, must be such as is subject to
the thorough examination of the Prize Court.
4. That the form of the passpoft, referred to in the
17th article of the treaty, never having been annexed
to it by the contracting parties, that article, so far as
it purports to give'.any effect to passports, is inoperative and imperfect; and tbe imperfection cannot be
supplied by any ju'dicial tribunal;
Such are the.leading- propositions, pressed with
great ability and earnestness -into the discussion of
this cause; by the ilespective parties. They embrace
prmciples of nternational law of vast importance ;
they embracf private interests of no inconsiderable
magnitude, and they embrace the interpretation of
a treaty which we are bouhd to observe with the
most scrupulous good faith, and. which our Government could not violate without disgrace, and which
this Court could not disregard without betraying its
duty. It need not be said, therefore, that we feel
the responsibility of oui stations on this occasion,
and that in.delivenng.our opinmon to the world, we
have pondered on it witigieat solicitude and deliberation, and. have looked to consequences no farther
than the sound principles of interpretation, and internatiohal .justice required us to look.
The point to which the Court will first direct its
attention, 'is that last made, viz. whether the 17th

OF THE UNITED STATES,

article of the treaty. of 1795, so far as it rnpects
pMsports, is inoperative and imperfect in conse-

quence of-the omission to annex the form of the passprt t the treaity. This is a very delicate and in-

1821.
The .Amiable
Isabella..

T 11th aricle

teresting question.
=;y ofi,
The 17th. article "prov.ides, ".that in case eitherth raive
pe" in consemop.

of the parties
hereto shall be engaged.in -a war, the quence of the
I

'omission to an-

ships and vessels belongihg to the subjects or people nexth fom of
of the other party,.must be furnished with sea letters tre a'tY.
or pas ports, (patentes de mar o pagaportes,)expressing the name, property, (pro.pzedad,) and bulk of
I'he.,ship; as,'also, the name and. place of habitation
of the.master .or commander of the said ship, that it
may appear.thereby, that the ship really and-truly
belongs to the subjects .of. one of the. PArties, whic
passports (dichos pasaportes) shall be ,made out and
granted according to the form annexed to thus treaty."
The, article" proceeds to declare, "1that such ships,
being laden, are to be provided not qnly with passports, as above menioned, but. also with certificates
contaihing the"several particulars of -the cargo,, the
place whence. the ship sailed, -that so it- may be
known whether any forbidden or contraband goods
"be on board the same; which certificates shall be
made out by the officers of the place whence
the ship sailed, in the accustomed form, and if
any one shall think it fit or advisable to express
in the- said certificate, the person to whom the
goods on board belong, he may freely do so, without whsch requsites they may.be sent to 6ne of the
ports of the other contracting party, and adjudged

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT
121.
'd

Ve.

by the competent tribunal, according to what is
above set forth, that all the circumstances of the

The Amiable Isibella. above omission, having been well examined, they

shall be adjudged to be legal prizes, unless they shall
give legal satisfactron of their property by testimony
entirely- equivalent." In point of fact, no form of a
passport was made out and annexed to the treaty.
The case, then, now before us, is not within the letter
of tie treaty, for as no form is prescribed, the documents found on board cannot be compared with any
form, and until that comparison is-made, it is impossible to say whether the stipulations originally intended by the treaty have been exactly and literally
complied -With or not. There is no room here left
for interpretation, oki account of arabiguous language
of the parties. They have expressed themselves in
the clearest manner, jand it is t9 the passport, whose
form is to be annexed to the treaty, and -to none
other, that thie effect intended by the treaty, whatever
that may be, either as conclusive or prnmaficze evidence of proprietary interest, is attributed. Into the
reasons Why this form was omitted to be annexed
to the treaty, we are not permitted judicially to inquire. It-may have been by accident, or by design,
from difference of opinion as to what should be the.
solemnities accompanying it, or from a willingness
to leave it.
to future negotiation. Can this Cout
annex a form to the treaty Can it supply the deficiency of the treaty, and give effect to it in the same
manner, as if no form were referred to Can it look
to the stipulations, and decide for itself what the partie's regarded as substance, and what -as mere form P

OF THE UNITED-STATES.

Can-it say that the stipulations in the text would
bave been agreed to -without the auxiliary form of
the passport P Can it decide judicially, that under no

circumstances the form of the passport could be of
the essence of the stipulations P These are grave
questions, and are not to be lightly answered. They
deserve and require deliberate, consideration We
have given it; and- our opinion will now be delivered.
In the first place, this Court does not-possess any
treaty-inaking power. That power belongs by ,the
constitution to another department cif the. Governnient; and to alteramend, or.add to any-treaty, *by
inserting any clause, whether small or great., important or triial, wovld be on our part an usurpation of power, and not an exerciie of judicial functions. It would be to make, and - not to :construe a
treaty. 'Neither can this Court supply a casus omis.sus in a treaty, any more than in alaw. We are to
find out the intention of the parties by just rules of
interpretation applied to the subject matter; and having found that, our duty is to follow it as far as it
goes, and ta stop where that stops-whutever may
be the imperfections or. difficulties which it leaves
behind. The paties who formed this treaty, and
they.alone, have a right to annex the form of the
passport. It is a high act of'sovereignty, as high as
-the .formation of any other. stipulation of the treaty.
It is a matter of negotiaiion between the Governments. The treaty does not leave it to the diseretionof either party to annex the form of the 'asport;
it requires it-to be the joint act of both , and that act

1821.
The Amiable

Isbella.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
is to Te expressed by both parties in the only man%Ve
Amiablener known between independent
nations-by a soTh~le Amiable
Isabela.

lemn compact through agents specially delegated,
and by a formal ratification.
Nor is there any thing strange or singular in leaving matters of this sort to be settled by 'future negotiations. In our treaty with Prussia of 1786, the
14th article contains a provision asrto passports, in
substance like that of the 17th article of our treaty
with Spain, except that it declares that these "passports shall be made out in good and due form, to
be settled by conventions between the parties, whenever occasion shall require." This stipulation manifestly contemplates that the form of the passport is
to be a solemn act of the treaty-making power .of
both Governments, and that neither Government has
authority i itn discretion to use a form which shall
be binding, without its consent, upon the other contracting party.
In the next place, this Court is bound to give effect to-the stipulations of the treaty in the manner
and to thd extent which the parties have declared,
and not otherwise. We are not at liberty to dispense
with any of the conditions or requirements of the
treaty, or to take away any qualification or integral
part of any stipulation, upon any notion of equity or
general convenience, or substantial justice. The
terms which the partieshave chosen to fix, the forms
which they'have prescribed, and the circumstances
under which they are to have operation, rest in the
exclusive discretion of the contracting parties, and
whether they belong to the essence or the modal

OF THE UNITED STATES:

parts of the treaty, equally give thw rule to judicial
1s2i.
tribunals. The same powers which have contracted, %
The Amiable
are alone competent to change or dispense with any Isabella,
formality. The doctrine of a performance cy pres,
sojust and appropriate in the civil concerns of private
persons, belongs not to the solemn compacts of nations, so far as judicial tribunals are called upon to
interpret or enforce them. We can as little dispense with forms as W~ith substance.
In the next place, we cannot admit that the an.nexabton of the form of the passport was, in itselfy
(supposing we had a right to inquire into it) a matter of small moment or importance so that the omis.
mon could be dispensed with, as not belonging to the
substance of the treaty It was' competent to the
parties, by the particularity of the form, to have qualified the general expressions of the article, and to
have made that determinate, which, upon the face of
the article, stands indeterminate. It is,.for instance
indeterminate upon the face of the article, whether
there is to be a specification of the names of the owners of the ship, or only a general declaration that the
owners are Americans or Spaniards. It has also been
contended here, and is certainly susceptible of doubt
whether the passport was to express the individual
ownership, or the national character of the ship. So
the solemnities to be observed in granting the passport, the oaths to be made by the parties, the persons
by whom they were to be verified, are all left indeterminate by the treaty. These might have beeri,
and looking to the requisitions of other treaties, must
have been explained and settled by' the fQrm annexwd
yo , V1

10

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

to this treaty.

The 26th article of the Dutch treaty-

a
T Ami able
The

of 1782, is substantially the same as the 17th article

Is4Lbella.

of the Spanish- treaty; and the form of the passport,
certificate, and sea letter annexed to that treaty, reduee to a perfect certainty every circumstance which
has been Olready mentioned. Other qualificatioii
and limitations might have been added, in the pleaimpossible, therefore; for
sure of the parties. It is,
this Court, judicially; to 'say what such passport
might or would have contained. We may indeed
conjecture, but iii this conjecture we may.err, and
to assert what it would be, rn literis would be to exercise a sovereign control over the compact itselfi.
Nor are the circumstances already stated, mere
formi or diplomatic ceremony. They might well
have entered .into the very substance of the stipulation. The counsel for the claimanit alleges,, that
.he passport, intende'a by the treaty, was to import
perfect, unimpeachable verity, that it was to have
a sanctity beyond that which is granted to any
other solemn instrument. Fraud would not vitiate
it, nor the -most direct, unequivocal breach of good
faith, or abuse of the passport, bring its protecting
virtue into question. Assuming for -the purpose of
argument, that this is true, the form of the passport,.
and the solemnities accompanying it, were of the deepest interest' and importance to both nations. It was
vital to the treaty, vital to the acknowledged rights
deiv'ed under the law of nations. The immunity
intended by the treaty, in this view of it, was a derogation from the general belligerent rights of both
-parties. They might be willing to confide the issu-

OF THE UNITED STATES-

mg of such passports to the Spanish high officers of
182A,
state with the royal approbation and signature2 or with The Amuble
the corresponding signatures of our 5wn Secretary of Iabem.
State and President. They might *have full faith
and confidence, that under such guards, the danger
of abuses would be very much diminished,.f not entirely checked. But they might not be willing to
trust to the integrity, discretion, and watchfulness of
subordinate agents,, to officers of the customs, to
colonial Goveriors, or commanders in distant Provinces. Inpoint of fact, our own.passports have issued
under the authority and signatures of our highest
executive officers. What reason bas this! Court to
presume that our Government would accept of a
What
verification by inferior officers of' Spain
reason has this Court to presume, that our Government would have been satisfied with a passport signed by a colonial Governor for want of royal passports R It has not been so stipulated in the treaty.
It has not, in terms, dispensed with the annexation
of the form of the passport to the treaty. Even if
one Government had been willing.to dispense with
it, it remains to be shown, that the other was also
willing. And if both were willing, it would still
remain to be-shown, that the act of dispensation was
consumnated by a solemn renunciation, for the obligations of the treaty could not be changed or vaned but by the same formalities with which they were
introduced , or at least by some act of as high an
import, and of as unequivocal an authority. All
that can be said in the present case, is, that the subject of the annexation of the passport was taken ad

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

referendam by the parties. They had competenit
'authority
so to do.; and this Court isbound to pre.
!Me Amiable
Isabella,
sume, that they had good -reasons for their conduct..
It is far more consistent with every fair interpretation of the acts of the Government, to suppose,. that
the form of the passport was postponed-with a view
to the suspension of the article until the subject
was more deliberately considered, or could be more
conveniently attended to, than to suppose that words
of reference were. used without meaning, and forms
carrying with them such. important and interesting
solemnities, and- such obligatory force and dignity,
were hastily abandoned at 'the very moment they
were studiously sealed to the text. Unless this
Court is prepared to say, that all forms and solemnities were useless and immaterial, that neither Government had a right to insist upon. a form after
having assented to the terms of the article, tht-a
judicial tribunal may dispense with- what its own
notions of equity may deem unimportant in a treatyj
though the .parties have chosen to require it; it cannot consider the 17th article of this treaty as complete or operative, until the form of the passport is
incorporated into it by the Joint act of both Governpients.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court, in
which -opinion six judges agree, that the form of the
passport not having been annexed to the 17th article
of the treaty, the Immunity, whatever it was, intend,
ed'by that article, never took effect, and therefore,
in examining and deciding on the case before us 'w@
ulust be governed by the general law Qf prize.
-1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This view of the case renders it unnecegsary to
cansider the other points made by the counsel for

1821.
The Aiable-

tje captors, as to the effect of'the treaty, and we Isaiel a.
therefore give no opinion upon them.
It remains then to consider whether the ship and
cargo, now in judgment, are, in fact, neutral or hostile property. The facts are extremely complicated,
aid the evidence, m many instances,' clashes so as to
forbid all hopes of reconciling it. It cannot be disguised too, that the claim is involved in much perplexity, and is shaded by some circumstances that
have not been entirely cleared away. If it were not
a task-from which we could derive no general istruction,. the whole evidence night be minutely examined, as to the questions of false destination, suppression of papers, and use of false papers. But the
labour would be- very. great, and after all, would.conduce to no important purpose. We shall content
ourselves, therefore, with a brief statement of the
result of our opinion.
that by the settled rule of The.,,-..
It is t. be recollected,
is on the.
theonusbandf
PrizeCours
Prize Courts, the onus probandi of a neutral inte- claimant.
rest rests on-the claimant. This rule is tempered by
another, whose liberality will-not be denied, that the
evidence to acquit or condemn, shall, In the first instance, come from the ship's papers, and persons on
board, and where these are not satisfactory, if the
claimant has not violated good faith, he shall be admitted to maintain his -claim by farther proof. But
if, in the event, after full time and opportunity to
adduce proofs, the claim is still left in uncertainty,
an- the neutrality of .the property is not established

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

beyond reasonable doubt, it is the invariable rule of
Courts to reject the claim, and to decree co17
The Amiable
isabefa,
demnanon of the property. There is another rule
A false claim
i2a substantive too, founded in the most salutary and bein pnncicause of co4demnaton,
ples of justice, that the assertion of a false claim, an
whole, or in part, by an agent of, or in connivance'
with the real owners, is a substantive cause of forfeiture, leading to condemnation of the property. These
principles are not alluded to in this case, for the purpose of founding our present judgment upon them,
for we do not rely upon it as a case merely of reasonable doubt, but to show that a case less strong
might justly have supported the decree, we feel ourselves bound to pronounce-of condemnation.
etermtiation
We cannot resist the conclusion, looking to the
of the
question
o propre
whole evidence, that this is a case where. the whole
interest in this
-ca.
mercantile adventure had its origin, in the house of
trade of Messrs. Von Harten and Gobel, a house domiciled n'.London. The ship was, beyond all question, a foreign ship, but of what nation, and in
whose ownership-.at the time when'she acquired
her ostensible Spanish character, is studiously concealed. She came just before her naturalization
from New Providence, and that naturalization. was
procured, as we feel ourselves constrained to believe,
-by an imposition practised upon the Spanish judicial
authoriugs, by means of a pretended lien under a
bottomry'bond, supposed to be .given for repairs.
The holder of the bond procured a judicial sale of
the vessel, became himself the purchaser, and afterwards obtained the Spanish character by a negotiation wth the Spanish Colomal Government,
1821.

SPrize

OF THE' UNITED STATES.

making awkward apologies for -his asserted ignorance of the former ownership, and endeavounng
to allay the well-founded .distrust .of tjiat.Government. To this very hour the claimant has observed
a profound silence on this- point, a source of just and
pregnant suspicion f although hehas loaded the,-cause
with documentary proofs and affidavits on other
points. He has not chosen to give any information
as to the origin of the bottomry ,bond, or former
ownership"of the vessel, or of the eircumstances -under which the supposed lien was acquired. Yet
these facts would seem to .have lain immediately
withim his reach. On board, to, of the vessel at
the time,. pf the -capture, was the special and confidential agent of Messrs. -Yon Harten and -Gobeli and
also the brother-in-law- of Mr. Vou Harten. Some
papers -were ,thrown over "board, others were concealed; and- others spoli'ated.. The testimony-of the
witnesses upon the standinginterrogatories, was fat
from satisfactory; and it is extremely difficult to exrempt the agejits on board the vessel -from the imputation of dpsigned suppression of facts and prevarication. The claimafit, Mr. Munos, is the father-inlaw-of Mr. Gobel, and claims thus very valuable shipment as his own property, asserting himself to be-a
merchant now engaged in business. And yet it is
proved by a weight of tes.timony, that seems difficult
to resist, that Mr. Munos has not been known to be
engaged in commercial buslness on his own account
for at least fifteen years -before the time of this shipment. And it is establishedin the most satisfactory
manner,. and is indeed admitted by the claimant him-

1821.
The Alniable

Isalena.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
'

The Amiable

Isabella.

self, that on account of the foreign character of Mr,
Gobel, (the. son-in-law of Mr. Munos,) all the foreign business of Mr. Gobel has been constantly
carried on for several years under the cover of Mr.
Munos. These are a few of the extraordinary facts
of this case, and combining them, with the indications of the papers found on board, and the suppressed documents which have reached the light, the vehement presumption, -and almost written proof, that
Mr. Gobel, the admitted partner of the English hoilse
of Von Harten arid Gobel, was the stationed agett
of that, house at the Havana , and the. fact, that the
destination was alfernaiVe, or double, to London or
Hamburg, or both, the conclusion is difficult to
overcome, that the cargo was the property of Messrs.
Von Harten and Gobel, or some other unknown
enemy proprietor, and covered by the Spanish cl'atacter of Mr. Munos. And the Court is constrained to consider the proceeding at the Havana as mere
machinery to naturalize an enemy's 'ship, and that
the ship,. either previously belonged to Messrs. Vail
Harten and Gobel, or some other enemy proprietor',
or was purchased at New-Providence on his or theit
account. It is perfectly immaterial whether Mr.
Munos had any subordinate interest in the'ship and
cargo or not. If his claim be substantially false iii
the manner i*U which it is framed, having been adopted by him, he has justly incurred a forfeiture of any
such interest, by attemptiag an imposition upon the
Prize Court.
It is thejudgment of-the Court, that the decree of
the Circuit Court, condemning the ship and cargo,

OF THE UNITED- STATES.,

be affirmed, with costs.

From so.much of this opi-

non as respects the question of propretarjinterest

of vessel and cargo, three Judges dissent.
Mr. Justice JOHNsON. This is an appeal from
the sentence of the Circuit Court of North.Carolina,
condemning this vessel and cargo as prize of war to
the Roger privateer.
The condemnation below appears to have proceeded on evidence of an hostile interest existing in
the ship. For, as to 'the cargo, it is not denied that,
the proprietary interest is itnmaterial ; since, if the
ship be Spanish, the existence of an enemy interest
in the cargo,. does not affect it. Yet, much of the
evidence and argument have been introduced toprove the existence of ayr hostile interest in the cargo, but it has been with a view to maintain two positions .1st. That it is a strong circumstance to
prove the vessel to be British property; and, 2d. That,
though it be not enemy owned, yet, as both vessel
and cargo-are claimed 'bythe neutral, if it be proved
that he has attempted a frauji, the penal consequence
isthe forfeiture of his own interest.
It cannot be denied, that there are many circumstances in the case , going strongly to prove too intimate a connection, between this adventure, and the
mercantile -transactions of -the house of Gobel, consisting of Gobel and Von Harten, a British merchant, Nor is it entirely clear that Rahlives, who
appears in the machinery as supercargo, is not himself a participator in interest. If I felt myself now
called upon td decide this case on the ordinary prin,
VOL. V1.

11

1821.
The Amiable

Isablla.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
.IeAmiable
habella.

ciples which govarn the decisions of Prize Courtg,
on neutral claims, it must be acknowledged, that
there is a good deal of evidence which must be rejectod, in order to clear it from the tissu of difficulties in which the cjrcumstances involve it. Yet
there is one important consideration which -rides
over all the unaccountable combinations, of interest
which present themselves to the view of the CourL
Why should British property on board aS-panish vessel have been disguised as Spanish ?-'There are ob.
vious reasons why Spanish property dhould have
been disguised as British, for, it would have afforded protection against theonly enemy a Spaniard
had to fear---the patriot privateer. But, as England
was at pe2 :e with all the world except America,
and enemy property secure from American capture
in a Spanish vesseli it -is difficult to conceive a reasoa
ivhy this disgtuse should have -been thrown over a
British cargo. The course,. however, which I will
pursue in coming to a conclusion, precludes the necessity of disentangling the web, in which the iterests-of the claimant are wound up by the various circumstances of the destruction, mutilatioa, and concealment of papers, and the questionable shape in
Which several of the actors in the drama present
themselves to-the view of this Court.
The claimant founds his right to restitution, on hrs
Spanish character, and the sufficiency of his Spanish
documents under the treaty. The captor pontend§,
that the documents found on board, were not of the
first order under the treaty, and that when let in to

OF THE UNITED'STATES.

thaproduction of substitutes, a plenary inquiry is

opened into proprietary interest.•
Before. entering upon these ,more general questions, it is necessary to take notice of a preliminary
ground of condemnation, which, if it can be sustained, anticipates every other inquiry. It appears, that
the vessel left the Havana under convoy of a Britisih
frigate, and, it is contended that this circumstance is,
.per se, a ground of condemnation.
This is, at least, a new ground in this Court; and
it cannot be expected that it will meet with a very
favourable admission from-a Courtwhich has manifested no disposition to multiply causes of condemnation. Without being supposed to express any inclination to adopt the principle, I deem it sufficient
to remark, that if it could be admitted, it ought not
to be applied to a nation which needed that protec-..
tion against an existing and enterprising enemy';
and- which ought, therefore, to--be considered, as
having, sought it for that purpose, and not against a.
neutral, whose principles of conduct it had tfien nor
reason to. distrust. The Gulph of Florida, at that
time, swarmed-with p'atriot privateers; and the convoying ship had, moreover, parted.from the fleet before this capture was made. The conduct of this
v.~ssel was perfectly pacific when overhauled .by the
American cruiser. The utmost -to which the .Courts
of Great Britain have gone, has been to affect the
merchant vessel actually-taken under convoy, with
the resistance or character of the convoying ship-;,
and when such a case shall occur, it will be time
enough for this Court to determine on the eours it

1821.

%A-b0b
The Amiala
habeth.

CASES IN THE SUIREMt. COURT
1821.

e Amiable
nle
IsabelLa.

will adopt.

At present 1'feel no inclinatioi to go so

much beyond those decisions as has been here col

tended for.
On the principal question, it appears, thatthis vessel was provided, at the time of her sailihg, "both
with a passport and certificate of her cargo. That
these -papers were on board at the time of .the-capture, cannot be doubted, they wer6 both .deli' eted
by the captain to the Registrar of ile District Courti
the former marked A. No. 7;. the latter, B. N. 1.,
Some doubt arises whether they were both exlibited
prior to the capture ; but this is wholly- immaterial,
in the question of condemnation.
In behalf of the climant it is contended, that on
the production of the passport and certificate, or bill
of lading of the cargo, he is entitled-to restiiution.
To this the captor objects, that the 17th article of
the treaty wih Spain, contemplated a form of passport intended to be attached to that treaty, that as
no such form was settled by the two nations,,the
claim must rest altogether upon the provisions of the
15th artic e, and the proprietary interest is to beamquired into as in ordinary cases. But, if the contracting parties are to be permitted to devise foms
of passports for themselves severally, then that this
is not a passport in the language of the treaty, but a
substitute for one, and is defective in not expressing
unequivocally that the ship was Spanish property.
On this part of-the case it-is proper to remark, that
it is not always easy for the criticising eye of the
common law, to expand to the enlarged views and

OF THE UNITED STATES.
isi1.
remote perceptions which should govern the mind in
a
the construction of treaties. Yet nothing could be TTlii Amiable
more inconsistent with international law,.than to ap- Isabeifa.
ply to such instruments those scrutinising principles,
which enter into the construction of a special plea or
a crumial statute. From history, analogy, and policy, as well ps language, are to be gathered the
views of the contracting.parties, and however either
may be pressed by the application of conventional
stipulafions to particular cases, or. under particular
-circumstances, not less is the obligatibn to execute
them-in a spirit, not only of good faith, but of liberality. Where no coercive power exists for compelling the observance of.contracts bu't the force of arms,
honour and liberality are the only bonds of unon be,tween -the contracting parties, and all minor considerations are to be sacrificed to the great interests of
,mankind.
In the case before us, I see no reason for nullifying-the operation of the 17th article, for want of the
form- which :wds inf.contemplatibn to.be drawn. up
lid attached to. the treaty. The substance of the
passport, intended to be prescribed, is so copiously
exhibited, as to render it a matter of the simplest
effort to throw it 'idto form. This, no doubt, was
the au-se why the contrating pprties manifested so
much-iadifference about'carrying their intention; into
effect. I am, therefore, content to give the same
effect to any instrument complying substantrilly with
this artucle, as ought to have been given to a passport
in a prescribed form. What is that effect

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I~.
'visions

7be Amiable

riabela.

This is easily ascertained by comparing the proof the 15th, 17th, and 18th articles. By the
15th, the principle is established, that free ships shall
make free goods, and that several branches of comnmerce which the modern law of nations has prohibited to neutrals,- shall notwithstanding be freely
prosecuted. But, knowing the endless litigation
which questions of proprietary interest give rise to,
and the sad depravity of morals exhibited by witnesses in Prize Courts, the enlightened statesmen
who formed that treaty, resolved, by the 17th and
18th articles, to make the freedom of the ship to rest
upon documentary evidence in the first instance, and
evidence of property in those cases only, in which
the vessel was unprovided with the necessary documents, that each natibn should he sovereign to
judge for itself in conferring upon its own vessels
the immunity secured by the treaty, and that the
acknowledged right of adjudication in the Courts of
the capturing power, should be superseded, when a
'vessel was found on the ocean provided with thedocumentary evidence stpulated for by treaty, and
only revert, when the vessel, being unprovided with
such documents, was obliged to resort to evidence of
property of a less solemn nature.
It is contended, that this is yielding an important
national right. What if it is P It is a mutual relinquishment, and one made by the Government, not
by this Court. And although it operate against us
now, 'the time may come when the comity of Spain,
or her colonies, may extend the benefits of it to the
commerce of this country. But, be that as it may,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

if-the relinquishment'has been made, it is incumbent

1821.

And although it may not be so The Amiable
sensibly felt at present, the time is scarce gone by Ihabel r
on us to observe it.

whert it was thought a highly beneficial stipulation
to this country. Spain was, at the date of that
treaty, a respectable naval power. Her relations
with Europe and the Barbary powers, often involved
her in wars. America abounded .with ships and
seamen, and her prospects were favourable for the
enjoyment of peace. To carry on tue commerce
Qf the West-Indies atd Mediterranean, as the favour.
ite cartiers of belligerent cargoes, was, therefore, to
us, a highly flattering object. Andthough occasional impositions might be practised, it was, comparatively, a trivial consideration, and the chances mutual.
When abuses should become flagrant and intolerable,
it would have presented a just cause for dissolving
the treaty, but it does not rest with Courts of justice to dissolve a treaty.
As to considerations drawn from the-impolicy of
discouraging the spirit of cruizing, I attach to them
very little importance. The most serious doubts
may well be entertained of the policy of giving encouragement to that species of enterprise. Certain
it is. that no nation can pursue it long without feeling its demoralizing influence. It draws together a
race of men, from every quarter, who want for nothing but a legal pretext for indulging their appetite
for blood and violence, and while their habits and
examples become popular, the rapid fortunes which
are occasionally acquired, render the most valuable
classes of a community dissatisfied with seeking

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
TItAmiable
The
Isabella.

competence by the slow progress of useful labour.
will nor, perhaps, be too much to say, that this
country is, at this time, experiencing something of
the baneful effects which flow to the world from letting loose -the passions of men to gratify themselves
with plunder. But, be this as it may, it is the direct
object of these articles, of this treaty, to cover comnmerce from capture, and if a treaty i to be construed with a view to effectuate its intent, that construction which will afford the most ample protection
to commerce, will be most consistent with the views
which dictated this treaty Could the language of
the treaty leave a doubt on -this subject, it is historically known, that the policy of the United States, at
the time of its date, was, if possible, to annihilate
the right of cruizing against commerce. With many ships, and a most flourishing trade, she had not
,a vessel .of war, and while every other nation was
likely to be embroiled in wars, her policy was peace,
and her prospects favourable to the enjoyment of it.
To become- the carners of the world, was the object to which her negotiations were directed, 'and
could she have obtained the same stipulation from
all the.rest of the European nations, she must have
succeeded greatly
The example of other nations in the construction
of treaties is brought to 'he notice of this Court.
But, besides that the analogy in the cases referred
to is very remote, I cannot admit the force -of-any
example that contravenes general principles. Itis a
melancholy truth, that nations and their Courts are
too often inclined to restrict or enlarge constraction,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

under a temporizing policy suggested by the pres1821.
'
sure or allurement of present circumstances. I will The Amiabla
endeavour to give this treaty the same construction Isabe.
against an American captor, as ought tQ be given it
in the Courts of the opposite contracting party.
And the day may arrive when American commerce
will have no cause to regret that our Courts have
pursued liberal and enlarged views in adopting this
construction.
On the exceptions taken to the form of the passport it is to be observed, that on the face of the instrument it is declared to be issued in default of royal
passports. From this circumstance, a doubt arose
whether it was an instrument of the highest authority. This led to an inquiry at the highest sources
of information relative to the powers of the Governor
of Cuba to issue such passports. From the information thus obtained, I am satisfied that his powers are
amply -sufficient to support the authority of that document. Some very serious doubts also have been
raised relative to the torm of the instrument, particularly that passage of it which has relation to the national character of the ship. The treaty, requires
that it should set forth the name, property, and bulk
of the shp, also, the name and habitation of the
master, or commander. These requisites are all minutely complied with, unless we except that part
which relates to the property of the vessel. The
words used with that view are simplyfragata mercante Espanola, and a doubt has existed whether
this be a sufficient affirmance of the property or national character of the vessel. Nor has this doubt
Vol. VI.

12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been removed without a careful reference to the
of various nations. The result is, that in
Tpassports
AmiableI
The
Isabella. all of them the affirmance is general, without speeifying the individual proprietor. It is also in evidence
that this is the form known and used in Spain and
her colonies, as the passport of regularly documented
and acknowledged Spanish vessels, and.I feel myself bound to receive and acknowledge it as sufficient
in form .and stibstance.
Thus far the opinion was wiitten, and prepared
to be delivered, prior to the argument ordered at the
instance of the Executive. I have seen no reason
to change a word of it, from any thing since heard.
On the contrary, the last argument has fully confirmed me'in its correctness. Thousands of imaginary
cases of fraud and collusion, have been suggested to
alarm the Court, and it may be, that our Government, having now a prospect of becoming a respectable naval power, and having experienced the activity and enterprize of our privateers in the late war,
may feel less disposed to promote the principles of
the armed neutrality, than they did formerly. This
conviction of former error has generally grown out
of the same change of circumstances in other states.
But it is not through the medium of Courts ofjustice that this change of sentiment is to develope itself. If this treaty was ever binding, it is equally
.binding now , and in adjudicating between individuals, the same rules which would ever have been
applicable, ought to be religiously adhered to, under
all possible changes of interest or policy.
But the interests and apprehensions so eloquently
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pressed upon the notice of. this Court are not real.
1821.
TheAmi%0
a
on
effect
their
have
may
and
factitious,
They are
The Amiabke
client's cause, but they are notthe well understood

interest, or the well founded apprehensions of the
Government. The execution of one treaty in a spiAt of liberality and good faith, is a -higher interest
than all the predatory claims of a fleet of privateers.
What has this country to fear P A practical answer is always most satisfactory on such a question;
with similar treaties existing with various other
powers&, what real inJury was sustained in the late
war P The truth is, and every one conversant in national policy well knows, that there is always less
danger of imposition in reality than a limited view
of the operation of such a stipulation would suggest. It is not the interest of the belligerent to foster the carrying trade of a commercial rival, hence,
Great Britain would rather, in time of war,.compel
her own vessels to sail under convoy, than permit
her merchants to use a neutral bottom. Nations are
generally jealous of permitting foreigners to hold domestic tonnage, or use domestic names. There are,
commonly, privileges of trade attached to the ship's
character, and severe laws enacted against a practice which is always viewed as a fraud upon the Government whose flag is thus acquired. Witness the
severity of our Qwn laws in such cases.
If there is any nation in the world more interested
than all others in the liberal support of the doctrine
contended for by this claimant, it is the United
States. Our chances of enjoying peace are much
geater than any other, and if there be a tendency

Ilsabeii

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to war, it is with a. nation which will not be driven
the necessity of making use of neutral 'bottoms.
bto
The Amiable
1821.

Isabella.

I cannot, therefore, really see why our administration should have been so seriously alarmed -at the

prospect of our deciding in favour of this Spaniard,
as has been urged upon this Court.
But, considerations of policy, or the views of the
admimstranQn, are wholly out of the question in this
Court. What is the just construction of the treaty
is the only question here. And whether it chime in
with the views, of the Government or not, tlh individual is entitled to the benefit of that construction.
Thq more I have examined this subject, the more
thoroughly I have been convinced that my view of
the construction of the treaty is the correct. one,
viz. that national protection was to depend upon
authentic documenta, and not- proprietary interest;
or more correctly, that each nation hould be restricted from looking beyond those documents. There
is one provision contained in all these treaties, which
Sets this point, in my opinion, beyond all doubt.
Which is, that in the case of convoy, the word of the
commander-of the convoying ship is to be taken conclusively for the neutral character of every vessel in
the fleet. This is the substitute in the case of a
fleet for the passport of a single ves~el. I speak of
authentic documents, for the absurdity never .wa,imagined that a passport stolen or seized by violence '
was to have the force of one regularly issued.
But it is contended, that it is due to Spain to-pnrsue these inquiries into proprietary interest, and due
to the peace- of both nations that such questions

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
should -be examined in Courts of justice, rather than
leave them to be-the subjects of diplomatic remon- The Amiable
strance. This is a specious, but very unsound argu- Tsabella.
mnt., Have not the vexations of Courts of ViceAdmiralty, and the violence of armed cruisers, been
the pregnant sources of half the commercial. altercgtions of the last century ; This was the.evil intended to be remedied, and, whatever impositions might
flow from the remedy, it was well understoodi that
the 'bep efits of a commerce uninterrupted by the cupidity of cruizing vessels, would more than compensate. There is one consideration,. which, on this
subject, is conusive. No Sovereign can- appear in
Courts of justibe to defend his subjects, ana it was,
therefore, thata method was devised for taking such
questions from Courts of justice if possible, and referring them to another tribunal. Every stipulation
in the treaties of that day, teems with the project of
ridding commerce of vexatious capture, and mqre
vexatious litigation. A better practical -illustration
of the wisdom of such a measure cannot be imagined
than that which the present case presents.
But it has been earnestly and successfully contended, that if such was the intention of the treaty,
it must fail altogether for want of the form of a passport, .contemplated in the 17th article.
Yet if there is any one question more clear of doubt
than all others, I think it is this. For the fallacy of
the proposition admits almost of mathematical demonstration. This oiission must have been the
result of either accident or design. It may have

CASES-IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
TEurope,
The
.Amiabie

Isabella.

proceeded from accident between the negotiators in
but after the receipt of the treaty, and its

submission to the Cabinet and the Senate here, the
omission could not have been the result of accident
when it received the sanction of.our government. It
must then have been designedly omitted by our constituted authorities. And for what purpose P Will
any one presume to suggest that it was a deliberate
fraud upon the other Government? calculated to
leave our Courts at liberty, on some subsequent day,
to declare the 17th and 18th articles in effect void P
Did we hold out to them the idea of having adopted
the provisions of those articles into our national code,
when we were conscious that they contained an innate vice, calculated to defeat every beneficial effect?
If the argument on this point could meet the sanction of our Government, I would blush for it. From
the advocate of a captor, it might have been expect-,
ed, but cannot lay claim to the sanction or counte-,
nance of the American Government. I am sensible
that the cabinet would disavow such a doctrine.
But, it is urged with much emphasis, that we have
no right to annex a form, or to add a clause to the
treaty. It is not contended that we have. No member of this bench entertains such a thought. But
why may not the contracting parties supply one;'
All the requisites being prescribed in language, the
form and the substance are the same thing. If the
contract is complied with, what matters form P
Whether it is substantially complied with or not,
must be a question for the Courts of the contracting
parties. But hw ndictilous woAld it be, to be try-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing form, and shape, and size, like the ignorant Arab,
where the treaty is substantially complied with.
Had it merely stipulated, that a passport, in a form
prescribed, should be given mutually, there would
have been something in the argument; but in expressing with -precision the substance of the instrument to be given, it renders the devising of a form a
mere work of supererogation. If no other conclusion is to be drawn from its omission, certainly this
may, that it was too trivial to be remembered.
In order to support the argument, that the absence
of the form nullifies the 1.7th and. I8th articles of this
treaty, the attention of this Court has been drawn
to the provisions of the 14th article of the treaty
with Prussia. And it has been contended, that until
a form of a passport be adjusted between the two
nations, that article is also a .dead letter. The construction is one which could not be supported even
on a common law instrument. The words are,
" which passports shall be made out in good and
due forms, (to be settled by conventions between
the parties whenever occasion shall require.)" If the
Spanish treaty is to be construed by analogy to this,
the argument is directly on the other side. For these
words, obviously leave "the good and due forms"
of these instruments to be devised by the parties
severally, and only stipulate for settling a form
by convention, " whenever occas-on shall require;I
that is, whenever either shall be dissatisfied with the
form used by the other. The natious which, in the
very same article, could repose such implicit faith in
each other's candour, as to leave the neutrality of

1821.
The Amiable

Isabell2.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

whole fleets to be determined on the word of the

Tconvoying
The
Amiable

officer, merit more the confidence of each
other, than to have imputed to them an evasion so

Isabella.

obvious.
As it became indispensable to assign some reason
for -retaining these two articles in the treaty, if they
were to be held a dead letter for want of the form,
it has been suggested, that the only operation intended by them was to prescribe a law to the caprice or
vlolence of cruisers, and subject them to more exdmplary punishment than in ordinary cases.
No one who reads and. comr.ares these four articles, the 15th, 16th2 17th, and 18th, and considers
the historical events in which they originated, can
for a moment suppose, that this was the object
which led to the insertion of the two latter of those
articles. The intention was to ingraft into the-law
of nations a great and a new principle. And although power and cupidity -mayaffect to sneer at it,
and melancholy experience cannot dismiss the apprehension, that it is too etherial to subsist m this
nether atmosphere, yet it is one which philanthropy
will ever cling to, and justice cherish. To ingraft
into this treaty the principles of the armed neutrality
was the object, and for this purpose the 15th article
declares those principles in detail. The 16th furnishes the exceptions to them , the 17th prescribes
the evidence on which those privileges shall be conceded , and the 18th, after regulating the conduct
of cruisers towards vessels so protected, proceeds
to declare, that " the ship, when she shall have
showed such passport, shall be free, and at liberty

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

.to pursue her voyage, so. as it shall not be lawful to
molest or give her chase in any manner, or force her
to quit her intended course." It is impossible for
language to be stronger. That the violation of these
stipulated privileges, would aggravate the punishment to be inflicted on cruisers, is a consequence of
the thing provded for. not the thing. itself.
Upon the whole, I am decidedly of opinion that
the claimant is entitled to restitution. Nor should I
find much difficulty in supporting his right .on the
ground of proprietary interest. But entertaining the
opinion' that I db on this preliminary point, ther4 is
no necessity to examine into this part of the case.

1821.
The -.miable

Isabella.

Sentence affirmed.
Mr. Hdrper.,for the claimant and appellant, .moved Ma 6th.
to vacate the decree ot conoemnation entered in this
cause; and that it should be :again continued 'to the
next term in -order to enable the claimant to procure
farther .proof as to. the annexation of forms.of*passports to the original Spanish treaty, and read an affidavit annexed to a printed copy of.th.e treaty, published at the royal printing-office in Madrid, which.
contained two forms of passport, which will be f6dind
in the margin.
a Modelo del ,Pasaporte, 6 Patente dr Adr lue se.
BEuue para navqgar en Ainmnca, ciftdo en el .dtbule

4 tes
4ee
X1JL

DON CsArnos, ?oa LA ?3ns&cxi Dz'Dios, RsLY x CASTILLA, Da
Lt.oz,'de Aragon, de las dos $icilias, de Jerusalem, de NavarrA,
de Granadajde Toledo, de Valencia, de Galicia, de Mallorca,
de Sevilla, de Cerdefig, d4, Corcoba, de C6rcega, de Murcia,
13
VOL. VI.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The motion was opposed by the Attorney-Generu
-and Mr. Wheaton, for the' captors and respondents.
'
The Amiable
1821.

Isabella.
de Jaen,.de los Algarbes, de Algezira, de Gibraltar, -de las Islas
de Canarias, de las Indias Orientales y Okcidentales, Islas y
Tierra-firme del Mar Ocano, Archlduque de Alastria, Duque
de Borgofia, de Brabante y Milan, C6nde de Abspurg,. Flandes, Tirol y Barcelona. Sefior -de Vizcaya y de Molina, &c.
paia que c6a
Por quanto he concedido permiso 6
Toneladas,
de porte.de
nombrado
su
con carga, y registro.de
pueda salir del Puerto de.
y restitfnrse i
efectos de comercio,.y transferirse al
con expresa condicion de hacer.
Espaiia al Puerto de
su derrota de ida y .vuelta directamente A los seffalados parages
de su destino, sm extraviarse, nt bacer arribada &Puertos Na.
cionales 6 Extrangeros, en Islas, o Tierra-firme.de'Europa, 6
Ameriea, i m6nos de verse obligado de accidentes de otta suerte no remediables Por tanto quero, que el'Presidente de la
Indias 6 el Ministro encargad0 del despacho
Contratacion &
de Navios &aquellos Dominios, y el Intendente, 6 Mimstro de
Matina del Puerto en que se equipare, cnourran L facilitarle
quanto uere regular 6 este fin, cada uno en la parte que le tocare el primero en lo respectivo i su habilitacion y carga, -y
el de Marina en lo que mira k Tripulacion, quo deberh componerse de gentematriculada, y constarque lo sea por.lista certificada, que ha de entregarle, obligindose a cuidar de su conserracton, y responder de sus faltas, segun previenen las Ordenanzas de Marina.
Y mando A los Offlciales Generales, 6 particulares Comandantes de mis Esquadras y Baxeles, al Presidente, y Ministros
de la Contratacion fi Indias, & los Comandantes, y Intendentes
de los departamentos de Marina, Ministros de sus Provincias,
Subdelegados, Capitanes de Puerto, y otros qualesquiera Oficiales, Ministros, y Dependientes de ]a Armada, i los Vireyes,
Capitanes, 6 Comandantes generates de Reynos y Provineias,
A los Gobernad6res, Corregidores y Justicias de los Pueblos de
la Costa de Mar d mus dominios de Europa y Amdrica, & les

OF THE UNITED STATES

Mr. Justice STORY. Without giving any opinion
-uponthe sufficency of the evidence, to establish the
Oficiales Reales, 6 Jueces de arribadas en ellos establecidos, y
& todos fos demas Vasallos rmos, &quienes pertenece, 6 perteniecer -pudiere, no le pongan embarazo, causen molestia, 6
detencion, fntes le auxilien, y faciliten lo que hubiere rmenester para su regular navegacion, y legitimo comercio. Y &ilos
Vassallos y Sabditos de Reyes, Principes y Repablicas a~iigais
y aliadas mias &los comandantes, Gobernadores 6 Cabos de sus
Provincias, Plazas, Esquadras, y Baxeles, requxero, que asimsmo no le impidan su libre navegacion, entrada, salida 6 detention en los Puertos, fi los quales por agun accidente se conduxere, permiti~ndole que en ellos se bastimente, y provea de
todo lo que necesitare A cuyo fin he mandado despachar este
Pasaporte, refrendado de mi Secretario de Estado, y de la negociacion de Marina, el qual valdr&por el tiempo que durare
su viage de ida y'vuelta, y concluido que seakle recogerb, el
Ministro que entendiere en-sa descarga Y para su validacion
y uso pondrA I continuacion la nota que corresponde, el que
concurriere f su despacho. Dado en
&
de
mil setecientos

Yo El R6y,
PEDRO VARELA.
Modela del Pasaporte, o Patente de Mar que se concede a los
Bu ues para navegar en Europa, citado en el .lrticulo
XVII.

Do

CARLOS, POR LA GRACIA DE

Dios,

REY DE CASTILLA,

LEoir, de Aragon, de las dos Sicilias, de Jerusalem, de N~avarra, fde Granada, de Toledo, de Valencia, de Galicia, de
Mallorca, de Sevilla, de Cerdefia, de Cordoba, de Corcega de
Marcia, de Jaen, de los Algarbes, de Algezira, de Gibraltar, de
las Islas de Canarias, de las Jndias Orientales y Occidentales,
Islas y Tietra-firme del Mar Oceano, Archiduque de Austria,
Duque de Borgofia, de Brabante y Milan, Conde de Abspurg,
Flandes, Tirol, Barcelona. Seflor de Vizcaya y de Molina, &c.
DE

1821.
T -Amiable
'
The
Isabella.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

100
1821.

-probability,

The Amiable

that the forms of passport now offered

to the inspection of the Court were ever authonta-

Isabella.
Por quarto he concedido permiso '
vecmo de
para que con su
nombrado
de porte de
toneladas
pueda tiavegar, y comerciar en los Mares y Puertos d Fropa,
tanto de mis Dominios, como de Extrangeros, y singulartiente
en los
con absoluta probibicion de pasar olos
&k Islas, . Tierra-firme de Amirica Por. "tanto qraero,-qu
constamdo IApertenencia de la Embarcacion al refeido
6 a otro Vasallo mio de quien ienga p les
se le permita eqwparla con gente
de su miima Provwncia, o de- otta de-milr-lI,,
nios, habil fieste efecto, segun la prevenido en.las Orlg..dnzw
de Marina, para salir A navegar, y 'comercma'ei..elld S-b*s 1
reglas estable, .das.
Y manao a los Oficiales. generales, o particulres x.qipdaaites de =is. Esquadras y Baxeles _ . los Comaudantes y.;Ino
tendaentes de ]Qs Departemetitos de Marina: .1 los ikitros de
sus Provwncia, Subdelegados, Capitanes de Puertb, y o'o
qualesquler Oficiales y Ministros ae mi Armada k los Capitanes, 6 Cbmandantes generales de Provincias &ilos Gdbegnadores, Corregidores, Jueces y "Justicias de los Puertos deras
Dommnios, y a todos los demas Vasallos mios, A .quienes'pprtenece, 6 pertenecer pudiere, no le pongan embarazo, caugen
molestia, 6 detencion alguna, fntes le auxilien, y f ciliten 14
que hubiere menester para'su regular navegacioq y 'leitimo
covpercio Y f los Vsallos y,.Subditos de Reyes, Pnncpeey
Hepub~icas amigas y aliadas mias.. f. los Comandantes, Go "gnadores, .6 Cabos de sus Provincas, Plazas,.Esquadras y Baxeles, requiero, que asimismo no le pongan embarazo en su
libre navegacion, entrada, salida, "6dtencion en los-Puertos, a
los qualeir deliberadamente, 6 par accidente se conduxere, y 16
permitan exercer en alIos su legitimo comercio, bastimentarse,
y proveerse de lo necesario para continuarle, ficuyo fin he
mandado despachar este'Pasaporte, refrendado de rmio Secri'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tively annexed to the original treaty, in the posses-

121-.

sion of the Spanish Gbvernment, the Court is of
opinion, that the motion for a continuance must be

The Amiable

denied. The passport found on board the Isabellai
is materially variant, both in form and substance,
from the forms of passport now produced; and to
the form of the passport actually annexed to the
treaty, and to no other, was the effect 'intended by
the treaty, whatever that effect may be, meant to be
attributed. The possession of that form, and not
of any other passport which might be substituted
for it, was of the very essence of the treaty. It is
clear, therefore, that even if the case were as the
claimant's counsel supposes, he could derive no benefit whatever from it, because the treaty passport
was not on board, and the case must, therefore, in
this respect, be judged by the rules of the Prize
Court, independent of the conventional law.
Motion denied.
tario de Estado, y de la Negociacion de Marina, el qual valdra,
y tendrEL fuerza por termino de
contado desde el dia en que usare de 61, segun conste por la
Nota que i. su continuacion se pusiere. Dado en
de
de
mil setecientos noventa

Yo El Rey,
PEDRO VARELA.

Isabei.

