CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146
1821.
"
Young

V.
Bryan.

2. That the defendant is not entitled to the. first
and second items in the paper C., on the ground,
that the place at which the rations were delivered is
not specially provided for in the contract, but- that.
he has a right to show, that the sum allowed by the
Secretary of War for those rations, is not a, reasonable compensation.
3. That upon such proof the defendant is entitled
to a reasonable compensation for those rations, to -be
ascertained by the jury.
4. That the defendant ought to be permitted to
claim a credit for the above sums due him in this
suit.
Certificate accordingly.

(PRAcTICE.)

YOUNG V. BRYAN

et aL

The Circuit Court has junsdiction of a suit brought by the endorsee
of a promissory note, who is a citizen of one State, against the endorser, who is a citizen of a different State, whether a suit could be
brought in that Court by the endorsee, against the miker, or not.
No protest of a pronssory note, or inland bill of exchange, is necessary.

to the Circuit Court of Tennessee.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought in the
Court below, by the defendants in error, citizens of
Pennsylvania) against the plaintiff in error, a citizen
ERROR

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of Tennessee, as the endorser of a promissory note
drawn by another citizen of Tennessee, and endorsed to the plaintiffs. The only questions in the cause
were,
(1.) Whether the Court below had jurisdiction,
and, (2.) whether notice of protest was necessary to
charge the endorser in this case. Judgment having
been rendered against the defendant below, the
cause was brought by writ of error to this Court.

Mr. Eaton, for the plaintiff in error, (I) argued,
that under the 11th section of the judiciary act of
1789, c. 20, the Court below had not jurisdiction.
The decision of this Court, in the cases of Montalet v. Murray,a and Turner v. the Bank of North
Amerwa,b shows, that where jurisdiction does not attach between the drawer and drawee, assignment
cannot give jurisdiction. The endorser can only
transfer by the assignment, the rights and interest he
possesse.s, as he had no right (he and the drawer
being citizens of the same State) to sue in the Federal
Court, he could not consequently create any such
right by the assignment. It would amount to a creation
ofjurisdiction by consent, which the law does not warrant. The case of Slacum v Pomery, went off on
the ground of the want of notice. At any rate, that
was aforeign bill, and perhaps within the operation
of the 11th section of the judiciary act. it is,
then, not authority in this case. In the language of the l1th section of the judiciary ac
a 4 Cranch, 46.

b 4 DaU. 1I.

r 6 Cranch. 221.

IV,
1821.
Young-

V.

Bryan.

Februariy2.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
I821.

this is a "suit to recover the contents of a pro-

oun

missory note tn favour of an assignee," &c. The
declaration contains hut a single count, founded
upon the assignment, non-payment, and consequent

Young

V.

Bryan.

liability of the plaintiff i- error. There is no count
for money had and received, there is but a single
count, and that is to recover the contents of the note,
a chose in action, which is against the express provision of the act. There is no distinc substantive,
contract, between the endorser and holder of the
note, and, if there were any, it is not declared on.
(2.) No notice of protest was given. This was
necessary to charge the endorser

.a and

the declara-

tion should cc ntain an averment of ioticct of protest.'
Mr. Sergeant, contra, (1.) admitted, that where
by the judiciary act, jurisdiction does not attach*between the drawer and the payee of a note, assignment cannot give jurisdiction. Such, and no more,
is the amount of the decisions referred to. If the
payee of the note could not maintain a suit in the
Federal Courts against the drawer, neither can the
endorsee maintain a suit in the Federal Courts against
the drawer. But the jurisdiction of the Federal
Courts extends to the case of a suit brought by the
endorsee against the endorser, being citizens of different States, whether a suit could have been there
brought against the drawers or not. By the words
of the act, a general jurisdiction is given, in terms,
a French's Exrx. v. The Bank of Columbia, 4 Cranch, 141.

Donaldson v Means, 4 Dal. 109.
b Slacum v. Pomery, 6 Cranch, 221.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

embracing all cases where citizens of different States
are parties. Being in conformity with the provisions
of the Constitution, and intended to secure to the
suitor an impartial tribunal, it ought to be liberally

construed. Out of this general grant, there is.a particular exception, which ought not to.be extended
beyond its natural construction, but rather to be
strictly taken, being against constitutional right;
and if there be doubt, that interpretation should be.
given which is most favourable to the jurisdiction.
The words are, " Nor shall any District, or Circuit
Court, have cognizance of any suit to recover the
conitents of any promissory note, or other chose in
action, in favour of an assignee, unless a suit might
have been prosecuted in such. Court to recover the
sad contents, sf no assrgnment had been made, except in case of foreign bills of exchange." These
words necessarily import a recovery by an assgnee,
claiming through the medium of an assignment, of
the same contents which might have been recovered
by the assignor, if he had not assigned. They apply
only to a derivative claim. If the payee should
make a special endorsement to a citizen of the.same
State, and such endorsee should endorse the note to
a citizen of a different State, the latter, perhaps,
could not sue the first endorsee in the Federal Court,
because he would be obliged to claim under the assignment, and in right of the assignor. But if the
payee endorse the note to a citizen of a different
State, there is a new contract entered into between
the endorser and the endorsee, by the endorsement,
and the endorsee would claim upon the footing of

1s2.
Young

V.

Bryan.

150

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1821.
Young
Young

v.

Bryan.

that contract, without regard to the original engage
ment, except for the fact, (upon which the liability
of the endorsee :arises,) that the note has been dishonoured. The contract is so entirely independent
that the endorsee would be liable though the note
were forged, or the drawer fictitious. The assignment, it is true, is the evidence of the contract, and,
in a certain sense, the foundation of his claim, but
he does not claim through it, nor under it, nor does

he claim at all- as assignee. In the case of a note
payable to bearer, and transferrable by delivery, it is
believed there could be no doubt of the jurisdiction,
in favour of a bonafide holder, being a citizen of a
different State from the drawer, through whatever
hands it might have passed in its course to him. He
would claim in his own right, and -not by assignment. In the case of a general endorsement, also
transferrable by delivery, and conferring upon the
bonafide holder an original right of suit against the
endorser, the Court would have jurisdiction of a suit
against the endorser, for the same reason. And in
case of a special endorsement to a citizen of a different State, the argument, if possible, is still stronger.
Neither of these is within the words of the act. The
plain intention of the provision is effectuated by the
construction contended for on the part of the defendants in error. The design of the exception was
either to prevent colourable transfers for the purpose
of giving jurisdiction, or to enable the party to a
negociable contract, to secure to himself the jurisdiction of the State Courts. The interpretation
contended for, does not interfere with these views.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is m the power of the endorser to fix the jurisdiction, by makinga special endorsement, as it is in the
power of the drawer to escape the Federal jurisdiction by making the note payable to a citizen of the
same State. But as it must be admitted, that where
the note is payable to a citizen of a different State,
or being payable to bearer, comes into the hands of
a citizen of a different State, the- drawer may become subject to Federal jurisdiction,,it iiould seem
to'follow, conclusively,- that the endorser (omitting
to guard himself and thereby voluntarily waiving the
right) would alse be liable. It may be remarked, in
the particular case under consideration, that the note
appears, from the evidence, to have been drawn, and,
probably, endorsed for the very purpose of being
delivered to the plaintiffs below, who were, and
were known to be, citizens of Pennsylvania.
(2.) It appears fully in evidence, that notice of
non-payment by the drawer, was in due time given
to the endorser. This is all that was necessary to
be done, no protest being required of a note or inland bill of exchange. Slacum v. Pomery" was the
case of a foreign bill.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court, that a suit may be brought in the
Circuit Court by the endorsee against the endorser,
whether a suit could be there brought against the
drawer or not. In such a case, the endorser does
not claim through an assignment. It is a new cona 6 Cranch, 221.

1821.
Young

v.
Bryan.

152
1821.
e
The Bello
Corrunes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tract entered into by the endorser and endorsee, upon
which the suit is brought, and if the endorsee is a
citizen of a different State, he may bring an action
against the endorser in the Circuit Court. As to the
other objection insisted upon by the plaintiff in error,
all that was incumbent upon the holder, was to give
due notice to the endorser. No protest of a promis-

sory note or inland bill of exchange is necessary.
Judgment affirmed.

(PaRzZ.)
THE BELLO CORRUNES.

The Spanssh Consul,

Claimant.
A foreign consul has a right to claim, or institute a proceeding, tn
rem, where the rights of property of his fellow-citizens are in question, without a special procuration from those for whose benefit he
acts.
But a consul caunot receive actual restitution of the res in controversy, without a special authority from the particular individuals
who are entitled.
A captvre made by citizens of the United States of property belonging to subjucts of a country in amity with the U. S. is unlawful,
wheresoever the capturing vessel may have been equipped, or by
whomsoever commissioned, and the property thus captured, if
brought within the neutral limits of this country, will be restored to
the original owners.
Whatever difficulty there may be, under our municipal institutions,
in punishingas pirates, citizens of the U. S. who take from a State
at war with Spain, a comnission to cruise against that power, con,

