CASE9 IN THE SUPREME COURT

672
1821.

o
Tf Union
Thie

Bank
V.

that it was at that time enjoined before the Chancellor of Virglnia. This is setting up a wrong iii
Straas to support a right in his assignee.

Iyde.

Decree affirmed.

(Paomissony NoTzs.)
THE UNION BANK V. HYDE.
A protest of an inland bill or. promissory note is not necessary, nor is
it evidence of the facts stated in it
The following undertaking of the endorser of bLpromssory note, "I
do request that hereafter any notel that may'fall due in the Umnba
Bank, in wbich I am, or may be endorser, shall not.be protested, as
I wilt consider myself bound in the same manner as if the said notes
had been or should be legally proteted," held to be ambignous as
to.whether it amounted to a waiver of demand and notice; and parol
proof admitted to show that.it was the understanding of the parties
that the demand and notice required by law to charge the endorser,
should be dispensed with.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
.Varch 14th.

9"c 16h.

This cause was argued by Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Swann and Mr. Key
for the defendant in error.
Mr, Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
court.

This cause turns upon the construction of a -writ-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ten ixstrument, in these words: "I do request that
hereafter any notes that may fall due in the Union
Bank, on which I am, or may be endorser, shall not
be protested, as I will consider myself bound, in the
same manner, -as if the said notes had been, or should
be legally protested.
(Signei)

573
1821.
The Union

THOMAS HYDE."

Two construqtions have been contended for - the
one, literal, formal, vernacular, the otber, resting on
the spirit and meaning, as a mercantile and bank
transaction.
The former has been sustained in the Court below, and the correctness of that opinion is now to
be examined.
The defendant, 'it appears, became endorser to
one Foyles, and the note was discounted in ihe
Union Bank on its- falling due, it' is admitted that
no demand was made-on the drawer, or notice given
to the endorser.
The case presents the-right of the plaintiffs under
two aspectS: 1st. Upon the just construction of
the written instrument. 2d. The pr.actical exposition of it by the defendant himself, and it might also
have presented a third: the specific waiver of demand and notice on the note in suit. By some assumed analogy, or mistaken notions of law, this practice of protesting inland bills, has now become very
generally prevalent, and since the inundation of the
country with bank transactions, and the general resort to this mode of exposing the breaches of punctuality which occur upon notes, a solemnitv, co-

Bank
V.

Hyde.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

674
1821.
The -Union

Bank

V.

Hyde.

gency, and legal effect, have been given to such
in public opinion, which certainly has no
foundation in the law-merchant. The nullity of a
protest on the legal obligations of the parties to an
inland bill, is tested by the consideration, that independently of statutory provision, (if any exists any
where,) or conventional understanding, the protest on
an inland bill is no evidence in a Court ofjustice of
either of the incidents which convert the conditional
undertaking of an endorser, into an absolute assumption.
The protest belongs altogether to foreign mercantile transactions, upon which, on the contrary, it is an
indispensable incident to making a drawer of a bill,
or endorser of a note, liable. On foreign bills, it is
the evidence of demand, and an indispensable step
towards the legal notice of non-payment, in consequence of which the undertaking of the drawer or
endorser becomes absolute. Hence, as to foreign
transactions, it is justly predicated of a protest; .that
it has a legal or binding effect.
But the writing under consideration has reference,
exclusively, to inland bills, and as to them, the protest has no legal or binding effect. The endorser
became liable, only on demand and notice, and of
these facts the protest isno evidence. How then shall
the waiver of the protest be adjudged a waiver of demand and notice, or in effect convert his conditional
into an absolute undertaking P
Had the defendant omitted one word from his undertaking, it would have been difficult to maintain an
affirmative answer to this proposition. But what

Sprotests

OF THE UNITED STATES.

are we to understand him-to intend, when he says,.
is I will consider myself bound in the same manner

as if said notes had been, or should be legally protested.?" -Except as to foreign bills, -a protest has no
legal binding effect, and as to them, it is evidence of
demand, and incident to legal notice. It either then
had this meaning, or it had none.
This reasoningi it may-be said, goes no farther
than to a waiver of the demand, but what effect is to
be given to the word bound P It must be to pay the
debt,.or it means nothing. But to cast on the endorser of a foreign bill an obligation to take it up, protest alone is not sufficient ; he is still entitled to a reasonable notice in addition to the technical notice
communicated by the protest. To bind him to pay
the debt, all, these incidents were indispensable, and
may, therefore, be well supposed to have been in contemplation of the parties, when entering into this
contract.
It is not unworthy of remark, that the writing under consideration asks *a boon of the plaintiff, for
which it tenders a consideration It requests to be
exempted from an expense, exposure, or mortification, on the one hand , and on the other, whatis tendered in return P The.intended obj.ect and conceived
effect of the protest on the one hand, is to convert his
undertaking into an unconditioval. assumption, and
the natural return is to make his undertaking at
once absolute, as the effectual means of obtaining
the benefit solicited.
If this course of reasoning should not be held conclusive, it would at least be sufficient to prove the

575
18t2.
The Umon

Tink
V.

Hyde.

576

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

language of the undertaking equivocal ; and that the
in which the parties used the words in which
The Umon
they express themselves, may fairly be sought in the
Bank
V.
Hyde.
practical exposition furnished by their own conduct,
or the conventional use of language established by
their own customs or received opinions.
On this point the evidence proves, that, by the
understanding of both parties, this writing did dispense with demand.and refusalthatthe company on
.the one hand, discontinued their practice of putting
the notes endorsed by defendant in the usual course
for rendering his asumption absolute, and the defendant, on the other, continued up to the last moment to
acquiesce in this practice, by renewing his endorsements without ever requiring demand or notice.
This was an unequivocal acquiescence in the sense
given by the Company to his undertaking, and he
cannot be permitted to lie by, and lull the Company
into a state of security, of which he might, at any
moment, avail himself, after making the most of the
credit thus acquired.
Judgment reversed, and, ventre ,faczas de nova
awarded.
1821.

Ssense

