CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Bussard
(CoimioN LAW

v.

BILLS OF EXCHANGE.)

Leverin.
BUSSARD v. LEVERING.
Where the second day of grace falls on Saturday, it is the'last day of
grace; and notice of non-payment given to the drawer of a bill on_
that day, After -ademand upon the acceptor on the samo day, is
sufficient to charge the drawer.
Notice .tothe drawer, by putting the Same intr the post-office,. where
the persons live in different places, is good.
ERROR

to the 'Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
Assumpsit against the defendant below, (B ossard,)
as drawer of an inland bill of exchange drawn at
Baltimore on-the 3d of October, 1816, upon one
Martin Gillet, for S1,244 79 cents, payable six
months after date, and accepted by Gillet. Plea, non
assumpsit. On the trial of the cause, the plaintiff
produced and read in evidence to the jury, the bill,
acdeptance, and protest, the hand writing of the respectiver parties being admitted, anc gave evidence to
prove that after bank hours, on Saturday, the fifth of
April, 1817, being the second day of grace after the
said bill became due, the same was presented by a
notary to the acceptor for payment, and not being
paid, was duly protested. And on the same day
written notice was sent by the mail to the defendant,
residing at Georgetown, D. C. notifying him of the
non-payment and protest of the bill. And gave evidence that such protest and notice, on the second
day of grace, under those circumstances, was confor-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

103

1821.
mable to the general usage in Baltimore. And no
offered.
was
notice
other evidence of demand or
Bussard
V.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendant prayed the
Levering.
that.
jury,
the
to
Court
the
of
instruction
opinion and
the defendant, under the circumstances so given in
evidence, was not liable in this action, the drawer of
the said bill not having received due notice of the
dishonour of the same; but that the notice given upon the same day that the payment of the draft was
demanded, to wit, on Saturday, the 5th of April,
1817, was not regular and sufficient to charge the
defendant in this action. Which instruction the
Court refused, and the defendant' counsel excepted.
A verdict and judgment thereon was rendered for
the plaintiff, and the cause was brought by writ of
error to this Court.

This cause was argued by Mr. Jones for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Key for the defendant.
This COURT were unanimously of opinion that, by
the general law merchant, notice of non-payment
given to the drawer on the last day of grace, after a
demand upon the acceptor on the same day, (antd
Saturday, in this case, was the last -day of grace,.thp
.next day being Sunday) was sufficient to charge the
drawer, and that the notice in this case given to the
drawer, by putting the same into the post-office, was
good.
Judgment iffirmed.

Feb. 7th.

