CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
isil.
c
Meciaamcs'
Bank of
Alexandria

V.

Withers.

let in to prove the contents, notice should have been
given to the defendant to produce it.

The COURT were unanimously of opinion, that
after demand of the maker on the third day of grace,
notice to the endorser on. the same day was sufficient, by the general law merchant , and that evidence of the letter containing notice having been
put into the post-office, directed to the defendant, at
his place of residence, was sufficient proof-of the
nnice to be left to the jury, and that it was unnecessary to give notice to the defendant to produce
the letter before such evidence could be admitted.
Judgment reversea.

(LoCAL LAw.

aRACTICE.)

THF MECHANICS' BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
V. WITHERS.

The Circuit Court for the District of Columbia has authority to adjourn to a distant day, and the adjourned session is considered as the
same'term.
Mhere the regular term began on the 3d Monday in April!n4 the
Court continued.to sit, de die m diem, until 1he 16th of May, when
it adjourned to the 4th Monday of June, held, that a defendant,
against whom an office judgm6ent had been entered on the 16th of
May, had a right, under the laws and practice of Virginia, to appear
at the adjourned spssion, and have the default set aside, on. gsvng
special bail, and pleading issnably.

OF T.14

UMITED STATES1

Tifis cause was argaed by Mr. Lee and Mr,
Swann, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Tailor,
for the defendant in error.

101
isni.
149hante

Bank of
Alexandrt
T.

Mr. Chief Justice MAItSHALL delivered -the opinion ,ters.
.FbMY 9LL
of the, Court.
This is -a writ of error to a judgment rendered
by the Circuit Court for the District. of Columbia,
gitting in Alexandria, in an.action-of debt'-; and:the
-case depends-on the laws.of Virginia, -as they stood
w-hen juisdictiott over the District was first exerciaedby Cbngress.
By the law of Virginia the, proceedings, 'util-an
issue -ismade up in a cause, are taken in the Oerk's
-office at monthly rules i and judgments' by default
become final on the last day of the succeeding term,
till -which -day the defendant'in any such actioli has
a legal right to set the judgment aside, and to. plead
to issue. The -Circut Court held its regular session
in April, 1818, and continued to sit regularly till
the 16th. day -of Miiy, when it adjourned -o the
fourth Monday of the foilowing. June. The clerk,
considering the day dn which the Court adjourned
as the last day of the term, and the j Vdgments at the
rules as having, -on that day, beedmb final; issued anexecution on one of these judgments, which had
,been obtained by the plaintiffs ag'lnst Cave 'Withers
and his common bail. When -the Court met in June,
the.,defendant appeared, and, on taotibn, was allowed to set aside the office judgment, give special.hail,
and plead to assue. The execution was, consequently, quashed. In the course of the term judg-

108
1821.
'

Nechamcs'

Bank of

CASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

ment was. -confessed by the defendant, for the sum
claimed in the declaration, and a writ of error wasthen sued' out, the object of which was to reverse the

last judgment, and set aside all proceedings subse.exau'rza
Withers-. quent to the -16th of May, on the idea, that thej udgment rendered at the rules became final on that day.
The sole question in the cause .is, whether the
adjournment from the 16th of May to the fourth
Monday in June, was a continuation of the April.
term, or constituted a, distrt termP
There being nothing in any act of Congress which
prevents the Courts of the District from exercising
a power common- to all Courts, .that of adjourning
to a distant day, the adjournment on the 16th of
May to .the fourth Monday in June, would be a continuance of the, same term, unless a special act of
Congress, expressly enabling the Courts of the District -to hold adjourned sessions, may be supposed
to vary the law of the case. That act is in these
words. -"4And the said Courts are hereby invested
with the same power of holding adjourned sessions
that are exercised by the Courts of Maryland."0
These words do not, in themselves, purport to vary
the character of the sesson. They do not make the
adjourned session a distinct session. They were,
probably, inserted from abundant scaution, and are
to be ascribed to an apprehension, that Courts did
not possess the power to adjourn to a distant day,
until they should "be enabled so to do by a legislative
act. But this act, affirming a pre-existing power,
ought not to .be construed to vary the nature of that
power, unless words are employed which manifest

A

OF THE UNITED STATES.

such intention. In this act, there are no such words,
unless they are found in the reference to the Courts
of Maryland. But on inquiry, we find, that in
Maryland, an " adjourned session" is considered as
the same session with that at which the adjournment was made. Since, then, the term at which.
this conditional or office judgment was-to become
final,. was still continuing when it was set aside, and
the- defendant permitted to plead to the declaration,
there was no error in that proceeding.
Judgment -affirmed;

(CHAcEnRY.

CommoN L&w.)

HOPKINs v. LEE.
A judgment or decree of a Court of competent jurisdiction is conclusive wherever the same matter is again brought in controversy.
But the rule does not apply to points which come only collaterally
under consideration, or are only incidentally considered, or can
only be argumentatively inferred from the decree.
Inan action at law by the vendee, against the vendor, for a breach of
the contract, in not delivering the thing sold, the proper measure
of damages is not the price stipulated in the contract, but the value
at the time of the breach.
This rule applies to the sale of real, as well as personal property,
but, Qu re, Whether it is the proper measure of damages in the
case of an action for eviction

ERRORWtO

the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
Tins was aii action of covenant, brought by the de-

1821.
Hoplans

V.
Lee.

