194
1821.

%as

The Col-

lector.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

flag and commission of such republic or state. But,
the record, in this case, stated the capture to have
been made under the flag of Buenos Ayres, it became .necessary to send back the case, in order to
ascertain under what authority it was m fact made.
Sentence reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings.

The COLmL Oi

Wilmot,. Claimant.

In all prcceedin, a sp..rh on gn appeal, the property follow the
cause into the Circuit Court, and is subject to the dispositien of
that Court. But it does noto'low the cause into the Supreme
Court,-on an appeal to that Court.
After an appeal from the Distrirt-to, the Circuit Court, the former
Court cpn make no order respecting the property, whether itihas
been sold, and the proceeds paid into. Court, or whether it remains
speoifically, of its premeds remain, m the hands of the Marshal.
It is a great irregularity for the Marshal to keep the property or the
proceeds thereof in his own hands, or to distribute the same among
the parties edtitled, without a special order from the Court; but
such an irregularity may be cured by the assent and ratification
of all the parties interested, if there .be no mala Jdes.

the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The factsof this case-were as follow:
In the year 1-807, the schooner Collector and cargo were libelled in the District Court of the district
of Maryland, as forfeited under the act of Congress,
APPEAL from

OF THE UNITED STATES.

195

1821.
prohibiting commercial intercourse with-- certain
ports of St Domingo.
John Wilmiot, the present petitioner and libellant, ietor.
and the house of Tagart & Caldwell, claimed the
whold property.
Pending the proceedings in the District Court, the
vessel and cargo were sold under an order to "bring
in the proceeds, subject to the future disposition
thereof." The money, notwithstanding this order,
was never paid to the clerk, nor was it ever deposited by him in any Court, and the Court never afterwards made any order respecting it.
The property was condemned in the District, and
Circuit Courts, which latter decree was reversed by
the.Supreme Court,ju.the Term of February, 1009
and the property.. libelled ordered to be restored..
Tfe mandate of the Supreme Court was filed, beIlDyr.the I1.th of May following. The present libel
and petition was filed in the District. Court, the 8th.
of June. 1816) when a decree passed dismissing the
.. , wich- was afterwards affirmed by the Circit
Court, froto whose -sentence this appeal was~taken.
The object of the present appeal was to obtain
-the benefit of the decree of the Supreme Court, that
-is, restitution of the property, according to the rights
of the respective claimants , the appellant insisting
on one half of the. proceeds of vessel and cargo, as
joint owner, and also upon a lien on the other half
as ship's husband, for advances-made beyond his proportion of the outfits of the voyage, as well as for
expenses in defending the vessel and cargo against
the information which had been filed against them,

196

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18211

" ColThe
lector.

ebuary

2U.

and for this purpose prayed that the Marshal- might*
be ordered to bring in the proceeds, according to the
interlocutory decree, and that the same might be
restored, pursuant to the decree of the Supreme
Court, preserving to- the parties their respective
rights, liens, &c. concluding with a general prayer
for relief.
From the petition of the appellant, the answer of
the Marshal, and the proofs in the cause, it appeared;
that the Marshal, although he sold the schooner and
her cargo, did not, in fact, bring the money into
Court. That for the moiety of ihe proceeds belonging to Tagart &- Caldwell, -an order was given by
them in favour of Van Wyck & Dorsey, as- early as
March, 1807, in consequence of which order Van
Wyck and Dorsey, who sold the property at auction,
under the Marshal's directions, were permitted to retam the part belonging to Tagart & Caldwell, upon
an understanding to keep it, if the vessel and cargo
were acquitted, but to return it in case of a different
issue. That the other moiety of the proceeds was
paid on the 6th of April, 1809, which was previous to the filing of the mandate in the Court
below, by the Marshal, to the present appellant, as appears by his receipt of that date, and
which expresses the sum therein mentioned, to be
for his one half of the net proceeds of the sale of the
schooner Collector and cargo. The Marshal died,
pending the proceedings, and they were revived
against his executors.
Mr. Mitchell, for the appellant and claimant,

OF THK UNITED STATES.

(1.) statedthat this was not a motionin the Court below, for a rule against the Marshal, to lay the foundation for an attachment, -but a proceeding in the
nature of an original libel, to give effect to the sentence of this Court, as another Court of Admiralty,

in the former cause.

That the District Court has

jurisdiction to sustain such a libel or petition, founded upon the sentences of foreign Courts, and a for-

tior of our own, appears by numerous authorities.a
The mandate from this Court was properly filed in
the District Court, because if the proceeds were to
be considered as in Court at all, the) were in that
Court. They remained in that Court, -notwithstanding the'appeal, and it .was, therefore; the proper tribunal to execute the decree of restitution. According to the English practice in proceedings u rem,
tle.thing in controversy does not follow the suit into
the Court of Appeals, but remains in that where the
This is
proceeding was originally commenced.'
also the law of our own country." The ground of
complaint here is, that the proceeds have not been
brought into the registry, in pursuance of the interlocutory decree of the District Court, which is the
only tribunal competent to vindicate its own decrees.
The Circuit Court has no original jurisdiction in
a Penhallow v. Doane, 3 Dal. 54. 97. 118. Jennings v.
Carson, 2 Cranch, 21. Livingston v M'IKenzie, 3 Term Rep.
323. Note. Smart v. Wolff, 3 Term Rep. 329. 2 Bro. Cir.
and,8din. Law, 120. 7 Vez. jun. 593. Camden v Home,
I Term Rep. 385. 395.
b 2 Bro. Civ. and Aldm. Law, 405.
e Jennings v Carson, 2 Granch, 21.

197'
892Thu Col-

lentor.

198

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.

The

Col-

lector.

Admiralty and Maritime cases, and cannot redress a
violation of the orders of the District Court. The
object of the present application, is not merely to
compel the payment of the proceeds into Court, but
to obtain payment of money out of Court, which requires the solemnity of a petition analogous to thu
proceedings in Chancery in a similar case. Lord
Eldon would never suffer money to be paid out of
Court on motion, but put the party to his petition,
stating his rights, which would thus appear on the
records of the Court at any distance of time , and
this practice was approved and adopted by Lord
Erskine.a (2.) The claimant insists upon his lien
as part owner and ship's husband, on the voyage in
which she was seised, for advances made by him, besides his absolute ight in one moiety.b It is an incontrovertible principle, that where property is tdken
out of the hands of a party, in %nvtum,and by legal
process, the law will retain all his liens, and return
it to him, stilfsubject to them, as before.c It is true,
that a person holding a dormant title, who stands by
and witnesses a sale to another, is guilty of fraud,
but if this lien be an equity raised by law, and not by
the act of the parties, it requires no notice. The
receipt of part out of the registry of a Court of
Admiralty, is no bar or preudice to the residue of
the claim, but the party may afterwards file his libel,
and have a monition for the further sum due.a The
a
b
c
4

3 Fez. 3un. 393.
Abbott on Shnpp. 114. Story's ed.
Wilson v Kymer, I 'Alaul. 4-. Selw. 157. 163.
,ymer v Atkyns, I H. Bl. 1G7

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1s2i.
MarMbal has not done his duty under the interlocu.tory decree, directing him to bring the money into the
-Jre ColCourt. We do not insist on an actual delivery to lector.
the register, infacze curie, but that the specific proceeds should be separated from all other property,
so. that the decree of the Court shall act upon it,
without the necessity of the concurring will of the
officer. The property is not to be confounded with
the private funds of the officer, so that it cannot be
distinguished and recovered, if he absconds, or if
he dies, will be subject to a distribution of assets in
the hands of his personal representative.0 In this
case, the executor is liable, not- as for a tort, but to
restore funds which are not assets in his hands.

Mr. Pinkney and Mr. Wheateon, contra, (1.) insisted, that the cases cited on the other side, of Jennngs v. Carson,b and Penhallow v. Doane,c were
proceedings to enforce the decrees of the Continental
Court of Appeals, which had ceased to exist ,, simi-

lar in their nature to those cases. in England. where
the prize commissions to certain Vice-Admiralty
Courts had expired, and application was made to the
High Court of Admiralty to carry into effect their
decrees.4 In the cases cited, the District Court had
jurisdiction, because it is a Court of Prize of the
first resort, with all th - powers of the English High
a The Princessa and La Reine Elizabeth, 2 Rob. 31.
b 2 Cranch, 21.
c 3 Doll. 54.
d The Piciniento, 4 Rob. 360.

200

j

1821.

The C61o

lector.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Court of Admiralty inherent in it, and the proceeding could be commenced no where else, because it is
the only Court of original prize jurisdiction. But
the present case is a proceeding under the judiciary
act, where the Supreme Court does not execute its
own decrees, but sends its mandate to the Circuit,
and not to the District Court, and the Circuit
Court must, therefore, execute the mandate, and distribute the proceeds of the property. The property
follows the cause into the Circuit, but not into the
Supreme Court. (2.) Here the distribution, though
irregularly made by the Marshal, without the special
direction of the Court, is precisely what the Court
would have made upon an application. It is a rule
of the Court of Admiralty to restore, or to condemn,
the gross tangible property, without regard to any
liens which parties other than the general owners
may have upon it. So that if the Court had now
to pronounce the distribution of the property, it
would not enter into these minute inquiries respecting the claims of the part owners against each other,
but leave them to their remedy at common law or in
equity. Thus, in the case of the Jeffersona Sir W.
Scott refused to sever the share of a bankrupt partner in favour of his assignees, but restored the property in solidum, leaving the assignees to their remedy in the proper forum. (3.) But supposing the
Court would interfere to protect the pretended lien,
there is no -proof of its existence , or if it ever exist.ed, it has been waived, and the distribution made
a I Ri'b. 325.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

with the assent of all the parties interested. The
appellant has received his moiety of the gross property. And even if it were not so, the personal representative of the deceased Marshal is not liable in
this form. The regular course would be to proceed
against the Marshal himself. by -notion, and a rule
directing him to bring the monej i.to Court. But
this proceeding could not be continued against his
executors. The provisions of the judiciary act re.lative to the revival of suits, do not apply to this
proceeding, because. it cannot, upon general principles of admiralty law and practice, be continued
against the personal representatives- of the officer.
If it could be revived against them, the relation of
their testator with the Court, as an officer, would
cease, and 'it would become a common debt, gubject
to the ordinary course of administration.

1821.
The Col-

lector.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of march
the Court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows: This is, to say the least, a very novel and
-extraordinary proceeding. The Marshal, probably,
without any improper views,, or an intention of
making use of the proceeds of the vessel and cargo,
disobeys the order of the Judge, and instead of depositing them in the registry of the Court, keeps
them under his own control, and finally distributes
them among. the parties without any direction of the
Court on the subject. This was a great irregularity,. but the owners of the schooner Collector and
cargo have.-no iight at this day to-complam-of it.
They were early apprised of the situation of their
VOL. VI.

26

2&

202
1821.
e ColThe

lector.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

property. Two of them gave an order on the Marshal for their proportion of the proceeds before any
sale had taken place , and the other, who is the present appellant, r:, eived oftae Marshal his share
before the sentence of reversal, which was pronounced here, had been made known to the Court
below After this ratification, or sanction, on their
part, of the irregular conduct of the Marshal, neither
of them ought now to be permitted to seek any other
redress from him. Before any distribution of the
proceeds by the Marshal, they might have applied
to the Court to enforce obedience to its order, as it
regarded the bringing of them into Court, and-then
have had their respective pretensions adjudicated by
the Court itself. Not having proceeded in this
manner, the Distrct Court, if it have jurisdiction of
the case, could not now, without great danger of doing .injustice, interfere in this business. Whatever
notice it might have taken of the lien, which is now
set up by the appellant, on a part of these proceeds
beyond his moiety, if the proceeds were still in that
Court, It is by no means-clear, that the Marshal
ought now to be rendered liable to the appellant-for
them, there being nothing like satisfactory proof,
that he had notice of such a claim when the.appel]ant took from him his moiety, nor until long after
he had parted with the whole of the property Under
this view of the case, the Court is of opinion, that
the appellant, under the particular circumstances of
this case, is not entitled, on the merits, to any relief
against the Marshal. But the Court is further of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

opinion, that the proceeding on the present petition,
and that in the District Court, was coram nonjudice.
By an appeal from the sentence of a District
Court to a Circuit Court,, the latter becomes possessed of the cause, and executes its own judgment
without any intervention of the former. It is fit,
therefore, tha- the proceeds of the property, if it
have been converted into money, should follow the
appeal into the Circuit Court, and be deposited in
such bank, or other place, as it may direct, there to
remain, subject to the disposition and direction of
the Circuit Court. And if the property at the time
of the appeal remain in specie in the Marshal's custody, and any order or direction shall become necessary for its sale or preservation after an appeal, such
order must emanate from the Circuit Court. But if
a further appeal be had to the Supreme Court, the
property, or its proceeds, will still continue in the
Circuit Court, because the Supreme Court, in such
cases, does not execute its own judgments, but sends
a special mandate to the Circuit Court to award execution thereon.
The proceeds, therefore, of the Collector and
cargo, at the time of filing the present petition and
libel, even if the order of the District Court in relation to them, had been complied with, could not,
after the appeal, be regarded as in, or under, thecontrol of the District Court, which was, therefore,
incompetent, when this petition was filed) to make
any order respecting them.
Sentence affirmed, with costs.-

1821.
T
leotor.

