152
1821.
e
The Bello
Corrunes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tract entered into by the endorser and endorsee, upon
which the suit is brought, and if the endorsee is a
citizen of a different State, he may bring an action
against the endorser in the Circuit Court. As to the
other objection insisted upon by the plaintiff in error,
all that was incumbent upon the holder, was to give
due notice to the endorser. No protest of a promis-

sory note or inland bill of exchange is necessary.
Judgment affirmed.

(PaRzZ.)
THE BELLO CORRUNES.

The Spanssh Consul,

Claimant.
A foreign consul has a right to claim, or institute a proceeding, tn
rem, where the rights of property of his fellow-citizens are in question, without a special procuration from those for whose benefit he
acts.
But a consul caunot receive actual restitution of the res in controversy, without a special authority from the particular individuals
who are entitled.
A captvre made by citizens of the United States of property belonging to subjucts of a country in amity with the U. S. is unlawful,
wheresoever the capturing vessel may have been equipped, or by
whomsoever commissioned, and the property thus captured, if
brought within the neutral limits of this country, will be restored to
the original owners.
Whatever difficulty there may be, under our municipal institutions,
in punishingas pirates, citizens of the U. S. who take from a State
at war with Spain, a comnission to cruise against that power, con,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
trary to the 14th article of the Spanish treaty, yet there is no doubt
that such acts are to be considered as piratical acts for all civil pur,
poses, and the offending parties cannot appear, and claim in our
Courts the property thus taken.
It seems, that the terms, " a State with which the said King shall be a
w'ar," in the 14th article of the treaty, include the South American
pyrovmces which have revolted against Spain.
But, however this may be, the Neutrality Act of June, 1797, c. i. extends the same prohibition, with all its consequences, to a colony
revolting, and making war against its parent country.
In the case of such an illegal capture, the property of the lawful owners cannot be forfeited, for a violation of the revenue laws of this
country, by the captors or by persons who have rescued the property from their possession.
The rights of salvage may be forfeited by spoliation, smuggling, or
other gross misconduct of the salvors.

from the Circuit Court of Rhode Island.
This was the case of a Spanish vessel and cargo,
stranded on Block Island, and there seized by the
officers of the customs. An information on behalf
of the United States, was filed in the District Court,
against the property, as forfeited, for an alleged
breach of the revenue laws. His Catholic Majesty's
Vice Consul for the district of Rhode Island, interposed a claim on behalf of" certain subjects of the
King of Spain," the original owners of the ship and
cargo, which was bound on a voyage from the port
of Tarragona, in Spain, to La Vera Cruz, and was
taken off Cape St. Antonio, on the west end of the
island of Cuba, on the 21st of March, 1818, by an
armed vessel called the Puyerredon, commanded by
one. James Barnes, sailing under Buenos Ayres colours, and asserting a right to make.captures under
the authonty.of the government of that place. Resutution to the original Spanish owners was claimed,
APrEAL

VOL. VI.

20

153
1821.
The Bello
Corrunes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

164

upon the ground that the capturing vessel had been
i
equipped in the ports of this country, in violation of
Corrunes. our neutrality. An allegation was also filed by
Barnes, demanding restitution of the property to the
captors, as having been taken, jure belli, on the high
seas. Another claim was also filed by certain persons, part of the original crew of the Bello Corrunes,
left on board after the capture, who asserted a claim
for salvage, in case the property should be restored
to the original Spanish owners, under the following
circumstances. The master of the captured vessel,
and all her crew except four, were taken out, and a
prize master and crew put on board from the Puyerredon. Thus equipped, the Bello Corrunes cruised
in company with the Puyerredon nearly two months,
during which period another Spaniard, of the original crew of the Bello Corrunes, was returned to
that vessel. The two vessels afterwards separated,
and on the 8th of May, in lat. 320 30' north, and
longitude 740 W from London, the prize crew, assisted by the persons originally on board the Bello
Corrunes, rose on the prize masterand other officers,
and rescued the vessel from their possession. They
then steered their course for the United States, and
the vessel was by some means stranded upon .Block
Island, where the vessel and cargo were seized by
the revenue officers.
A decree was entered in the District Court, pro
forma, and by consent of parties, restoring the property to the original Spanish owners as claimed, and
dismissing the other allegations and claims. This
decree was affirmed, pro forma, and by consent, in
1821.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

155

1s2.
the Circuit Court, and the cause was brought by appeal to this Court.
The Bello
It appeared by the evidence in the Courts below, Corrunes.
and'by the farther proof taken under .a commission
from this Court, that the capturing vessel'was formerly owned by citizens of the United States, and
called the Mangoree, and was originally armed,
eqtnpped, and manned at Baltimore; and sailed
from that port in March, 1817, under. the command
of Barnes, a citizen of the United States, domiciled
in that city, under Buenos Ayres colours, on acruize;
and after capturing several Spanish vessels, proceeded to Buenos Ayres, where the vessel arrived in
August, 18[7.a The vessel was then altered from a
schooner into a brig, and her name changed to the
Puyerredon, an addition of one gun was made to
her armament, some of the original crew were reshipped, and other seamen recruited. An alleged
sale of the vessel took place to one Higginbotham, a
citizen of the United States domiciled at Buenos
Ayres; and a commission was issued by the Supreme Director of the United Provinces of South
America, dated the 20th of November, 1817, authonzmg Barnes to capture Spanish. property; with
which the vessel sailed from Buenos Ayres on the
cruise, during which. the present capture was made.

The Attorney- General, for the United States,. ar-

gued, that the officers of the Government being in
a This was the same vessel which captured the Dihma Pas-

tora, in 1816.

Vide ante, Vol. IV p. 52.

ebrnsth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
Tuntil
The
Bello
Corrunes.

possession of this property, would hold it as a drozt
some person appeared duly authorized to claim
it. The consul of Spain has no authorityto claim,
in his own name, and in his official character, the
property of persons to him unknown, and by whom
he cannot therefore have been invested with a special procuration. He is not invested with a general
authority for that purpose, virtute offiii, nor is there
evidence in this particular case that the consul is the
agent, consignee, or correspondent of the owners,
who are sometimes permitted to claim for their
principal, when the latter is absent from the country Great public inconveniences and mischief,
a The Anne, 3 Weat. Rep. 435. De Steck, des Consuls, 64.
Warden on Consuls, I 1. and opinion of' f. PORTAL S there
cited. This opinion of M. PORTALIS, in the case of the claim

of the Danish Consul before the French Council of Prizes, will be found in the APPnDix to the present volume of
Reports, Note No. V
The passage cited from De Steck, is as follows
" § 27. Selon la rigle par la pllpart des trait6s de commerce
et par l'usage presque gendralement requ les consuls sont les

juges des gens de mer et des n4gocians et marchands de leur
nation.*

28. [1 leur est ordinairement attribuee la jurisdiction taut
en matidre civile que criminelle.

29. Cette jurisdiction attribude aux consuls n'dmane point de
la puissance et de l'autoritd du souverain, qus les 6tablit, qui
n'a point de pouvoir sur ses sujets expatries, ddmeurans, com-

mergans, 6tablis en des pays 6trangers. Elle depend et derive
plut6t de la concession, de l'attribution du souverain de l'6tat
ou les consuls rdsident. Elle suppose donc toujours des traitds
par lesquels elle est stipulde, accordde, attribude.
* Valin. Com. Sur I'Ordonn, de la Marine, 1. 1. tit. 9. art. 12;p. 251.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

might follow from allowing foreign consuls, not specially authorized by their own government, or by
this, nor by the parties, to receive restitution of property, for which they may interpose a claim as belonging to their fellow subjects. Supposing the

property here to be devested out of the original owners by the capture, and vested in the captors, jure
bMli, it must be forfeited to the United States for
violating the revenue laws, which was the original
intention of the parties, and was partially accom-

plished at Block Island.

Or supposing the recap-

ture by the prize crew to be valid, they must be
30. Lorsque ]a jurisdiction est attribude aux consuls par les
traitds de commerce, ilsont le pouvoir dans leur district, dans
P'endroit de leur (tablissement et dans leur rdsidence, dejuger
les diff6rens, contestations et procas qui surviennent entre. les
gens de mer, les n~gocians, les cominergans de leur nation, qui
s'dlevent entre les capitaines, patrons, 'dquipage, et les passagers des vaisseaux et des batimens nationaux.
31. Leur jurisdiction ne se borne pas alors aux affaires contentienses des nationaux. Ils ont aussi ]a jurisdiction volontaire, c'est a dire la facultd de recevoir les d~clarations des
capitaines des vaisseaux, et tons les actes que leur nationaux
veulent passer dans leur chancellerie, de les Igaliser, de recevoir leur testamens, de r6gler leurs successions et leur tutelles, de faire Pinventaire de leur biens ddlaissds et naufragds, etc.
32. Dans les proces que surviennent entre les nationaux et
les habitans et sujets de l'dtat oil les consuls sont 6tablis, on
entre les commergans d'autres nations, ilsassistent, protagent,
d~fendent leurs nationaux. Dans les 4chelles du Levant lesjuges du lieu n'osent dans ce cas proc6der sans ]a participation
et l'intervention du consul, sans ]a presence des on znterprate."
De S&eck des Consuls, p. 64.

157.
1821.
The Bello

Corrunes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I
The Bello

considered as the agents of the original proprietors,
and.their misconduct must be visited upon the or,-

Corruan

ginal proprietors.

1821.

Mr. Winder, for the appellants and captors, insisted, that the present capture being made on the high
seas, jure bei,.under a commission regularly issued
by a Government acknowledged to be entitled to exercise the rights of war against its enemy, could not
be inquired into by the Courts of this country ; but
that the captors being entitled to the possession,
having only been dispossessed by the criminal misconduct of the prize crew which they had put on
board to secure the prize, were entitled to restitution,
in order to enable them to proceed against it as prize
in the competent Court. Whatever military means
are directed, from within the territory of one of ihe
belligerent States, against its enemy, are not subject
to the review or control of any neutral or other foreign tribunal or authority, except in the single case
of a direct violation of the neutral territory itself.
This principle grows out of the perfect independence
and equality of nations, existing as it were in a state
of nature in respect to each other. Their conduct
in authorizing acts of war is no more reviewable by
other nations, than any other their acts of sovereignty 4 It is this perfect independence and equality of
sovereign States which is the sole foundation of the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Prize Courts of the
captor's country over every thing done under a prize
a Vattel, Droit des Gens, Prelim. s. 15-23. 1. 2. c. 4. s. 54,
5 5.

OF THE UNITED STATES
1821.
commission. In the celebrated case of the Exa
of
changeb this Court held, that the commission
The Belo
sovereign protected that vessel from all inquiry, not- Corrunu.
withstanding the flagrantly unjust conduct of the
French Emperor in appropriating the property of an
American citizen to his own use, without the form of
a trial, and incorporating it into his military marine.
It must be shown, that the act of the Government of
Buenos Ayres in granting this commission is unlawful, before it can b& shown that any of the effects of
that act are invalid. Suppose the Exchange, on her
voyage, had made a -capture, could this Court have
restored it to the former owners ? Or could it inquire into the validity of such a capture consistently
with the principles laid down in that case P The
enlistment of men in neutral countries to serve the
belligerent powers is lawful, unless there be some express prohibition of the neutral State. Such a municipal prohibition would certainly make it unlawful,
in respect to the neutral State whose laws are violated ; but -it does not, therefore, follow, that all the
acts of guch persons in war would be unlawful, or
that they are not entitled to the rights of lawful
war0 The carrying of contraband is prohibited by
the law of nations under the penalty of confiscation,
and the exportation of contraband articles may be
prohibited by the municipal code under other penalues , but such prohibition would not invalidate a
a L'Invincible, 1 Wheat. Rep. 238.-254.
b 7 Cranch, 116.
c Vattel, 1. 3. c. 2. s. 13-15. Bynk. Q. J-. Puzb. pp. 175.
177. of Du Ponceau's translation.

160
1821.

T
Corrunes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

capture made with the munitions of war thus exported. The Government of this country naturalizes
all foreigners indiscriminately, in peace and m war,
and employs them in its land and naval service, and
it is not for us to question the right of a citizen of
the United States to enter into the military service
of a foreign State. It is insisted, that not only the
Court has no authority by the law of nations to restore to the original owners a prize thus captured,
but that the law of nations gives the Congress no
power to authorize the Court to restore. The Legislature may prohibit our citizens from enlisting in
the service of the belligerents, or from fitting out
ships to be employed in cruising, under ever so severe penalties, but those penalties cannot extend to
a forfeiture of the rights of prize acquired under the
commission of an independent sovereign State. Nor
are Spain and the United States competent to regulate by their mutual treaty stipulations the sovereign
rights of the South American Provinces, though
they may stipulate to inflict penalties rnpersonam,
for what they deem the criminal conduct of their
subjects or citizens. As to the claim of the United
States for a forfeiture on account of the alleged violation of the revenue laws, it is already settled by
this Court, that the property of foreigners cannot be
forfeited for the misconduct of those who are tortiously in possession, as was the case here with the
rescuers.4
a The Josefa Segunda, 5 Wheat. Rep. 338..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Webster and Mr. Wheaton, for the respondent
and claimant, the Spanish Consul, (L.) contended,
that the Consul, from the necessity of the case, had

a right to interpose a claim for the property of his
.fellow subjects, brought into our ports in this manner. He does not claim as attorney in fact, but his
character is more lke an attorney at law. There is
no necessity of a special procuration from those for
whom he claims, because it does not follow, that the
property will be actually delivered into his hands
until the respective rights of the owners are determined, and a special authority produced from them
to receive distribution. There is the more necessity
for permitting the Consul, as the official protector of
the commercial rights and interests of his fellow subjects in a foreign country, to interpose a claim in
a case of this nature, because the usual term of a
year and a day allowed in prize causes, where there
is no claim, would not be allowed here, since the
property is demanded by the captors under their pretended commission, and if the subjects of Spain, residing at a distance, and ignorant even of the fact of
the capture, were not allowed to be represented by
their Consul, the property would be taken away by
the captors, and irrecoverably lost to the original
owners. It will also frequently be impossible for
the Consul to specify the owners for whom he claims,
and he ought, therefore, to be allowed to file allegations claiming it for Spanish subjects generally.
The opinion of M. PORTALIS in the case of the
Danish Consulf proceeds entirely upon the peculiar
a Vide
VOL.

VI.

AprENDIX,

21

Note No. V

1821.
The Bello

Corrunes.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

regulation of France, which makes the- Procweur
' Bello Generat,.the official attorney, of -all persons who are
The
Corrunes. not represented 'before the tribunals -by any, specmla
procuration , which would, of-course, render,unuecessary the interposition of foreign Consuls in eases
where the rights of their countrymen wereinvolved.
2. They-argued, that thevessel ,bywhich the prosent capture was made, having been fitted out in the
ports of the United -States, and -the capture havingbeen made by our citizens, in violation of the law
of nations, the acts of Congress, -and the treaty with
Spain, the property must be restored to the -original
owners, accordihg to the uniform decisions of this
Court.a Under our municipal constitution, -the
treaty is the supreme law of the land ; and it would
be so by the law of nations without that constitutional provision.. "Every treaty," says Sir W Scott,
"is a part of the private law of-the country which
has entered into that treaty, and is as binding on the
subjects as any part of their municipal laws."' The
9th article of the Spanish treaty declares, that
goods takenfrom ptrates shall be restored to the. lawful owners, and the 14th article declares the captors,
in. the present case, to be prates, as it provides, that
they shall be punished as such for taking a commission to cruise against Spain. And -yet we are inquiring whether they are entitled to have restitution
1821.

a The Alerta, 9 Cranch, 359. Talbot v Jansen, 3 Dall.
133. L'Jnvincible, I "Wheat. Rep. 238. The Divina Pastora,
4 Wheat. Rep. 52. Note to that case, p. 62. Sir L. Jenkins'
works, there cited. The Estrella, 4 Wheat. Rep. 298.

b The Eenroom, 2 Rob. 6.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
of the very property which they have thus piraticalin
some
cases
be
admitted,
that
ly taken. It may
The Bello
citizens of one country may lawfully engage in the Corrties.
wars of another; we may take the doctrine cited
from Bynikershoeck, that they may -enlist where
there is no prohibition. It may also safely be admitted, that as far as the other belligerents are concerned in their hostile relations with each other, it is
lawful war. Spain cannot justly complain of the
South American Provinces for employing foreigners
in their service. And if the capturing ship -were a
national vessel, like the Exchlange,a no doubt her
commission would estop all judicial inquiry into her
conduct. But this is a private claim. The original
Spanish owners claim nothing against the Government of Buenos Ayres. That Government claims
nothing of the Spanish owners. Our own citizens
assert a claim to.this property acquired in war, which
can only be maintained upon the supposition, that
they may be at war whilst their country is at peace,
that they are not bound by the laws and treaties of
their own country, that they may expatriate themselves,flagrante-bello, for the purpose of committing
hostilities against nations in amity with the United
States. If the doctrine contended for on the part of
the captors, that the commission is conclusive, be correct,.-then the Court can never look behind it, and
the belligerents may dispense with our laws, and the
allegiance of our -citizens, at their pleasure. The
case of Talbot v. Jansonb whatever may be thought

a7 Cranh, 116.

h 3 Dall. 133.

164

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of it in other respects, has never been overruled as
The Bello to the principle, that the neutral tribunals have a
Corrunes. right to inquire into the validity of a captors commission, to see whether it was obtained and used in
violation of the laws of the neutral country. That
case has been made the basis of a series of decisions
which have become the settled law of this Court,
and which it is now too late to quettion. The
Court has uniformly treated it as a necessary consequence of the personal illegality 6f the act of taking
the commvion. -that the property -captured under it
should be. restored to the lawful owner. It is, therefore, immaterial where, or by whOm, the capturing
vessel was equipped. It is sufficient, that the capturing persons are citizens of the Unilted States, and
cannot asser a right of property founded on their
own illegal Londuct.
3. But even admitting that the original capture
was legal, the prize cannot now be reclaimed by the
captors. An interest acquired in war by possession,
is lost with the possession. The rights of capture
are completely devested by recapture, escape, or
rescue. Here the property has been devested out
of the possession of the captors by the rescuers, for
the 'benefit of the original owners, and the rescuers
hold it in trust for their benefit.
1821.

Mr. Wheaton, for the salvors, stated, that the oria The Astrea, 1 Wheat. Rep. 125. The Invincible, 2 Galis.
35. Hudson v. Guestier, 4 Cranch, 293. S. C. 6 Cranck,281.

The Dihgenta, I Dodson, 404.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1821.
ginal owners being thus shown to be entitled to restitution, the next question would 'be, whether the The Relne
salvors were entitled to any, and what salvage. Connines.
Unless the property were thus restored to the Spanish owners, the rescuers could not claim any salvage; for certainly the captors would not admit that
any. meritorious service had been rendered them by
the rescue. But, as against the former owners, the
rescuers have a just claim, having saved the property
from the grasp of their enemy: and it would be idle
to send the salvors to the Courts of Spain, to prosecute their claim, since the possession of the property
enables this Court to do complete justice between
all the parties. And this Court has already determined, that in a case of derelict by one belligerent,
a neutral is entitled to salvage, -and the Courts of
the neutral country into which the property is
brought, have authority to award it.b As to the
quantum of salvage one third was allowed in that
case, and it was doubted whether more ought not to
have been allowed, if the salvors had appealed. The
case of the Adventurec which was a donation at sea
by the belligerent captor to a neutral, who brought
the property into a port of his own country, was
held to lie a lawful salvage, and a moiety was allowed. In the case of Rowe et al. v. the Bri
,
a
South
captured
by
which was a Spanish vessel
American cruiser, one of the learned judges of thisa The Two Friends, 1 Rob. 281.
b The Mary Ford, 3 Dall. 198.

c 8 Granch, 221.

166

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Court allowed a moiety of the net value. And in
general,
it may be affirmed that there is no inflexible
The Bello
Corrunes. rule, either in cases of derelict, or of rescue , a reasonable salvage, proportioned to the meritorious exertions of the salvors, is to be decreed , but never
less than a third, unless the property is very valuable, or the services rendered very inconsiderableb
1821.
The Bello

Mr. Webster, contra, upon the claim for salvage,
insisted, that it appeared by the evidence that there
had been a partial embezzlement-of the property by
the alleged salvors, and that it was a fixed rule that
such misconduct, or any circumstance of fraud, forfeited the rights of salvage. °
r'e",'

2h.

Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This vessel was stranded on Block Island, in an
alleged effort to reach a port of the United States.
The vessel and cargo have been seized by the Collector of Newport, for supposed violations of the
trade laws of this country, and an information was
accordingly filed, to subject the whole to condemnation, in the District Court, for Rhode. Island District.
This claim of the United States has been opposed
by three classes of competitors. The vessel and
a I ,Mason's Rep. 372.
b Xbbott onShzpp. 451. Story's Ed. .Note (i.) The Favourite,
4 Cranch, 347. The Jonge Bastiann, 5 Rob. 32. The Lord
Nelson, Edwv. 79. L'Esperance, I Dodson, 49. The Blenden.
hall, I Dodson, 421. Barrels of Flour v. Prior, I Gallis. 133.
c The Blaireau, 2 Cranch, 240

OF THE UNITED STATES.

,167

1s2.
cargo, it appears, are Spanish property, and were
by
the
of
Cuba,
coast
western
the
south
captured on
The Bella
Puyerredon, a private armed brig, bearing the flag Corrunes.
of the Buenos Ayrean Republic, and commanded by
Captain James Barnes. Being armed, and well calculated for a privateer, she was manned with a
complement of ihe privateer's men, about thirty in
number, and her original commander, and all except four of the Spanish crew, removed. Thus equipped, it appears that she cruised, as a tender to the
Puyerredon, for about two months, during which
time another Spaniard was added to her crew, and
on the 8th May, when in lat. 32 30, N. and long.
74, from London, the crew rose upon the officers,
subdued them, put them on board the first vessel
they met with, and steered their course for this continent.
Thus circumstanced, Capt. Barnes has libelled in
behalf of the captors, the Spanish Vice Consul in
behalf of the original Spanish owners, and the crew
of the Bello Corrunes have libelled for a compensation by way of salvage, to which they suppose themselves entitled, in the event of restitution being decreed to the original owners.
To these several claims it is objected on behalf of
the United States, that restitution cannot be decreed
to the Spanish Vice Consul, because he is not in-that
capacity a competent party in Court to assert the
rights of individual subjects , nor, in favour of the
captors, because the privateer was originally fitted
out in the United States, and is still owned by American citizens ; nor, in favour of the salvors, because

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i.

they have forfeited their claim to salvage by spolia-

T
e
Tlet.Bello

tion, and an attempt to smuggle.
As these suggestions open the whole case, it shall

C.ormnes.

thpe rtgh o

be disposed of by considering them severally in their
order, only remarking en passant, that though they
were all sustained, it would avail the United States
nothing , since, without evidence sufficient to sustain the criminal charge, it would only -follow that
the proceeds of the property libelled, must lie in the
registry of the Court, until a proper claimant shall
make his appearance.
On the first point made by the Attorney General,
this Court feels no difficulty in deciding, that a Vice
Consul duly recognised by our Government, is a

fellow subjects
ainquestion,

competent-party to assert or defend the rights of

Aforgncoasul
hu. a right
toclaimorliel,
in irer,

without

where

any

property of the individuals of his nation, in any
for ,hoebene Court having jurisdiction of causes affected by the
fit he acts.
application of international law. To watch over
the rights and interests of 'heir subjects, whereverthe
pursuits of commerce may draw them, or the vicissitudes of human affairs may force them, is the great
object for which Consuls are deputed by their sovereigns, and in a country where laws govern, and
justice is sought for in Courts only, it would be a
mockery to preclude them from the only avenue
through which their course lies to the end of their
mission. The long and universal usage of the
Courts of the United States, has sanctioned the exercise of this right, and it is impossible that any
evil or inconvenience can flow from it. Whether
the powers of the Vice Consul shall in any instance
extend to the right to receive in his national characspecial authority from those

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1s21.
ter, the proceeds of property libelled and transferred into the registry of a Court, is a question rest- The Bello
Corrunes,
Ing on other principles. In the absence of specific But
he cannot
powers given him by competent authority, such a receive
withrestitutionactua
a special
right would certainly not be recognised. Much, in out
pcuralion
=Froh rties
this respect, must ever depend upon the laws of the tereste
e
country from which, and to which, he is deputed.
And this view of the subject will be found to reconcile the difficulties supposed to have been presented
by the authorities quoted on this point. Considering, then, the original Spanish interest as legally represented, the questions are, whether that interest is
not forfeited to the United States, or superseded by
the superior claims of the capturing vessel.
of
This is not the ordinary case of a capture made theA'U.citizen
States
claim,
under the taint of an illegal outfit. The decision of cannot
in their Courts,

of
proerty
this Court must rest upon a very different principle. the
foreign
nations
- U.
am! S.,cap.
with
In those cases, the national character of the claim- the
iinloi
of
wr,
w
neutrality
violated
the
He
has
ant is immaterial.
ver the captathis country, and cannot shelter himself under his nngtvss;eliy
have been eor by
commission, or his allegiance, however unques- quipped,
whomsoever
commissioned.
would
national,
or
individual
right,
his
tionable
have- been otherwise. But can a ciizen of this
country, who has violated its laws, ever be recognised in our Courts as a legal claimant of the fruits of
his own wrong ? We are of opinion he cannot, and
it therefore becomes material to determiie what, is
the national character of the claimants, under the
capture made by the Puyerredon.
At the time of this vessel's first sailing from Baltimore, she was unquestionably American owned
and commanded. During the time of her cruising
41
VOL. VI.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1821.
The Bello

Corrunes.

under the name of the Mangoree, it is not pretended
that she changed owners. The legality of her conduct at that period has been defended altogether on
the ground of her taking the flag of Buenos Ayres,
being commissioned in a foreign state, and.her commander, Barnes, assuming the character of a citizen of the power that had commissioned him. It is
not until her arrival at Buenos Ayres, in 1817, that
any change of property in the vessel has been set up
in proof. At that time, it is contended. she was set
up at auction, and changed owners, passing into the
hands of a Mr. Higginbotham, a citizen of the United
States, married and domiciled at Buenos Ayres.
If this fact had been satisfactorily made out in evidence, it would have drawn this Court into the consideration of some questions of great nicety, which
have never yet received a solemn adjudication in this
Court. But the evidence to support this pretended
change of property is so wholly unsatisfactory-, that
the Court rejects it, for, the ordinary solemnities of
such transfers are too well known, to admit the belief that in this instance, the change of property,
had it been real, would not have been effected or
commemorated by written documents.
This Court, then, proceeds upon the assumption
that the Puyerredon is still, in reality, American
owned, and they are also of opinion, that she must
be held to be American commanded, since, even if
the doctrine could be admitted, that a man's allegiance may be put off with his coat, it is very. clear
that Mi. Barnes' citizenship is altogether in fraud of
the laws of his own country. His family has never

OP THE UNITED STATES.

1s21.
been removed from Baltimore, and his home has
been always either there, or upon the ocean.
The Bello
The question then is, whether thus circumstan- Corrines.
ced, the claim in behalf of the owners and mariners
of the Puyerredon, can be sustained.
We are decidedly of opinion it cannot.
By the 2d section of the 14th article of the treaty
with Spain, Citizens, subjects or inhabitants" of
the United States, are strictly prohibited from taking " any commission or letter of marque, for arming any ship or vessel, to act as privateers against
the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, or the property
of any of them, from any Prince or State with
which the said King shall be at war." And it is
further provided, " that if any person of either nation shall take such commissions'or letters of marque,,
he shall be punished as a pirate. '
Whatever difficulties there may exist under the
free institutions of this country, in giving full efficacy to the provisions of this treaty, by punishing
such aggressions as acts 6f piracy, it is not to be
questioned that they are prohibited acts, and intended to be stamped with the character of piracy,
and to permit the persons engaged in the open prosecution of such a course 3f conduct, to appear, and
claim of this Court, the prizes they have seized,
would be to countenance a palpable infraction of a
rule of conduct, declared to be.the supreme law of
the land.
Some doubts have been suggested on the use of
the words." State at war" witb.Spain. .ThisCourt
would not readily lean to favour a restricted-eon-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

struction of language, as applied to the provisions of
a treaty, which always combines the characteristics
The Bello
Cornmnes. of a contract, as well as a law. but it is not necessary to examine the grounds of these doubts, as applied to the present case, because this treaty has
been enforced by the provisions of the act of Congress of the 14th June, 1797, §o as to leave no
doubt of its extension to the case of cruising
against Spain, under a commission from the new
states formed in her colonies.
Citizens of the United States, therefore, present
themselves to this Court to demand restitution of a
prize which they had made in violation of the most
solemn stipulations of a treaty, and provisions of a
law of their own country, and of which they have
been dispossessed by their own associates in guilt.
Under such circumstances, this Court cannot hesitate to reject the claim, and adjudge the property to
the original proprietors.
This view of the subject obviates the necessity of
In case of a
illegal capture,
innthad
in violation ofex
theneutrlityof examining the reality and effect of the alleged resthis country,
ot cue on behalf of the original owners, with a view
the lawful
Vroperty
the
cannotownbe to the question of restitution, but it still becomes
1821.

forfeited for a

breach ofits-re

venue laws, by

ecaptor h
rescued
the
property
rave

from their pca-

aession.

necessary, with a view to the question of forfeiture,
and the merit of the alleged salvors. With regard
to the former, it is very clear, that supposing the
rescue to have been real and compleat, the Spanish
consul ought not to be precluded from his election,
whether to put his claim upon the ground, that the
interest of those whom be represents was never legally devested, or that it was afterwards legally recovered. In the one case, there is no ground for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

173

affecting it with the forfeiture, because of the con1821.
" Relle
duct of the crew; and in the other, some question The
may be made,-how far the property was affected by cozzruea.
the illegal acts of those who, at that time, held m
the right.of the owners. But even in this latter view
of the state -ofthe property, we are of opinion, that
the forfeiturelwas not incurred, since, although it
be supposed, that the property was in custody of
those who held for the Spanish owners, it was not
held by those to whom the Spanish owners had entrusted the vessel and cargo. And this is the only
ground uponw4hich the acts of the ship's company
are -made to. produce forfeitures, of the interest of
shippers or ship owners. For, besides the considerations drawn from the great predominance of the
force detached from the privateer, in the effort to
recapture, the few- men of her own crew, were gratuitous actors. Their contract with the owners had
ceased, and they assumed the character of voluntary
agents, whose conduct the owners might or might
not adopt, according to their own views or interests.
As to the claims of the salvors, it may be remark- Theriht of
salvage may be
forfeited by the
ed, that maritime Courts always approach them with misconduct
of
salvors.
the
to
great benignity and favour. Yet, in proportion
the inclination to favour where there is merit, is the
indignation with which they view every indication
of a disposition to take advantage of the unfortunate.
Spoliation, and even gross neglect, may forfeit all
the pretensions of salvors to compensation.
In the case before us, it is not too much to pronounce the claim of those, of the crew of the Puy-

174

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

erredon who libel for salvage, to be not only groundless but impudent; for, besides spoliation, smuggling,
The Bello
Corrunes. and the grossest irregularities, it is perfectly clear,
from the pilot's evidence, that they run the vessel on
shore purposely So, that whatever may have been the
reality of their benevolent designs towards the Spanish owners originally, their subsequent conduct not
only casts a doubt over their candour, but devests
them of all pretensions to compensation.
Nor do the five Spaniards who composed a part
of the crew of the Bello Corrunes, at the time she
was stranded, and who were not of the capturing
crew, escape being involved in the suspicions which
fasten on their associates.
It is a melancholy truth, too well known to this
Court, that the instruments used in the predatory
voyages carried on under the colours of the South
American States, are among the most abandoned
and profligate of men. Under the influence of strong
interests or fears, the mind of man too often yields,
even where the moral sense still exerts its influence,
but hold out to one of these practised adventurers in
a course of plunder, the hope of gain on the one
hand, and the fear of imprisonment for piracy on the
other, and what are the chances for truth I
That these men were selected from the Spanish
crew to associate with those of the capturing vessel,
is a circumstance not very favourable to their characters and cond'uct, and it would require some strong
evidence of their innocence to remove from-them the
suspicion of a voluntary association with the enemies of their King. Joining in, or even setting on
182i.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

foot or promoting the recapture, (facts which rest

175
s21.

wholly on their own veracity,) can prove very little The Bello
in their favour, since such mutinies are become every- Cormes.
day occurrences whenever such a crew find themselves in possession of a valuable cargo. Nor will
the inference in their favour be very strong from
their resorting .to the Consul of their country, since
it was the only icourse which held' out a chance of
gain, or of escape from the imputation both of piracy
and smuggling. There is no evidence to separate
their conduct from a compleat identification with
the rest of the crew, except what is obfained from
their own testimony. Yet it is suggested, that they
may still make their innocence and merits to appear;
and as the parties have signified their consent that
the case may be opened in the Court below as to
this class of salvors, the case will be remanded to
the Circuit Court, for further proceedings, so far as
the claim for salvage is concerned.
Decree accordingly.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court for
the District of Rhode Island, and was argued by
counsel: on consideration whereof, it Is ORDERED
DE.CREE.

and

DECREED,

that the Decree of the said Circuit

Court in this case be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, against Barnes and others, except so
far as relates to the libel for salvage of .Emanuel
Rodriguez, Emanuel Josef, Emanuel Barbarus, An-

176

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Smith

tonio Josef, and Josef Isnages, who formed no part
of the crew of the private armed brig Puyerredon,

V.

and as to so much of the said Decree as relates to

1821.

The Univer-

slnsuranc the said libellants Emanuel Rodrigues and others,
Company.

is further DECREED and ORDERED, by consent of
parties, by their counsel, that the Decree of the said
Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled. And it is further ORDERED, that the
said cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court for
farther inquiry And that the proceeds of the said
Bello Corrunes and cargo lie in the Registry of the
said Circuit Court, to be paid over, under the order
of that Court, to the Spanish owners, as interest
shall be made to appear.
it

(INsUa!.cE.)

SMITH

et al. v. UNIVERSAL INSURANCE COMPANY.

Where, in a policy of insurance, a technical total loss is asserted as
the ground of recovery, the loss must be occasioned'by the immediate operation of some of the perils insured against, and it is not
sufficient that the voyage be abandoned for fear of the operation of
the peril.
The insurers do not undertake, that the voyage shall be performed
without delay, or that the perils insured against shall not occur;
they undertake only for losses sustained by those perils; and if any
peril does begin to act upon the subject, yet if it be removed before
any loss takes place. and the voyage is not thereby broken up, but
is, or may be, resumed, the insured cannot abandon foratotal loss.
Insurance on munitions of war, laden on board a neutral vessel, on

