O)F THE UNITED STATES.

1519

1821.
cause it is a . eLt of record. But a debt of record)
in the sense of the common law, is a debt or contract
Spring
created of record , such as a statute staple) or sta- SouthV.Caro
tute merchant, and not one whose previous existence lina Ins.
is only admitted of record. The effect of recording Company.
this debt was merely an admission of its existence,
and not a change of its nature. It would have been
sufficient evidence, if five years had not elapsed after
recording, to have sustained an issue on a replication
of a new promise to the plea of the statute of limitations. But more than five years having elapsed, it
could -have no application in this case. It is the
opinion of the Court, that the demurrer to the replication is sustained, and that judgment ought to be
given for the defendant.
Decree affirmed.

(PRACTICE.)

SPRING et al. v. The SOUTH CAROLINA INS URANCE COMPANY.
In an' equity cause, the res in litigation may be sold by brder oftbe
Cicuit Court, and the proceeds invested in stocks, notwithstanding
the pendency of an appeal to this Cou

Mr. Hunt, for the respondents, moved to docket marc, 5II,.
and dismiss the appeal in this case, which was a suit
in Chancery, commenced in the Circuit Court of
South Carolina, no transcript of the record having

520
1821.
Unifted States

V.
Six Packages
of Goods.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been-lodged by the 4ppeliants with the clerk of this
Court, within the first six days of the term, according-to the rule.
Mr. Wl eaton, for. the appellants, opposed the motion, upon the ground that no certificate was produced from the clerk of the Court below, stating that
-an,appeal had been taken, according to the rule,
The-COURT denied the motion, but stated that as
the object of the respondents was to have the proceeds of the property in litigation, which had been
sold by order of the Court below, invested in stocks,
such investment might be made by the Court below,
notwithstanding the pendency of the appeal ii this
Court.
Motion denied.a
a Vide new rule of Court of the present term.
XXXII.

.nte,

Rule

(INSTANCE COURT.)

The

UNITED STATES V. SIX PACKAGES OF

GOODS,

Toler, Claimant.
Under the 67th section of the Collection Act of tho 2d of Alarch, 1799,
c. 128., where gogds were entered by an agent of the owner on his
behalf, and the entry included onlv a part of the goods which the

