OF THE UNITED STATES.

stances in the case now at bar. The underwriter
does not warrant that the vessel shall have a right to
trade at the port of destination; but only that notwithstanding the perils insured agamst4 the vessel
shall proceed to such port. If the plaintiffs,
in the .events which have occurred, were entitled to
abandon and recover, as for a technical total loss,
they would have been entitled to abandon for the
same cause at the time of the vessel's sailing from
New-York on the voyage ; for St. Ander was at
that time just as much shut against the vessel, and
she was just as liable to Confiscation for illegal traffic With that place, as she was at the time the voyage was broken up.
It is the unanimous opinion of the Court, that the
judgment of the Circuit Court'be affirmed, with
costs.

(INSTANifCE CoURntV)

The ROBERT EDWARDS.

Savage, Claiinaut.

A question of fact, under the 46th section of the Collection Law of
the 2a March, 1799, c. 128. exempting from duty ;1e wearing apparel, and other personal.baggage, ofpersons arrivingxa the United
States.
Where the res geuta, in a revenue cause, are incapable of explanation consistently with the innocenc-e of the party, condenmifiuon
.follows,.although there be no positive testimony of the offence Mving been committed. Circumstances are sometimes more convinci4 than the most positive evidence.

1e8,

The Robert
Edwar.

CASES IN THE 8UPREME COURT
Although a mere intefition to evade the payment of duties be not, per
a cause of forfeiture, yet when a question anises whether an act
has been committed which draws after it that consequence, such inThe Robert
Edwards.
tention will justify the Court in not putting on the conduct of the
party, in respect to the act in question, an interpretation as favourable as under other circumstances it would be disposed to do.
1821.

Sse,

APrEAL from the Circuit Court of South Caro-

lina.
Febnw

i7thz

This cause was argued by Mr. Winder and Air.

Raymond, for the appellant and claimant, and by the
Attorney- General for the United States.
Rcb-ita-261h.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a libel for an alleged forfeiture.under the
46th section of the Collection Law, passed the second of March, 1799.
This section exempts from duty the wearing apparel, and other personal baggage,.of those persons
who arrive in the United States, pnd to ascertain
what articles are to be exempted, it is directed that
due entry thereof, as.-of other goods, but separate,
and distinct therefrom, shall be made with the Collector, by the owner or his agent, verified by oath,
stating, among other things, that the packages
mentioned in such entry, contain no goods whatever,
except the wearing apparel. and other personal baggage of the person to whom they belong. And it is
provided, that whenever any arucles subject to duty,
shall be found among such baggage, which shall not
be mentioned to the Collector at the time such entry
is made, they shall be forfeited, and the person in

OF THE UNITED STATES-.

whose baggage they shall be found, shall, moreover,
forfeit and pay treble the, value of such articles.
These proceedings commenced 'in the District
Court of the district of South Carolina, and after
sentences of condemnation in that Court, and in the
Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
the claimant has appealed to this Court.
The only question we have to decide, is, whether
the goods libelled, and which are admitted to be subject to duty, were entered as baggage or not. If they
were, they must be condemned; if not, the claimant
is entitled to restitution.
The claimant insists that the trunks seized were
not included in her baggage entry, and.that no act of
her's, prior or subsequent to the entry, shows that it
was hdr intention to cover them by it. Her baggage
entry comprised " seven trunks wearing apparel,
sundry-band-boxes and bedding, for Mrs. Savage and
family, passengers in the ship Robert Edwards."
Under this entry, and a permit given in conformity
with it, the claimant took away several trunks and
band boxes, the contents of some of which do not
appear, but she alleges that they contained only
baggage, -and no dutiable article, and that she never
demanded the trunks in question as part of those
mentioned in the entry of her baggage. Some reliance is also placed on the fact, that before any seizure, these trunks were regularly entered by the
master, and the duties on them secured, or paid.
Whether they were thus entered or not, can have
no influence on the present question, which is confined to the single inquiry, whether they had pre-

189
1821.
ThelRobert

Edwards.

CASES IN THE'SUPREME COURT
1821.
'tered

The Robert
Edwards.

vious to such act on the part of the master, been enby the owner as part of her baggage.

For, no

act of the master, subsequent to such entry, could
relieve them -fom the forfeiture which in that case
had preivously attached.
It will be sufficient to advert to a few of -the
prominent facts, to ascertain the real character of
this transacton.' The Court has been reminded thatit'ought not, vithout the most, satisfactory and
positive proof, in a case so highly penal, to decide
that. a violation of law has been committed. Although such proof ,may generally be desirable, we
ate not to shut our-eyes on circumstances which
sometimes'carry with them a conviction which the
most'posinve te utiony will sometimes fail to prodace. And if such circumstances cannot well consistwith the innocence of the party, and arise out of
her own condpct, aid remain unexplained, she cannot complainifshb-be the vtim tf them. No extraordinary prudence oreircutnmection on the part
of the- claimant, was necessary to have avoided the
unpleasant. predicaunent'in which she is placed. If
she had brought these goods .on: board in'London, as
cargo, if she had paid freight for-.them as such , if
she. had desired -them to he ,placed on the manifest of
the cargo, which she was- most probably apprised
was necessary , if, when she enteredhertlher merchandise imported in the same vessel, she had also
entered these. if, after -making her baggage. entry,
she had distinguished or., rformed the inspector
which of the trunks contained her baggage, and
which were filled .with. merchandise, the whole

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1821.
of the present difficulty would have been avoided.
1-ert
The claimant neglecting to take any one of these The
Robert
precautions, which could not have been the effect'of Eawards.
ignorance, as it appears she is occasionally engaged
in the importation of goods in the line-of her business, leads, irresistibly, to the conclusion, that she
intended to.land these trunks without the payment
of duties, .adthat this end was to be effected under
the disguise of entering'thbm as baggage and"wearing apparel. Although a mere intention to evade
such payment be no cause, of forfeituie, yet when a
question 6rises, whetheran act has been committed
-which draws after it this cpnsequence,,siach iatention will' assist ,in dispelling some of the doubts-io
which.theaict itself-might otherv~ise be ipvolvedtua~d
will justify a Court Jn not .puttmg on the -conduct of
the party in.elationito the act in question,,an irterpretatin pqfavurable as -underothercirpumstgces
it.would feel disposed to do. Thus, m the case before us, the clanat wishes us to believe, that the
sevqn trunks of yearing. apparel, and the band-boxes
which were included. in her baggage entry, were all
of them .ctually landed under her permit; and that,
,therefore, the five,.runks which remained on board;
and were seised as composing part of..her baggage
entry,.were not comprised in it. But is this made
out with any reasonable certainty? On the contrary, is there any evidence whatever on which we can
come to a satipfactory conclusion, that seven trunks,
which was the number entered by her as baggage,.
were actually landed before the seizure. What the

192
1821.

Ttually
Robert
The
Edwards.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

claimant herself considered as band-boxes, and acrepresented as such to the inspector, she now
desires may be converted into trunks. Unless this
can be done,, which would be to disbelieve the whole
evidence in the cause, there is no pretence for saying,
that all the trunks entered by her as baggage had
been landed. The marks on the trunks do not furnish even a presumption in her favour, for on those
landed, and on those seised, we find the same inscription, that is, " Mrs. Savage's baggage, apparel,
and haberdashery." In this uncertainty and confusion, which is the result of her own irregular conduct, and which it was her business, and not that
of the. Court, to remove, she has exposed her case to
very unfavourable inferences. One of the trunkslanded was empty, or contained only a few books and loose
papers, and yet it appears, by a cocket produced
before the Circuit Court, that this very trunk, when
taken board, was valued in London at 115 pounds
sterling. What became of the goods which it then
contained, is left without explanation. This forms
a part of the res gesta, and is a circumstance, if not
of strong suspicion, at any rate but little calculated
to evince the integrity of the transaction.
Without, therefore, entering into a more minute detail of the circumstances of this case. the Court is
well satisied, from the whole of the evidence, notwithstanding some little, obscurity in which it is involved, that the trunks n question formed a part of
the baggage entry of the claimant, and, therefore,
affirm the sentence of the Circuit Court, with costs.

