DIXON v. DUFFY.
Opinion of the Court.

DIXON v. DUFFY, WARDEN.
.CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 79.

Argued October 16, 1951.-Continued November 5, 1951.Further continued- May 12, 1952.

1. In the absence of advice whether the Supreme Court of California
has conducted any further proceedings in this case or has so entered as to become a part of the record any order, opinion or
certificate since this Court's earlier continuance of the cause, a
letter, apparently .not a part of the case record, received by the
Clerk of this'Court and signed by the Clerk of the Supreme Court
of California is not regarded as a sufficient "determination" of the
question whether the judgment below was intended to rest on an
adequate independent state ground or whether decision of the federal claim was necessary thereto. P. 393.
2. This cause is further continued for such period as will enable
counsel for petitioner to secure from the Supreme Court of California an official determination of that question. P. 394.
PER CURIAMI.

On November 5, 1951, we ordered this cause "continued
for such period as will enable counsel for. petitioner to
secure a determination from the Supreme Court of California as to whether the judgment herein was intended to
rest on an adequate independent state ground or whether
decision of the federal claim was necessary to the judgment rendered." 342 U. S. 33, 34 (1951).
We have not yet been advised whether the Supreme
Court of California has conducted any further proceedings
in this case or has so entered as to become a part of the
record;, any order, opinion or certificate after November
5, 1951. We do not regard a letter, not apparently. a
part of the case record, received by the Clerk of this
Court on March 31, 1952, signed by the Clerk of the Supreme Court Of California as a sufficient "determination"
of the question raised in our order of November 5, 1951.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

Accordingly, the cause is ordered further continued for
such period as will enable counsel for petitioner to secure
from the Supreme Court of California its official determination as requested in our order of November 5, 1951.
Cause continued.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, being of the opinion that the
federal question in the case has been fully exposed,
dissents.
MR. JUSTICE MINTON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

