LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.

395

Syllabus.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
AMERICAN NATIONAL INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FORTHE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 126.

Argued March 4, 1952.-Decided May 26, 1952.

1. Under the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, the National Labor Relations Board may not, either directly or indirectly,
compel concessions or otherwise sit in judgment upon the substantive terms of collective bargaining agreements. Pp. 401-404.
2. It is not per se an "unfair labor practice" under § 8 (a) (1) or
(5) of the Act for an employer to bargain for the inclusion in a
collective bargaining agreement of a "management functions
clause" providing that the right to select, hire, promote, discharge,
demote. or discipline for cause and to determine the schedules of
work, is a prerogative of management on which the employer's
final decision shall not be subject to arbitration. Pp. 404-409.
(a) The Act does not empower the Board to disrupt common
collective bargaining practices by forbidding employers to bargain
for flexible treatment of such matters and by requiring them to
include in labor agreements provisions establishing fixed standards for work schedules or any other condition of employment.
P. 408.
(b) The duty to bargain collectively is to be enforced by application of the good-faith bargaining standards of § 8 (d) to the
facts of each case rather than by prohibiting all employers in every
industry from bargaining for management functions clauses altogether. P. 409.
3. Congress has charged the Courts of Appeal, not this Court, with
the normal and primary responsibility of reviewing the conclusions
of the Board and deciding whether to grant or deny enforcement
of the Board's orders; and it is not for this Court to review a
conflict of the evidence nor to reverse a Court of Appeals because
this Court might find the record tilting one way rather than the
other-eispecially in cases involving a statutory standard such as
"good faith," 'which can have meaning only in its application to
the facts of a particular case. Labor Board v. Pittsburgh S. S.
Co., 340 U. S. 498. Pp. 409-410.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court..

343 U. S.

4. That a collective bargaining agreement between the union and
the employer was negotiated and signed did not render this cause
moot. P. 399, n. 4.
187 F. 2d 307, affirmed.

The Court of Appeals granted in part and denied in
part enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations Board, 89 N. L. R. B. 185, requiring an employer
to bargain collectively with a union and, in effect, forbidding the employer to bargain for any "management
functions clause" covering a condition of employment.
187 F. 2d 307. This Court granted certiorari. 342 U. S.
809. Affirmed, p. 410.
Mozart G. Ratner argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
George J. Bott, David P. Findling and Marcel.MalletPrevost.
Louis J. Dibrell argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were M. L. Cook and Charles G. Dibrell,
Jr.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINsoN

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case arises out of a complaint that respondent
refused to bargain collectively with the representatives of
its employees as required under the National Labor Relations Act, .as amended.'
The Office Employees International Union, A. F. of L.,
Local No. 27, certified by the National Labor Relations
Board as the exclusive bargaining representative of respondent's office employees, requested a meeting with
respondent for the purpose of negotiating an agreement
governing employment relations. At the first meetings,
149 Stat.,449 (1935), 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., as amended, 61 Stat.

136 (1947), 29 U. S. C. (Supp, IV) § 151 et 8eq.

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395

397

Opinion of the Court.

beginning on November 30, 1948, the Union submitted
a proposed contract covering wages, hours, promotions,
vacations and other provisions commonly found in collective bargaining agreements, including a clause establishing a procedure for settling grievances arising under the
contract by successive appeals to management with ultimate resort to an arbitrator.
On January 10, 1949, following a recess for study of
the Union's contract proposals, respondent objected to
the provisions calling for unlimited arbitration. To meet
this objection, respondent proposed a so-called management functions clause listing matters such as promotions,
discipline and work scheduling as the responsibility of
management and excluding such matters from arbitration. ' The .Union's representative took the position' "as
soon as [he] heard [the proposed clause]" that the Union
would not agree to such a clause so long as it covered
matters subject to the duty to bargain collectively under
the Labor Act.
Several further bargaining sessions were held without
reaching agreement on the Union's proposal or respondent's counterproposal to unlimited arbitration. As a result, the management functions clause was "by-passed"
for bargaining on other terms of the Union's contract
proposal. On January 17, 1949, respondent stated in
writing its agreement with some of the terms proposed
by the Union and, where there was disagreement, respondent -offered counterproposals, including a'clause entitled
"Functions and Prerogatives of Management" along the
2 As

drafted during the bargaining session, the proposed clause

read:
"The right to select, hire, to promote, demote, discharge, discipline
for cause, to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees, and to
determine schedules of work is the sole prerogative of the Company
and the Company's decision with respect to such matters shall never
be the subject of arbitration." (R. I, p..97.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

lines suggested at the meeting of January 10th. The
Union objected to the portion of the clause providing:
"The right to select and hire, to promote to a better
position, to discharge, demote or discipline for cause,
and to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees
and to determine the schedules of work is recognized
by both union and company as the proper responsibility and prerogative of management to be held and
exercised by the company, and while it -is agreed that
an employee feeling himself to have been aggrieved
by any decision of the company in respect to such
matters, or the union in his behalf, shall have the
right to have such decision reviewed by-top management officials of the company under the grievance
machinery hereinafter set forth, it is further agreed
that the final decision of the company made by such
top management officials shall not be further reviewable by arbitration."
At this stage of the negotiations, the National Labor
Relations Board filed a complaint against respondent
based on the Union's charge that respondent had refused
to bargain as required by the Labor Act and was thereby
guilty of interfering with the rights of its employees guaranteed by Section 7 of the Act and of unfair labor practices under Sections 8 (a)(1) and 8 (a)(5) of the Act.8
61 Stat. 136, 140-143 (1947):
."SEC. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to
form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing.
"SEc. 8. (a) It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) to interfere With, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in section 7;
3

"(5) to refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives of
his employees, subject to the provisions of section 9 (a).
"(d) For the purposes of this section, to bargain collectively is the

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395.

399

Opinion of the Court.

While the proceeding was pending, negotiations between
the Union and respondent continued with the management functions clause remaining an obstacle to agreement.
During the negotiations, respondent established hew
night shifts and introduced a new system of lunch hours
without consulting the Union.
On May 19, 1949, a Union representative offered a second contract proposal which included a management
functions clause containing much of the language found
in respondent's second counterproposal, quoted above,
with the vital difference that questions arising under the
Union's proposed clause would be subject to arbitration
as in the case of other grievances. Finally, on January
13, 1950, after the Trial Examiner had issued his report
but before decision by the Board, an agreement: between
the Union and respondent was signed.4 The agreement
contained a management functions clause that rendered
nonarbitrable matters of discipline, work schedules and
other matters coveredby the clause. The subject of properformance of the mutual obligation of the employer and the representative of the employees to meet at reasonable times and confer in
good faith with respect to wages, hours,-and other terms and conditions of employment, or the negotiation of an agreement, or any
question arising thereunder, and the execution of a written contract
incorporating any agreement reached if requested by either party,
but such obligation does not compel either party to agree to a
proposal or require the making of a concession:
"SEC. 9. (a) Representatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in
a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall' be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit for the purposes of
collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of em"
ployment, or other conditions of employment: '.
'Respondent's suggestion that negotiation of a contract rendered
the case moot has been properly rejected below. See Labor Board v.
Mexia Textile Mills, 339, U. S. 563 (1950); Labor Board v. Pool Mfg.
Co., 339 U. S. 577 (1950).

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

motions and demotiorns was deleted from the clause and
made the subject of a special clause establishing a unionmanagement committee to pass upon promotion matters.
While these negotiations were in progress, the Board's
Trial Examiner conducted hearings on the Union's complaint. The Examiner held that respondent had a right
to bargain for inclusion of a management functions clause
in a contract. However, upon review of the entire negotiations, including respondent's unilateral action in
changing working conditions during the bargaining, the
Examiner found that from 'and after November 30,"
1948, respondent had refused to bargain in a good faith
effort to reach agreement. The Examiner recommended
that respondent be ordered in general terms ,to bargain
collectively with the Union.
The Board agreed with the Trial Examiner that respondent had not bargained in a good faith effort to reach
an agreement with the Union. But the Board rejected
the Examiner's views on an employer's right to bargain
for a management functions clause and held that respondent's action in bargaining for inclusion of any Such clause
'"constituted, quite [apart from] Respondent's demonstrated bad faith, per se violations of Section 8 (a) (5)
and (1)." Accordingly, the Board not only ordered respondent in general terms to bargain collectively with
the Union (par. 2 (a)), but also included in its order a
paragraph designed to prohibit bargaining for any management functions clause covering a condition of employment. (Par. 1 (a)). 5 89 N. L. R. B. 185.
5The Board ordered that respondent:

"1. Cease and desist from:
"(a) Refusing to bargain collectively With Office Employees International Union, A. F. L., Local No. 27, as the exclusive representative
of all of its employees at its Galveston, Texas, office,' excluding
guards, -secretaries to department heads and executives, agents, building and maintenance er.ployees, professional employees, department

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO. 401
395

Opinion of the Court.

On respondent's petition for review and the Board's
cross-petition for enforcement, the Court of Appeals for

the Fifth Circuit agreed with the Trial Examiner's view
that the Act does not preclude an employer from bargaining for inclusion of any management functions clause in
a labor agreement. The Court of Appeals further found
that the evidence does not support the view that respondent failed to bargain collectively in good faith by reason
of its bargaining for a management functions clause. As.
a result, enforcement of the portion of the Board's order
directed to the management functions clause (par. 1 (a))
was denied. Other portions of the Board's order (pars.
1 (b) and 2 (a)) were enforced because respondent's unilateral action in changing working conditions during bargaining 'does support a finding that respondent had not
bargained collectively in good faith as required by the
Act. 187 F. 2d 307. We granted certiorari on petition
of the Board for review of the denial of enforcement as to
parigraph 1 (a) of the Board's order. 342 U. S. 809.
First. The National Labor Relations Act is designed to
promote industrial peace by encouraging the making of
voluntary agreements governing relations between unions
heads, and all other supervisors as defined in the Act, -by insisting
as a condition of agreement, that the said Union agree to a provision
whereby the Respondent reserves to itself the right to take unilateral
.action with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and
other terms and conditions of employment;
[Paragraph (b) proscribes other conduct not pertinent to the issues
before this Court.]
"2. Take the following affirmative action which the Board finds
will effectuate the policies of the Act:
"(a) Upon request, bargain collectively with Office Employees International Union, A. F. L., Local No. 27, as the exclusive representative of all its employees in the appropriate unit described above
with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other
conditions of employment;.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

and employers.' Thd Act does not compel any agree7
ment whatsoever between employees and employers.
Nor does the Act regulate the substantive terms governing wages, hours and working conditions which are incorporated. in an agreement.' The theory of the Act is
that the making of voluntary labor agreements is encouraged by protecting employees' rights to organize for
collective bargaining and by imposing on labor and management the mutual obligation to bargain collectively.
Enforcement of the obligation to bargain collectively
is crucial to the statutory scheme. And, as has long been
recognized, performance of the duty to bargain requires
more than a willingness to enter upon a sterile discussion
of union-management differences. Before the enactment
of the National Labor Relations Act, it was held that the
duty of an employer to bargain collectively required the
employer "to negotiate in good faith with his employees'
representatives; to match their proposals, if unacceptable,
with counter-proposals; and to make every reasonable
effort to reach an agreement."'
The duty to bargain
661 Stat. 136 ("Findings and Policies"); Consolidated Edison Co.
v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 236 (1938).
T
Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 45
(1937).
8 Terminal Assn. v. Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1, 6 (1943):
"The Railway Labor Act, like the National Labor Relations Act,
does not undertake governmental regulation of wages, hours, or working conditions. Instead it seeks to provide a means by which agreement may be reached with respect to them. The national interest
expressed by those Acts is not primarily in the working conditions
as such'. So far as the Act itself is concerned these conditions may
be as bad as the employees will tolerate or be made as good as they
can bargain for. The Act does not fix and does not authorize anyone
to-fix generally applicable standards for working conditions... .
. 9 Houde Engineering Corp., 1 N. L. R. B. (old) 35 (1934), decided
by the National Labor Relations Board organized under 48 Stat.
.1183 (1934).

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395

403

Opinion of the Court.

collectively, implicit in the Wagner Act as introduced
in Congress, was made express by the insertion of the
fifth employer unfair labor practice accompanied by an
explanation of the purpose and meaning of the phrase
"bargain collectively in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement." 1o This, understanding of the duty to bargain collectively has been accepted and applied throughout the administration of the Wagner Act by the National
Labor Relations Board and the Courts of Appeal.1
10 Before the addition of Section 8 (5), now Section 8 (a) (5), to the
bill, Senator Wagner described the bill as imposing the duty to
bargain in good faith, citing, the Houde Engineering case, note 9,
supra. Hearings before the Senate Committee on Education and
Labor on S. 1958, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 43 (1935). Section 8.(5)
was inserted at the suggestion of the Chairman of the Board that
decided Houde. Id., at 79, 136-137. The insertion'of Section 8 (5)
was described by the Senate Committee as follows:
"The committee wishes to dispel any possible false impression that
this bill is designed to compel the making of agreements or to permit
governmental supervision of their terms. It must be stressed that
the duty to bargain coliectively does not carry with it the duty to
reach an agreement, because the essence of collective' bargaining is
that either party shall be free to decide whether proposals made to
it are satisfactory.
"But, after deliberation, the committee has. concluded that this
fifth unfair labor practice should be inserted in the bill. It seems clear
that a guarantee of the right of employees to bargain collectively
-through representatives of their own choosing is a mere delusion if
it is not accompanied by the correlative duty on the part of the
other party to recognize such representatives as they have been
designated (whether as individuals or labor organizations) and to
negotiate with them in a bona fide effort to arrive at a collective
bargaining agreement ... " S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
12 (1935).
See H. J. Heinz. Co. v. Labor-Board,311 U. S.514 (1941).
11
The Board applied the good faith test of bargaining from the
outset. 1.N. L. R. B. Ann. Rep. 85-87 (1936). -Cases in the Courts
of Appeal approving and applying the good faith test of bargaining '
are collected in 29 U. S. C.'A. § 158, note 265.
994084 O-52--30

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U.S.

In 1947, the fear was expressed in Congress that the
Board "has gone-very far, in the guise of determining
whether or not employers had bargained in good faith,
in setting itself up as the judge of what concessions an
employer must make and of the proposals and counterAccordingly,
proposals that he m~y or may not make."
the Hartley Bill, passed by the House, eliminAted the good,
faith test and expressly provided that the duty to bargain
collectively did not require submission of counterproposals.A' As amended in the Senate and passed as the
Taft-Hartley Act, the good faith test of bargaining was
retained and written into Section 8 (d) of the National
Labor Relations Act. That Section contains the express
provision that the obligation to bargain collectively does
not compel either party to agree to a proposal or require
the making of a concession.1 .
Thus it is now apparent. from the statute itself
that
the Act does not encourage a party to engage in fruitless
marathon discussions at the expense of frank statement
and support of his position. And it is equally clear that
the Board may not, either directly or indirectly, compel
concessions or otherwise sit in judgment upon the substantive terms of collective bargaining agreements.
Second. The Board offers in support of the portion of
its order before this Court a theory quite apart fromthe
12H. R. Rep. No. 245, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 19 (1947).

13 H. R. 3020, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., § 2 (11) (1947).
14 Note 3, supra. The term "concession" was used. in place of
"counterproposal" at the suggestion of the Chairman of the Board
that the statutory definition of collective bargaining should conform
to the meaning of good faith bargaining as understood at'he passage
of the Wagner Act. S. Rep. No. 105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 24 (1947);
Hearings before House Committee on Education and Labor on Amendment to the National Labor Relations Act, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 31743175 (1947.). See H. R. Rep. No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 34
(1947).

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395

405

Opinion of the Court.

test of good faith bargaining prescribed in Section 8 (d)
of the Act, a theory that respondent's bargaining for a
management functions clause as a counterproposal to the
Union's demand for unlimited arbitration was, "per se,"
a violation of the Act.
Counsel for the Board do not contend that a management functions clause covering some conditions of employment is an illegal contract term.1' As a matter of
fact, a review of typical contract clauses collected for convenience in drafting labor agreements shows that management functions clauses similar in essential detail to
the clause proposed by respondent have been' included
in contracts negotiated by national unions with many
employers.'" The National War Labor Board, empow15Thus we put aside such cases as Labor Board v. National
Maritime Union, 175 F. 2d 686 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1949) (bargaining
for discriminatory hiring hall clause), where a party bargained for
a clause violative of an express provision of the Act.
160H. R. Doc. No. 125, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. 3-10 (1949)
(U. S.
Dept. of Labor Bull. No. 908-12); Collective Bargaining Contracts
(B. N. A. 1941), 363-368; Classified Provisions of Thirty-Seven Collective Bargaining Agreements for Wage Earners in the Iron and
Steel Industry (American Iron & Steel Inst. 1948), 68-73; Tested
Clauses for Union Contracts (Labor Relations Inst. 1945), 11-16;
Welty, Labor Contract Clauses (1945), 76-82; Hoebreckx, Management Handbook for Collective Bargaining (1947), 177-182; Smith,
Labor Law Cases and Materials (1950), 1008-1011; Industrial Relations Research Service Study No. 1, Management's Prerogatives
(1945), App.; Pace, Management Prerogatives Defined in Union
Contracts (Calif. Inst. Tech. 1945); Teller, Management Functions
under Collective Bargaining (1947), 427-437 (23 out of 53 collective
bargaining agreements examined by the author contained management
functions clauses).
Writers advocating inclusion of detailed management functions
clauses in collective bargaining agreements urge the desirability' of
defining the respective functions of management and labor in matters
such as work scheduling consistent with the needs of the particular
industry. See Cox and Dunlop, Regulation of Collective Bargaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

ered during the last war t] o decide the dispute, and provide by order the wages and hours and all other, terms and
conditions (customarily included in collective-bargaining
agreements)," 17 ordered management functions clauses
included in a number of agreements.18 Several such
clauses ordered by the War Labor Board provided for
arbitration in case of union dissatisfaction with the exercise of management functions, while others, as in the
clause proposed by respondent in this cage, 15rovided that
management decisions would be final.19 Without intimating any opinion as to the form of management funcby the National Labor Relations Board, 63 Harv. L. Rev. 389 (1950);
Hill and Hook, Management at the Bargaining Table (1945), 56138; Teller, Management Functions under Collective Bargaining
(1947), 114-116. Separate views on "Management's Right to Manage" were presented by the Labor and Management members of The
President's National Labor-Management Conference, November 530, 1945, U. S. Dept. of Labor Bull. No. 77 (1946), 56-62.
17 57 Stat. 163, 166 (1943).
I United Aircraft Corp.,.18 War Lab. Rep. 9 (1944); Mead Corp.,
8 War Lab. Rep. 471 (1943); Hospital Supply Co., 7 War Lab. Rep.
526 (1943). See also McQuay-Norris Mfg. Co., 28 War Lab. Rep.
211 (1945); Teller Management Functions under Collective Bargaining (1947), 29-49.
Disputes as to the content of management functions clauses have
also been considered by the present Wage Stabilization Board Basic
Steel Industry, 18 Lab. Arb. Rep. 112 (1952) (recommendation that
proposed changes-in clause be rejected), and by a Presidential Emergency Board, Northwest Airlines, Inc., 5 Lab. Arb. Rep. 71 (1946)
(recommendation that clause be incorporated in agreement).
16 Compare
East Alton Mfg. Co., 5 War Lab. Rep. 47 (1942)
(arbitration provision ordered), with Atlas Powder Co., 5 War Lab.
Rep. 371 (1942) (arbitration provision denied).
Union objections to a management functions clause as covering
matters subject to collective bargaining did not deter the War
Labor Board from ordering such a clause where deemed appropriate
in a particular case. Curtiss-Wright Corp., 25 War Lab. Rep. 83,
114-115 (1945).

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395

407

Opinion of the Court.

tions clause proposed by respondent in this case or the
.desirability of including any such clause in a labor agreement, it is manifest that bargaining for management functions clauses is common collective bargaining practice.
If the Board is correct, an employer violates the Act
by bargaining for a management functions clause touching any condition of employment without regard to the
traditions of bargaing in the particular industry or such
other evidence of good faith as the fact in this case that
respondent's clause was offered as a counterproposal to
the Union's demand for unlimited arbitration. The
Board's argument is a technical one for it is conceded
that respondent would not be guilty of an unfair labor
practice if, instead of proposing a olause that removed
some matters from -arbitration, it simply refused in good
faith to agree to the Union proposal for unlimited arbitration. The argument starts with a finding, not challenged
by the court below or by respondent,'O that at least some
of the matters covered by- the management functions
clause proposed by respondent are "conditions of employment" which are appropriate subjects of collective bargaining under Sections 8 (a) (5), 8 (d) and 9 (a) of the
-Act.' The Board considers that employer bargaining for
a clause under which management retains initial responsibility for work scheduling, a "condition of employment,."
for the duration of the contract is an unfair labor practice because it is "in derogation of" employees' statu20This is not the case of an employer refusing to bargain over
an issue on the erroneous theory that, as a matter of law, such an
issue did not involve a "condition of employment" within the meaning
of the Act. Compare Inland Steel Co. v. Labor Board, 170 F. 2d 247.
(C. A. 7th Cir. 1948) (pensions); Labor Board'v. J. H. Allison &
Co., 165 F. 2d 766 (C. A. 6th Cir. 1948) (merit wage increases).
21 Note 3, supra. See 'Bus Employees v. Wisconsin Board, 340
U. S.. 383, 399 (1951).

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

tory rights to bargain collectively as to conditions of
employment."
Conceding that there is nothing unlawful in including
a management functions clause in a labor agreement, the
Board would permit an employer to "propose" such a
clause. But the Board would forbid bargaining for any
such clause when the Union declines to accept the proposal, even where the clause is offered as a counterproposal
to a Union demand for unlimited arbitration. Ignoring
the nature of the Union's demand in this case, the Board
takes the position that employers subject to the Act must
agree to include in any labor agreement provisions establishing fixed standards for work schedules or any other
condition of employment. An employer would be permitted to bargain as to the content of the standard so long
as he agrees to freeze a standard into a contract. Bargaining for more flexible treatment of such matters would
be denied employers even though the result may be contrary to common collective bargaining practice in the
industry. The Board was not empowered so to disrupt
collective bargaining practices. On the contrary, the
term "bargain collectively" as used in the Act "has been
considered to absorb and give statutory approval to the
philosophy of bargaining as worked out in the laboi movement in the United States." Telegraphers v. Railway
Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342, 346 (1944).
Congress provided expressly that the Board should not
pass upon the desirability of the substantive terms of
22 The Board's argument would seem to prevent an employer from
bargaining for a "no-strike' clause, commonly found in labor agreements, requiring a union to forego for the duration of the contract
the right to strike expressly granted by Section 7 of the Act. Hbwever, tjie Board has permitted an employer to bargain in good faith
for such a-clause. Shell OilCo., 77 N. L. R. B. 1306 (1948). This.
result is explained by referring to the "salutary objective" of such a
clause. Bethlehem Steel Co., 89 N. L.-R. B. 341, 345 (1950).

•
395

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.

409

Opinion of the Court.

labor agreements. Whether a contract should contain a
clause fixing standards for such matters as work scheduling or should provide for more flexible treatment of
such matters is an issue for determination across the bargaining table, not by the' Board.. If the latter approach
is agreed upon, the extent of union and management participation in the administration of such matters is itself
a condition of employment to be settled by bargaining.
Accordingly, we reject the Board's holding that bargaining for the management functions clause proposed
by respondent was, per se, an unfair labor practice. Any
fears the Board may entertain that use of management
functions clauses will lead to evasion of an employer's
duty to bargain collectively as to "rates of pay, wages,
hours and conditions of employment" do not justify conde mning all bargaining for management functions clauses
covering any "condition of employment" as per se violations of the Act. The duty to bargain collectively is to
be enforced by application of the good faith bargaining
standards of Section 8 (d) to the facts of each case rather
than by prohibiting all employers in every industry from
bargaining for management functions clauses altogether.
Third. The court below correctly applied the statutory
standard of good faith bargaining to the facts of this
case. It held that the evidence, viewed as a whole, does
not show tiat respondent refused to bargain in good
faith by reason of its bargaining for a management func-tions clause-as a counterproposal to the Union's demand
for unlimited arbitration. Respondent's unilateral action
in changing working conditions during bargaining, now
admitted to be a departure from good faith bargaining,
is the subject of an enforcement order issued by the court
below and not challenged in this Court.
Last term we made it plain that Congress charged the
Courts of Appeals, not this Court, with the normal and
primary responsibility for reviewing the conclusions of

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
MINTON,

J., dissenting.

343 U. S.

the Board. We stated that this Court "is not the place
to review a conflict of evidence nor to reverse a Court of
Appeals because were we in its place we would find the
record tilting one way rather than the other, though fairminded judges could find it tilting either way." Labor
Board v. PittsburghS. S. Co., 340 U. S. 498, 503 (1951).
We repeat and reaffirm this rule, noting its special applicability to cases where, as here, a statutory standard such
as "good faith" can have meaning only in its application
to the particular facts of a particular case.
Accepting as we do the finding of the court below that
respondent bargained in good faith for the-management
functions clause proposed by it, we hold that respondent
was not in that respect guilty of refusing to bargain collectively as required by the National Labor Relations Act.
Accordingly, enforcement of paragraph -1 (a) of the
Board's order was properly denied."3
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MINTON, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join, dissenting.
I do not see how this case is solved by telling the
National Labor Relations Board that since some "management functions" clauses are valid (which the Board
freely admits), respondent was not guilty of an unfair
labor practice in this case. The record is replete with
evidence that respondent insisted on a clause which
would classify the control over certain conditions of employment as a management prerogative, and that the
insistence took the form of a refusal to reach a settlement
unless the Union accepted the clause.', The Court of
23

See Labor Board v. Crompton Mills, 337 U. S. 217, 226-227

(i949).
1 A member of respondent's negotiating committee stated that the
committee "had given considerable thought to the character of
prerogative that, in our opinion, the Company was entitled to main-

LABOR BOARD v.. AMERICAN INS. CO.
395

MINTON,

411

J., dissenting.

Appeals agreed that respondent was "steadfast" in this
demand. Therefore, this case is one where the employer
came into the bargaining room with a demand that certain topics upon which it had a duty to bargain were to
be removed from the agenda-that was the price the
Union hd to pay to gain a contract. There is all the
difference between the hypothetical "management functions" clauses envisioned by the majority and this "management functions" clause as there is between waiver and
coercion. No one suggests that an employer is guilty
of an unfair labor practice when it proposes that it be
given unilateral control over certain working conditions
and the union accepts the proposal in return for various
other benefits. But where, as here, the employer tells
the union that the only way to obtain a contract as to
wages is to agree not to bargain about certain other worktain for its management, as well as considerable thought to the
character of safeguard which would make the retention of such
prerogatives . . . of value and worth to the Company, and invulnerable to attack. . . . [W]e orally stated to the Union that that
was going to be the position of the Company . . . ." (R. II, p. 32.)

A Union negotiator testified as follows:
"Q.Now, as I 'understand your testimony, you have said that
Company said you would have to agree .

...

"A. It was the condition of a contract.
"Q. Now, how often, if it was more than once, did the Company
state that or something similar to that . . . did they only say it

once or did they state it more than once?
"A. I can't testify as to the number of times. I will say they
said it several times.
"A. To get a contract, an agreement must be .reached and must
be made by the Union to include Article II-A as the' Company's
prerogative clause." (R. III, pp. 60-61.)
The same Company negotiator told the Union that the clause in
question was the "meat of the contract" and that if the Union
accepted it a contract could be obtained in "short order." (R. III,
p. 60.)

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
MINTON,

J., dissenting.

343 U. S.

ing conditions, the employer has refused to bargain about
those other working conditions.. There is more than a
semantic difference between a proposal that the union
waive certain rights and a demand that the union give
up those rights as a condition precedent to enjoying
other rights.!
I need not and do not take issue with the Court of
Appeals' conclusion that there was no absence of good
faith. Where there is a refusal to bargain, the Act does
not require an inquiry as to whether that refusal was in
good faith or bad faith.' The duty to bargain about
certain subjects is made absolute by 'the Act., The
majority seems to suggest that an employer could be
found guilty of bad faith if it used a "management functions" clause to close off bargaining about all topics of
discussion. Whether the employer closes off all bargaining or, as in this case, only a certain area of bargaining,
he has refused to bargain as to whatever he has closed
off, and any discussion of his good faith is pointless.
That portion of § 8 (d) of the Act which declares that
an employer need not agree to a proposal or make concessions does not dispose of this case. Certainly the
Board lacks power to compel concessions as to the sub-.
stantive terms of labor agreements. But the Board in
this case was seeking to compel the employer to bargain
about subjects properly within the scope of collective
2

There is similarly a difference between a union' voluntarily dis-.
banding, and the employer insisting that it disband as a condition
of granting a wage increase, Cf. McQuay-Norris MIg. Co. v. Labor
Board, 116 F. 2d 748.
3The only exception is that an employer in good faith can challenge the majority status of the bargaining representative and request
proof that it does irn fact have such status. Cf. Joy Silk Mills, Inc. v.
Labor Board, 87 U. S. App. D. C. 360, 369, 185 F. 2d 732, 741.
4J.I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332; H. J. Heinz Co. v.
Labor Board, 311 U_ S. 514, 525.

LABOR BOARD v. AMERICAN INS. CO.
MINTON, J.,

413

dissenting.

bargaining.' That the employer has such a duty to bargain and that the Board is empowered to enforce the duty
is clear;
An employer may not stake out an area which is a
proper subject for bargaining and say, "As to this we will
not bargain." To do so is a plain refusal to bargain in
violation of § 8 (a) (5) of the Act. If employees' bargaining rights can be cut away so easily, they are indeed
illusory. I would reverse.

5

National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350, 360; Inland
Steel Co. v. Labor Board, 170 F. 2d 247, 252; Labor Board v.
Bachelder, 120 F. 2d 574, 577.

