OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

343 U. S.

RAY, CHAIRMAN OF THE STATE DEMOCRATIC
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
ALABAMA, v. BLAIR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 649.

Argued March 31, 1952.-Decided April 3, 1952.

Article II, ยง 1, and the Twelfth Amendment of the Constitution do
not compel issuance of the order entered by an Alabama state
court in this mandamus proceeding directing petitioner, as Chairman of the State Democratic Executive Committee of Alabama, to
certify to the Secretary of State of Alabama the name of respondent as a candidate for nomination for Presidential and VicePresidential elector in the primary election of the Democratic
Party to be held on May 6, 1952. Pp. 154-155.
57 So. 2d 395, reversed.
257 Ala. -,

Marx Leva and Harold M. Cook argued the cause for
petitioner. With them on the brief were James J. Mayfield, George A. LeMaistre and Louis F. Oberdorfer.
Horace C. Wilkinson argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

In this proceeding, an Alabama circuit court entered an
order directing petitioner to certify to the Secretary of
State of Alabama the name of respondent as a candidate
for nomination for Presidential and Vice-Presidential
elector in the primary election of the Democratic Party
to be held on May 6,1952. The Alabama Supreme Court
affirmed on the single ground that the order was compelled by Article II, Section 1 and the Twelfth Amendment of the United States Constitution.
Petitioner applied to this Court for a stay of the judgments and mandates of the Alabama courts and filed a
petition for writ of certiorari to review the judgment of

RAY v. BLAIR.
154

Opinion of the Court.

the Alabama Supreme Court. On March 24, 1952, we
granted certiorari and ordered the judgments and mandates of the courts below stayed pending further consideration and disposition of the case by this Court. The
case was assigned for argument on the stay as well as the
merits on March 31, 1952. 343 U. S. 901.
The question raised in this case has been thoroughly
briefed and argued. The Court has fully considered the
question and has reached its conclusion. It now announces its decision and enters its judgment in advance
of the preparation of a full opinion which, when prepared,
will be filed with the Clerk. [See post, p. 214.]
The Court holds that Article II, Section 1 and the
Twelfth Amendment of the Constitution do not compel
issuance of the order and judgment entered below.
The judgment below is reversed. The mandate of this
Court is directed to issue forthwith.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and

MR. JUSTICE

JACKSON

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

