PARSONS v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

PARSONS

V. SMITH, FORMER COLLECTOR
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 218. Argued March 4, 1959.-Decided April 6, 1959.*
Under contracts with the owners of coal-bearing lands, which were
terminable by the owners on short notice without cause, petitioners
strip mined coal for the owners and received for their services a
fixed price per ton of coal extracted and delivered. Petitioners
were not entitled to keep or sell any of the coal but were required
to deliver all they mined to the owners. Held: Petitioners were not
entitled to percentage depletion deductions under §§ 23 (m) and
114 (b) (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 on the amounts
received by them for their strip mining operations, since they had
no capital investment or economic interest in the coal in place.
Pp. 216-226.
255 F. 2d 595, 599, affirmed.

Sherwin T. McDowell argued the cause for petitioners

in No. 218. With him on the brief were William R.
Spofiord and Charles I. Thompson, Jr.
David Berger argued the cause for petitioners in No.
305. With him on the brief was Leon H. Kline.
Howard A. Heifron argued the causes for respondent.
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant
Attorney General Rice, Daniel M. Friedman and Marvin
W. Weinstein.
EdgarJ. Goodrich and Lipman Redman filed a brief for
the Estate of John Schumacher, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
Frederick Bernays Wiener and Le Roy Katz filed a
brief in No. 218 for Paragon Jewel Coal Co., Inc., as
amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
*Together with No. 305, Huss et al. v. Smith, Former Collector of

Internal Revenue, also on certiorari to the same Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These tax refund cases present the question whether
petitioners, Parsons in No. 218 and Huss in No. 305, are
entitled to an allowance for depletion on amounts received by them under contracts with the owners of coalbearing lands for the strip mining of coal from those lands
and the delivery of it to the landowners. The cases were
heard by the same courts below. The District Court
ruled that petitioners had no depletable interest in the
coal in place and rendered judgment for the respondentcollector in each case. The Court of Appeals affirmed
both judgments. 255 F. 2d 595, 599. Because of an
asserted conflict with the principles applicable under the
decisions of this Court, we granted certiorari in both cases.
358 U. S. 814.
The pertinent tacts in each case were found by the
District Court and are not challenged here. In iubstance,
they are as follows:
PARSONS; No. 218. Petitioners were members of a
partnership ("Parsons") which, until the tran3actions
involved here, was primarily engaged in road building.
Rockhill Coal Co. ("Rockhill") owned bituminous coalbearing lands in Pennsylvania. Much of the coal was
located relatively near the surface and was therefore
removable by the strip mining process.1 In 1942 Parsons
expressed a desire to strip mine coal from Rockhill's lands,
but it refused to sign the written contract offered because
the firm did not wish to be bound by a contract "which
would take a long time, since, if an opportunity opened
up, [it] wanted to go back to road building." It was
then agreed that Parsons would, and it (lid, proceed under
Strip mining is done from the surface of the earth. In general,
it is performed by stripping off the earth, known as overburden, which
lies over the coal and then removing the cbalso uncovered.

PARSONS v. SMITH.
215

Opinion of the Court.

an oral agreement. Under that agreement Parsons was
to-strip mine coal from such sites and seams, within a
generally described area of Rockhill's lands, as were designated by Rockhill. Parsons was to furnish at its own
expense all of the equipment, facilities and labor which it
thought necessary to strip mine and deliver the coal to
Rockhill's cars at a fixed point. For each ton of coal so
mined and delivered RockhIll was to pay Parsons a stated
amount of money.' Parsons was not authorized to keep
or sell any of the coal but was required to deliver all that
was mined to Rockhill. The agreement was not for a
definite term, nor did it obligate Parsons to mine the tract
to exhaustion, but, to the contrary, it was agreed that
"if Parsons or Rockhill wanted to quit, all that was necessary to terminate the arrangement was the giving of a
ten-day notice." However, if Rockhill thus canceled the
agreement and if "Parsons had previously gone to the
expense of removing the overburden (thereby performing
the heavy part of the work, as well as meeting wages and
expenses in so doing), then Parsons would have the privilege of taking out the coal [so uncovered] and of being
paid for it [even though] this took more than ten days."
Operations continued under the agreement without notice
of termination until August 1, 1950, when Parsons gave
Rockhill notice that it would "quit" the work on September 1, 1950, and it ceased these operations on or near that
date.' Large amounts of strippable coal still remained on
the tract and strip mining thereon was continued by
another contractor. Parsons' investment in equipment
used in the work ran from a low in 1943 of $60,000 to a
high in 1947 of $250,000. The equipment was movable
was contemplated by the parties that in the event of an increase
in the union labor wage scale the amount per ton to be paid to Parsons
would be increased and on several occasions it was increased to cover
higher costs for both labor and material used in the work.
2 It

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

and there is no evidence that it was not usable elsewhere
or for other purposes.
HUSS, No. 305. Petitioners were members of a partnership ("Huss") engaged in the business of strip mining coal. Philadelphia and Reading Coal & Iron Co.
("Reading") owned anthracite coal-bearing lands in
Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Much of the coal
was so located that it could be removed by strip mining.
In 1944 Reading and Huss entered into a written contract 3 under which Huss undertook to strip mine the coal
from such areas, within a generally described tract of
Reading's land, as might be designated by Reading and
that was not lying deeper than a prescribed distance from
the surface. Huss was to furnish at its own expense all
of the equipment, facilities and labor necessary to mine
and deliver the coal to Reading's colliery. For each ton
of coal so mined and delivered Reading was to pay Huss
a stated sum.' That sum was agreed to be in "full compensation for the full performance of all work and for the
furnishing of all material, labor, power, tools, machinery,
implements and equipment.required for the work." Huss
was not authorized to keep or sell any of the coal. The
contract was expressly terminable by Reading at any time
upon 30 days' written notice "without specifying any
reason therefor" and without liability for "any loss ofanticipated profits or any other damages whatever." This
right of termination was not exercised. Operations continued under the contract until July 1947, by which time
3 During the tax years involved, which were 1944 to 1947, other
like contracts were entered into by the parties, but they were all
identical, except for areas covered and prices per ton to be paid
to Huss, and it will therefore be unnecessary to treat with them
individually.
4 The contract provided, however, that in the event of an increase
in the union labor wage scale the amount per ton to be paid to Huss
would be, and on several occasions during the operation it was,
increased sufficiently to cover increased labor costs.

PARSONS v. SMITH.
215

Opinion of the Court.

Huss had mined most of the strippable coal on the lands
covered by the contract that lay within the stipulated
distance from the surface, and the contract was then canceled by mutual agreement. Huss' investment in equipment used in the work ran from a low in 1944 of $100,000
to a high in 1947 of $500,000. All of the equipment was
movable and usable elsewhere in strip mining and some
of it was usable for other purposes.
Whether a deduction from gross income shall be permitted for depletion of mineral deposits, or any interest
therein, is entirely a matter of grace.' We therefore must
look, first, to the provisions and purposes of the statutes
and to the decisions construing them to see what interests
are permitted a deduction for depletion, and, next, to the
contracts involved to see whether they gave to petitioners
such an interest.
The applicable statutes are §§ 23 (m) and 114 (b)
(4) (A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, 26 U. S. C.
(1952 ed.) § 23 (m) and 26 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 114 (b)
(4) (A). Section 23 (m) directs that a reasonable allowance for depletion shall be made "in the case of mines,...
according to the peculiar conditions in each case; such
reasonable allowance in all cases to be made under rules
and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Secretary," and that "[i]n the
case of leases the deductions shall be equitably apportioned between the lessor and lessee." And § 114(b)
(4) (A) provides that the allowance shall be, "in the case
of coal mines, 5 percentum . . . of the gross income from
[mining]' the property during the taxable year, exclud5 Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362, 366; Anderson v.
Helvering, 310 U. S.404, 408; Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration
Co., 350 U. S.308, 312.
6 Section 114 (b) (4) (B) provided that "the term 'gross income
from the property' means the gross income from mining." 26 U. S. C.
(1946 ed.) § 114 (b) (4) (B).
495957 .0-59-19 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

ing ... any rents or royalties paid or incurred by the
taxpayer in respect of the property."
The purpose of the deduction for depletion is plain and
has been many times declared by this Court. "It is
permitted in recognition of the fact that the mineral
deposits are wasting assets and is intended as compensation to the owner for the part used up in production."
Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362, 366. And
see United States V'.Ludey, 274 U. S. 295, 302; Helvering
v. Elbe Oil Land Development Co., 303 U. S. 372, 375;
Anderson v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 408; Kirby Petroleum Co. v. Commissioner, 326 U. S. 599, 603. "[The
depletion] exclusion is designed to permit a recoupment
of the owner's capital investment in the minerals so that
when the minerals are exhausted, the owner's capital is
unimpaired." Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration
Co., 350 U. S.308, 312. Save for its application only to
gross income from mineral deposits and standing timber,
the purpose of "the deduction for depletion does not differ
from the deduction for depreciation." United States v.
Ludey, 274 U. S., at 303. In short, the purpose of the
depletion deduction is to permit the owner of a capital
interest in mineral in place to make a tax-free recovery
of that depleting capital asset.
Although the sentence in § 23 (m) that "In the case
of leases the deductions shall be equitably apportioned
between the lessor and lessee" presupposes "that the
deductions may be allowed in other cases" (Palmer v.
Bender, 287 U. S.551, 557), the statute "must be read in
the. light of the requirement of apportionment of a single
depletion allowance" (Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S.'312, 321), for two or more persons "cannot
be entitled to depletion on the same income" (Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration Co., 350 U. S.308, 309).
It follows that if petitioners are entitled to a depletion
allowance on the amounts earned under their contracts,

PARSONS
215

.v.

SMITH,

Opinion of the Court.

the amounts allowable to the landowners for the depletion of their coal deposits would be correspondingly
reduced.
Dealing specifically with the problem of what interests
in mineral deposits were permitted a deduction for depletion under the practically identical predecessors of
§§ 23 (m) and 114, this Court said in Palmer v. Bender,
287 U. S. 551, 557: "The language of the statute is broad
enough to provide, at least, for every case in which the
taxpayer has acquired, by investment, any interest in the
oil in place, and secures, by any form of legal relationship,
income derived from the extraction of the oil, to which
he must look for a return of his capiVA4"
The Court further said that the deduction is not "dependent upon the
particular legal form .of the taxpayer's interest in the
property to be depleted, [and that] [i]t is enough if . . .
he has retained a right to share in the oil produced. If
so he has an economic interest in the oil, in place, which
is depleted by production."' Ibid. (Emphasis added.)
The Court went on to hold that lessees of oil producing
properties, by reserving from an assignment a royalty of
"one-eighth of all the oil produced and saved," retained
7 The principles declared in the Palmer case have been recognized
and applied by every subsequent decision of this Court that has
treated with the subject.
Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362, 367, literally adopted
the language of the Pailmer case upon the point.
In Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303 U. S. 370, 371, it was said: "The
question is whether respondent had an interest, that is, a capital
investment, in the oil and gas in place ....
Palmer v. Bender,
287 U. S. 551, 557; Helvering v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, 293 U. S.
312, 321; Thomas v. Perkins, 301 U; S. 655, 661; Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., supra,"
Helvering v. Elbe .Oil Land Development Co., 303 U. 5. 372, 375376, declared that "Tile words 'gross income from the property,'. as
used in the statute governing the allowance for depletion, mean gross
income received from the operation of the oil and gas wells by one

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

an economic interest in the oil in place and were therefore
entitled to an allowance for depletion against their gross
income from that interest.
Five years later, in 1938, the Court in Helvering v.
Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S. 362, reaffirmed the test laid
down in Palmer and added: "But the phrase 'economic
interest' is not to be taken as embracing a mere economic
advantage derived from production, through a contractual
relation to the owner, by one who has no capital investment in the mineral deposit." 303 U. S., at 367. Applying that principle, the Court held that a processor who,
by contracts with the owners of gas ,and oil wells, had
acquired the right to take wet gas from the wellheads
and to extract and sell the gasoline therefrom, paying the
well owners a percentage of the proceeds of such sales,
had not acquired an economic interest in the depleting
gas in place but only an economic advantage to be derived
from the processing operations, and that therefore the
who has a capital investment therein,--not income frojn the sale of
the oil and gas properties themselves."
Anderson v. Helvering, 310 U. S. 404, 408-409, repeated the statement last quoted.
In Kirby Petroleum Co. v. Commissioner, 326 U. S. 599, 603, the
Court said: "The test of the rightto depletion is whether the taxpayer
has a capital investment in the oil in place which is necessarily reduced
as the oil is extracted."
In Burton-Sutton Oil Co. v. Commissioner, :328 U. S. 25, 32, the
Court said: "It seems generally accepted that it is the owner of a
capital investment or economic interest in the oil in place who is
entitled to the depletion."
Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration Co.. 350 U. S. 308, 314,
reannounced substantially the rule declared in the Palmer case. It
said "that a taxpayer is entitled to depletion where he has: (1)
'acquired, by investment, any interest in the oil in place,' and (2)
secured by legal relationship 'income derived from the extraction
of the oil, to which he must look for a return of his capital.'...
These two factors, usually considered together, constitute the requirement of 'an economic interest.'"

PARSONS v. SMITH.
215

Opinion of the Court.

income from those operations was not subject to the
depletion deduction.
In his first regulations prescribed under the Internal
Revenue Act of 1939, the Commissioner adopted almost
literally the language we have quoted from Palmer and
Banklize as the tests to be administratively applied in
determining what interests in mineral deposits are entitled to the depletion allowance. See Treas. Reg. 103,
§ 19.23 (m)-1, August 23, 1939. That language, with
immaterial changes, has remained in the regulations ever
since. During the years here involved, 1942 through
1950, the regulation in force was Treas. Reg. 111,
§ 29.23 (m)-1, which, in pertinent part, provides:
"Under [the provisions of §§ 23 (in) and 114] the
owner of an economic intere'st in mineral deposits
or standing timber is allowed annual depletion deductions. An economic interest is possessed in every
case in which the taxpayer has Acquired, by investment, any interest in mineral in place or standing
timber and secures, by any form of legal relationship,
income derived from the severance and sale of the
,mineral or timber, to which he must look for a return
of his capital. But a person who has no capital
ifivestment in the mineral deposit or standing timber
does not possess an economic interest merely because,
through a contractual relation to the owner, he
possesses a mere economic advantage derived from
production ...

.

Such are the interests that are permitted a deduction
for depletion by the statutes as consistently interpreted
by this Court and by the Commissioner.
Petitioners do not dispute that these are the controlling
principles, but rather they contend that they come within
those that allow the deduction. They argue that by their
contracts to mine the coal, and particularly by contribut-

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

ing their equipment, organizations and skills to the mining
project as required by those contracts, they, in legal effect,
made a capital investment in, and thereby acquired an
economic interest in, the coal in place, which was depletable by production, and that they are therefore entitled
to take the deduction against their gross income derived
from those mining operations.
We take a different view. It stands admitted that
before and apart from their contracts: petitioners had
no investment or interest in the coal in place. Their
asserted right to the deduction rests entirely upon their
contracts. Is there anything in those contracts to indicate
that petitioners made a capital investment in, or acquired
an economic interest in, the coal in place, as distinguished
from the acquisition of a mere economic advantage to be
derived from their mining operations? We think it is
quite plain that there is not.
By their contracts, which were completely terminable
without cause on short notice, petitioners simply agreed
to provide the equipment and do the work required to
strip mine coal from designated lands of the landowners
and to deliver the coal to the latter at stated points, and
in full consideration for performance of that undertaking
the landowners were to pay to petitioners a fixed sum per
ton. Surely those agreements do not. show or suggest
that petitioners actually made any capital investment in
the coal in place, or that the landowners were to or actually did in any way surrender to petitioners any part of
their capital interest in the coal in place. Petitioners do
not factually assert otherwise. Their claim to the contrary is based wholly upon an asserted legal fiction. As
stated, they claim that their contractual right to mine
coal from the designated lands and the use of their equipment, organizations and skills in doing so, should be regarded as the making of a capital investment in, and the
acquisition of an economic interest in, the coal in place.

PARSONS v. SMITH.
215

Opinion of the Court.

But that fiction cannot be indulged here, for it is negated
by the facts.
To recapitulate, the asserted fiction is opposed to the
facts (1) that petitioners'. investments were in their
equipment, all of which was movable-not in the coal in
place; (2) that their. investments in equipment were
recoverable through depreciation-not depletion; (3) that
the contracts were completely terminable without cause
on short notice; (4) that the landowners did not agree to
surrender and did not actually surrender to petitioners
any capital interest in the coal in place; (5) that the coal
at all times, even after it was mined, belonged entirely to
the landowners, and that petitioners could not sell or keep
any of it but were required to deliver all that they mined
to the landowners; (6) that petitioners were not to have
any part of the proceeds of the sale of the coal, but, on
the contrary, they were to be paid a fixed sum for each
ton mined and delivered, which was, as stated in Huss,
agreed to be in "full compensation for the full performance of all work and for the furnishing of all [labor] and
equipment required for the work"; and (7) that petitioners, thus, agreed to look only to the landowners for
all sums to become due, them under their contracts. The
agreement of the landowners to pay a fixed sum per ton
for mining and delivering the coal "was a personal covenant and did not purport to grant [petitioners] an interest
in the [coal in place]." Helvering v. O'Donnell, 303
U. S. 370, 372. Surely these facts show that petitioners
did not actually make any capital investment in, or
acquire any economic interest in, the coal in place, and
that they may not fictionally be regarded as having
done so.
"Undoubtedly, [petitioners] through [their] contracts
obtained an economic advantage from[their] production
of the [coal], but that is not sufficient. The controlling
fact is that [petitioners] had no interest in the [coal] in

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

place." Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S., at 368.
Of course, the parties might have provided in their contracts that petitioners would have some capital interest
in the coal in place, but they did not do so-apparently
by design. Instead, petitioners simply entered into contracts, terminable without cause on short notice, with the
owners of coal-bearing lands to provide the equipment
and do the work required to strip mine and deliver coal
from those lands, as independent contractors, for fixed
unit prices. "[Petitioners thus] bargained for and obtained an economic advantage from the [mining] operations but that advantage or profit did not constitute a
depletable interest in the [coal] in place" (Helvering v.
O'Donnell, ,303 U. S., at 372), and having "no capital
investment in the mineral deposit which suffered depletion, [petitioners are] not entitled to the statutory allowance" (Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U. S., at 368).
The judgments must therefore be
Affirmed.

