OCTOBER TERM, 1958.

354

Syllabus.

359 U. S.

PLUMBERS, STEAMFITTERS, REFRIGERATION,
PETROLEUM FITTERS, AND APPRENTICES
OF LOCAL 298, A. F. OF L., ET AL. V.
COUNTY OF DOOR ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 396.

Argued March 26, 1959.-Decided May 4, 1959.

A county, a general contractor and a plumbing contractor sued in
a State Court to enjoin picketing by a plumbers' union, because
of the employment of nonunion plumbers, which had stopped work
on an addition to the county courthouse, about half of the total
cost of which was the cost of materials brought from outside the
State. Held: The controversy was exclusively within the jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Board, and the State
Court had no jurisdiction. Pp. 355-359..
(a) Since about half the cost of the entire project was the cost
of materials brought from outside the State, the controversy had
sufficient effect on interstate commerce to give the National Labor
Relations Board jurisdiction. P. 356.
(b) The dispute involved is the kind over which the Board
normally has exclusive power. Pp. 356-357.
(c) That one of the parties is a county and that political subdivisions are expressly excluded from the definition of "employer"
in the National Labor Relations Act does not prevent the Board
from having jurisdiction. Teamsters Union v. New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co., 350 U. S. 155. Pp. 357-359.
4 Wis. 2d 142, 89 N. W. 2d 920, reversed.

David Previantargued the cause for -petitioners. With
him on the brief were Martin F. O'Donoghue and William
J. Duffy.
Donald J. Howe argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were George E. Frederickand John
H. Wessel.

Solicitor General Rankin, Jerome D. Fenton, Thomas
J. McDermott and Dominick L. Manoli filed a brief for
the National Labor Relations Board, as amicus curiae.

PLUMBERS' UNION v. DOOR COUNTY.
354

355

Opinion of the Court.

Opinion of the Court by MR.

JUSTICE BLACK,

an-

nounced by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS.
Respondent, County of Door, Wisconsin, is a municipal
corporation; petitioners are a Plumbers' tUnion Local and
a Council of Trade Unions. The County hired respondent Oudenhoven to do the general contracting work on
an addition to the Door County Courthouse. At the
same time some eight contracts covering specific items of
construction were entered into by the County with various other firms. Among the contractors was respondent
Zahn who had successfully bid for the plumbing work in
the project. Unlike the other successful bidders, however, Zahn employed nonunion labor. This disturbed the
Plumbers' Union which attempted to induce him to sign
a union agreement. After Zahn refused, a picket was
assigned to walk around the courthouse carrying a placard
which stated that nonunion workers were e.mployed on
the project. The picketing, though peaceful, effectively
stopped all the work since union members employed by
other constractors refused to cross the picket line.
To end the interruption respondents Door County,
Zahn, and Oudenhoven sought an injunction in the local
Circuit Court. Petitioners defended by claiming, among
other things, that under the National Labor Relations
Act' the state courts had no jurisdiction and that the
controversy was exclusively subject to National Labor
Relations Board control. The trial court, believing that
interstate commerce was not affected by the dispute,
denied that the Board had jurisdiction and held that state
power existed. It found that state law had been violated
by the picketing and issued an injunction. On appeal.
the Wisconsin Supreme Court affirmed. - 4 Wis. 2d 142,
89 N. W. 2d 920. It apparently disagreed with the basis
of the lower court's holding and assumed that the dis161

Stat. 136, as amended, 29 U. S. C. §§ 151-168.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

pute did affect interstate commerce, but held that the
N. L. R. B. had no jurisdiction because Door County, a
governmental subdivision, was among those seeking relief.
Since the N. L. R. B. had no power, the court ruled, state
laws were not pre-empted and the injunction could stand.
Under similar circumstances both the National Labor
Relations Board and the United States Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit have concluded that the N. L. R. B.
has jurisdiction.' We granted certiorari to resolve this
conflict. 358 U. S. 878.
There can be no doubt that were Door County not a
party to the litigation state courts would have no power
over the dispute. The stipulated facts show that the
total cost of the project was about $450,000. Roughly
half of this was the cost of materials brought from outside
Wisconsin. On similar facts this Court has often found
a sufficient effect on commerce to give the N. L. R. B. jurisdiction. See, e. g., Labor Board v. Denver Bldg. & Constr.
Trades Council, 341 U. S.675, 683-684. We see no reason to deviate from those holdings. It is also admitted
that the dispute here involved is the kind over which the
Labor Board normally has exclusive power. Respondents
allege an attempt to force Zahn and the County to stop
doing business with each other or, alternatively, to coerce
Zahn into making his employees organize a union shop.
Both of these allegations, if proved, would constitute
unfair labor practices under § 8 (b) (4) of the National
Labor Relations Act.' If the charges are not proved the
2Labor Board v. Local 313, Int'l Bro. of Elect. Workers, 254 F.
2d 221, affirming Peter D. Furness, 117 N. L. R. B. 437. See also
New Mcxico Bldg. Branch, Assoc. Gen. Contractors,CCH 1957-1958
Labor L. Rep. (4th ed.) 55,304; Freeman Constr. Co., CCH 19571958 Labor L. Rep. (4th ed.) 55,353.
3Section 8 (b) %4) provides in part: "It shall be an unfair labor
practice for a l46or organization or its agents . . .to engage in, or to

PLUMBERS' UNION v. DOOR COUNTY.
354

357

Opinion of the Court.

conduct might well be "protected" under § 7 of the Labor
Act.' In either case this Court has held that the determination must be made by the N. L. R. B. and that "state
[courts] must decline jurisdiction in deference to the
tribunal which Congress has selected. .

. ."

I

It is claimed, however, that the presence of Door County
somehow deprives the Board of jurisdiction and re-establishes state power. This contention is based on the fact
that political subdivisions are expressly excluded from the
definition of "employer" in the Labor Relations Act and
therefore are not subject to many of its provisions.' To
allow the County to file a complaint against the union
would, it has been argued, give the County the advantages
of the Labor Relations Act without subjecting it to the
correlative responsibilities the statute imposes.
induce or encourage the employees of any employer to engage in . . .
a strike . . . where an object thereof is: (A) forcing or requiring . ..
any employer or other person to cease using, selling, handling, transporting, or otherwise dealing in the products of any other producer,
processor, -or manufacturer, or to cease doing business with any
other..person; (B) forcing or requiring any other employer to recognize or bargain with a labor organization as the representative of
his employees unless such labor organization has been certified as the
representative of such employees . . . ." 61 Stat. 141, 29 U. S. C.
§ 158 (b)(4).
4 Section 7 reads: "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in-other
concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining -or other
mutual aid or protection . . . ." 61 Stat. 140, 29 U. S. C. § 157.
5 Weber v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 348 U. S. 468, 481. There is in
this case no question of violence or of the power of state courts to
award damages. See generally, San Diego Bldg. Trades Counctt v,
Garmon, ante, p. 236.
6 "The term 'employer' . . . shall not include the United States
or any wholly owned Government corporation, or any Federal Reserve
Bank, or any State or political subdivision thereof . . . ." 61 Stat.
137, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

In Local 26, Int'l Bro. of Teamsters v. New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co., 350 U. S. 155, we decided that a railroad
could seek relief before the Board although railroads, like
political subdivisions, are expressly excluded from the
term "employer" in the Act.7 Our opinion pointed out
that "the N. L. R. B. is empowered to issue complaints
whenever 'it is charged' that any person subject to the Act

is engaged in any proscribed unfair labor practice," and
that Board regulations allow such a charge to be filed by
"any person" as defined in the Act, 350 U. S., at 160.8
"Since railroads are not excluded fromr the Act's definition of 'person' . . ." ' we held that "they are entitled to
Board protection from the kinZU of unfair labor practice

proscribed by' § 8 (b) (4) (A)," reasoning that this result
would best effectuate congressional policies of uniform
control over labor abuses and protection of the parties

injured by such practices.

Ibid.

The position of a county and a railroad would seem to
be identical under the Act, and the policy considerations

which guided us in Local 25, like the statutory language
there construed, would seem to apply equally here."
7 "The term 'employer' 2. . shall not include . . . jny
person subject to' the Railway Labor Act .... ." 61 Stat. 137, 29 U. S. C.

§ 152 (2). See 44 Stat. 577, as amended, 45 U. S. C. § 151.
829 CFR, .1958 Cum. -Supp., § 102.9, states "A charge that any
person has engaged in or is engaging in any unfair labor practice
affecting commerce may be made by any person...

."

The ilefini-

tion of "person" in the regulations is the same as that in the Act
102.1.
itself. '29 CFR, 1958 Cum. Supp., §
As defined in the Act, "The term 'person' includes one or more
individuals, labor organizations, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, or
receivers." 61 Stat. 137, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (1). (Italics added.)
10 Significantly, before this Court's decision in Local 25, Int'l Bro.
of Teamsters v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 350 U. S. 155, the
N. L. R. B. agreed with respondents that political subdivisions were
not "persons" under the Labor Act, but shortly after Local 25 the
Board reversed itself since it felt the basis of its prior rulings had been

PLUMBERS' UNION v. DOOR COUNTY. 359
354

Opinion of the Court.

Respondents attempt to distinguish the case by claiming
that a political subdivision must be expressly included
in a statute if it is to be considered within the law's
coverage and that essential state functions will be impaired if the county is subjected to N. L. R. B. coverage.
But this Court has many times held that government
bodies not expressly included in a federal statute may,
nevertheless, be subject to the law. 1 And Board jurisdiction to grant relief, far from interfering with county
functions, serves to safeguard the interests of such
political subdivisions. Accordingly, we find neither of
respondents' contentions convincing.
We do not, of course, attempt to decide whether the
Union's conduct in this dispute violates § 8 (b) (4), is
protected by § 7, or is covered by neither provision of the
Labor Act. Those are questions for the Board to determine in a proper proceeding brought before it. See,
e.g., Weber v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 348 U.. S. 468, 481..
We merely hold that the Board has jurisdiction in this
case and that, therefore, it was error for the Wisconsin
courts to exercise jurisdiction.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for action
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
completely undercut by Local 25. Compare Al J. Schneider Co., 87
N. L. R. B. 99; 89 N. L. R. B. 221; Victor M Sprys, 104 N. L. R. B.
1128, with Peter D. Furness,117 N. L. R. B. 437; New Mexico Bldg.
Branch, Assoc.,Gen. Contractors, CCH 1957-1958 Labor L. Rep.
(4th ed.) 55,304.
" See, e. g., Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370-371 (a State is a
"person" within the meaning of a federal law taxing persons engaged
in the sale of liquor); United States v. Calijorjia,297 U. S. 175, 186
(a federal statute regulating common carriers by rail applies to a
State); Georgia v. Evans, 316 U. S.159 (a State is a "person" within
the meaning of the Sherman Act, and may seek relief under tl~at
statute).

