MERIDIAN v. SOUTHERN BELL T. & T. CO.

639

Per Curiam.

CITY OF MERIDIAN v. SOUTHERN BELL
TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 546. Decided February 24, 1959.
In a suit by appellee for a declaratory judgment, a Federal District
Court held a Mississippi statute to be in conflict with both the
State and Federal Constitutions. The Court of Appeals affirmed,
and an appeal was taken to this Court under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1254 (2). Appellant moved to vacate the judgment of the Court
of Appeals and remand the case to the District Court with instructions to vacate its judgment and convene a three-judge court to
consider the case. Held: Without passing on the merits of that
motion, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated and the
case is remanded to the District Court with directions to hold the
cause while the parties repair to a state tribunal for an authoritative
declaration of applicable state law. Pp. 639-641.
256 F. 2d 83, judgment vacated and cause remanded to the District
Court.

George M. Ethridge, Jr. and Lester E. Wills for
appellant.
CharlesB. Snow and John A. Boykin, Jr. for appellee.
Tally D. Riddell filed a brief on behalf of the City of
Gulfport et al., as amzci curiae, in support of appellant.
PER CURIAM.

Appellee instituted this suit,for a declaratory judgment
that a 1956 Mississippi statute imposing a charge on
public utilities for the use of public streets and places does
not apply to it, and, if it does,. violates the Federal and
State Constitutions. It was tried before a single district
judge. After trial the district judge wrote an opinion
(154 F. Supp. 736) and then entered a judgment which

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Per Curiam.

358 U. S.

declared the statute in conflict with the State and Federal
Constitutions and thus beyond the power of the Mississippi Legislature to enact. The Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
*256 F. 2d 83. An. appeal was tfaken to this Court pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (2), providing for appeal of
a decision of a Court of Appeals where appellant relies on
a' state statute held to be "invalid as repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties or laws of .the United States."
Appellee moved to dismiss the appeal, contending that
review by appeal does not lie because the Court of Appeals
decision declaring the state statute unconstitutional was
based on the Constitution of Mississippi as well as the
Federal Constitution. Subsequently, appellant moved
the Court to vacate the judgment of the Court of Appealsand remand the case to the District Court with instructions fo vacate its judgment and convene a three-judge
court under 28 U. S. C. §§ 2281 and 2284 to consider
appellee's complaint. Appellee opposed the motion.
Without passing judgment on"the merits of that motion
(cf. Federal Housing Administration v. The Darlington,
Inc., 352 U. S. 977), we vacate the judgment of the Court
of Appeals and remand the case to the District Court with
directions to hold the cause while the. parties repair
to a state 'tribunal for an authoritative declaration of
applicable state law.
Proper exercise of federal jurisdiction requires that
controversies involving unsettled questions of state law
be 'decided in the state tribunals preliminary to a federal
court's consideration of the underlying federal constitutional questions. See Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co.,
312 U. S. 496' That is especially desirable where the
questions of state law' are enmeshed with federal questions. Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101,
105. Here, the state law problems are delicate ones, the
resolution of which is not without substantial difficultv-

MERIDIAN v. SOUTHERN BELL T. & T: CO.
639

641

Per Curiam.

certainly for a federal court. Cf. Thompson v. Magnolia
Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478, 483. In such a case, when
the state court's interpretation of the statute or evaluation
of its validity under the state constitution may obviate
any need to consider its validity under the Federal Constitution, the federal court should hold its hand, lest it
render a constitutional decision unnecessarily. Railroad
Comm'n v. Pullman Co., supra; Spector Motor Co. v.
McLaughlin, supra, 104-105. See Leiter Minerals, Inc.,
v. United States, 352 U. S. 220, 228-229.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated and
the cause is remanded to the District Court for proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

