;'224

OOTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the' Court.

358 U. S.

TERRITORY OF ALASKA v. AMERICAN

CAN CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
TIHE NINTH, CIRCUIT.

No: 40. Arguied December 9, 1958.-Decided January 12, 1959.
In 1949, while a Territoiy, Alaska enacted a statute which levied
a tax at the' rate of 1%' on 'all'real and personal property. In
1953 the tax statute was repealed; but the' repeal was expressly
declared not applicable to "any taxes which have been levied and
assessed by any. municipality, school or public utility district
[under the-repealed statute] or which are levied and assessed during
the current fiscal year of such municipality, school or public utility
district." Alaska has a general law saving rights accrued under a
statute that is repealed. After repeal of the tax statute, Alaska
-instituted suits to collect taxes which had accrued theretinder and
'iemained unpaid.. Held: Liability for'such taxes survived -the
repeal. Pp. 224-227.
. (a) .The exception in the repealing statute applies.only. to taxes
payable to a municipality, a school district or a public utility
district, and it does not interfere with the collection of unpaid taxes
which accrued prior to repeal. Pp. 225-226.
(b) Judicial notice is taken of the legislative history of the
repealing statute, including the original bill which, though not in
the Journals, was in the possession of the Secretary of State and
was certified by him. Pp. 226-227.
246 F. 2d 493, reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings.

"' J. Gerald Williams, Attorney General of Alaska, argued
the ' cause 'for petitioner. With him'on the brief were
David. J. Pree, Assistant Attorney General, and Jack
O'Hair Asher, Special Assistant Attorney General.
W. C. Arnold argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the'brief were H' L. Faulknerand R. E. Robertson.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered th6 opinion of the

Court.
Alaska, while a Territory, enacted a law which levied a
tax at the rate of 1 percent on all real and personal prop-

ALASKA v. AMERICAN CAN, CO.
224

Opinion of the Court.

erty. L. 1949, c. 10, § 3. The tax was challenged in litigation without success.' Some paid the tax .voluntarily;
others became delinquent. In 1953 the tax statute was
repealed. L. 1953, c. 22. Thereafter petitioner instituted the present suits to collect taxes owing for the years
1949 to 1952, inclusive. The District Court granted a
motion to dismiss, holding that no liability for these taxes
had survived the repeal. 137 F. Supp. 181. The Court
of Appeals affirmed. 246 F. 2d 493.. The case is here
by a petition for writ of certiorari which was granted in
view of the fiscal importance of the question to 'Alaska.
356 U. S.926.
Alaska has a general law, saving rights accrued under
a statute that is repealed.2 -The lower courts, however,
held that this case was governed not by that provision
but by § 2 (a) of the repealing Act which reads as follows:
"'Section 1 of this Act' shall not be applicable to:
"(a) any taxes which have been levied and 'assessed by any municipality, school or public utility
district under the provisions of Chapter 10, Session
See Mullaney v. Hess, 189 F. 2d 417; Hess v. Mullaney, 213 F. 2d
635.
2 Alaska Comp. L. Ann., 1949, § 19-1-1, reads as follows:

"The repeal or amendment of any statute shall Dot affect any offense
committed or any act done or right accring or accrued orany action

or proceeding had or commenced prior to such'repeal or amendment"*
nor shall any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under such
statute be released or extinguished, but the same may be enforced,
continued, sustained, prosecuted and punished under the repealing
or amendatory statute save as limited by the ex post facto and other
provisions of the Constitution, in which event the same may be
enforced, continued, sustained, prosecuted and punished under the
former law as if such repeal or amendment'had not been made."
3 Section 1 of the 1953 Act provides:
"That Chapter 10, Session Laws of- Alaska, 1949, as amended by
Chapter 88, Session 'Laws of Alaska, 1949, be and it is hereby
repealed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

Laws of Alaska 1949, as amended, or which are levied
and assessed during the current fiscal year of such
municipality, school or public utility district.'
It was held that this specific enactment qualifies the
general repeal law and that the purpose of the 1953 Act
was to wipe out any and all liabilities to pay taxes under
the repealed law that had accrued prior to the date of
•repeal. Support for that conclusion was found in the
title of the 1953 Act which includes the words "excepting
from repeal certaim taxes," no qualifications whatsoever
being indicated.
We take a different view. Section 2 (a) of the 1953
Act, as we read it, has nothing to do with any taxes other
than those payable to a municipality, a school or public
utility district, none of which is here involved. If it had
dor3 no more than save all accrued taxes in those categories, the case would be in quite a different posture.
Section 2 (a), however, does not do that. It was protective Of municipal, school, or public utility taxes in a much
broader way. It saved first, those taxes that. had been
"levied and assessed" and second, those to be "levied and
assessed during the current fiscal year." This was to
make sure, as the dissent below said, that municipalities
and school and.public utility districts (though not the
Territory itself) would have the right to levy and collect
the old taxes for the current year 1953, whether before
or after the repealing Act had taken effect. So construed,
§ 2 (a) carves no exception from the general saving statute and does not interfere with the collection of unpaid
taxes which accrued prior to repeal.
We are reinforced in this conclusion by the legislative
history of the bill I that became the repealing Act, a his4 We refer to the Alaska House and 'Senate Journals and to the
original bill as introduced in the House which is on file with the
Secretary of Alaska, a copy being certified by him.

ALASKA v. AMERICAN CAN CO.
224

Opinion of the Court.

tory of which we take judicial notice. See United States
v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S.534, 547. And
see Wigmore on Evidence (3d ed. 1940) § 2577. The bill
as introduced "cancelled, repealed and abrogated, and declared null and void" "all accrued and unpaid taxes" under
the 1949 Act. That provision was deleted, however, by a
House Committee, and it never became part of the law.
The bill passed the House without it. The present
§ 2 (a) was added in the Senate; and the House agreed.
If we adopted the construction taken below, we would be
reading into the Act by implication what the Legislature
seemingly rejected.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and,
as there are other questions which were raised by the
appeal (246 F. 2d 493, 495) but not reached by that
court, the cause is remanded to it for proceedings in
conformity with this 6-pinion.
It'is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

