FLAXER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

FLAXER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued November 19, 1958.--Decided December 15, 1958.

Petitioner, president of a labor union, was subpoenaed to appear

on October 5, 1951, before the Senate Subcommittee on Internal
Security and to produce certain of the union's records, including

lists of its members who were employed by the Federal Government
or by any state, county or municipal government. He appeared on
that date and produced some of the records but not the lists of
members. The Senator who conducted the hearing directed him
to produce the records "according to the terms of the subpoena."
Later, after a colloquy, the Senator said, "Since you have made
the reply that it could be done in a week, that will be the order
of the committee, that you submit that information as requested
by counsel for the committee within 10 'days from this. date."
Petitioner was indicted under 2 U. S. C. ยง 192 for willfully failing
to produce the lists on October 5, 1951. Held: Since petitioner
was not clearly apprised that he was required to produce the lists.
on October 5 rather than at a later timd, there was no default on
October 5, and the District Court should have directed an acquittal.
Pp. 147-152.
103 U. S. App. D. C. 319,, 258 F. 2d 413, reversed.

David Rein argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the brief was Joseph Forer.
William Hitz argued the cause for the United States.
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Actin'g AssistantAttorney General Yeagley and PhilipR. Mondhan.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner was found guilty, after jury trial, of failure
to produce, pursuafit to' a subpoena; duces tecum issued
by a Subcommittee of a Senate Committee,; records of a
'Subcommittee on Internal, Security of the Senate 'Committee on
the Judiciary. The Senate voted to certify the committee report of

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Couit.

358 U. S.

union' showing the names and addresses of members of
that organization who were employed either by-the United
States or by any state, county, or municipal government
in the country.' The District Court denied a motion
for acquittal or new trial. 112 F. Supp. 669. The Court
of Appeals, sitting en banc, affirmed by a divided vote.
98 U. S. App. D. C. 324, 235 F. 2d 821. On petition for
a writ of certiorari we vacated and remanded for consideration in light of Watkins v. United States, 354 U. S.
178, an intervening decision. 354 U. S. 929. The Court
of Appeals, sitting en banc, once more affirmed by'a
divided vote. 103 U. S. App. D. C. 319, 258 F. 2d 413.
We again granted -certiorari. 357 U. S. 904.
The Senate Committee on the Judiciary or a duly
authorized Subcommittee was authorized 4 to investigate
the administration, operation, and enforcement of the
Internal Security Act of 1950.' The Committee created
a Subcommittee which adopted a resolution to the effect
that a single member would constitute a quorum for the
purpose of taking testimony.
the failure to produce the records to the United States Attorney for
the purpose of initiating a contempt proceeding. S. Res. 295, 82d
Cong., 2d Sess.; 98 Cong. Rec. 2500.
2 United Public Workers of America.
3 2 U. S. C. ยง 192 provides:
"Every person who having been summoned as a witness by the
atithority of either House of Congress to give testimony or toproduce
papers upon any matter under inquiry before either Houwe, or any
joint committee established by a joint or concurrent resolution of
the two Houses of Congress, or any committee of either H ouse of
Congress, willfully makes default; or who, having appeared, refuses
*to answer any question pertinent to the question under inquiry, shall
be deened guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more
than $1,000 nor less than $100 and imprisonment in a common jail
for not less than one month nor more than twelve months."
4 S. Res. 366, 81st Cong., 2d Sess.; 96 Cong. Rec. 16872.
5 64 Stat. 987.

FLAXER v. UNITED STATES.
147

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner*was head of the union under investigation.
The Chairman issued a subpoena duces tecum directing
him to produce, inter alia, the names and addresses of the
union members mentioned above. Petitioner appeared
before Senator Watkins, sitting as. the Subcommittee, and
produced some of the records of the union; but he
failed to produce the membership lists. He made several objections to disclosure of them, maintaining that
they were protected by a right of privacy. He did not
maintain that the lists were unavailable to him. Indeed,
he responded to further interrogation, giving the approximate number of members and indicating that about
5 percent were in the employ of the Federal Government,
the balance being in state, county, and municipal governments. He also named the federal agencies 'where the
bulk of the 5 percent were employed. But he persisted
in his refusal to produce the lists. At this point in the
interrogation Senator Watkins said: "You are directed by
the committee to produce those records according to the
terms of the subpena."
Petitioner continued to state his objections.
Committee counsel asked petitioner how long it would
take him to prepare the lists. Petitioner finally said, "I
imagine it could be done in a week."
Committee counsel then said:
"I respectfully suggest to the chairman that the
witness be ordered to produce the information and
transmit it to the subcommittee in 10 days' time."
Senator Watkins replied:
"Since you have made the reply that it could be
done in a week, that will be the order of the committee, that you submit that information as requested
by counsel for the committee within 10 days from

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

this date. The record will show that you of course
have been given that notice and that requirement
has been made, and the order has been made."
Petitioner continued to object to any order of production. Then the colloquy continued as follows:
"Senator WATKINS. Whatever your argument is,
that is the order now, and, as I understand it, you
refuse to do so on the, ground you set forth. I want
to make the record clear.
"Mr. FLAXER. I haven't got them. I don't feel
capable of producing them.

"Senator

WATKINS.

YOU said you could do it

within a week.
"Mr. FLAXER. No; that was not the question he
asked. He asked could the list be compiled within
a week and I said it could.
"Mr. ARENS. The information is available to you?

"Mr.

FLAXER.

Yes.

"Mr. ARENS. But you have declined to produce it;
is that correct?

"Mr.

FLAXER.
ARENS.

I haven't produced them.

"Mr.
Will you produce it pursuant to the
order of the chairman of this session within 10 days
from today?
"Mr. FLAxER. I will have to take that under
consideration.
"Senator WATKINS. That is the order, and of
.course we will have to take whatever steps are necessary if at the end of the time you have not produced
them."
These events transpired on October 5, 1951. That was
the return date of the subpoena duces tecum. And each
of the two counts of the indictment named October 5,
1951, as the date of petitioner's willful default.

FLAXER v. UNITED STATES.
147

Opinion of the Court.

We read the record as showing no default on that date.
As we read the colloquy, petitioner, though adamant in
his position, was given 10 days from October 5, 1951, to
deliver the lists. It does not appear whether at the end
of that 10-day period any additional steps 'were taken
against him. Yet, for all we know, a witness who was
adamant and defiant on October 5 might be meek and
submissive on October 15.
We stated in Watkins v. United States, 354 U. S. 178,
208, in reference to prosecutions for contempt under this
Act that "the courts must accord to the defendants every
right which is guaranteed to defendants in all other criminal cases." One of these guarantees is proof beyond a
reasonable doubt that the refusal of the witness was deliberate and.intentional, as Quinn v. UnitedStates, 349 U. S.
155, 165, holds. In the Quinn case the witness was "never
confronted with a clear-cut choice between compliance
and noncompliance, between answering the question and
risking prosecution for contempt." Id., at 166. The
rulings were so imprecise as to leave th6 witness "to guess
whether or not the cormittee hid accepted his objection." Ibid.
In the present case, the position of the Committee was
clear in one respect: it was plain it wanted the membership lists. But, to say the least, there was ambiguity in
its ruling on the time of performance. The witness could
well conclude, we think, that he had 10 days more to
consider the matter, 10 days to face the alternative of
compliance as against contempt. Certainly we cannot
say that petitioner could tell with a reasonable degree of
certainty that the Committee demanded the lists this very
day, not 10 days hence.
We repeat what we said in the Quinn case:
"Giving a witness a fair apprisal of the committee's
ruling on an objection recognizes the legitimate in478312 0-9---16

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

terests of both the witness and the committee. Just
as the witness need not use any particular form of
words to present his objection, so also the committee
is not required to resort to any fixed verbal formula to
indicate its disposition of the objection. So long as
the witness is not forced to guess the committee's
ruling, he has no cause to complain. And adherence
to this traditional practice can neither inflict hardship upon the committee nor abridge the proper scope
of legislative investigation." 349 U. S., at 170.
On this record the District Court should have directed
an acquittal.
Reversed.

