OCTOBER TERM, '1958.
Per Curiam.

358 U. S.

HAHI{ v..ROSS. iSLAND'SAND & GRAVEL CO.'
CERTIORARJ TO :T]E- SUPREME. COURT OF OREGON.

No. 52. Argued December 11; 1958.-Decided January, 12, .1959.
Petitioner was injured while working on a barge used in connection
'with the dredging of sand and gravel in a lagoon opening into a
navigable river. His employer had rejected the State Workmen's
Compensation Act, which provides that, in such cases, an injured
employee may maintain in -the courts a negligence action for
damages. Petitioner brought such an action in a state court.
Held: Though his employer had accepted'its coverage, nothing in
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' CompensationAct prevents pefitioner'from recovering in the state court. Pp. 272-273.
214 Ore. 1, 320.P. 2d 668, reversed and cause remanded.

Dwight L. Schwab argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Herbert C. Hardy.
Ray H. Lafky, Assistant Attorney General, argued the
cause for the State.of Oregon, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal., With him on the brief was Robert Y. Thornton,
Attorney General.
Arno H:' Denecke argued the cause for respondent.
With him on ihe brief was Robert T. Mautz.,
PER -CURAM.

By its terms, the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act does not apply "if recovery for
the disability or death through workmen's rmpensation
proceedings may . . . validly be provided by State law."
§ 3, 44 Stat. 1426, 33 U. S. C. § 903 (a) (emphasis supplied). In Davis v. Department of Labor, 317 U. S. 249,
we recognized that in some cases it was impossible to
predict in advance of trial whether a worker's injury-occurred in an operation which, although maritime in nature,
was so "local" as to allow state compensation laws validly
to apply under the limitations of Southern Pacific Co. v.

HAHN v. ROSS ISLAND SAND & GRAVEL CO.
'272

273

STEWART, J., dissenting.

Jensen, 244 U. S.205.. As to cases within this "twilight
zone," Davis, in effect, gave an injured waterfront employee an election to recover compensation under either
the Longshoremen's Act or the Workmen's Compensation
Law of the State in which the injury occurred. It seems
plain enough that petitioner's injury occurred in .the
"twilight zone," and that recovery for it "through . workmen's compensation proceedings," could have been, and
in fact was, validly "provided by State law"-the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Act. Ore. Rev. Stat.
§§ 656.002-656.990. Therefore, the Longshoremen's Act
did not bar petitioner's claim under state law. But since
his employer had elected to reject them the automatic
compensation provisions of the Oregon Woikmen's Compensation Act did not apply to the claim. Section 656.024
of that law provides, however, that when an employer'has
elected to reject the Act's automatic compensation provisions his injured employee may maintain in the courts a
negligence action for damages. Of course, the employee
could not do.this if the case were not within the "twilight
zone," for then the Longshoremen's Act would provide the
exclusive remedy. Since this case is within the "twilight
zone," it follows from what we held in Davis that nothing
in the Longthoremen's Act or the United States Constitution prevents recovery. "
The judgment is reversea and the cause is remanded
to the Supreme Court of Oregon for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART,

whom MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

joins, dissenting.
This case poses a difficult and important issue of first
impression. The Court decides it, I think, incorrectly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
S wRT, J., dissenting.

358 U. S.

The petitioner was injured while working on a barge in
navigable waters within the State of Oregon. The
respondent employer had secured payment of compensation under the Lbngshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compefisation Act, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq., but had elected
not to be covered by the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Law, Ore. Rev. Stat.. § 656.002 et seq. Compensation benefits under the federal statute were clearly
available at all times to the petitioner. Instead of
accepting these benefits, however, he brought an action
for personal injuries in an Oregon state court, the Oregon
statute permitting such an action against an employer
not participating in the state workmen's compensation
plan.'
The trial court entered judgment for the employer,
notwithstanding a jury award in the petitioner's favor,
and the judgment was affirmed by the Oregon Supreme
Court, which held that the petitioner's sole remedy was
under the federal statute. 214 Ore. 1, 320 P. '2d 668.
It is that decision which is today reversed.
The creation in Davis v. Department of Labor of a
"twilight zone" was a practical solution to a practical
problem, a problem stemming from Southern Pacific Co.
v. Jensen, 244 U. S.205, and one which 25 years of postJensen history had failed to solve. The problem was how
to assure to injured waterfront employees the simple,
prompt, and certain protection of workmen's compensation which Congress had clearly intended to give in enacting the federal statute. See 317 U. S., at 254. The
Davis decision in effect told the injured employee that in
a doubtful case he would be assured of workmen's compensation whether he proceeded under a state w6rkmen's
compensation act or the federal statute. See Moores's
-the employer -in such a case is deprived of the traditional
common-law defenses. Ore. Rev. Stat. § 656.024.

HAHN v. ROSS ISLAND-SAND & GRAVEL CO.
272

STEWART,

275

J., dissenting.

Case, 323 Mass. 162, 80 N. E. 2d 478, aff'd per curiam, sub
nom. Bethlehem Steel Co. v. Moores, 335 U. S. 874.

Even accepting the premise that the circumstances surrounding Hahn's accident brought it within the twilight
zone, no one had supposed until today that either Davis
or the federal statute allowed an employee to spurn
federal compensation and submit his claim to a state
court jury.2 Chappell v. C. D. Johnson Lumber Corp.,
112 F. Supp. 625, reversed on other grounds, 216 F. 2d 873.
In the interest of a clear legislative purpose to provide
the certainty and security of workmen's compensation,
the "illogic" of a twilight zone was permitted.' Such
illogic should not be utilized to frustrate that very purpose. I would affirm the judgment.

2

The pertinent provision of 33 U. S. C. § 903 (a) is as follows:
"(a) Compensation shall be payable under this chapter in respect
of disability or death of an employee, but only if the disability or
death results from an injury occurring upon the navigable waters
of the United States (including any dry dock) and'if'recovery for
the disability or death through workmen's compensation proceedings
may not validly be provided by Stafe law." (Eiiiphasis added.)
-3The twilight zone and its background have been much criticized
and discussed. For summaries,. see Gilmore and Black, The Law
of Admiralty (1957), § 6-48; 2 Larson, The Law of -Workmen's
Compensation (1952), § 89.00 et seq.; Rodes, Worltmen's Compensation for Maritime Employees, Obscurity in the Twilight Zone, 68
,
,
Harv. L. Rev. 637 (1955)

