PEURIFOY v. COMMISSIONER.
Per Curiam.

PEURIFOY ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 46. Argued October 16, 20, 1958.-Decided November 10, 1958.
When a case arising under the Internal Revenue Laws turns on an
issue of fact and it appears that, in reviewing the Tax Court's
factual determination, the Court of Appeals has made a fair assessment of the record, this Court will not intervene. Pp. 59-61.
254 F. 2d 483, affirmed.

Daniel R. Dixon argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief was Martin F. O'Donoghue.
Earl E. Pollock argued the cause for respondent, pro
hac vice, by special leave of Court. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney
General Rice, Lee A. Jackson and Melva M. Granny.
PER CURIAM.

The petitioners were employed as construction workers
at a site in Kinston, North Carolina, for continuous
periods of 20/2 months, 121/2 months, and 81/2 months,
respectively, ending in the year 1953. Each of the petitionets maintained a permanent residence elsewhere in
North Carolina. In reporting his adjusted gross income
for 1953 each petitioner deducted amounts expended for
board and lodging at Kinston during 'the period of
employment there, and for transportation from Kinston
to his permanent residence upon leaving that employment. These deductions were disallowed by the respondent. Ensuing Tax Court proceedings resulted in a decision in favor of the petitioners. 27 T. C. 149. The
Court of Appeals reversed. 254 F. 2d 483. We granted
certiorari, 356 U. S. 956, to consider certain questions as

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Per Curiam.

358 U. S.

to the application of § 23 (a) (1) (A) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1939* raised, by the course of decisions
in the lower courts since our decision in Commissioner v.
Flowers, 326 U. S. 465. However, as the case has been
presented to us we have found it inappropriate to'consider such questions.
The issue is whether the amounts in question constituted allowable deductions under § 23 (a) (1) (A). Generally, a taxpayer is entitled to deduct unreimbursed
travel expenses under this subsection only when they are
required by "the exigencies of business." Commissioner
v. Flowers, supra. Application of this general rule
would require affirmance of the judgment of the Court
°0f'Appeals in the present case.
To this rule,-however, the Tax Court has engrafted an
exception which. allows a deduction for expenditures of
-the type .made in this case when the taxpayer's employment is "temporary" as contrasted with "indefinite" or
"indeterminate." Compare Schurer v. Commissioner,
3 T. C. 544; Leach v. Commissioner, 12 T. C. 20; Albert
v. Commissioner, 13 T. C. 129, with Warren v. Commissoner, 13 T. (. 205; Whitaker v. Commissioner,24 T. C.
750. The respondent does not in the present case challenge the-validity of this exception to the general rule.
Resolution of this case as presented to us turns, therefore, upon a narrow question of fact-Was the petitioners'
*1§

23.

DEDUCTIONS FROM GROSS INCOME.

"In computing net income there shall be allowed as deductions:
"(a) EXPENSES.

"(1) TRADE OR BUSINESS EXPENSES.
"(A) IN GENERAL.
"All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during
the taxable year in carryig on any trade or business, including . . . traveling expenses (including the entire -amount expended
for meals and lodging)" while away from home in tAe pursuit of a
trade or business; . . . ." 26 U. S. C. (1952 ed.) § 23 (a) (1) (A).

PEURIFOY v. COMMISSIONER.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

59

employment "temporary" or "indefinite"? The Tax
Court, stating that "each case must be decided upon the
basis of its own facts and circumstances," 27 T. C., at 157,
found that their employment was temporary. The
Court of Appeais, also recognizing that, the question was
"one of fact," held that on the record the Tax Court's
finding of temporary employment was "clearly erroneous." 254 F. 2d, at 487.
In reviewing the Tax Court's factual determination,
the Court of Appeals has made a fair assessment of the
record. 26 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 7482; Rule 52 (a),
Fed. Rules Civ. Proc.; cft Universal Camera Corp. v.
LaborBoard, 340 U.S. 474. That being so, this Court will
not intervene. Federal Trade Commission v. Standard
Oil Co., 355 U. S. 396,400-401; Labor Boardv. Pittsburgh
S. S. Co., 340 U. S. 498, 502-503.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER concur, dissenting. As Commissioner of InternalRevenue v. Flowers' indi-

-

cated, the prerequisites to a deduction for travel expenses
under § 23 (a) (1) (A) 2 are threefold: The expenses must
be reasonable and necessary,3 they must be incurred while
"away from home," and there Must be a "direct connection between the expenditure and the carrying on of the
trade or business of the taxpayer or of his employer."
(Emphasis supplied.) 326 U. S., at 470. I think the
taxpayers in this case have met those conditions and
should be allowed the claimed deductions.'
1326 U. S. 465.
2

§ 162 (a) (2) of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.'S. C.

(Supp. V) § 162 (a) (2).
3There is no contention made that the expenses here were not
reasonable and necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
:DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

358 U. S.

The meaning of "home" was expressly left undecided
in Flowers but is squarely presented in the instant case.'
I disagree with the Commissioner's contention that
"home" is synonymous with the situs of the employer's
business. Such a construction means that the taxpayer
who is forced to travel from place to place to pursue his
trade must carry his home on his back regardless of the
fact that he maintains his family at an abode which meets
all accepted definitions of "home." I do not believe that
Congress intended such a harsh result when it provided
a deduction for traveling expenses. These construction
workers do not have a permanent locus of employment as
does the merchant or factory worker. They are required
to travel from job to job in order to practice their trade.
It would be an intolerable burden for them to uproot

their families whenever they change jobs, if those jobs
happen to take them to a different locality.

When they

do not undertake this burden they are living "away from
home"' for the duration of the term of the jobs.'
4

The Court's opinion does not reach this question because it

decides the case on a ground not raised by the respondent.. See
note 6, infra. Instead it affirms the Court of Appeals decision as
relying on a factual determination. The Court of Appeals reversed
the Tax Court because it thought the latter tribunal had unwarrantedly extended the "exception" to the Flowers case for expenses
while "temporarily" away from home. Both courts agreed that tax,payers were away from their actual homes, but the Court of Appeals
thought the absence of such duration precluded a deduction. Nowhere in the statute or in Flowers is a distinction made between "temporary" and "indefinite" absences from home, and in fact such a
distinction improperly emphasizes duration of the absence as the
determinative factor in deciding where the taxpayer's "home"
actually is.
5 This definition of "home" will not permit any taxpayer who lives
apart from his family to deduct his maintenance expenses, no matter
what the nature of his trade or his employer's business. If the ex[Footnote 6 is on p. 63.]

PEURIFOY v. COMMISSIONER.
59

DOUGLAS,

63

J., dissenting.

We have, then, not a question of fact which should be
resolved below rather than here. We have a mixed question of law and fact. The facts will turn largely on the
resolution of the question of law. The error below was
mainly in assuming (albeit silently) a narrow construction
of the statutory term "home."

penses are necessary and appropriate to neither the employer's business nor the employee's trade, they are personal expenses under
§ 24 (a) (1) (§ 262 of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code). And of
course the facts may show that a taxpayer has in fact abandoned his
original 'home" as his principal place of residence.
6
The Flowers case does not hold, as the Court suggests, that the
deduction is necessarily unavailable if not required by the exigencies
of the employer's business. In that case a traveling expense deduction
was denied a lawyer employed by a railroad who chose to maintain his
home in Jackson, Mississippi, although, as the Court found, the permanent place of his business was in Mobile, Alabama. The Court held
the expenses of traveling between Jackson and Mobile were not appropriate or necessary to the railroad's business. In the present' case,
however, the expenses incurred were necessary, not to the business
of the contractor for whom the taxpayers worked, but for the taxpayers themselves in order to carry on their chosen trade. Flowers
did not decide that, because expenses are not required by the
employer's business, they can never be justified as necessary to the
employee's trade. The Government does not here contend that
the expenses were nondeductible because inappropriate to the trade
or business of the employer, the ground of decision in Flowers. Such
a contention was not assigned as a reason for disallowance of the
deduction nor presented to the courts below.

