OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN ET AL. V.
MAXCY, RECEIVER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 301.

Argued March 6, 1930.-Decided March 12, 1930.

A decree of the District Court of three judges enjoining a state commission from enforcing an order fixing the rates of a public utility,
upon the ground that the commission's valuation of the company's
property was not supported by the evidence, without other statement of facts or reasons, is set aside and the cause remanded with
directions to state findings of fact and conclusions of law and enter
a decree thereon, the restraining order to be continued pending
further action by the court below.

Mr. Suel 0. Arnold, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, with whom Mr. John W. Reynolds, Attorney General, was on the brief, and Mr. Adolph Kanneberg for
appellants.
Messrs. H. L. Butler, H. H. Thomas, B. H. Stebbins,
R. M. Stroud and R. M. Rieser were on the brief for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

This is an appeal from the decree of the District Court,
composed of three judges as required by the statute, enjoining the appellants from enforcing an order of the
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin fixing rates to be
charged by the receiver of the Washburn Water Works
Company for supplying water. The District Court gave
no opinion and, aside from the general recital in the decree that the court had considered the evidence submitted
by the parties and that it appeared therefrom that the

RAILROAD COMMISSION v. "MAXCY.
* 82

Opinion of the Court.

valuatin fixed by the Railroad Commission of the property of the Company for rate making purposes was not
supported, the record contains no finding whatever by
the District Court.
This Court-has repeatedly adverted to the importance
in a suit of this character of a statement by the District
Court of the grounds of its decision. Virginian Railway
Company v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 674, 675;
Lawrence, et al. v. St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company, 274 U. S. 588, 596; Cleveland, etc. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 404, 414; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company v. United States, 279 U. S. 781, 787.
In Lawrence, et al. v. St. Louis-San Francisco Railway
Company, supra, the court said: "The importance of an
opinion to litigants and to this Court in cases of this
character was pointed out in Virginian Ry. Co. v. United
States, 272 U. S. 658, 675. The importance is even greater
where the decree enjoins the enforcement of a state law
or the action of state officials thereunder. For then, the
respect due to the State demands that the need for nullifying the action of its legislature or of its executive officials be persuasively shown."
In the present instance this Court should have the aid
of appropriate findings by the District Court of the facts
which underlie its conclusions.
The decree is set aside, and the cause is remanded to the
District Court, specially constituted as provided by the
statute, to state its findings of fact and conclusions of law
and enter a decree thereon, the restraining order entered
in this suit to be continued pending further action by
the District Court.
Decree set aside.

