NEW YORK CENT. R. CO. v. MARCONE.
344

345

Syllabus.

Mr. Thomas Amory Lee, with whom Mr. Turner W.
Bell was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell and
Messrs. J. Frank Staley, W. Clifton Stone, and Erwin N.
Griswold were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Milo J. Warner and Robert Newbegin filed a
brief as amici curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This action was brought in the United States court
for Kansas to recoyer for permanent totdl disability on
a war risk insurance policy. The court gave plaintiff
judgment for the amount of the accrued installments with
interest on each to date of the judgment, and directed
that the judgment bear interest until paid. 24 F. -(2d)
981. The United States took the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and there contended that plaintiff was
not entitled to interest. The Circuit Court of Appeals
rightly reversed the judgment.. 34 F. (2d) 241.
The case is ruled by this court's decision on the third
question certified in United States v. Worley, announced
this day, ante,-p. 339.
Judgment affirmed.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MARCONE, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 212. Argued February 25, 26, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.
1. On the evidence it was f6r the jury to say whether the railroad
company exercised due care in moving an engine in a round-house
at night without more -effective and specific warning than the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

sounding of the whistle and bell, and whether the failure to give
such other warning was the cause of the death of an employee
who 'had been working close to the track, it appearing that
whistles and bells were being constantly operated in the roundhouse to test them as well as to warn of engine movements, and
there being also evidence tending to prove a custom to post the
times at which engines were to be removed as a warning to those
employed about them, and that the movement in this case was
earlier than the time posted for the engine. P. 349.
2. Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act contributory negligence is not a bar to recovery unless it is the sole cause of the
injury or death, but may be taken into consideration by the.
jury in fixing the amount of damage. P. 350.
3. The work of lubricating, in a round-house, an engine that was
last used in hauling interstate trains and has not been withdrawn
from service is employment in interstate commerce. P. 350.
4. The workman who has finished such a job is still employed in
interstate commerce within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act if injured within a few minutes of its completion and
while on duty in the round-house awaiting instructions from his
superior. P. 350.
105 N. J. L. 466, affirmed.
CERTIORAIU, 280 U. S. 540, to review a judgment of the
Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey affirming a
recovery under the Employers' Liability Act.

Mr. William H. Carey, with whom Mr. Albert C. Wall
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. Owsley Stanley argued the cause, and Mr. Alexander Simpson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered

the opinion of the'Court.

The respondent, plaintiff below,_ brought suit in the
Circuit Court of Hudson County, New Jersey, to recover
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, for the death
of his intestate. Judgment for plaintiff was affirmed by
the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey., 105
N. J. L. 466. This Court granted certiorari, 280 U. S.

NEW YORK CENT. R. CO. v. MARCONE.
345

347

Opinion of the Court.

540, on a petition which asserted as grounds for allowing the writ that the court below had erroneously decided
that there was evidence that at the time of the accident
deceased was engaged in interstate commerce; that there
was evidence of negligence on the part 'of petitioner; and
that deceased's death was not due to his own negligence.
Decedent was employed in the roundhouse of petitioner
at New-Durham, New Jersey, in which there are thirtytwo engine stalls, the doors to which are adjacent to and
distant about 68 feet from a turntable. His duty was
to fill the grease cups and pack the journal boxes of engines while in the roundhouse for inspection. On the
night of the accident his hours of duty were from 7 P. M.
to 3 A. M. He had worked on fourteen engines, using
tools which were placed on an inspection wagon, which
was moved from engine to engine along a concrete runway extending in front of the engine stalls along the
outer circumference of the roundhouse. He had lubricated and completed work on Engine No. 3709 on Track
8 before eleven o'clock in the evening. The last engine
he worked on was No. 3835, standing on Track 7, adjacent
to Track 8 on its left when facing the roundhouse. Fellow workmen, who had finished work on the same engine
before the deceased, had been sent to do work outside the
roundhouse. At about 2:15 A. M. deceased was instructed by his foreman or gang leader to work on Engine 3835 and when finished to wait for the foreman at
the inspection wagon which was then located oil the concrete runway in front of the open space lying between
Track 7 and Track 8.
There was no eye witness to the accident. At about
2:35 A. M. the decedent's body, with head and one arm
severed, was discovered on the right-hand rail of Track 8,
adjacent to Track 9, underneath the trucks of the tender
of Engine No. 3709, which was then being backed on
Track 8 from the roundhouse to the turntable. His cap

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

was found between the rails of Track 8, about 15 feet
outside of the door of the roundhouse. Blood stains
were found on or near the right-hand rail of Track 8,
beginning about 30 feet from the roundhouse and extending to the point where the body was found, some 60
feet or more from the door of the roundhouse.
The hostler who removed the engine from the roundhouse testified that before moving it he inspected Track
8, that he saw no one on or near the track, that he then
mounted the engine, started the air pump, turned on the
headlight, rear light and cab lights, -started the engine
bell ringing and blew three blasts of the whistle as a
warning that he was about to back the engine out and
as notice to the operator of the turntable. At about
2:30 A. M., some ten minutes after mounting the engine,
he backed the engine toward the turntable at the rate
of about four miles an hour, looking behind as he did so.
The operator of the turntable not responding to the signal, he stopped the engine, blew three more blasts and
when the turntable was set he again started the engine
and proceeded until decedent's body was discovered.
When backing the engine the tender cut off the view
of the track for a distance of about 12 feet from its rear
end. The clearance between Engine No. 3709, which
killed deceased, and the sides of the door to the roundhouse was about 4 inches, and between it and the engine
on Track 7 was variously estimated from about 2 feet to
about 3 feet 9 inches. There was much evidence that
there was constant blowing of whistles and ringing of
bells in the roundhouse in connection with moving the
engines and testing their whistles and bells. There was
testimony by the hostler, confirmed by his foreman, that
just before the movement of the engine in question the
foreman cautioned him not to blow the whistle "too
loud" because of complaints and warnings by the local
police on account of the noise coming from the roundhouse.

NEW YORK CENT. R. CO. v. MARCONE.
345

349

Opinion of the Court.

Under all the circumstances disclosed by the evidence,
it was a permissible inference by the jury that the sounding of whistle and bell, because of the continuous noise
of whistles and bells which did not indicate movement of
engines, was not sufficient warning that any particular
engine was to be moved and that in fact the signal given
before moving the engine in question was insufficient for
that purpose. In addition, there was testimony that
there was a system or custdm in the roundhouse of giving
warning to the men employed about the engines when
they were to be removed from the roundhouse, by posting
the time of removal on a blackboard located on the inside
of the outer wall of the roundhouse. The time posted
for the engine in question was 3 A. M., or a half hour
later than the actual time of its removal. There was evidence that the foreman had warned the hostler not to
take the engine out "too early." There was also evi"dence tending to show that the time posted on the blackboard had no reference to the time of removal of the
engine from the roundhouse but merely indicated, the
time at which the engine must be ready for the engine
crew on the appropriate siding in- the yard beyond the
tuirntable.
But the inference to be drawn from this testimony as
to the existence of the custom, its purpose and the reliance which deceased under all the circumstances was
entitled to place upon it, was for the jury. We think
that there was sufficient evidence of petitioner's negligence to take the case to the jury. Workmen.were constantly moving about the engines stalled in the roundhouse. Any movement of an engine without warning
was dangerous to life and limb. After the hostler
mounted the engine and before it was moved, sufficient
time elapsed for the deceased to come into proximity
with it which was dangerous if, as the jury might have
found, he could not be seen from the engine cab by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

hostler and was not warned of the impending movement.
On the evidence it was for the jury to say whether petitioner exercised due care in moving the engine without a
more specific and effective warning and whether failure
to give it was the cause of the death.
The jury, having found, as it might, that the negligence
was the cause of the death, might also have inferred that
the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence, but
the trial judge correctly charged that under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act contributory negligence is not
a bar to recovery unless it is the sole cause of the injury
or death, and may be taken into consideration by the
jury in fixing the amount of damage.
The engine, No. 3835, on which deceased last worked
was used in hauling interstate trains. It was not withdrawn from service. See Walsh v. N. Y,, N. H. & H. R.
R. Co., 223 U. S. 1; Erie Railroad v. Szary, 253 U. S. 86;
cf. Industrial Commission v. Davis, 259 U. S. 182. But
petitioner contends that deceased, having finished his
work, was no longer employed in interstate commerce.
The trial court submitted to the jury the question
whether deceased had finished his work on this engine
at the time of the accident, and there was some evidence
to support a finding that he had not finished it. But if
we assume that he had completed the work a few minutes
before his death, he was still on duty. His presence on
the premises was so closely associated with his employment in interstate commerce as to be an incident of it and
to entitle him to the benefit of the Employers' Liability
Act. Erie Railroad v. Szary, supra; Erie Railroad Co.
v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170, 173; see North CarolinaR. R.
Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 260; Hoyer v. CentralRailroad Co. of New Jersey, 255 Fed. 493, 496, 497.
Affirmed.

