DISTRICT OF COLUIBIA v. FRED.
Opinion of the Court.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. FRED.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 229.

Argued January 24, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

The Traffic Act for the District of Columbia, in extending, § S(a),
the privilege of operating motor cars within the District without
having District operators' permits to non-residents licensed to
operate such vehicles in States granting like exemptions to residents
of the District, does not relieve a non-resident, so licensed, who
formerly resided in tihe District and whose District permit was
then revoked under § 13(a), from punishment under § 13(d), if
he operates his vehicle within the District during the unexpired
period of the revoked permit. P. 51.
33 F. (2d) 375, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 541, to review a judgment of the

Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia which, on
writ of error, reversed a judgment of the Police Court
sentencing the respondent for a violation of the Traffic
Act.
Mr. Richmond B. Keech, Assistant Corloration Counsel, District of Columbia, with whom Messrs. William IW.
Bride, Corporation Counsel, and Edward W. Thomas,
Assistant Corporation Counsel, were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. S. McComas Hawken for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent was convicted in the police court of the
District of Columbia of the offense of operating a motor
vehicle in the District during the unexpired period of his
operator's permit after it had been revoked. § 13 (d) of
the Traffic Acts of the District of Columbia., Act of March
o

98234 -30

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

3, 1925, as amended by Act of July 3, 1926. C. 443, 43
Stat. 1119; c. 739, 44 Stat., Pt. 2, 812. The Court of Appeals of the District, on writ of error, set aside the conviction. 33 F. (2d) 375. This Court granted certiorari
May 27, 1929, to review its judgment.
Section 13 (d) provides: "Any individual found guilty
of operating a motor vehicle in the District during the
period for which his operator's permit is revoked or suspended, or for which his right to operate is suspended
under this Act, shall, for each such offense, be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500, or imprisoned not less
than thirty days nor more than one year, or both." The
facts, proved at the trial, showed an unquestioned violation of this section by respondent unless, as contended, his
possession of a Virginia operator's permit or license, aided
by the reciprocity provisions of the District Traffic Acts,
exempts him from its operation.
Following the revocation of his District of Columbia
permit, respondent, who was then a resident of the District, took up his residence in Virginia and procured from
that state a motor vehicle registration card and automobile license tags, authorizing him to operate his motor
car in Virginia. The alleged violation of § 13 (d) occurred
while his Virginia registration license was in force and
while respondent was temporarily in the District, driving
his automobile equipped with the Virginia license tags.
By §7, all persons operating motor cars within the District are required to have an operator's permit, which permit, under § 13 (a), -may be suspended or revoked by the
Director of Traffic for cause. By § 7 (e) operation of a
motor vehicle without a permit is punishable by fine
of "not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more
than six months, or both." But by § 8 (a) the requirement of an operator's permit is dispensed with in favor
of non-residents who have procured a permit or license

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. FRED.
49

Opinion of the Court.

from a state granting like exemptions to residents of the
District, as has the State of Virginia. The language of
the exemption ,is: "shall be exempt from compliance
with § 7 and with provisions of law or regulations requiring the registration of motor vehicles or the display of
identification tags in the District."
The court below, in setting aside the conviction, rested
its decision on the ground that this provision "expressly
relieves the non-resident owner or operator of a motor
vehicle, who has complied with the laws of his state respecting registration and operators' licenses, from either
registering his vehicle here or obtaining a local operator's
permit, provided only that similar privileges are extended
to residents of the District in that state." But respondent
was not charged with violation of § 7, which forbids
operating without a license, or of any provision or regulation requiring the registration of motor vehicles, which
are the only offenses exempted under § 8. He was charged
with a different offense, under § 13 (d),-that of operating a vehicle within a specified time after the revocation of his permit, for which a different penalty is
provided than for violations of § 7. It is significant that
the exemption clause in § S (a) specifically refers to § 7
but makes no mention of § 13 (d).
If the clause were ambiguous or there were any room
for construing it, examination of the whole Act makes
evident its general purpose not to extend to non-residents
any reciprocal privilege beyond relieving them from the
necessity of procuring a District operator's license and
complying with provisions for the registration of their
vehicles, and that all other requirements of the Act and
penalties for non-compliance were left in full force and
effect. By § 13 (c)the right to operate a car in the District under the license or permit of a state may be sus.pended; and operation of the car in the District during
the period of suspension is punishable under § 13 (d).

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

It cannot be supposed that any distinction was intended
to be drawn between the consequences of operating a
car within the District by one whose right to operate
under a foreign license had been suspended and one
whose right to operate under a District license had been
revoked or suspended. We can find nothing in the sections cited or the Traffic Acts as a whole to suggest that
there is.
Reversed.

COLLIE

ET AL.

v. FERGUSSON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 423.

Argued January 13, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Rev. Stats., § 4529, providing that the owner of any vessel making
coastwise voyages who refuses or neglects to pay a seaman's wages
in the manner therein prescribed "without sufficient cause," shall
pay the seaman a sum equal to two days' pay for each day
during which payment is delayed, does not apply where delay in
payment is due to the insolvency of the owner and the arrest of
the vessel subject to accrued claims beyond its value. P. 54.
2. Evidence in an admiralty suit not reviewed when sufficient to support the concurrent action of twc courts below. P. 57.
3. Seamen who appealed unsuccessfully to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a decree in admiralty properly denying their claims to
payment of' double wages for waiting time from the proceeds of a
vessel, held entitled to two-thirds of the costs in that court because
payment of wages from such proceeds, adjudged in their favor,
was withheld through a suspension of the decree pending the
appeal, ordered by the District Court at the instance of their
opponents, who took no cross appeal; P. 57.
31 F. (2d) 1010, modified and affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 547, to review a decree of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree in admiralty.
Mr. Jacob L. Morewitz, with whom Mr. Percy Carmel
was on the brief, for petitioners.

