OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

412

281 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ited to suits brought against them as defendants. For,
this objection was not made or considered below on constitutional grounds.
Reversed.
BOARD

OF

RAILROAD

NORTH DAKOTA ET AL.
RAILWAY COMPANY ET

COMMISSIONERS
V. GREAT
AL.

OF

NORTHERN

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF, NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 364. Argued April 17, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Save as may be validly provided by Act of Congress, railroad
rates established by a State for its internal commerce can not
be interfered with by the federal courts upon the ground that
they work undue and unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce. Pp. 420 et seq.
2. Whether intrastate railroad rates ordered by state authority
should be set aside as working undue and unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce is a question which, by the Interstate Commerce Act, is confided for determination in the first
instance to the Interstate Commerce Commission. Id.
3. Where the sole objection to a state order reducing intrastate rates
is alleged undue discrimination against interstate commerce, a
federal court has no authority to enjoin their enforcement-not
even temporarily, to await the Commission's determination of that
question in a pending proceeding. P. 430.
33 F. (2d) 934, reversed.

from a decree of interlocutory injunction granted
by the District Court of three judges, in a suit brought
by a number of railroads attacking an order of the Railroad Commissioners fixing intrastate class rates in North
Dakota.
APPEAL

Mr. James Morris, Attorney General of North Dakota,
with whom Mr. John E. Benton was on the brief, for
appellants.

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Argument for Appellants.

The Fourteenth Amendment is self-acting. It requires
no legislation to carry it into effect. The Amendment
itself provides that " No State shall . . . deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law." A state statute or other law, such as a rate prescribed by state authority, is ineffective if it will operate to
cause confiscation; and the courts have jurisdiction to determine that question in a suit brought to enjoin its
enforcement.
The commerce clause, however, while it inhibits state
action which would place a direct burden upon interstate
commerce, as respects the internal commerce of the State
has no other effect than to empower the Congress to legislate, in so far as may be necessary for the effective regulation of interstate and foreign commerce. Under this
clause the federal courts have no jurisdiction, as respects
intrastate rates, except for the enforcement of some Act
of Congress. Such rates, lawfully prescribed, may be affected only in the manner and to the extent that Congress
by legislation, for the proper protection of interstate commerce, has provided.
The pendency before the Interstate Commerce Commission of a proceeding under § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act involving the order of the Board of Railroad
Commissioners of May 8, 1929, is not ground for injunction, and does not confer jurisdiction to grant an interlocutory injunction.
It is a well settled rule, adopted for the preservation of
uniformity, which it was the purpose of the Interstate
Commerce Act to secure, that the courts may not exert
authority over subjects which primarily come within the
jurisdiction of the Commission in advance of its action.
Great Northern Ry. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S.
285; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber Co.,
234 U. S. 138; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsyl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellees.

281 U. S.

vania R. Co., 230 U. S. 303; Mitchell Coal &f C. Co. v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Baltimore & 0. R.
Co. v. United States, 215 U. S. 481; Director General v.
Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 398; Northern Pac. R. Co. v. Solum,
247 U. S.477.
The discretion of the Board of Railroad Commissioners
in fixing intrastate rates should not be interfered with by
the courts in the absence of a finding by the Interstate
Commerce Commission to the effect that such intrastate
rates cast a discriminatory burden upon interstate commerce or discriminate against persons or places engaged in
interstate commerce.
The plaintiffs had at the time of the commencement of
this action, a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law
in the courts of North Dakota. State ex rel. Hughes v.
Milhollan, 50 N. D. 184.
Mr. R. J. Hagman, with whom Messrs. D. F. Lyons
and F. G. Dorety were on the brief, for appellees.
A federal court of equity has power to prevent irrepara
ble loss and damage, or a threatened violation of law,
by enjoining intrastate rates until the Interstate Commerce Commission can determine in a pending proceeding
whether such rates unjustly discriminate against interstate commerce.
A State is prohibited from unjustly, discriminating
against interstate commerce. The Shreveport Case, 234
U. S. 342; Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563.
The Commission has sole jurisdiction to determine the
question of unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. Texas & Pac. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426; Houston & T. R. Co. v. United States, 234
U. S. 342.
Unjust discrimination against interstate commerce by
States is forbidden before as well as after the Commission

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

..
Argument for Appellees..

determines the existence of such discrimination. Paragraph (4) of § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act is an
unconditional condemnation of unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce by States. Section 13 forbade and declared unlawful such unjust discrimination at
all times.
Unjust discriminations in freight rates were prohibited
by the common law. See Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. B. (k 0. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; Sullivan v. M. & R. R.
Ry. Co., 121 Minn. 488; Homestead Co. v. Des Moines
Elec. Co., 248 Fed. 439.
The courts will enforce the prohibition against unjust
discrimination against interstate commerce by intrastate
rates imposed by a State, since the Interstate Commerce
Act saves common law remedies. § 22, par. 1; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120. And
the power to prevent irreparable damage or to enjoin
a proposed unlawful act is inherent in a federal court of
equity. Jud. Code, § 24, par. 8; Northern Pac. R. Co.
v. Pacific Lumber Mfrs. Ass'n, 165 Fed. 1.
In analogous cases courts of equity have prevented irreparable damage or a threatened violation of law by
holding matters in statu quo until another tribunal having
jurisdiction of a controversy can determine it. Western
Union v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 201 Fed. 946; Zimmerman v. McCurdy, 15 N. D. 79; Elliott v. Rich, 24 N. M.
52; Union Pac. R. Co. v. Lumber Mfrs. Ass'n, 165 Fed.
13; Great Northern R. Co. v. Kalispell Lumber Co., 165
Fed. 25; Tift v. Southern.Ry., 123 Fed. 789; Kiser Co. v.
Central of Georgia, 158 Fed. 193. Tift case, 206 U. S.
428, at p. 437.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Macon Grocery Co., 166 Fed.
206 is contra on the present question.
The Commission has passed on § 13 petitions while intrastate rates were enjoined. Fertilizerbetween Southern
Points, 113 I. C. C. 389.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Messrs. Henry N. Benson, Attorney General of Minnesota, Charles E. Phillips and John F. Bonner, Assistant
Attorneys General, by special leave of Court, filed a brief
as amici curiae, on behalf of the Railroad and Warehouse
Commission of Minnesota.
Mr. John E. Benton, by special leave of Court, filed a
brief as amicus curiae, on behalf of the Public Service
Commission of Alabama et al.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
On May 8, 1929, the Board of Railroad Commissioners
of the State of North Dakota made an order prescribing
intrastate class rates. The existing rates were reduced
about ten per cent and the order was made effective on
July 1, 1929. The appellees, common carriers engaged
in interstate transportation and also in intrastate transportation in North Dakota, brought this suit on June
25, 1929, in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of
the order pending the determination by the Interstate
Commerce Commission of the question whether the intrastate rates, as thus prescribed, cause an undue or unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce in
violation of Section 13of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The District Court, composed of three Judges, as required
by statute, granted an interlocutory injunction to this
effect (33 Fed. (2d) 934) and the Railroad Commission
of the State and the other .State officials, who were
defendants, have brought this appeal.
On August 26, 1920, the Interstate Commerce Commission, in a proceeding known as Ex parte 74, authorized a
general advance in interstate freight rates throughout the
United States. Increased'Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220.
The appellees then applied to the Board of Railroad
Commissioners of North Dakota for authority to make

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

increases in the North Dakota intrastate class rates to correspond with the increases which had been made in the
interstate class rates. The State Commission denied the
application. Thereupon, in a proceeding (Docket No.
12,085) under Section 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act
the Interstate Commerce Commission made a finding that
the interstate rates established by the carriers, as a result
of the decision in Ex parte 74, were reasonable for interstate transportation and that the failure correspondingly
to increase the intrastate rates -within the State of North
Dakota resulted inan undue preference to the shippers of
intrastate traffic within that State and in an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. On May 3,
1921, the Interstate Commerce Commission entered an
order requiring these carriers to increasb the intrastate
freight rates in North Dakota so as to correspond with
the advances in interstate, rates. North Dakota Rates,
Fares,and Charges, 61 I. C. C. 504. These increases were
made, effective May 27, 1921.
On June 5, 1922, the Board of Railroad Commissioners
of North Dakota. made an order reciting that the order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission of May 3, 1921,
practically deprived the State Commission of its power
to regulate intrastate rates and that appropriate action
should be taken to terminate the disability. Upon appli-.
cation by the State Commission, the Interstate Commerce
Commission (July 22, 1922) vacated its order of May 3,
1921, in so far as it related to intrastate rates in North
Dakota, stating that "the existing increased intrastate
rates and charges for freight services in said State will
continue in force and effect until revoked, modified or
superseded by appropriate lawful proceedings before said
Board" (the State Commission) "or as otherwise provided by law." The State Commission was thus left free
to exercise its lawful authority over intrastate rates.
98234°-30-----27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The Congress, by Joint Resolution of January 30, 1925
(43 Stat. 801), directed the Interstate Commerce Commission to make an investigation of the rate structure of
common carriers in order to determine to what extent
and in what manner existing rates and charges might be
unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, and to make
such changes, adjustments and redistribution of rates and
charges as might be found to be necessary. The Commission was required to make from time to time such
decisions as'it might deem appropriate to establish a just
and reasonable relation between rates upon designated
classes of traffic.' Pursuant to this direction, the Inter'The provision relating to the investigation is as follows:
"That the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized and directed to make a thorough investigation of the rate structure of common carriers subject to the interstate commerce act, in order
to determine to what extent and in what manner existing rates and
charges may be unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential, thereby imposing undue burdens, or. giving uhduc
advantage as between the various localities and parts of the country;
the various classes of traffic, and the various classes and kinds of commodities, and to-make, in accordance with law, sdch changes, adjustments, and redistribution of rates and charges as may be found
necessary to correct any defects so found to exist. In making any
such change, 'adjustment, or redistribution the commission shall give
due regard, among other factors, to the general and comparative
levels in market value of the various classes and kinds of commodities as indicated over a reasonable period of years, to a natural
and proper development of the country as a whole, and to the maintenance of an adequate system of transportation. In the progress of
such investigation the commission shall, from time to time, and as
expeditiously as possible, make such decisions and orders as it may
find to be necessary or appropriate upon the record then made in
order to place the rates upon designated classes of traffic upon a
just and reasonable basis with relation to other rates. Such investigation shall be conducted with due regard to other investigations or
proceedings affecting rate adjustments which may be pending before
the commission," 43 Stat. 801.

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

state Commerce Commission on March 12, 1925, instituted the proceeding known as Docket No. 17000, "Rate
Structure Investigation," and all common carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act were made respondents. Notice was sent to the Governor of each State
and to the state regulatory commissions. The Interstate
Commerce Commission thus undertook the investigation'
of the rate structure in the entire western district, including class rates in the regiori embracing the State of North
Dakota. The Board of Railroad Commissioners of that
State, with other state railroad commissions, have been
cooperating in this investigation and the proceeding is
still pending.
On May 29, 1925, the Board of Railroad Commissioners
of North Dakota on its own motion began an investigation for the purpose of determining to what extent, if
any, the North Dakota intrastate rates were unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory. In September, 1927, the
State Commission directed that the record should be held
open for further hearing after the Interstate Commerce
Commission rendered a decision in its Docket No.. 17000.
A few months later, the State Commission resumed its
general investigation and a hearing was held in relation
to class rates and certain other rates. This resulted in
the order of May 8, 1929, now in question, reducing the
existing intrastate class rates.
The appellees then filed a petition with the Interstate
Commerce Commission alleging that the scale of class
rates required by the State Commission would unjustly
discriminate against persons and localities in interstate
commerce, and would constitute an unreasonable burden
on interstate commerce, in violation of Section 13 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, and asked the Interstate Commerce Commission to institute a proceeding to determine
whether such unjust discrimination would result and to

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

prohibit it by prescribing the class rates to be charged by
the carriers for intrastate transportation in North Dakota.
Thereupon, this suit was brought. The interlocutory injunction, granted below, restrained the State Commission
and other state officials from putting into effect the intrastate class rates prescribed by the order of May 8, 1929,
until the Interstate Commerce Commission, either in its
Docket No. 17000, or in the proceeding under Section 13
of the Interstate Commerce Act which the plaintiffs
(appellees) had petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission to institute, determined the question of unjust
discrimination with respect to interstate commerce, and
until the further order of the Court.
It should be observed at the outset that there is no
contention on the part of the carriers that the intrastate
rates fixed by the State Commission are confiscatory.
There is no challenge of the authority of the State Commission under the constitution and laws of the State to
prescribe these rates for intrastate traffic, or of the validity
or regularity of the proceedings which resulted in the
order ofs the State Commission, aside from the alleged
effect upon interstate commerce.
The question of the control of the State, as against an
objection of this sort, over rates for transportation exclusively intrastate was considered in the Minnesota Rate
Cases. (230 .. S. 352.) The State of Minnesota had
established rates for intrastate transportation throughout
the State, and the complaining carriers insisted that by
reason of the passage of the Interstate Commerce Act the
State could no longer exercise the untrammeled statewide
authority that it had f9rmerly enjoyed in prescribing reasonable intrastate rates, and that the scheme of rates
which Minnesota had prescribed, even if found to be otherwise not subject to attack, was void because of their.
injurious effect upon interstate commerce. There had
been no finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

of unjust discrimination against interstate commerce by
reason of the intrastate rates and,. reserving the question
of the validity and consequence of such a finding if one
were made by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Court decided that there was no ground for invalidating
the action of the State. Dealing with the interblending of
operations in the conduct of interstate and local business
by interstate carriers, the Court said that these considerations were for the practical judgment of Congress, and
that if adequate regulation of interstate rates could not
be maintained without imposing requirements as to such.
intrastate rates as substantially affected the former, it
was for Congress, within the limits of its constitutional
authority over interstate commerce, to determine the
measure of the regulation it should apply. It was not
the function of the Court to provide a more comprehensive scheme of regulation than Congress had decided upon,
nor, in the absence of Federal action, to deny effect to the
laws of the State enacted within the field which it was
entitled to occupy until its authority was limited through
the exertion by Congress of its paramount constitutional
power. On the assumption that Section 3 of the Interstate
Commerce Act should be construed as applicable to unreasonable discriminations between localities in different
States, as well when arising from an intrastate rate as
compared with an interstate rate as when due to interstate
rates exclusively, the Court was of the opinion that the
controlling principle governing the enforcement of the
act should be applied to such cases and that the question
of the existence of such a discrimination would be primarily for the investigation and determination of the
Interstate Commerce Commission and not for the courts.
(Id. p. 419.)
The controlling principle, thus invoked, was derived
from a consideration of the nature of the question and
of the inquiry and action required for its solution. The

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

inquiry would necessarily relate to technical and intricate
matters of fact, and the solution of the question would
demand the exercise of sound administrative discretion.
The accomplishment of the purpose of Congress could
not be had without the comprehensive study of an expert body continuously employed in administrative supervision. Only through the action of such a body could
there be secured the uniformity of ruling upon which
appropriate protection from unreasonable exactions and
unjust discriminations must depend. (Id. pp. 419, 420.
'See Great Northern Railway Company v. Merchants
Elevator Company, 259 U. S. 285, 291.)
The application of this principle had frequent illustration before the question arose as to unjust discriminations
against interstate commerce through the fixing of intrastate rates. In Texas & Pacific Railway Company v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Company (204 U. S. 426), the Court
decided that a shipper could not maintain an action because of the exaction of an alleged unreasonable rate on
interstate shipments, when the rate had been duly filed
and published by the carrier and had not been found to
be unreasonable by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Court found an indissoluble unity between
the provision for the maintenance of rates as established
in accordance with the statute and the prohibitions
against preferences and discriminations, and declared that
to maintain the just relation which ,the statute was intended to conserve it was essential that there should be
uniformity of decision and that redress should be sought
primarily through the administrative powers entrusted to
the Interstate Commerce Commission. In Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Company v. United States ex rel. Pitcairn
Coal Company (215 U. S. 481), complaint was made by
the coal company of the method of distribution of coal
cars, which was said to amount to an unjust discrimination. The Court considered the controversy to be con-

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

trolled by the decision in the Abilene case, supra,and that
the grievances of which complaint was made were primarily within the administrative competency of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Court said that
the amendments of 1906 of the Interstate Commerce Act
rendered, if possible, more imperative the construction
which had been given to the act in this respect. After
adverting to the case of Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Illinois Central Railroad Company (215 U. S. 452), the
Court again pointed out "the destructive effect upon the
system of regulation adopted by the Act to Regulate Commerce," if it were construed as "giving authority to the
courts, without the preliminary action of the commission,
to consider and pass upon the administrative questions
which the statute has primarily confided to that body."
(215 U. S. p. 496.) The question was again considered
in Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company (222
U. S. 506), where the Court held that no action for reparation for discriminatory exactions for freight payments
could be maintained in any Court, Federal or state, in the
absence of an appropriate finding and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Referring to the Abilene
case, supra, the Court said, "It is true that . . . in that

case the complaint against the established rate was that it
was unreasonable, while here the complaint is that the
rate was unjustly discriminatory. But the distinction is
not material." (Id. p. 511.) 2
2 See, also, United States v. 1'ac pc & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87, 107,
10,9; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 259;
Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. American Tie & Lumber Co., 234
U. S. 138, 147; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S.
121, 131; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456,
469; Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. -:77, 483;
Director General of Railroads v. Viscose Company, 254 U. 3. 498,
504; Great Northern Railway Co. v. Merchants Elevator Company,
259 U. S. 285, 291, 295; Terminal R. R. Ass'n v. United States, 266
U. S. 17, 31; Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Georgia Public Service
Commission, 267 U. S. 493, 497."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The grounds for invoking this principle of preliminary
resort to the Interstate Commerce Commission are even
stronger when the effort is made to invalidate intrastate
rates upon the ground of unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce. Not only are the questions as to the
effect of intrastate rates upon interstate rates quite as
intricate as those relating to discrimination in interstate
rates, not only is there at least an equal need for the comprehensive, expert and continuous study of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and for the uniformity obtainable
only through its action, but in addition there is involved
a prospective interference with State action within its
normal field, in relation to the domestic concern of transportation exclusively intrastate. The Court found no
warrant for the contention that Congress in enacting the
Interstate Commerce Act intended that there should be
s,uch an interference before the fact of unjust discrimination had been established by competent inquiry on the
part of the administrative authority to which Congress
had entrusted the solution of that class of questions.
What was lacking in the Minnesota Rate Cases, supra,
had been supplied in the Shreveport Case (234 U. S. 342).'
There, the Interstate Commerce Commission had found
that there was an unjust discrimination arising out of the
relation of intrastate rates, maintained under State authority, to interstate rates which had been upheld as reasonable. The Court decided that Congress in exercising
its constitutional authority could correct the evil of this
discrimination afiainst interstate commerce and that in so
doing Congress was entitled to secure the maintenance of
its own standard of interstate rates. Having this power,
Congress could provide for its exercisethrough the aid of
a subordinate body. The removal of the discrimination
3 Houston, East and West Texas Railway Company v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342.

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

was within the authority granted to the Interstate Commerce Commission and the decision rested upon the
ground that this authority had been exercised. (Id. pp.
357, 358. See, also American Express Company v. Caldwell,'244 U. S. 617, 625; Illinois Central Railroad Company v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S.493,
506; Arkansas Railroad Commission v. Chicago R. I. &
P. R. R. Co., 274 U. S.597, 599.)
In the Transportation Act, 1920 (41 Stat. 484) Congress enacted express provisions with respect to intrastate
rates, regulations and practices. (Id. Sec. 416.) Amending Section 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, Congress authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission to
confer with state regulatory bodies with respect to "the
relationship between rate structures and practices of
carriers subject to the jurisdiction of such State bodies
and of the Commission," and to hold joint hearings. It
was provided that whenever in any such investigation,
after full hearing, the Commission finds that any rate,
regulation or practice "causes any undue or unreasonable
advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons or
localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand and
interstate or foreign commerce.on the other hand, or any
undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination- against
interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden
and declared to be unlawful," the Commission shall prescribe the rate, regulation or practice "thereafter to be
observed, in such minner as, in its :judgment, will remove" the discrimination. The order of the Commission is to bind the carriers, parties to the proceeding, "the
law of any State or the decision or order of any State
authority to the contrary notwithstanding." 4
4 The text of the provisions thus added to Section 13 is as follows:
"Sec. 13. ...
"(3) Whenever in any investigation under the provisions of this
Act, or in any investigation instituted upon petition of the carrier

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

There can be no doubt that Congress thus intended to
recognize and incorporate in legislative enactmeit the
principle of the Shreveport Case, supra.5 We find no
concerned, which petition is hereby authorized to be filed, there shall
be brought in issue any rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or
practice, made or imposed by authority of any State, or initiated
by the President during the period of Federal control, the Commission, before proceeding to hear and dispose of such issue, shall cause
the State or States interested to be notified of the proceeding. The
Commission may confer with the authorities of any State having regulatory jurisdiction over the class of persons and corporations subject
to this Act with respect to the relationship between rate structures
and practices of carriers subject to the jurisdiction of such State bodies
and of the Commission; and to that end is authorized and empowered,
under rules to be prescribed by it, and which may be modified from
time to time, to hold joint hearings with any such State regulating
bodies on any matters wherein the Commission is empowered to act
and where the rate-making authority of a State is or may be affected
by the action taken by the Commission. The Commission is also
authorized to avail itself of the cooperation, services, records, and
facilities of such State authorities in the enforcement of any provision of this Act.
"(4) Whenever in any such investigation the Commission, after
full hearing, finds that any such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice causes any undue or unreasonable advantage,
preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on
the other hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and
declared to be unlawful, it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge, or
the maximum or minimum, or maximum- and minimum, thereafter
to. be charged, and the classification, regulation, or practice thereafter
to be observed, in such manner as, in its judgment, will remove such
advantage, preference, prejudice, or discrimination. Such rates, fares,
charges, classifications, regulations, and p'ractices shall be observed
while in effect by the carriers parties to such proceeding affected
thereby, the law of any State or the decision or order of any State
authority to the contrary notwithstanding."
5In presenting these. amendments to the Committee of the Whole
House, Mr. Esch, Chairman of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives, said:

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

basis for the conclusion that it was the purpose of Congress to interdict a state rate, otherwise lawfully established for transportation exclusively intrastate, before
appropriate action by the Interstate Commerce Commission. On the contrary, Congress sought to provide a
more satisfactory administrative procedure which would
"We also provide for the enactment into law of what is popularly
known as the decisions of the Supreme Court in the Shreveport case.
Where intrastate rates constitute an undue burden, advantage, preference or prejudice against interstate rates, such rates are declared to
be unlawful. We have incorporated into law the decision of the court.
When by reason of the low level of the intrastate rates an undue
burden is cast upon the interstate traffic the citizens and the shippers
of other States are compelled to pay higher interstate freight rates
than they would have had to pay had that State enacted or put into
force and effect proper intrastate rates. We give this power of determination to the Interstate Commerce Commission, but in order that
the State commissions may have a proper hearing we,provide that
the State commissions may,to use a phrase of the street, 'sit in' with
the Interstate Commerce Commission. It can sit with the Interstate
Commerce Commission; it can hear the testimony, and can present
its full case, through its legally constituted authority. It can present
the full case, but the final adjudication i§ to rest with the Interstate
Commerce Commission and not with the State regulatory body. We
believe that this getting together of the interstate and State regulatory
bodies will lessen the number of Shreveport cases, better the feeling
between the interstate and the State commissions, and promote the
commercial interests 'of the country." Cong. Rec., 66th Cong., 1st
Ses., Vol. 58, pt. 8, p. 8317.
Senator Cummins, Chairman of the Committee on Interstate Commerce of the Senate, made the following statement to the Committee
of the Whole of the Senate:
"I need not follow that case" (the Shreveport case) "in all its
phases; but it finally reached the Supreme Court of the United
States, and the Supreme Court held that the authority of the Federal
Government as it could be vested in the Interstate Commerce Commission extended to the removal of a discrimination between the interstate rates and the intrastate rates, but no authority had been given
by Congress to the commission to declare what the intrastate rate
should be in comparison with the interstate rate. ...

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opiiiion of the Court.

281 U. S.

elicit the co6peration of the State regulatory bodies, and
insure a full examination of all the questions of fact which
such bodies might raise, before any finding was made in
such a case as to unjust discrimination against interstate
commerce or any order was entered superseding the rate
authorized by the State. In sustaining the authority of
the Commission under Section 13 as thus amended, the
Court said in Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company (257 U. S.
563, 590, 591): "It is said that our conclusion gives the
Commission unified control of interstate and intrastate
commerce. It is only unified to the extent of maintaining efficient regulation of interstate commerce under the
paramount power of Congress. It does not involve general regulation of intrastate commerce. Action of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in this regard should
be directed to substantial disparity which operates as a
real discrimination against, and obstruction to, interstate
commerce. and must leave appropriate discretion to the
"The committee has attempted simply to express the decisions of
the Supreme Court of the United States. We have not attempted to
carry the authority of Congress beyond the exact point ruled by the
Supreme Court in the cases to which I have referred; and the only
thing we have done in the matter has been to confer upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the authority to remove the discrimination when established in a proper proceeding before that body-an
authority which it does not now have. ...
"The Supreme Court held that Congress. had not conferred upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission the right to prescribe a rate in
the stead of one which had been condemned; but so far as the condemnation of the rates is concerned, the power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission is already ample, and it has succeeded in one
way or another in removing the discriminations which have come
under its notice without. the statute which we now propose." Cong.
Rec., 66th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 59, pt. 1, pp. 142, 143.

BOARD v. GREAT NORTHERN RY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

state authorities to deal with intrastate rates as between
themselves on the general level which the Interstate Commerce Commission has found to be fair to interstate commerce." See Arkansas Railroad Commission v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. R. Co., supra.

When, before the amendments of 1910 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the question arose as to the propriety of
judicial action in granting injunctions against the maintenance of interstate rates, filed and published by carriers as provided by law, pending the decision of the
Interstate Commerce Commission whether such rates
were unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, there was
a conflict of opinion in the lower Federal courts, but the
weight of decision was that such relief, although temporary in character, could not be granted prior to an appropriate finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
and this ruling accorded. with the principle declared by
this Court in the Abilene and other cases, supra.' Congress, in 1910, authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission, on the filing of rates by interstate carriers with
the Commission, to suspend the operation of the rates
for a stated period, and this provision has been continued
in later legislation. Interstate Commerce Act, Sec. 15
(7); 36 Stat. 552; 41 Stat. 486, 487. This power of suspension was entrusted to the Commission only. There
"See Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Macon Grocery Co.. 166
Fed. 206; Columbus Iron & Steel Company v. Kanawha & M. Ry.
Co., 178 Fed. 261; Wickwire Steel Company v. New York Central
R. R. Co., 181 Fed. 316. Compare Jewett Bros. v. Chicago, Af. & St.
P. Ry. Co., 156 Fed. 160; Kiser Company v. Central of Georgia
R. R. Co., 158 Fed. 193; 236 Fed. 573; Northern Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Pacific Coast Lumber Mfrs. Assn., 165 Fed. 1; Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Kalispell Lumber Co., 165 Fed. 25.

430

.OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

is no similar provision for the suspension of intrastate
rates established by state authority.
It is said that the interlocutory injunction, granted
below, was in aid of the proceedings pending before the
Interstate Commerce Commission. But the injunction
necessarily has the effect of preventing the State from
enforcing the rates it has prescribed, which are lawful
rates until the Interstate Commerce Commission finds
that they cause an unjust discrimination against interstate
commerce. A judicial restraint of the enforcement of
intrastate rates, although limited to the pendency of proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, is
none the less essentially a restraint upon the power of the
State to establish rates for its internal commerce, a power
the exercise of which in prescribing rates otherwise valid is
not subject to interference upon the s, ground of injury
to interstate commerce, save as Congress has validly provided. Congress has so provided only in the event that,
after full hearing in which the State authorities may
participate, the Interstate Commerce Commission finds
that unjust discrimination is created. Congress forbids
the unjust discrimination through the fixing of intrastate
rates but entrusts the appropriate enforcement of its prohibition primarily to its administrative agency.
It is urged that the restraining power of the Court is
needed to prevent irreparable injury. But, in this class
of cases, the questions whether there is injury, and what
the measures shall be to prevent it, is committed for
its solution preliminarily to the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
For these reasons, the order of the District Court is
reversed and the cause remanded with direction to dismiss the bill of complaint.
It is so ordered.

