OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

and obligations when no such purpose is disclosed in the
body of the legislative act.
The very fact that legislative acts of this character are
commonly prepared by those interested in the benefits
to be derived from them, and that the public interest
requires that they should be in such unequivocal form
that the legislative mind may be impressed with their
character and import so that privileges may be intelligently granted or purposely withheld, has firmly established the rule that they must be strictly construed, and
that any ambiguity or doubts as to their meaning and
purpose must be resolved in favor of the public interest.
See Blair v. Chicago, supra, 471; Fertilizing Company v.
Hyde Park, supra, 666. "The rule is a wise one; it serves
to defeat any purposes concealed by the skillful use of
terms to accomplish something not apparent on the face
of the Act and thus sanctions only open dealing with
legislative bodies." Slidell v. Grandjean, supra, 438.
We conclude that the judgment below is supported by
a state ground which we may rightly accept as substantial.
Dismissed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY

v. BROTHERHOOD
STEAMSHIP CLERKS ET AL.
ET

AL.

OF RAILWAY

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT (f

&

APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 469.

Argued May 1, 2, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. This Court accepts findings of fact in which the two lower federal courts concur, unless clear error is shown. P. 558.
2. Evidence in this case supports the conclusion of the courts below
that the defendant Railroad Company and its officers were ac-

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

549

Syllabus.

tually engaged in promoting the organization of an association
of its clerical employees in the interest of the Company and in
opposition to the plaintiff labor organization, and that these activities constituted an actual interference with the liberty of the
clerical employees in the selection of representatives for the purposes set forth in the Railway Labor Act of May 20, 1926. P. 559.
3. A statute ought to be so construed that, if it can be prevented,
no clause shall be treated as superfluous, or insignificant, or intended to be without effect. P. 568.
4. While an affirmative declaration of duty contained in a legislative enactment may be of imperfect obligation because not enforceable in terms, a definite statutory prohibition of conduct
which would thwart the declared purpose of the legislation cannot
be disregarded. Id.
5. The Railway Labor Act of 1926, while elaborating a plan for
amicable adjustments and voluntary arbitration of disputes between common carriers and their employees, imposed certain definite
obligations enforceable by judicial proceedings, one of which is
found in the provision of subdivision 3 of § 2, that "Representatives,
for the purposes of this Act, shall be designated by the respective
parties . . . without interference, influence, or coercion exercised by either party over the self-organization or designation of
representatives by the other." P. 567.
6. The word "influence," as used in this provision, is not to be taken
as interdicting the normal relations and innocent communications
which are part of all friendly relations between employer and employee; it means pressure-the use of the authority or power of
either party to induce action by the other in derogation of what the
statute calls "self-organization." P. 568.
7. The phrase "interference, influence or coercion" cove's the abuse
of relation or opportunity so as to corrupt or override the will. Id.
S. Freedom of choice in the selection of representatives on each side
of the dispute is essential to the statutory scheme. All the proceedings looking to amicable adjustments and to agreements for arbitration of disputes-the entire policy of the Act-must depend for success on the uncoerced action of each party to the end that agreements satisfactory to both may be reached and the peace essential
to the uninterrupted service of the instrumentalities of interstate
commerce may be maintained. Id.
9. As the prohibition was appropriate to the aim of Congress and is
capable of enforcement, the conclusion must be that enforcement
was contemplated. P. 569.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

10. The creation of an enforceable statutory right is not dependent
on the existence of a statutory penalty for its violation. P. 569.
11. As applied against interference by an interstate railroad company with the lawful right of its employees to organize and select
representatives for the purposes of the Act, the prohibition of § 2,
supra, is within the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. P. 570.
12. Sincer the prohibition does not interfere with the normal exercise
of the right of the carrier to select its employees or to discharge
them, and, since the carrier has no right to interfere with the freedom of the employees to select their representatives, there is no
ground for the carrier to complain that the prohibition violates the
Fifth Amendment. Adair v. Upitdd States, 201 U. S. 161; Coppage
Id.
v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, distinguished.
13. The interest of employees in the selection of representatives to
confer with 'their employer about contracts of service, is a property
interest sufficient to satisfy § 20 of the Clayton Act, which provides that no injunction shall be granted in any case growing out
of a dispute concerning terms or conditions of. employment, unless
necessary to prevent irreparable injury to property or to a. property right. P. 571.
14. Quaere: Whether § 20 of the Clayton Act limits the authority
of the court to restrain the violation of an explicit provision of an
Act of Congress, where an injunction would otherwise be the proper
remedy. Id.
33 F. (2d) 13, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 550, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the
District Court permanently enjoining the Railroad Company and other defendants, from interfering with, influencing, intimidating, or coercing certain employees
with respect to their right to select representatives for
the purpose of considering and deciding all disputes between them and the company, and with respect to their
right of "self-organization." There was also a preliminary injunction and a contempt order resulting from its
violation. See 24 F. (2d) 426; 25 id. 873, 876.

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

551

Argument for Petitioners.

Mr. J. H. Tallichet, with whom Messr, C. R. Wharton,
John P. Bullington, Calvin B. Garwood, H. M. Garwood,
and Walker B. Spencer were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mere suggestion or advice by officers and agents of
the railroad to employees with respect to their organization or selection of representatives, is not unlawful, nor
violative of the Railway Labor Act of 1926, nor subject
to be enjoined.
The provisions of the Transportation Act, 1920, including the rules of the Labor Board, which were construed by this Court in the Pennsylvania Railroad Cases,
261 U. S. 72 and 267 U. S. 203, are so nearly identical
with those of the Railway Labor Act, 1926, that those
cases are decisive of every question in the case.
A court of equity cannot be invoked to determine an
abstract right, the enforcement of which can lead to no
definite result.
Insofar as the statute undertakes to prevent either
party from influencing the other in the selection of representatives, it is unconstitutional and seeks to take away
an inherent and inalienable right, The decisions below
are contrary to the decisions of this Court in Adair v:
United States, 201 U. S. 161, and Coppage v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 1, and violative of the Fifth Amendment. Cf.
dissenting opinion of Brandeis, J., in Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 271.
Section 52, Title 29, of the United States Code, which
was § 20 of the Clayton Act, prohibits the granting of ap
injunction in this case.
The 'recognition of the Association was legally justified and was not a violation of the temporary injunction which the court had granted, though it be conceded
for the sake of argument that the injunction was lawfully granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioners,.

281 U. S.

The contempt order broadens the injunction and, in a
purely retroactive way, condemns and punishes for
things that the injunction did not prohibit.
Retention of officers of the Brotherhood on seniority
rosters while devoting their entire time to their organization, and granting them. free passes and other gratuitous
benefits, were mere favors, revocable at the pleasure of
the employer. Their revocation was in the 'exercise of
constitutional rights of the employer and its officers, and
the order of the District Court requiring their continuance deprived petitioners of their property without due
process of law, and of the equal protection of the laws.
The court had no power to restore a status resting on no
legal right.
Discharge of employees for causes wholly disconnected
with the labor dispute, and necessary, in the opinion of
supervising officers of the railroad, in the maintenance of
discipline, could not be a violation of the injunction against
interference, influence and coercion in their right of
organization and selection of representatives. The railroad
has the right to discharge employees for any cause, or
(though it does not exercise it) for no cause. The order
of the District Court requiring the restoration of the discharged men to the service, with pay for time lost,
deprived petitioners of their property without due process
of law and deprived them of the equal protection of the
laws.
The injunctions, temporary and perpetual, are framed
in such general language, and so interpreted and enforced
by the District Court, that they keep petitioners in constant jeopardy of contempt with no basis for determining
what action in the management and operation of the
railroad may be a violation of the injunction.

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

553

Argument for Respondents.

Messrs. Donald R. Richberg and John H. Crooker, with
whom Mr. Carl G. Stearns was on the brief, for respondents.
Congress intended in the Railway Labor Act of 1926
to provide for the prompt disposition of disputes between
carriers and their employees by the making of enforceable
contracts. § 2, par. First.
In order to make such, contracts effective and enforceable, Congress provided that they must be made between
duly authorized representatives of the contracting parties.
§ 2, par. Second.
In order to prevent fraud in the making of such contracts, and to protect their enforceability, Congress provided that neither contracting party should interfere with
the self-organization or designation of representatives by
the other. § 2, par. Third. Cf. Hitchman Coal & C. Co.
v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 250.
A review of forty years of federal legislation to protect interstate commerce, and particularly railroad transportation, from injuries caused by labor disputes, leads
to the inevitable conclusion that Congress in passing the
Railway Labor Act of 1926 to promote and protect collective bargaining, recognized that the rights of employees freely to organize and designate bona fide representatives must be written into statutory law, for the very
purpose of insuring the protection of these rights in the
courts of the United States.
The right of railway employees to organize and to
designate representatives, and the duty of railway employers to refrain from interfering with self-organization
and designation of representatives by employees, are
legally enforceable,-even though the statute makes no
explicit provision as to a remedy for their viola-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

2S1 U. S.

tion. See opinion in this case; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Brotherhood of Clerks, 33 F. (2d) 13; 1 Corpus Juris
986; International News Service v. Associated Press, 248
U. S. 215.
If resort to extraneous sources of construction is necessary to clarify the intention of Congress, it is made apparent from the reports of the Committees of both
Houses, and from the statements of those in charge of
the legislation, that Congress intended to make enforceable numerous mandatory provisions of the Act, including those involved in this case.
The Railway Labor Act, in imposing legally enforce-.
able rights and duties upon carriers and employees in
§ 2, does not violate any constitutional limitation, but on
the contrary provides protection for constitutional liberty
of contract and rights of property.
Such restraints upon an absolute liberty of contract as
are imposed by the Act, alike upon employers and employees, are only requirements necessary to safeguard the
public interest and to provide for the exercise of the
rights of one party with reasonable regard for the conflicting rights of others. Such restrictions are necessary
* and constitutional. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire,
219 U. S. 549; Hitchman Coal Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.
229; Highland v. Russel Co., 279 U. S. 253.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This suit was brought in the District Court by the
Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, Freight
Handlers, Express and Station Employees, Southern Pacific Lines in Texas and Louisiana, a voluntary association, and H. W. Harper, General Chairman of its System
Board of Adjustment, against the Texas and New Orleans
Railroad Company, and certain officers and agents of that
Company, to obtain an injunction restraining the defend-

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

555

Opinion of the Court.

ants from interfering with, influencing or coercing the
clerical employees of the Railroad Company in the matter
of their organization and designation of representatives
for the purposes set forth in the Railway Labor Act of
May 20, 1926, c. 347, 44 Stat. 577; U. S. C., Tit. 45, sees.
151-163.
The substance of the allegations of the bill of complaint
was that the Brotherhood, since its organization in September, 1918, had been authorized by a majority of the
railway clerks in the employ of the Railroad Company
(apart from general office employees) to represent them
in all matters relating to their employment; that this representation was recognized by the Railroad Company before and after the application by the Brotherhood in November, 1925, for an increase of the wages of the railway
clerks and after the denial of that application by the Railroad Company and the reference of the controversy by
the Brotherhood to the United States Board of Mediation; that, while the controversy was pending before that
Board, the Railroad Company instigated the formation of
a, union of its railway clerks (other than general office
employees) known as the "Association of Clerical Employees-Southern Pacific Lines "; and that the Railroad
Company had endeavored to intimidate members of the
Brotherhood and to coerce them to withdraw from it and
to make the Association their representative in dealings
with the Railroad Company, and thus to prevent the railway clerks from freely designating their representatives
by collective action.
The District Court granted a temporary injunction.'
Thereafter the Railroad Company recognized the Asso"The injunction order provided as follows:
"That the defendant Texas and New Orleans Railroad Company (a
corporation and common carrier owning, leasing, and operating certain railroads throughout the States of Texas and Louisiana), its
officers, servants, and agents are hereby enjoined and restrained from
in any way or manner interfering with, influencing, intimidating, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

ciation of Clerical Employees-Southern Pacific Lines as
the representative of the clerical employees of the Company. The Railroad Company stated that this course
was taken after a committee of the Association had shown
authorizations signed by those who were regarded as constituting a majority of the employees of the described
class. The subsequent action of the Railroad Company
and its officers and agents was in accord with this recognition of the Association and the consequent non-recognicoercing plaintiffs or any of the approximately seventeen hundred
clerical employees (and being the clerical employees described and
referred to in plaintiffs' petition, which includes approximately seventeen hundred railroad clerks in the employ of the defendant Railroad
Company on its lines throughout the States of Texas and Louisiana,
except such clerical em~ployees as are employed and engaged in its
general office in the City of Houston, Texas, and in its general office
in the City of New Orleans, Louisiana), with respect to their free
and untrammeled right of selecting or designating their representatives for the purpose of considering and deciding any and all disputes between said clerical employees and the defendant Railroad
Company; and further enjoining and restraining said defendant Railroad Company, its officers, servants, and agents from in any way or
manner interfering with, influencing, intimidating, or coercing plaintiffs or any of said clerical employees herein referred to of their free
and untrammeled right of self-organization.
"'Nothing in this injunction shall be considered or construed as authority to prevent any employee of said defendant Railroad Company, in the class referred to, from organizing, joining, promoting, or
fostering as many unions as he or they (meaning such employees in
the class referred to) may desire, and in any. way which he or they
may desire, and with the assistance and aid of any of his fellow
employees in any way and to any extent that said fellow employees
(in the class referred to) may desire; nor shall anything in this injunction be considered or construed as authority or permission for
any officer or agent of said company, or any employee, acting for
or on behalf of the defendant Roalroad Company, attempting to
influence or to interfere with said selection or designation .of their
said representatives, or their right to self-organization as herein referred to, upon any pretext that they are acting individually and not
as representatives of said defendant corporation."

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

557

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the Brotherhood. In proceedings to punish for
contempt, the District Court decided that the Railroad
Company and certain of its officers who were defendants
had violated the order of injunction and completely nullified it. The Court directed that, in order to purge themselves of this contempt, the Railroad Company and these
officers should completely "disestablish the Association
of Clerical Employees," as it was then constituted as the
recognized representative of the clerical employees of the
Railroad Company, and should reinstate the Brotherhood
as such representative, until such time as these employees
*by a secret ballot taken in accordance with the further
direction of the Court, and without the dictation or interference of the Railroad Company and its officers, should
choose other representatives. The order also required
the restoration to service and to stated privileges of certain employees who had been discharged by the Railroad Company. 24 F. (2d) 426. Punishment was prescribed in case the defendants did not purge themselves
of contempt as directed.
On final hearing, the temporary injunction was made
permanent. 25 F. (2d) 873. At the same time, a motion
to vacate the order in the contempt proceedings was de:nied. 25 F. (2d) 876. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the decree, holding that the injunction was properly granted and that, in imposing conditions for the
purging of the defendants of contempt, the District Court
had not gone beyond the appropriate exercise of its authorityoin providing for the restoration of the status quo.
33 F. (2d) 13. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
280 U. S."550.
The bill of complaint invoked subdivision third of section 2 of the Railway Labor Act of 1926 (c. 347, 44 Stat.
577), which provides as follows:
"Third. Representatives, for the purposes of this Act,
shall be designated by the respective parties in such man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

ner as may be provided m their corporate organization
or unincorporated association, or by other means of collective action, without interference, influence, or coercion
exercised by either party over the self-organization or
designation of representatives by the other."
The controversy is with respect to the construction,
validity and application of this statutory provision. The
petitioners, the Railroad Company and its officers, contend that the provision confers merely an abstract right
which was not intended to be enforced by legal proceedings; that, in so far as the statute undertakes to prevent
either party from influencing the other in the selection of
representatives, it-is unconstitutional because it seeks to
take away an inherent and inalienable right in violation
of the First and Fifth Amendments of the Federal Constitution; that the granting of the h janction was prohibited by Section 20 of the Clayton Act (U. S. C., Tit.
29, sec. 52); that in any event the action taken by the
Railroad Company and its officers in the recognition of
the Association of Clerical Employees, and in other proceedings following upon that recognition, was not contrary to law and that there was no warrant for the interposition of the court either in granting the injunction
order or in the proceedings for punishment for the alleged
contempt.
On the questions of fact, both courts below decided
against the petitioners. Under the well-established rule,
this Court accepts the findings in which two courts concur,
unless clear error is shown. Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S.
1, 14;. Texas,& Pacific Railway Company v. Railroad
Commission, 232 U. S. 338; Washington Securities Company v. United States, 234 U. S. 76, 78; Bodkin v. Edwards, 255 U. S. 221, 223. We cannot say that there was
such error in this case. Both the District Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals approached the consideration
of the evidence as to intimidation and coergion, and re-

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

559

Opinion of the Court.

solved such conflicts as the evidence presented, in the
light of the demonstration that a strong motive existed
on the part of the Railroad Company to oppose the demands of theBrotherhood and to promote another-organization of the clerical employees which would be more
favorable to the interests and contentions of the Company. Both courts found the explanation of the Coinpany's attitude in the letter addressed by H. M. Lull,
executive vice-president of the Railroad Company, to
A. D. McDonald, its president, under date of May 24,
1927, shortly before the activities of which complaint was
made in this suit. In this letter Mr. Lull referred to the
pendency before the United States Board of Mediation
of the demand of the Brotherhood for an increase of
wages for the clerical employees, and it was stated that if
the matter went to arbitration, and the award was made
on the same basis as one which had recently been made
with respect to the lines west of El Paso, it would mean
an increased pay-roll cost of approximately $340,000 per
annum. Mr. Lull said that from the best information
obtainable the majority of the clerical and station service
employees of the Railroad Company did not belong to
the national organization (the Brotherhood), and that
"it is our intention, when handling the matter in mediation proceedings, to raise the question of the right of this
organization to represent these employees and if arbitration is proposed we shall decline to arbitrate on the basis
that the petitioner does not represent the majority of
the. employees. This will permit us to get away from
the interference of this organization, and if successful in
this, I am satisfied we can make settlement with our own
employees at a cost not to exceed $75,000 per annum."
Motive is a persuasive interpreter of equivocal conduct,
and the petitioners are not entitled to complain because
their activities were viewed in the light of manifest interest and purpose. The most that can be said, in favor

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S

of the petitioners on the questions of fact is that the evidence permits conflicting inferences, and this is not
enough. The circumstances of the soliciting of authorizations and memberships on behalf of the Association, the
fact that employees of the Railroad Company who
were active in promoting the development of the Association were permitted to devote their time to that enterprise without deduction from their pay, the charge to
the Railroad Company of expenses incurred in recruiting
members of the Association, the reports made to the
Railroad Company of. the progress of these efforts, and
the discharge from the service of the Railroad Company
of leading representatives of the Brotherhood and the
cancellation of their passes, gave support, despite the
attempted justification of these proceedings, to the conclusion of the courts below that the T' ilroad Company
and its officers were actually engaged in promoting the
organization of the Association in the interest of the
Company and in opposition to the Brotherhood, and that
these activities constituted an actual interference with
the liberty of the clerical employees in the selection of
their representatives. In this view, we decline to subject
Lo minute scrutiny the language employed by these courts
in discussing questions of fact (Page v. Rogers, 211 U. S.
575, 577) and we pass to the important questions of law
whether the statute imposed a legal duty upon the Railroad Company, that is, an obligation enforceable by judicial proceedings.
It is unnecessary to review the history of the legislation enacted by Congress in relation to the settlement of
railway labor disputes, as earlier efforts culminated in
Title III of the Transportation Act, 1920 (c. 91, 41 Stat.
456, 469) the purpose and effect of which have been determined by this Court. In Pennsylvynia Railroad Company v. United States Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S.
72, the question was whether the members of the Railroad

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.

561

Opinion of the Court.

548

Labor Board as constituted under the provisions of the
Transportation Act, 1920, had exceeded their powers.
The Court held that the Board had jurisdiction to hear
and decide a dispute over rules and working conditions
upon the application of either side, when the parties had
failed to agree and an adjustment board had not been organized. The Board also had jurisdiction to deede who
might represent the employees in the conferences contemplated by the statute and to make reasonable rule,
for ascertaining the will of the employees in this respect.
Interference by injunction with the exercise of the discretion of the Board in the matters committed to it;' and
with the publication of its opinions, was decided to be unwarranted. The Court thought it evident that Congress
considered it to be "of the highest public interest to prevent the interruption of interstate commerce by labor
disputes and strikes," and that its plan was " to encorage
settlement without strikes, first by conference between
the narties; failing that, by reference to adjustment
boards of the parties' own choosing.," and, if this proved
to be ineffective, "by a full hearing before a Naional
Board" organized as the statute provided. But the
Court added: "The decisions of the Labor Board are not
to be enforced by process. The only sanction of its decision is to be the force of public opinion invoked by the
fairness of a full hearing, the intrinsic justice of the conclusion, strengthened by the official prestige of the Board,
and the full publication of the violation of such decision
by any party to the proceeding." It was said to be the
evident thought of Congress "that the economic interest
of every member of the Public in the undisturbed flow of
interstate commerce and the acute inconvenience to which
all must be subjected by an interruption caused by a serious and widespread labor dispute, fastens public attention closely on all the circumstances of the controversy
and arouses public criticism of the side thought to be at
982"4o-3o--3G

562.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

fault." Id. pp. 79, 80. The Court concluded that the
Labor Board -was "to act as a Board of Arbitration," but
that there was "no constraint" upon the parties "to do
what the Board decidps they should do except the moral
constraint of publication of its decision." Id. p. 84.
The provisions of Title III of the Transportation Act,
1920, were again before the Court in Pennsylvania Railroad System and Allied Lines FederationNo. 90 v. Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 267 U. S. 203. This was a
suit by a union to enjoin the Railroad Company from
carrying out an alleged conspiracy to defeat the provisions of the legislation establishing the Railroad Labor
Board. The complainants, the Court said, sought "to
enforce by mandatory injunction a compliance with a
decision of the Board "; and the Court held that "such a
remedy by injunction in a court, it was not the intention
of Congress to provide." Id. p. 216. The Court pointed
out that "the ultimate decision of the Board, it is conceded, is not compulsory, and no process is furnished to
enforce it." It was in the light of these conclusions as
to the purport of the statute that the Court considered
the freedom of action of the Railroad Company. The
Court said that the Company was using "every endeavor
to avoid compliance with the judgment and principles
of the Labor Board as to the proper method of securing
representatives of the whole body of its employees," that
it was "seeking to control its employees by agreements
free from the influence of an independent trade union,"
and, so far as concerned its dealing with its employees, was
"refusing to comply with the decisions of the Labor
Board." But the Court held that this conduct was within
the strict legal rights of thi Railroad Company and that
Congress had not intended to make such conduct legally
actionable. Id. p. 217.
It was with clear appreciation of the infirmity of the
existing legislation, and in the. endeavor to establish a'

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO.. v. RY. CLERKS.

563

Opinion of the Court.

48

more practicable plan in order to accomplish the desired
result, that Congress enacted the Railway Labor Act of
1926. It was decided to make a fresh start. The situation was thus described in the report of the bill to the
Senate by the Committee on Interstate Commerce (69th
Cong., 1st sess., Sen. Rep. No. 222): "In view of the fact
that the employees absolutely refuse to appear before the
labor board and that many of the important railroads are'
themselves opposed to it, that it has been held by the
Supreme Court to have no power to enforce its judgments,
that its authority is, not recognized or respected by the
employees and by a number of important railroads, that
the President has suggested that it would be wise to seek
a substitute for it, and that the party platforms of both
the Republican and Democratic Parties in 1924 clearly
indicated dissatisfaction with the provisions of the transportation act relating to labor, the committee conciuded
that the time had arrived when the labor board should
be abolished and the provisions relating to labor in the
transportation act, 1920, should be repealed."
The bill was introduced as the result of prolonged conferences between representative committees of railroad
presidents and of executives of railroad labor organizations, and embodied an agreement of a large majority of
both. - The provisions of Title III of the Transportation.
Act, 1920, and also the Act of July, 15, 1913 .(c. 6, 38 Stat.
In the report of the bill by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce to the House of Representatives, it was said (69th
Cong. 1st sess., H. R. Rep. No. 328):
"The bill was introduced as the product of negotiations and conferences between a representative committee of railroad presidents
and a representative committee of railroad labor organization executives, extending over several months, which were concluded with
the approval of the bill, respectively, by the Association of Railway Executives and by the executives of 20 railroad labor organizations. As introduced, it represented the agreement of railway
managements operating over 80 per cent of the railroad mileage
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

103) which provided for mediation, conciliation and arbitration in controversies with railway employees, were repealed.
While adhering in the new statute to the policy of providing for the amicable adjustment of labor disputes, and
for voluntary submissions to arbitration as opposed to a
system of compulsory arbitration, Congress buttressed this
policy by creating certain definite legal obligations. The
outstanding feature of the Act of 1926 is the provision
for an enforceable award in arbitration proceedings. The
arbitration is voluntary, but the award pursuant to the
arbitration is conclusive upon the parties as to the merits
and facts of the controversy submitted. (Section 9.)
The award is to be filed in the clerk's office of the District Court of the United States designated in the agreement to arbitrate, and unless a petition to impeach the
award is filed within ten days, the court is to enter judgment on the award, and this judgment is final and conclusive. Petition for the impeachment of the award may
be made upon the grounds that the award does not conform to the substantive requirements of the Act or to the
stipulation of the parties, or that the proceedings were not
in accordance with the Act or were tainted with fraud or
corruption. But the court is not to entertain such a petition on the ground that the award is invalid for uncerand labor organizations representing an overwhelming majority of
the railroad employees."
The committee of the Senate on Interstate Commerce reported to
the Senate on this point, as follows (69th Cong., 1st sess., Sen. Rep.
No. 222):
"The railroads favoring the. bill appeared before the committee
through their representatives and advocated it. None of the railroads opposing the bill appeared either in person or by any representative. The bill was agreed to also by all the organizations. known
as 'standard recognized railway labor organizations,' 20 in number,
and these appeared by their representatives before the committee in
advocacy of the bill,"

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

565

Opinion of the Court.

tainty, and in such case the remedy is to be found in a
submission of the award to a reconvened board or to a
sub-committee thereof for interpretation, as provided in
the Act. Thus it is contemplated that the proceedings
for the amicable adjustment of disputes will have an appropriate termination in a binding adjudication, enforceable as such.
Another definite object of the Act of 1926 is to provide,
in case of a dispute between a carrier and its employees
which has not been adjusted under the provisions of the
Act, for the more effectual protection of interstate commerce from interruption to such a degree as to deprive
any section of the country of essential transportation
service. (Section 10.) In case the Board of Mediation
established by the Act, as an independent agency in the
executive branch of the Government, finds that such an
interruption of interstate commerce is threatened, that
Board is to notify the President, who may thereupon in
his discretion create an emergency board of investigation
to report, within thirty days, with respect to the dispute.
The Act then provides that "After the creation of such
board and for thirty days after such- board has made its
report to the President, no change, except by agreement,
shall be made by the parties to the controversy in the
conditions out of which the dispute arose." (Id.) This
prohibition, in order to safeguard the vital interests of the
country while an investigation is in progress, manifestly
imports a legal obligation. The Brotherhood insists, and
we think rightly, that the major purpose of Congress in
-passing the Railwa? Labor Act was "to provide a machinery to prevent strikes." Section 10 is described by
counsel for the Brotherhood as "a provision limiting the
right to strike," and in this view it is insisted that there
"is no possible question*that Congress intended to make
the provisions of Section 10 enforceable to the extent of
authorizing any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

either party to the controversy trom changing the existing status during the sixty-day period provided for the
emergency board." '
The provision of Section 10 is to be read in connection
with the qualification in subdivision eighth of Section 9
that nothing in the Act shall be construed to require an
individual employee to render labor without his consent
or as making the quitting of service by an individual
employee an illegal act, and that no court shall issue any
process to compel the performance by an individual employee of labor without his consent. The purpose of this
In the report to the House of Representatives by its Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, it was stated as to this provision (69th Cong., 1st sess., H. R. Rep. No. 328):
"This temporary emergency board will be able to express and
to mobilize public opinion to an extent impossible to any permanent
board or any agency of Government which has been heretofore created for that purpose. It is also higlfAy important to point out that
during the period of investigation and for 30 days thereafter the
parties to the controversy are bound under the proposed law to
maintain unchanged the conditions out of which the dispute arose,
thereby assuring the parties and the public that the emergency board
will have the full and unembarrassed opportunity to exert its authority and fulfil its important function."
The Committee on Interstate Commerce of the Senate stated in
its report, with respect to a proposed amendment of section 10 forbidding strikes eo nomine, as follows (69th Cong., 1st sess., Sen. Rep.
No. 222):
"The objection that the bill should in express terms forbid strikes
during the period of the inquiry by the emergency board and for
30 days thereafter is successfully met, in the opinion of the committee, by the contention that in forbidding a change in the conditions
out of which a dispute arose, one of which and a very fundamental
one is the relationship of the parties, it already forbids any interruption of commerce during the period referred to; and if strikes
were in express terms forbidden for a given period there might be
an implication that after that period strikes to interfere with the
passage of the United States mails and with continuous transportation serviee might be made legal. In the opinion of the committee,
this possible implication should be avoided."

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

567

Opinion of the Court.

limitation was manifestly to protect the individual liberty
of employees and not to affect proceedings in case of combinations or group action. The denial of legal process
in the one case is significant with respect to its expected,
appropriate use in the other.'
It is thus apparent that Congress, in the legislation of
1926, while elaborating a plan for amicable adjustments
and voluntary arbitration of disputes between common
carriers and their employees, thought it necessary to impose, and did impose, certain definite obligations enforceable by judicial proceedings. The question before us is
whether a legal obligation of this sort is also to be found
in the provisions of subdivision third of Section 2 of the
Act providing that "Representatives for the purposes of
this Act, shall be designated by the respective parties...
without interference, influence, or coercion exercised by
either party over the self-organization or designation of
representatives by the other."
It is at once to be observed that Congress was not content with the general declaration of the duty of carriers
and employees to make every reasonable effort to enter
into and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay,
4
In relation to this paragraph, the Senate Committee stated in
its report (69th Cong., 1st sess., Sen. Rep. No. 222):
"As to paragraph (8) of section 9, it was urged that it should
be clarified so as certainly to apply only to the use of legal process
against an individual employee and so as not to apply to combinations
or conspiracies between several employees, or groups of employees, to
interrupt interstate commerce. It was frankly stated by the advocates of the bill, both those representing the carriers and those representing the employees, that the purpose of the paragraph was to
deal merely with individual employees, to express only the constitutional right of individuals against involuntary servitude, and was
not intended to deal with combinations, conspiracies, or group action.
This construction has been made abundantly clear by an amendment'
to the bill by which the word 'individual' has been inserted before
the word 'employee' wherever the latter word appears in the paragraph."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

rules and working conditions, and to settle disputes with
all expedition in conference between authorized representatives, but added this distinct prohibition against coercive measures. This addition can not be treated as superfluous or insignificant, or as intended to be without effect.
Ex parte PublicNational Bank, 278 U. S. 101, 104. While
an affirmative declaration of duty contained in a legislative enactment may be of imperfect obligation because
not enforceable in terms, a definite statutory prohibition
of conduct which would thwart the declared purpose of
the legislation *cannot be disregarded. The intent of Congress is clear with respect to the sort of conduct that is
prohibited. " Interference" with freedom of action and
'"coercion " refer to well understood concepts of the law.
The meaning of the word " influence" in this clause may
be gathered from the context. Noscitur a sociis. Virginia
v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 519. The use of the word is
not to be taken as interdicting the normal relations and
innocent communications which are a part of all friendly
intercourse, albeit between employer and employee. "Influence" in this context plainly means pressure, the use
of the authority or power of either party to induce action
by the other in derogation of what the statute calls "selforganization." The phrase covers the abuse ' of relation
or opportunity so as to corrupt or override the will, and
it is no more difficult to appraise conduct of this sort in
connection with the selection of representatives for the
purposes of this Act than in relation to well-known applications of the law with respect to fraud, duress and undue
influence. If Congress intended that the prohibition, as
thus construed, should be enforced, the courts would encounter no difficulty in fulfilling its purpose, as the present
suit demonstrates.
In reaching a conclusion as to the intent of Congress,
the importance of the prohibition in its relation to the
plan devised by the Act must have appropriate considera-

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY.CLERKS.
548

569

Opinion of the Court.

tion. Freedom of choice in the selection of representatives on each side of the dispute is the essential foundation of the statutory scheme. All the proceedings looking to amicable adjustments and to agreements for arbitration of disputes, the entire policy of the Act, must
depend for success on the uncoerced action of each party
through its own representatives to the end that agreements satisfactory to both may be reached and the peace
essential to the uninterrupted service of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce may be maintained. There
is no impairment of the voluntary character of arrangements for the adjustment of disputes in the imposition
of a legal obligation not to interfere with the free choice
of those who are to make such adjustments. On the contrary, it is of the essence of a voluntary scheme, if it is
to accomplish its purpose, that this liberty should be
safeguarded. The definite prohibition which Congress
inserted in the Act can not therefore be overridden in the
view that Congress intended it to be ignored. As the
prohibition was appropriate to the aim of Congress, and
is capable of enforcement, the conclusion must be that
enforcement was contemplated.
The absence of penalty is not controlling. The creation of a legal right by language suitable to that end does
not require for its effectiveness the imposition of statutory penalties. Many rights are enforced for which no
statutory penalties are provided. In the 'case of the
statute in question, there is an absence of penalty, in
the sense of specially prescribed punishment, with respect
to the arbitral awards and the prohibition of change in
conditions pending the investigation and report of an
emergency board, but in each instance a legal obligation
is created and the statutory requirements are susceptible
of enforcement by proceedings appropriate to each. The
same is true of tlhe prohibition of interference or coercion
in cohnection with the choice of representatives. The

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

right is created and the remedy exists. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 162, 163.
We entertain no doubt of the constitutional authority
of Congress to enact the prohibition. The power to regulate commerce is the power to enact "all appropriate legislation" for its "protection and advancement" (The
Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 564); to adopt measures "to
promote its growth' and insure its safety" (County of
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 696, 697); to "foster,
protect, control and restrain" (Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.1, 47). Exercising this authority,
Congress may facilitate the amicable settlement of disputes which threaten the service of the necessary agencies
of interstate transportation. In shaping its legislation to
this end, Congress was entitled to take cognizance of actual
conditions and to address itself to practicable measures.
The legality of collective action on the part of employees
in order to safeguard their proper interests is not to be
disputed. It has long been recognized that employees
are entitled to organize for the purpose of securing the
redress of grievances and to promote agreements with
employers relating to rates of pay and conditions of work.
American Steel Foundries v. Ti-City Central Trades
Council, 257 U. S. 184, 209. , Congress was not required
to ignore this right of the employees but could safeguard
it and seek to make their appropriate collective action an
instrument of peace rather than of strife. Such collective
action would be a mockery if representation were made
futile by interferences with freedom of choice. Thus the
prohibition by Congress of interference with the selection
of representatives for the purpose of negotiation and conference between employers and employees, instead of
being an invasion of the constitutional right of either,
was based on the recognition of the rights of both. The
petitioners invoke the principle declared in Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161, and Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1,

TEXAS & N. 0. R. CO. v. RY. CLERKS.
548

571

Opinion of the Court.

but these decisions are inapplicable. The Railway Labor
Act of 1926 does not interfere with the normal exercise of
the right of the carrier to select its employees or to discharge them. The statute is not aimed at this right of
the employers but at the interference with the right of
employees to have representatives of their own choosing.
As the carriers subject to the Act have no constitutional
right to interfere with the freedom of the employees in
making their selections, they cannot complain of the statute on constitutional grounds.
A subordinate point is raised by the petitioner uncier
,Section 20 of the Clayton Act. This section provides, in
substance; that no injunction shall be grantcd in any
case. growing out of a dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment, unless necessary to prevent irreparable injury to property or to a property right. This
provision has been said to be declaratory of the existing
law. Duplex Printing Press Company v. Deering, 254
U. S. 443, 470. It may be doubted whether Section 20
can be regarded as limiting the authority of the court to
restrain the violation of an explicit provision of an act
of Congress, where an injunction would otherwise be the
proper remedy. It is not necessary to pass upon this
point, for if it could be said that it was necessary in the
present instance to show a property interest in the employees in order to justify the court in granting an injunction, we are of the opinion that there was such an
interest, with respect to the selection of representatives
to confer with the employer in relation to contracts of
service, as satisfied the statutory requirement. See Coppage v. Kansas, supra, pp. 14, 15.
We do not find that the decree below goes beyond the
proper enforcement of the provision of the Railway Labor
Act.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS did not hear the argument

and took n: part in the decision of'this case.

