CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
586

599

Syllabus.

establish its unconstitutionality. Upon this ambiguous
record it is for the appellant to show that the stock and
bonds subjected to the tax had no business situs within
thd taxing jurisdiction. See Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma v. Lowe, ante, p. 431; Toombs v. Citizens Bank
of Waynesboro, decided this day, post, p. 643.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS join

in this opinion.

CAMPBELL, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. GALENO CHEMICAL COMPANY ET. AL.

SAME v. D. P. PAUL & COMPANY, INCORPORAfED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 443 and 444.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. A basic permit granted under § 4, Title II, of the Prohibition
Act, to manufacture articles such as toilet, medicinal and antiseptic preparations, containing intoxicating liquor but unfit for
beverage purposes, is not within the provision of § 6 that "permits to manufacture, prescribe, sell or transport liquor
shall expire on the 31st day of December next succeeding the
issuance thereof." P. 606.
2. Such a basic permit issued under § 4, to be in force until "revoked,
suspended or renewed. as provided by law or regulations," sufficiently complies with the provision of § 6 (assuming but not. deciding it to be applicable,) that every permit shall designate the
time when the permitted acts may be performed P. 608.
3. Such a basic permit issued under § 4 to remain in force "until
revoked, suspended or renewed as provided by law or regulations,"
is, not subject to be revoked by a subsequent regulation fixing-a
time limit for unexpired permits, but is revocable only for cause
as provided in §§ 5 and 9, upon notice and hearing, with a right
to judicial review. P. 609.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner..

281 U.S.

4. Regulations issued under a statute may not extend or modify its
provisions. P. 610.
:34 F. (2d) 642, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 IT. S. 548, to review decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming decrees of injunction in
two suits against a Prohibition Administrator, the Commissioner of Prohibition, and the Secretary of the Treasury to restrain the revocation of permits issued to the
plaintiffs under § 4 of the Prohibition Act.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell, Messrs. Mahlon D. Kiefer and
John H. McEvers were on the brief, for petitioner.
Permits to manufacture "liquor" may be issued for
one year, but they expire by operation of law "on the
31st day of December next succeeding the issuance
thereof." (§ 6, Title II, National Prohibition Act.) At
the time of being manufactured and before being prepared for the market, denatured alcohol and medicinal
preparations containing more than one-half of one per
cent. of alcohol by volume are "liquor" within the meaning of § 6. Permits to manufacture denatured alcohol
and medicinal preparations are therefore permits to manufacture "liquor," and expire by operation of law " on
the 31st day of December next succeeding the issuance
thereof." Higgins v. Foster, 12 F. (2d) 646; Cywan v.
Blair, 16 F. (2d) 279; Chicago Grain Products Co. v.
Mellon, 14 F. (2d) 362; United States v. Woodward, 256
U. S. 632.
If permits to manufacture denatured alcohol and medicinal preparations be not permits to manufacture
"liquor," nevertheless every permit which the Commissioner is authbrized to issue must "designate and limit
the acts that are permitted and the time when and place
where such acts may be performed." § 6, Title I. When

-

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
599

601

Opinion of the Court.

Congress used the words "designate" and "limit" it meant
a definite designation and a definite limitation. Accordingly, a permit having an indefinite time l'mitation was
unauthorized. Regulations 2 and 3 brought the practice
into accord with the statute and are therefore valid. See
Higgins v. Mills, 22 F. (2d) 913. Driscoll v. Campbell,
33 F. (2d) 281; Lewellyn v. Harbison, 31 F. (2d) 740;
Chicago "GrainProducts Co. v. Mellon, 14 F. (2d) 362;
Yudelson v. Andrews, 25 F. (2d) 80.
If Congress did not provide for the termination of § 4
permits on definite dates, it left the matter open to control by regulations to be issued from-time to time. The
exercise of a delegated power is not to be once used and
forever lost. The administrative officers, acting in a field
inherently subject to police regulations, could not bargain
away the rights of the public in such manner as to preclude the future exercise of the powers delegated. Section 9, Title II, of the*National Prohibition Act has reference to functions judicial in their nature conferred on
the administrative officers; to inquiries as to whether an
individual permit should be revoked. It in no way relates
to the delegated quasi-legislative power to establish regulations.
Mr. John Fletcher Caskey argued the cause and submitted a brief for respondents, and Mr. Charles Dickerman Williams also submitted a brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases deal with the power of the Commissioner of
Prohibition to revoke basic permits to use intoxicating
liquors in the manufacture of medicinal preparations.
Section 6 of the National Prohibition Act, October 28,
1919, c. 85, Title II, 41 Stat. 305, 310, declares: "No one
shall manufacture, sell, purchase, transport, or prescribe

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

any liquor without first obtaining a permit from the commissioner so to do. . . . All permits to manufacture,
prescribe, sell, or transport liquor may be issued for one
year, and shall expire on the 31st day of December next
succeeding the issuance thereof: Provided, . . . That
permits to purchase liquor for the purpose of manufacturing or selling as provided in this Act shall not be in
force to exceed ninety days from the day of issuance."
Section 4 of the Act provides that the "articles" therein enumerated, including -toilet, medicinal and antiseptic
preparations, although containing intoxicating liquor,
"shall not, after having been manufactured and prepared
for the market, be subject to the provisions of" the Act;
and that the use of intoxicating liquor in the manufacture
of such " articles" is authorized under certain restrictions.
Manufacturers are required under this section to procure
two permits: one, the basic permit here involved, granting
general authority to manufacture such preparations with
an alcoholic coutent; the other, a supplemental permit
granting special authority to purchase liquor for that purpose and limited by § 6 to not more than ninety days
from the date of issuance. Treasury Dept., Bureau of
Internal Revenue, Regulations 60, (1924), §§200, 201, 221,
403; Prohibition Bureau, Regulations 2, (1927) §§ 201,
203, 404.
Section 5 of the Act prescribes that, upon due notice
and hearing, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (after
Act of March 3, 1927, c. 348, 44 Stat. 1381, the Commissioner of Prohibition) may revoke permits granted under
§ 4 for failure to conform the manufactured " articles"
with the "descriptions and limitations " of that section;
and gives to the manufacturer the right to have the action
of the Commissioner reviewed "by appropriate proceeding in a court of equity." Section 9 provides that, upon
due notice and hearing, the Commissioner may revoke
the permit of "any person who has a permit" and who

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
599

603

Opinion of the Court.

"is not in good faith conforming to the provisions of this
Act, or has violated the laws of ahy State relating to intoxicating liquor "; and subjects the action of the Commissioner to judicial review as provided in § 5. Compare
Ma-King ProductsCo. v. Blair, 271 U. S. 479.
For some years prior to October 1, 1927, the plaintiffs
in these two cases had been engaged in the business of
manufacturing medicinal preparations and held basic
permit, issued under § 4 of the Act. Each permit authorizes the use of whiskey in the manufacture of a
particular product in accordance with a special formula;
was issued pursuant to regulations in force at the time
of issuance; and declares that it shall remain in force
"until revoked, suspended or renewed as provided by
law or regulations."' On September 2, 1927, the Treasury Department, Bureau of Prohibition, issued Regulations 2, effective October 1, 1927, in which it is provided
by § 218 that "all permits issued afid in force and effect
on the effective date of these regulations shall expire on
December 31, 1928, unless renewed in the manner hereinafter specified . . ." and that thenceforth only annual
permits shall be issued.2 The provision was made ap1 The permits provide also: "If this permit requires a supporting
bond, the failure to keep such bond in force will ipso facto suspend
this permit; and this permit may be revoked, suspended, modified,
amended, supplemented, extended, or renewed in the manner and for
the causes set forth in regulations 60, or specifically set forth herein,
or agreed to by the permittee, or otherwise provided by law."
2 The original regulations issued by the Bureau of Internal Revenue
under Title II of the Act, called Regulations 60, effective January
17, 1920, provided in § 18 for permits of annual duration only. On
March 14, 1924, Regulations 60 were revised and § 260 provided that
all basic permits should be of annual duration; but that type "H"
permits, to use liquor in the manufacture of articles "unfit for use
for beverage purposes," which are the permits held by these plaintiffs,
should be valid "so long as the supporting bond Tequired by these
regulations remains in full force and effect, or until canceled, suspended, revoked, or voluntarily surrendered by the permittee." In-

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

plicable to the basic permits issued under § 4 of the Act
to persons engaged in the business Of manufacturing
medicinal preparations " that are unfit for use for beverage purposes." The plaintiffs, without indicating any
intention to waive their rights under existing permits
and for the purpose of safeguarding themselves, accordingly filed applications for renewal of their permits.
On December 1, 1928, the Commissioner of Prohibition,
having concluded that the use of whiskey by such permittees under § 4 was susceptible of grave abuse and that
proper supervision of manufacturing operations involving the use of whiskey could not be maintained by the
inspection force, instructed all federal prohibition administrators to grant hearings to applicants for renewal of
such permits for the purpose of determining whether or
not whiskey is a necessary ingredient in the articles produced by them; to afford them an opportunity to present
such evidence as they could to establish that alcohol or
other spirits would not properly serve for extraction and
solution of the ingredients contained in their products and
for the preservation thereof; and to deny permits for the
use of whiskey after December 31, 1928, unless its indispensability was clearly demonstrated. The Federal Administrator for the district, acting on these instructions,
ternal Revenue Treasury Decision 3773, made on November 14,
1925, anounced that all permits theretofore granted would expire on
December 21, 1925, and that thereafter only annual permits would be
issued. See also T. D. 3774. The decision was declared void on June
1, 1926, by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit in Higgins v. Foster, 12 F. (2d) 646. Thereupon, the Bureau,
by T. D. 3925, approved on September 1, 1926, declared that "H"
permits would be deemed valid until surrendered or revoked. But, on
November 9, 1926, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit held in Chicago Grain Products Co. v. Mellon,
14 F. (2d) 362, that a permit to manufacture denatured alcohol was
subject to th3 one year limitation prescribed by § 6 of the Act.
Thereafter, § 218 here in question was incorporated in Regulations 2,
revising Regulations 60.

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
599

605

Opinion of the Court.

notified the .several plaintiffs accordingly and fixed dates
for their hearings. Compare Liscio v. Campbell, 34 F.
(2d) 646.
These suits were then brought by the permittees in the
federal court for southern New York, against the Prohibition Administrator, the Commissipner of Prohibition
and the Secretary of the Treasury to enjoin them from
enforcing § 21§ of Regulations 2; from proceeding with
the proposed hearings concerning the.use of whiskey; and
from otherwise interfering with the permits held by them.
The plaintiffs alleged that their permits contained no date
of expiration- and had never been revoked, cancelled or
surrendered; that they were entitled to have their permits remain in force until they should be revoked pursuant
to proceedings under §§ 5 and 9, and that no proceeding
for such revocation had been brought. They charged that
insofar as Regulations 2 purported to revoke, limit or suspend, without the hearing provided for in §§ 5 and 9,
permits theretofore granted to the plaintiffs, it is void as
in violation of the Act; that the proposed hearings are
without legal warrant; and that the threatened action of
denying the further use of whiskey is unauthorized and
illegal. The trial court granted an injunction in each
case.3 The decrees were affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.' Lion
3The injunctions granted were interlocutory only. As to two of the
original plaintiffs, Lion Laboratories, Inc., and Max Daub, an order
of dismissal was granted, because their permits had expired by the
express terms contained therein. These two plaintiffs appealed to
the Circuit C6urt of Appeals, where the dismissal was affirmed. But
they are not parties in this Court. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue had been joined as defendant; but the Circuit Court of
Appeals held he was not a proper party and the bills were dismissed
as against him. The plaintiffs acquiesced in this holding.
' In the Circuit Court of Appeals, the cases were presented by all
parties as tests of the merits of the bills. That court, therefore,
passed "the question whether it was proper to grant an injunction
pendente lite at all," saying: "If the bill rested upon section 9 of

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Laboratories, Inc. v. Campbell, 34 F. (2d) 642. This
Court granted writs of certiorari. 280 U. S. 548.
First. The Government contends that § 1, Title II, of
the Act defines the word "liquor" as meaning not only
the beverages specifically named but also any liquids
"containing one-half of 1 per centum or more of alcohol
by volume which are fit for use for beverage purposes ";
that liquids which are not immediately fit for use as
beverages are yet " fit for use for beverage purposes"
if they can be made potable by a simple process; that
plaintiffs' preparations are of that character;' that they
are expressly excluded from the Act only " after having
been manufactured .and prepared for the inarket "; that,
title 2, National Prohibition Act (27 U. S. C. A., § 21) certainly it
was not; if it depended upon the general equity powers of the court,
we do not decide whether the policy manifested in section 9 applies,
when there has been no hearing before the commissioner, and when,
as here, the revocation was by regulation (section 218, Regulation 2,
October 1, 1927)." 34 F. (2d) 642, 643. In this Court, too, the
decrees were treated as final dterees on the merits of the bills.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals on the merits is in
accord with its prior decision in Higgins v. Foster, supra, note 2, and
with Casper v. Doran, 30 F. (2d) 400 (D. C. E. D. Pa.) but is in
direct conflict with the Chicago Grain Products case, supra, note 2,
and also with Cywan v. Blair, 16 F. (2d) 279 (D. C. N. D. Ill.), which
expressly refused to follow the Higgins case.
r)The argument is that pure alcohol is not immediately fit for
beverage use; but that it may be mediately fitted for that purpose by
adding water. Alcohol is unquestionably liquor. It is therefore
urged that the same is true of any liquid which, like alcohol, is immediately or mediately fit for use as a beverage and otherwise answers the definition of "liquor." Aside from the argument developed
in the text, there are two short answers to this contention. First,
alcohol is expressly included in the definition of "liquor" in § 1.
No argument can, therefore, be based on the fact that pure alcohol
is not immediately fit for use as a beverage. Second, there is no
evidence whatever in the record that the plaintiffs' preparations can
mediately be fitted for that purpose by the simple process of adding
water,-or by any other process.

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
599

607

Opinion of the Court.

at the time of manufacture and before preparation for
the market, they fall within the term "liquor" as used
in the Act; that permits to manufacture the "articles'
enumerated in § 4 of the Act are, therefore, permits to
manufacture "liquor" within the meaning of the provision in § 6 that "permits to manufacture, prescribe, sell,
or transport liquor .
shall expire on the 31st day of
December next succeeding the issuance thereof "; and
that, although by their ovn terms the plaintiffs' permits
are to be in force " until revoked, suspended or renewed
as provided by law or regulations," they have expired.
ere this by the operation of § 6. Cywan v. Blair, 16 F.
(2d) 279; Chicago Grain Products Co. v. Mellon, 14 F.
(2d) 362.0
We are of opinion that the quoted provision of § 6
is inapplicable to the permits held by the several plaintiffs. Whether or not the preparations manufactured by
the plaintiffs are "liquor" while being manufactured and
before they are prepared for the market is wholly immaterial. We are not here concerned with the nature of the
preparations in their varying stages of development. Our
concern is with the object of the permits. This object,
and the permission granted, is not simply to manufacture
varyingly unfinished products; but to manufacture specified articles containing whiskey, alcohol or other spirits.
The products are, by § 4, called "articles" and are expressly excluded from the effect of the term "liquor."
Moreover, § 4 authorizes the issuance of permits for the
use of whiskey, etc., in the manufacture of medicinal and
I It is unnecessary for us to consider in these cases whether future
applicants for basic permits under § 4 may insist on the grant of
permits containing no calendar date of expiration; or whether future
permits may properly restrict the use of whiskey only to cases where
whiskey is an absolutely necessary ingredient and no other spirits or
alcohol will properly serve for the extraction and solution of ingredients contained in the preparations and for the proper preservation
thereof,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

other preparations only "that are unfit for use for beverage purposes "; while "liquor" is defined in § 1 as meaning liquids, in addition to those enumerated, "which are
fit for use for beverage purposes." The two definitions are
mutually exclusive. If the article to be manufactured is
fit for use for beverage purposes, and therefore liquor, a
permit under § 4 cannot be issued; and vice versa. By express and obvious enactment, therefore, the permits held
by the plaintiffs are not permits to manufacture liquor
and are not within the expiration limit prescribed by § 6.
Second. The Government contends also that because
plaintiffs' permits, whatever their character, do not provide a calendar date of expiration, they are void or voidable for failure to comply with the further provision of
§ 6 that every permit "shall designate and limit the acts
that are permitted and the time when and the place
where such acts may be performed," even though they
complied with the regulations in force at the time of issuance. This contention rests wholly upon the assertion
that the grant of a permit to be in force until "revokedi
suspended or renewed as provided by law or regulation"
is not definite.
It has been questioned whether Congress intended to
make this provision apply to permits issued under § 4;
but we do not express any opinion on that question. Even
if applicable, this provision in § 6 does not declare that
permits must expire by the calendar. The limitation that
the permits shall be in force until revoked, suspended or
renewed in accordance with the law or regulations is a
sufficient compliance with the general requirement of the
designation of the time when the permitted acts may be
performed. When a calendar date is required § 6 so states
specifically. Ninety days for permits to purchase liquor
for. the purpose of manufacturing and selling; thirty days
for permits to purchase for any other purpose; December
31st next succeeding the date of issuance for permits to
manufacture, prescribe, sell or transport liquor.

CAMPBELL v. GALENO CHEMICAL CO.
599

609

Opinion of the Court.

It is true, that permits for short periods terminatiog
upon definite dates would leave the Bureau much freer
in the exercise of its discretion than it could be under indeterminate permits revocable only for cause, established
pursuant to § § 5 or 9. Every permittee applying for a
renewal has the burden of establishing his fitness;whereas, if permits are terminable only by revocation
pursuant to the provisions in §§ 5 and 9 the burden to
justify closing the businesi because of some violation of
the Act or of the regulations is put upon the Government. But § 6, as well as the rest of the Act, draws an
obvious distinction between the manufacture, etc., of intoxicating liquor and that of industrial alcohol and the
preparations enumerated in § 4. The former is forbidden,
except for certain specified purposes for which liquor is
deemed necessary. The latter is ordinarily lawful; and
it is. the express purpose of the Act to encourage it.
United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 359. Regulations
are imposed only for the purpose of guarding against the
diversion of this lawful business into the unlawful business of supplying intoxicating liquor.' It is entirely consistent with the avowed purposes of the Act, that the
restrictions on the one business should be more severe
than those on the other.
Third. Finally, the Government contends that even if
Congress did not provide for the termination on some
definite date of permits issued under § 4, it left the matter continuously open to contr6l by regulations to be issued from time to time; that §§ 5 and 9 are not limitations upon this quasi-legislative police power; that the
express provisions of the permits cannot have the effect
of bargaining away such later exercise of that power as
may be deemed appropriate; and that the regulation of
7 Compare "Industrial Alcohol," a monograph issued by the Treasury Department, Bureau of Prohibition (Gov't Ptg. Office, 1930),
9S2:34"-3

0

-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S

October 1, 1927, is a valid exercise of that power. This
contention, also, is unsound.
The limits of the power to issue regulations are well
settled. InternationalRy. Co. v. Davidson, 257 U. S. 506,
514. They may not extend a statute or modify its provisions. The regulation of October 1, 1927, purports to
revoke unexpired permits as of December 31, 1928, without resort to the proceedings prescribed by §§ 5 and 9.
It thus attempts to deprive permittees of rights secured
to them by these sections of the Act. As was said in
Higgins v. Foster, 12 F. (2d) 646, 648: "We cannot see
that the Commissioner, under the guise of legislation,
may do in gross what he had no power to do in detail."
Whether or not the power to make regulations, or the
provision in § 6, authorizes the Bureau to fix expiration
dates for permits when issued, it does not authorize the
revocation of existing permits in violation of the express
provisions of the Act.
Affirmed.

CAMPBELL, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. W. H. LONG & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED.
WYNNE, FEDERAL PROHIBITION ADMINISTRATOR, ET AL. v. SWANSON CHEMICAL CORPORATION.
DORAN, PROHIBITION COMMISSIONER, v.
CASPER.
CERTIORARI TO AND CERTIFICATES FROM THE CIRCUIT COURTS
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND AND THIRD CIRCUITS, RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 445, 510 and 511.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 26,
1930.

1. A permit to manufacture denatured alcohol under the Prohibition

Act, (§ 4, Title II, § 10,.Title III,) is not a permit to manufacture

