OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

281 U. S.

opinion signed by two of the judges and the concurring
opinion of the third. This we think equivalent for that
purpose to an announcement in open court, three judges
sitting. See Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v.
Louisiana Public Service Commission, 260 U. S. 212, 218.
We have conFidered, but do not discuss, other contentions of appellant of less moment.
Affirmed.
COCHRAN ET AL. v. LOUISIANA STATE BOARD OF
EDUCATION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 468.

Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided April 28, 1930.

Appropriation by the State of money derived from taxation to the
supplying of-school books free for children in private as well as
public schools is not objectionable under the Fourteenth Amendment as, a taking of private property for private purposes where
the hooks furnished for private schools are not granted to the
schools themselves but only to or for the use of the children, and
are the same as those furnished for public schools and are not
religious or sectarian in character. P. 374.
168 La. 1030, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiana affirming the refusal of a trial court to issue an
injunction to restrain the State Board of Education and
certain officials, appellees herein, from expending tax
funds for the purchase of free school books.

Mr. ChallenB. Ellis, with whom Messrs. Wade H. Ellis,
Daniel C. Roper, W. D. Jamieson,Herbert S. Ward, James
U. Galloway, and Nash Johnson were on the brief, for
appellants.
Taxes levied by a State must be for a public purpose.
Parkersburgv. Br6wn, 106 U. S. 487; Cole v. LaGrange,

COCHRAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
370

Argument for Appellants.

113 U. S. 1; Dodge v. Mission Township, 107 Fed. 827;
Beach v. Bradstreet, 85 Conn. 344.
The test to be applied is whether the public has a common and equal right to the use and benefit. Cole v. LaGrange, supra; Missouri Pac. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164
U. S. 403; Connecticut College v. Calvert, 87 Conn. 421;
Jenkins v. Andover, 103 Mass. 94; Curtis v. Whipple, 24
Wis. 350; Savings & Loan Ass'n v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655;
Opinion of the Justices, 211 Mass. 624.
Private schools do not come under the category of public
use. Cases supra; Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Atchison,
47 Kan. 712; Opinion of the Justices, 214 Mass. 599;
Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454.
The principle derived from these cases is that a use
which is denominated a "public use," as justifying the
taking of private property under either the taxing power
or the power of eminent domain, requires a right secured
to the public to enjoy the objects for which the tax is
levied upon such terms as the public itself may lay down.
and the control of which the public has reserved even after
the aid has passed to the object to which it is granted.
A private school may limit its patrons in any manner
that it chooses. It may limit them to persons of the
Ethiopian race; or to persons of Japanese extraction; or
to persons in a certain district; or to persons of a certain
degree of birth; or to persons of a certain sect; or to a
limited number of persohs such as ten or five; and the
State cannot restrain such action. The right of control
by the State over private schools is greatly restricted
(Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390); the State has little
or no control or supervision over the instruction or instructors in private schools-an essential element in
Jenkins v. Andover, 103 Mass. 94.
The furnishing of text-books free by the State to school
children attending private schools which charge tuition

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

281 U. S.

and require the children to furnish their school books, is
an aid to such private institutions by furnishing a part of
their equipment. If the legislature may not levy a tax
for the aid of private schools, it may not indirectly do
the same thing. Underwood v. Wood, 93 Ky. 177; Smith
v. Donahue, 195 N. Y. S. 202, 202 App. Div. 656; Dakota
Synod v. State, 2 S. D. 366; Williams v. Stanton School
District, 173 Ky. 708.
. If the furnishing of text-books free to children attending private schools is not considered an aid to such private schools, but as incidental to the state- educational
system, then it logically follows that the tuition of the
children attending such schools could be paid; their transportation to and from such schools could be provided;
the salaries of the instructors could be paid in part or in
whole; and finally, the buildings themselves could be
erected,-with state funds; all of which, under the reasoning evinced in the. statutes of Louisiana, might be justified
on the ground that it is the interest of the State to see
that its youth are educated.
If the furnishing of school books to children attending
private schools is not to be considered an aid to such
private schools but an aid only to the children attending
such schools, then the tax levied for such purpose is
equally obnoxious to the Federal Constitution because it
constitutes a diversion of public property to private individuals without distinction as to need for charity and
without any special obligation of the State, charitable or
otherwise, to such persons. Savings & Loan Ass'n v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; State v. Switzler, 143 Mo. 287;
Beach v. Bradstreet, 85 Conn. 344.
If the principle upon which there is allowed a diversion
of the public school funds for the benefit of private individuals, is sanctioned, then the division of the public
schools funds may be permitted, so that ultimately those
whose children attend private schools, u,ier the simula-

COCHRAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
370

Opinion of the Court.

tion of bearing the burden of taxation for the public
schools, are paying for the maintenance only of their own
private schools. This finally means, in effect, depriving
the State of its power to tax (for the support of the public
schools) those who support only their private schoolsand practically the destruction of one of the free institutions under our republican form of government.
The distinction between the case here and those affirming the constitutional authority of the State to aid railroads or to engage in private enterprises serving the
public (Green v. Frazier,253 U. S. 233) is that in the latter cases there is secured to the public both public control
and common and equal right of use. Savings & Loan
Ass'n v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Green v. Frazier, 253
U. S. 233; Connecticut College v. Calvert, 87 Conn. 421;
Curtis v. Whipple, 24 Wis. 350; Jenkins v. Andover, 103
Mass. 94.
Messrs. Percy Saint, Attorney General of Louisiana,
Peyton R. Sandoz, Assistant Attorney General, H. H.
White and Walter J. Burke were on the brief for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellants, as citizens and taxpayers of the State
of Louisiana, brought this suit to restrain the State Board
of Education and other state officials from expending any
part of the severance tax fund in purchasing school books
and in supplying them free of cost to the school children
of the State, under Acts No. 100 and No. 143 of 1928,
upon the ground that the legislation violated specified
provisions of the constitution of the State and also section 4 of Article IV and the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the judgment of the trial court, which refused to issue an injunction. 168 La. 1030.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

Act No. 100 of 1928 provided that the severance tax
fund of the State, after allowing funds and appropriations
as required by the state constitution, should be devoted
"first, to supplying school books to the school children
of the State." The Board of Education was directed to
provide "school books for school children free of cost to
such children." Act No. 143 of 1928 made appropriations
in accordance with the above provisions.
The Supreme Court of the State, following its decision
in Borden v. Louisiana State Board of Education, 168 La.
1005, held that these acts were not repugnant to either the
state or the Federal Constitution.
No substantial Federal question is presented under section 4 of Article IV of the Federal Constitution guaranteeing to every State a republican form of government,
as questions arising under this provision are political, not
judicial, in character. State of Ohio ex rel. Bryant v.
Akron Metropolitan Park District, ante, p. 74, and cases
there cited.
The contention of the appellant under the Fourteenth
Amendment is that taxation for the purchase of school
books constituted a taking of private property for a private purpose. Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655.
The purpose is said to be to aid private, religious, sectarian, and other schools not embraced in the public educational system of the State by furnishing text-books free
to the children attending such private schools. The
operation and effect of the legislation in question were
described by the Supreme Court of the State as follows
(168 La., p. 1020):
"One may scan the acts in vain to ascertain where any
money is appropriated for the purchase of school books
for the use of any church, private, sectarian or even public
school. The appropriations were made for the specific
purpose of purchasing school books for the use of the
school children of the state, free of cost to them. It was

COCHRAN v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
370

Opinion of the Court.

for their benefit and the resulting benefit to the state that
the appropriations were made. True, these children
attend some school, public or private, the latter, sectarian
or non-sectarian, and that the books are to be furnished them for their use, free of cost, whichever they
attend. The schools, however, are not the beneficiaries
of these appropriations. They obtain nothing from them,
nor are they relieved of a single obligation, because of
them. The school children and the state alone are the
beneficiaries. It is also true that the sectarian schools,
which some of the children attend, instruct their pupils
in religion, and books are used for that purpose, but one
may seaich diligently the acts, though without result, in
an effort to find anything to the effect that it is the purpose of the state to furnish religious books for the use of
such children. . . . What the statutes contemplate is
that the same books that are furnished children attending
public schools shall be furnished children attending private
schools. This is the only practical way of interpreting
and executing the statutes, and this is what the state
board of education is doing. Among these books,
naturally, none is to be expected, adapted to religious
instruction."
The Court also stated, although the point is not of importance in relation to the Federal question, that it was
"only the use of the books that is granted to Jhe children,
or, in other words, the books are lent to them."
Viewing the statute as having the effect thus attributed
to it, we can not doubt that the taxing power of the State
is exerted for a public purpose. The legislation does not
segregate private schools, or their pupils, as its beneficiaries or attempt to interfere with any matters of exclusively private concern. Its interest is education,
broadly; its method, comprehensive. Individual interests
are aided only as the common interest is safeguarded.
Judgment affirmed.

