TOOMBS v. CITIZENS BANK.
642

Syllabus.

work and that, for the purpose of reprimanding him for
tardiness and compelling him to work, Jackson struck
plaintiff with a wrench and seriously injured him. That
was the basis of fact upon which the jury under the
charge of the court was authorized to find for plaintiff.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff for
$12,000 and the judgment thereon was affirmed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court expressed th6 opinion, 35 F. (2d) 717, 721,
that § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, 46 U. S. C., § 688,
and the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C.,
§§ 51-59, did not apply and held defendants liable under
the general maritime law without regard to these Acts.
But in Jamison v. Encarnacion,decided this day, ante, p.
635, we hold that such an assault is negligence within the
meaning of § 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
which is made available to seamen by § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act. The ruling in that case controls in
this. We need not examine the grounds upon which the
Circuit Court of Appeals put its decision..
Judgment affirmed.
TOOMBS v. CITIZENS BANK OF WAYNESBORO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 485.

Submitted April 28, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. A Georgia statute provides that, upon being required by the
Superintendent of Banks to make good an impairment of capital
by an assessment upon stockholders, the officers and directors of
a bank shall call a special meeting of the stockholders for the purpose
of making such assessment. In a case from the state court in
which a stockholder challenged an assessment, under the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, held that, in the
absence of a controlling decision by the state court, it can not
be assumed either that notice of the stockholders' meeting at which

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the assessment was made was not required by the state law, or
that 'anotice actually given by mailing it fifteen days before the
meeting, addressed to the stockholder at his address last known to
the bank, was insufficient. P. 646.
2. In assailing the constitutionality of a state statute the burden rests
upon the complainant to establish that it infringes the constitutional guarantee which he invokes. If the state court has not
otherwise construed it, and it is susceptible of an interpretation
which conforms to constitutional requirements, doubts must bc
resolved in favor of the State. P. 647.
169 Ga. 115, affirmed.

from a judgment sustaining a recovery by the
Bank in an action to collect an assessment from a stockholder.
APPEAL

Mr. W. A. Slaton was on the brief for appellan±
Messrs. Carl N. Davie and Earl Norman were on the
brief for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme
Cofirt of Georgia, upholding the constitutionality of the
provisions of the Georgia statutes regulating the assessment, by corporate action, of shareholders of state banking
institutions whose capital has become impaired. 169 Ga.
*115. Section 1 of Art. VI, Georgia Banking Law, Act of
August 26th, Ga. Laws, 1925, p. 126, amending Art. VI,
Ga. Laws, 1919, p. 135; Ga. Civil Code, § 2366, (48), (49).
Section 1 (printed in the margin ') provides that when
the capital of a state bank is impaired the Superintendent
' Section 1. Assessment of stockholders.
"Whenever the Superintendent of Banks shall find that the capital
stock of any bank has become impaired or reduced as much as ten
per cent. of its par value from losses or any other causes, the Superintendent of Banks shall notify and requre such bank to make good
its capital. stock so impaired or reduced within sixty (60) days, by

TOOMBS v. CITIZENS BANK.
643

Opinion of the Court.

shall require the bank to make good the impairment by
assessment upon the stockholders, and that "it shall be
the duty of the officers and directors of the bank receiving
such notice to immediately call a special meeting of the
stockholders for the purpose of making an assessment on
its stockholders sufficient to cover the impairment." Section 2 authorizes the bank, in addition to other remedies,
to bring suit against stockholders for the amount of the
assessment. The Supreme Court of the state, construing
the statute, has held that an assessment under the provisions of § 1 (formerly in § 2 of Art. VI of the Georgia
Banking Law, Ga. Laws 1919, p. 135) is a voluntary act
on the part of the stockholders, who may, at their election,
by action taken at the stockholders meeting, levy the
assessment, or decline to levy it and permit the liquidation
of the bank by the Superintendent of Banks, who may
levy an assessment under another. provision of the statute
not now involved. Smith v. Mobley, 166 Ga. 195. Arts.
VI and VII of the Georgia Banking Law; Ga. Laws, 1919,
p. 135.
Petitioner is the owner of shares of capital stock of the
Citizens Bank of Waynesboro, "chartered under the
Georgia statutes January 1st, 1920. On August 16, 1926,
the bank became insolvent and passed into the control of
the State Superintendent of Banks, who found that the
an assessment upon the stockholders thereof, and it shall be the
duty of the officers and directors of the bank receiving such notice
to immediately call a special meeting of the stockholders for the
purpose of making an assessment upon its stockholders sufficient to
cover the impairment of the capital payable in cash, at which meeting such assessment shall be made, provided that such bank may
reduce its capital to the extent of the impairment if such reduction
will not place its capital below the amount required by this Act. At
any such special meeting of the stockholders a majority of the stock
outstanding at the time shall be deemed a quorum, and such assessment may be made upon a majority vote of the quorum present."

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S

net indebtedness of the bank exceeded its capital. Certain depositors of the bank having undertaken to release
their claims so that its indebtedness would equal its capital, the Superintendent of Banks agreed to surrender his
control of the bank if its stockholders would authorize a
levy of an assessment of 100% of the par value of the
stock. A stockholders meeting, held October 22, 1926, at
which a majority of the shares was represented, adopted
resolutions assessing the stock accordingly.
The present suit to recover the assessment upon appellant's shares was brought in the Superior Court of Wilkes
County, and its judgment in favor of the respondent was
affirmed by the state Supreme Court. Appellant, by his
pleadings, challenged the constitutionality of the statute
upon the ground, relied on here, that § 1, by its failure
to provide for notice to stockholders of the special meeting for the purpose of levying the assessment, denies due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Petitioner thus seeks to raise the question whether one
who acquires stock in a corporation, notice of whose meetings is dispensed with by state law, can, for that reason
alone, invoke the due process clause to set aside corporate
action adversely affecting his interest as a stockholder.
But no such question is presented. Section 1 makes it
the duty of the officers and directors of the bank, in the
contingencies named, to "call a special meeting of the
stockholders for the purpose of making an assessment."
The statute does not prescribe that the meeting be called
without notice Petitioner points to no provision of the
Georgia statutes or of the charter or by-laws of the bank
dispensing with notice, nor to any decision of the Supreme
Court holding that the statutory duty to "call" a stockholders meeting can be performed without reasonable notice to stockholders of the time and place of meeting.
Even when there is no provision, in statute'or by-laws, for
notice, it has been held that common law principles re-

SURPLUS TRADING CO. v. COOK.
643

Syllabus.

quire corporate meetings to be called by reasonable notice
to stockholders. See Stow v. Wyse, 7 Conn. 214; Wiggin
v. First Freewill Baptist Church, 8 Metc. (Mass.) 301,
312; Stevens v. Eden Meeting-House Society, 12 Vt. 688,
689. That, we think, in the absence of a controlling decision of the highest court of Georgia, must be taken to be
the implied requirement of § 1.
Notice was in fact given in the present case, as appears
by the agreed statement of facts by mailing it fifteen days
before the meeting, addressed to petitioner at his address
last known to the bank. It does not appear whether he
received the notice. In the face of this record, we cannot
assume either that notice was not required by the law of
the state or that that actually given was insufficient.
In assailing the constitutionality of a state statute the
burden rests upon appellant to establish that it infringes
the constitutional guarantee which he invokes. If the
state court has not otherwise construed it and it is susceptible of an interpretation which conforms to constitutional
requirements, doubts must be resolved in favor of, and
not against the state. See Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma, etc. v. Lowe, etc., ante, p. 431; South Utah
Mines v. Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325, 331.
Affirmed.

SURPLUS TRADING COMPANY v. COOK,
SHERIFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 2. Argued November 21, 1928.-Decided June 2, 1930.
Under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, of the Constitution, land purchased by
the United States for an Army -station, with the consent of
the legislature of the State in which it lies, comes under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and private personal
property there situate can not be taxed by the State. P. 649.
174 Ark. 507, reversed.

