OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

to make return or have the tax computed on that basis,
as clearly it did not reflect 1916 income.
Judgment reversed.
CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. LINDELL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 193. Argued January 23, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. Where the state law permits adjustment of the defendant's demand by counterclaim in the plaintiff's action, its adjustment by
that method rather than by independent r
is to be encouraged
in the federal courts. Pp. 16-17.
2. The practice of determining claims of shippers for loss or damage
in suits brought by carriers to collect the transportation charges,
is not repugnant to the rule of the Hepburn Act prohibiting the
payment of such charges otherwise than in money. P. 17.
3. That Act ought not to be construed to put aside state laws and
long established practice in respect of pleading in the absence of
any plain intention of Congress to do so. P. 18.
ANSWER to a question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon review of a judgment of the District Court
allowing the loss suffered by the defendant through damage to an interstate shipment to be set off in an action by
the carrier for the transportation charges.

Mr. Nelson Trottman, with whom Messrs. Samuel H.
Cady and Aaron M. Sargent were on the brief, for the
Chicago & North Western Railway Company.
Mr. F. DeJournel submitted for Lindell.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

October 17, 1925, appellee delivered to the railroad of
the Southern Pacific Company at Kingsburg, California,
a shipment of grapes for transportation to Chicago for

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. LINDELL.
Opinion of the Court

14

delivery to a named consignee. The appellant received
the car at Omaha, hauled it to Chicago and there delivered
it to the consignee without collecting the freight and other
charges which amounted to $6S3.79. Because of unreasonable delay on the part of appellant and its failure to
use reasonable care to keep the car properly iced, the
grapes were delivered in a damaged condition. Appellant sued in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of California to recover such charges.
And appellee by answer set up the loss. While claiming
to have suffered damages of $1,011.70, he asked no affirmative relief but only that the loss be held to be a set-off
against appellant's claim. The court allowed the set-off.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, under § 239 of the Judicial Code, 2S U. S. C., § 346, certified to this court the
following question:
"Where an interstate railroad carrier delivers to the
consignee at destination a consignment of freight without collecting the transportation and other lawful charges
and thereafter brings an action at law to recover from the
shipper the amount thereof, in a United States court in
a district where the state law provides that if a defendant
omits to set up a counterclaim arising out of the transaction constituting the foundation of the plaintiff's claim
he cannot thereafter maintain an action upon the same.
and, further, that where such cross-claims have existed
'the two demands shall be deemed compensated,' is the
shipper, acting in good faith and without collusion, debarred by the Interstate Commerce Acts, particularly the
Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 5S7) from pleading, by way of setoff, a counterclaim for a loss suffered by him as a result
of the carrier's failure to perform its obligations touching
the transportation and delivery of the identical ship-

inent ?"*
*There

are conflicting decisions on the question.

The following

support an answer in the affirmative: Fullerton Lumber Co. v. Chi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

The appellant is liable to the appellee for damages in
an amount at least equal to the charges sued for. 49
U. S. C., § 20 (11). And unless the Hepburn Act stands
in the way, the shipper has the right, under established
practice in California, to set up his loss as a counterclaim.
28 U. S. C., § 724. California Code of Civil Procedure,
§§ 437, 438, 439, 440. Payne v.. Clarke, 271 Fed. 525.
The provision follows: ".
nor shall any carrier
charge or demand or collect or receive a greater or less
or different compensation for such transportation of passengers or property, or for any service in connection therewith, . . . than the rates, fares, and charges which
are specified in the tariff . . .; nor shall any carrier
refund or remit in any manner or by any device any portion of the rates, fares, and charges so specified, nor extend to any shipper or person any privileges or facilities in the transportation of passcn6 rs or property,
except such as are specified in such tariffs." 49 U. S. C.,
§6 (7).
The purpose of the Act to prevent discrimination has
been emphasized by this court and is well known. Since
rago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 36 F. (2d) 1So; Illinois Central R. Co. v.
loopes, 233 Fed. 135; C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Stein Co., 233 Fed. 716;
Johnson-Brown Co. v. Railroad, 239 Fed. 590; Pennsylvania R. Co.
v. South CarolinaProduce Ass'n, 25 F. (2d) 315; D., L. & TV. R. R.
Co. v. Nuhs Co., 93 N. J.Law 309; Adams Express Co. v. Albright
Bros., 75 Pa. Super. Ct. 410.
And the following in the negative: Wells Fargo & Co. v. Cuneo,
241 Fed. 727; C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Tecktonius Mfg. Co., 262 Fed.
715; Payne v. Clarke, 271 Fed. 525; C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Pioneer
Grain Corp., 26 F. (2d) 90; Battle v. Atkinson, 9 Ga. App. 488; Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Birmingham Sand & Brick Co., 9 Ala. App.
419; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Tennessee Mill Co., 143 Tenn. 237;
Penn. R. Co. v. Bellinger, 101 Misc. Rep. 105; N. Y. Cent. R. Co.
v. Federal Sugar Co., 201 App, Div, 467,

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. LINDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

14

its enactment carriers may not accept services, advertising, property or a release of claim for damages in payment
for transportation. They are required to collect the established rates, charges and fares from all alike in cash.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
Chicago, Ind. & L. Ry. Co. v. United States, 219 U. S. 486.
Lake & Export Coal Corp. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.,
State v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 87
1 F. (2d) 968.
Neb. 29.
The adjustment of defendant's demand by counterclaim in plaintiff's action rather than by independent suit
is favored and encouraged by the law. That practice
serves to avoid circuity of action, inconvenience, expense,
consumption of the courts' time, and injustice. Rolling
Mill Co. v. Ore & Steel Co., 152 U. S. 596. 615, 616. Railroad Company v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255, 261. Partridgev.
Insurance Company, 15 Wall. 573, 579. In the case last
mentioned the Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller, said (p. 580): "It would be a most pernicious doctrine to allow a citizen of a distant State to institute in
these courts a suit against a citizen of the State where
the court is held and escape the liability which the laws
of the State have attached to all plaintiffs of allowing just
and legal set-offs and counterclaims to be interposed and
tried in the same suit and in the same form."
The practice of determining claims of shippers for loss
or damage in suits brought by carriers to collect transportation charges is not repugnant to the rule prohibiting
the payment of such charges otherwise than in money.
The adjudication in one suit of the respective claims of
plaintiff and defendant is the practical equivalent of
charging a judgment obtained in one action against that
secured in another. Neither is to be distinguished from
payment in money.
.)8234*-3_0__-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

It is well understood that payment by carriers to shippers under the guise of settling claims for loss and damage may in effect constitute discrimination that the Act
was intended to prevent. But it is not suggested how
opportunity for collusion in respect of such matters
would be lessened by abolishing counterclaims in cases
such as this. Collusion and fraud may be practiced in
the defense and settlement of separate actions brought
on such claims as well as when the same matters are put
forward as offsets or counterclaims.
The Act ought not to be construed to put aside state
laws and long established practice in respect of. pleading
unless the intention of Congress so to do is plain. There
appears no reasonable probability that the relegation of
shippers to separate actions for the enforcement of their
claims for loss or damage would operate more effectively
to enforce the purpose of Congress to prevent discrimination. There is no substantial ground upon which the
Act may be given the construction for which the carrier
contends.
The question is answered
No.

MOORE, TREASURER OF GRANT COUNTY, INDI-

ANA, v. MITCHELL,

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 79. Argued January 14, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
A state tax officer, claiming only by virtue of his office and authorized
only by the laws of his State, has no legal capacity to sue, for the
collection of taxes due to his State, in a federal court in another
State. P. 23.
30 F. (2d) 600, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 834, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of

