TYLER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

TYLER

ET AL.,

ADMINISTRATORS, v. UNITED
STATES.

UNITED STATES v. PROVIDENT TRUST COMPANY ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. GIRARD TRUST COMPANY ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH AND THIRD CIRCUITS.

Nos. 428, 546 and 547. Argued April 24, 1930.-Decided May 19,
1930.

1. The power of Congress to impose a tax in the event of death does
not depend upon whether there has been a "transfer" of property
by the death of the decedent, but whether the death has brought
into being or ripened for the survivor, property rights of such
character as to make appropriate the imposition of a tax upon that
result (which Congress may call a transfer tax, a death duty or
anything else it sees fit,) to be measured ift whole or in part by the
value of such rights. P. 502.
2. The inclusion of property held by husband and wife as tenants
by the entirety, no part of which originally belonged to the survivor, in the gross estate of the decedent spouse for the purpose
of computing the fax "upon the transfer of the net estate "imposed
by the Revenue Acts of 1916 and 1921, §§ 201-202, does not result
in imposing a direct tax in violation of the constitutional requirement of apportionment. Const. Art. I, § 2, cl. 3, and § 9, cl. 4:

Pp. 503-504.
3. To include in the gross estate of a decedent, for the purpose of
computing the tax "upon the transfer of the net estate," the
value of property held by him and another as tenants by the entirety, where such property originally belonged in no part to the
survivor but came to the tenancy as a pure gift from the decedent,
is neither arbitrary nor capricious and does not violate the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 504.
4. The evident and legitimate aim of Congress was to prevent an
avoidance, in whole or in part, of the estate tax by this method of
98234°-30-

32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

z81 U. S.

disposition during the lifetime of the spouse who owned the property, or whose separate funds had been used to procure it; and the
provision under review is an adjunct of the general scheme of taxation of which it is a part, entirely appropriate as a means to that
end. P. 505.
33 F. (2d) 724, reversing 28 F. (2d) 887, affirmed.

35 F. (2d) 339 and 35 F. (2d) 343, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 548, 551, to review judgments of

the Circuit Courts of Appeals in three cases involving the
constitutionality of the federal estate tax in respect of the
provisions requiring the inclusion of the interests of tenants by the entirety in the gross estate.
Mr. Frank S. Bright, with whom Mr. H. Stanley Hinrichs was on the brief, for Tyler et al.
Mr. John S. Sinclair, with whom Messrs. Cuthbert H.
Latta, Jr., J. Snowdon Rhoads, Charles Sinklei, John R.
Yates, and Paul F. Myers were on the brief, for Provident
Trust Company and Girard Trust Company et al.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, Messrs. Sewall Key,
J. Louis Monarch, Randolph C. Shaw, Special Assistants
to the Attorney General, and Erwin N. Griswold were on
the brief, for the United States and Commissioner of
Internal Revenue.
Messrs. Edward H. Blanc and Russell L. Bradford, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curice, on
behalf of the City Bank Farmers Trust Company.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases present the question whether property
owned by husband and wife as tenants by the entirety
way be included, without contravening the Constitution,

TYLER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

in the gross estate of the decedent spouse for the purpose
of computing the tax "upon the transfer of the net
estate" imposed by the revenue acts of 1916, c. 463, 39
Stat. 756, 777-778, and of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227,
277-278.
In No. 428, which arose under the act of 1916, the
decedent had been a resident of Maryland. At the time
of his death, he and his wife owned as tenants by the
entirety shares of stock in a West Virginia corporation
doing business in Maryland. The decedent had been the
sole owner of the stock and created the tenancy by a conveyance executed in 1917. The stock was included in the
gross estate of the decedent at its value at the time of his
death. The total tax assessed was paid, and the administrators brought suit to recover the portion of the amount
so paid attributable to the stock, together with interest.
The trial court gave judgment against the government,
28 F. (2d) 887, which was reversed by the court of
appeals. 33 F. (2d) 724.
In No. 546, which arose under the act of 1921, the
decedent and his wife, residents of Pennsylvania, held title
to certain ground rent and to certain real estate in that
state which had been conveyed to them as tenants by the
entirety. The property had been acquired with the husband's separate funds and no part of the purchase price
was furnished by the wife. The decedent died in 1923
leaving his wife as sole beneficiary under his will. The
administrators filed an estate tax return which did not
include the property interests above described. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue added this property to
the gross estate and assessed a deficiency of taxes on that
account. The Board of Tax Appeals held there was no
deficiency. 5 B. T. A. 1004. Suit thereupon was instituted by the Commissioner in a federal district court.
That court held that the section 'of the act which author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

ized the inclusion of the property was unconstitutional,
and gave judgment against the government. This judgment the court of appeals affirmed. 35 F. (2d) 339.
In No. 547, which also arose under the act of 1921, the
decedent owned real estate in Pennsylvania, of which.
state she was a resident. In 1923 the property was conveyed to a third person, who, in turn, reconveyed it to
the decedent and her husband as "tenants by the entireties." After the death of the decedent, the Commissioner,
for the purpose of computing the estate tax, included in
her gross estate the value of the real estate so held. On
appeal the Board of Tax Appeals held this inclusion to be
erroneous. 10 B. T. A. 1100. The Commissioner filed a
petition for review with the court of appeals, and that
court affirmed the action of the board upon the authority
of No. 546, which had just been decided. 35 F. (2d) 343.
In each case the estate was created after the passage
of the applicable act; and none of the property constituting it had, prior to its creation, ever belonged to the
surviving spouse.
The relevant provisions of the two acts are the same,
and it will be sufficient to quote from the act of 1916.
"Sec. 201. That a tax (hereinafter in this title referred
to as the tax), equal to the following percentages of the
value of the net estate, to be determined as provided in
section two hundred and three, is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of the net estate of every decedent dying after
the passage of this Act, whether a resident or nonresident
of the United States:
"Sec. 202. That'the value of the gross estate of the
decedent shall be determined by including the value at
the time of his death of all property, real or personal,
tangible or intangible, wherever situated:
0b

*

*

0

TYLER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

"(c) To the extent of the interest therein held jointly
or as tenants in [by] the entirety by the decedent and
any other person, or deposited in banks or other institutions in their joint names and payable to either or the
survivor, except such part thereof as may be shown to
have originally belonged to such other person and never
to have belonged to the decedent."
The applicable provision of § 202(c) is explicit, and
the intent of Congress thereby to impose the challenged
tax is not open to doubt. The sole question is in respect
of its constitutional validity. The attack is upon two
grounds: (1) that so far as the tax is based upon the
inclusion of the value of the interest in the estate held
by the decedent and spouse as tenants by the entirety, it
is an unapportioned direct tax and violates Art. 1, § 2, cl. 3
and § 9, cl. 4 of the Constitution; (2) that such a tax
amounts to a deprivation of property without due process
of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The decisions of the courts of Maryland and Pennsylvania follow the common law and are in accord in respect of the character and incidents of tenancy by the
entirety.' In legal contemplation ,the tenants constitute
a unit; neither can dispose of any part of the estate without the consent of the other; and the whole continues in
the survivor. In Maryland, such a tenancy may exist in
personal property as well as in real estate. These decisions establish a state rule of property, by which, of
course, this court is bound. Warburton v. White, 176
U. S. 484, 496.
1. The contention that, by including in the gross estate the value of property held by husband and wife as
tenants by the entirety, the tax pro tanto becomes a
direct tax-that is a tax on property-and therefore invalid without apportionment, proceeds upon the ground

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

that no right in such property is transferred by death,
but the survivor retains only what he already had. Section 201 imposes the tax "upon the transfer of the net
estate "; and if that section stood alone, the inclusion of
such property in the gross estate of the decedent probably
could not be justified by the terms of the statute. But
§ 202 definitely includes the property and brings it within
the reach of the words imposing the tax; so that a basis
for the constitutional challenge is present. Prior decisions of this court do not solve the problem thus presented,
though what was said in Chase National Bank v. United
States, 278 U. S. 327, 337-339; Reinecke v. Northern Trust.
Co., 278 U. S. 339, 348; and Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276
U. S. 260, 271, constitutes helpful aid in that direction,
Death duties rest upon the principle that death is the
"generating source" from which the authority to impose
such taxes takes its being, and "it is the power to transmit or the transmission or receipt of property by death
which is the subject levied upon by all death duties."
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 56, 57. But mere
names and definitions, however important as aids to
understanding, do not conclude the lawmaker, who is free
to ignore them and adopt his own. Karnuth v. United
States, 279 U. S. 231, 242. A tax laid upon the happening of an event, as distinguished from its tangible fruits,
is an indirect tax which Congress, in respect of some
events not necessary now to be described more definitely,
undoubtedly may impose. If the event is death and the
result which is made the occasion of the tax is the bringing
into being or.the enlargement of property rights, and Congress chooses to treat the tax imposed upon that result as
a death duty, even though, strictly, in the absence of an
expression of the legislative will, it might not thus be
denominated, there is nothing in the Constitution which
stands in the way.

TYLER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

The question here, then, is, not whether there has been,
in the strict sense of that word, a "transfer" of the property by the death of the decedent, or a receipt of it by
right of succession, but whether the death has brought
into being or ripened for the survivor, property rights of
such character as to make appropriate the imposition of
a tax upon that result (which Congress may call a transfer
tax, a death duty or anything else it sees fit), to be measured, in whole or in part, by the value of such rights.
According to the amiable fiction of the common law,
adhered to in Pennsylvania and Maryland, husband and
wife are but one person, and the point made is, that by
the death of one party to this unit no interest in property
held by them as tenants by the entirety passes to the
other. This view, when applied to a taxing act, seems
quite unsubstantial. The power of taxation is a fundamental and imperious necessity of all government, not to
be restricted by mere legal fictions. Whether that power
has been properly exercised in the present instance must
be determined by the actual results brought about by the
death, rather than by a consideration of the artificial rules
which delimit the title, rights and powers of tenants' by
the entirety at common law. See Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.
509, 516; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, supra, p. 271.
Taxation, as it many times has been said, is eminently
practical, and a practical mind, considering results, would
have some difficulty in accepting the conclusion that the
death of one of the tenants in each of these cases did not
have the effect of passing to the survivor substantial
rights, in respect of the property, theretofore never
enjoyed by such survivor. Before the death of the husband (to take the Tyler case, No. 428,) the wife had the
right to possess and use the whole property, but so, also,
had her husband; she could not dispose of +he property

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

except with her husband's concurrence; her rights were
hedged about at all points by the equal rights of her
husband. At his death, however, and because of it, she,
for the first time, became entitled to exclusive possession,
use and enjoyment; she ceased to hold the property subject to qualifications imposed by the law relating to tenancy by the entirety, and became entitled to hold and
enjoy it absolutely as her own; and then, and then only,
she acquired the power, not theretofore possessed, of
disposing of the property by an exercise of her sole will.
Thus the death of one of the parties to the tenancy became
the "generating source " of important and definite accessions to the property rights of the other. These circumstances, together with the fact, the existence of which the
statute requires, that no part of the property originally
had belonged to the wife, are sufficient, in our opinion, to
make valid the inclusion of the property in the gross estate
which forms the primary base for the measurement of
the tax. And in that view the resulting tax attributable
to such property is plainly indirect.
2. The attack upon the taxing act as constituting a
violation of the Fifth Amendment is wholly without
merit. The point made is that the tax is so arbitrary
and capricious as to amount to confiscation, and, therefore, to result in a deprivation of property without due
process of law. The tax, as we have just held, falls within
the power of taxation granted to Congress, and the challenge becomes one not to the power, but to an abuse of it.
The possibility that a federal statute passed under the
taxing power may be so arbitrary and capricious as to
cause it to fall before the due process of law clause of the
Fifth Amendment must be conceded-Bru-shaberv. Union
Pac. R. R., 240 U. S. 1, 24, and cases cited; Nichols v.
Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531, 542-but the present statute is,
not of that character. To include in the gross estate, for

GEORGIA POWER CO. v. DECATUR.
497

Syllabus.

the purpose of measuring the tax, the value of property, no part of which originally belonged to one spouse,
but which came to the tenancy, mediately or immediately,
as a pure gift from the other, and which, as a consequence
of the latter's death, was relieved from restrictions imposed by the law in respect of tenancy by the entirety
so as to produce in the survivor the right of sole proprietorship, is obviously neither arbitrary nor capricious.
The evident and legitimate aim of Congress was to prevent an avoidance, in whole or in part, of the estate tax
by this method of disposition during the lifetime of the
spouse who owned the property, or whose separate funds
had been used to procure it; and the provision under review is an adjunct of the general scheme of taxation of
which it is a part, entirely appropriate as a means to that
end. Taft v. Bowers, 278 U. S. 470, 482.
No. 428, judgment affirmed.
No. 546, judgment reversed.
No. 547, judgment reversed.
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY v. CITY OF
DECATUR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 363. Argued April 16, 17, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Upon review of a decree of a state court requiring a street railway company to continue operating for a non-compensatory rate
upon the ground that it is bound to operate for that rate by contract with a municipality, this Court must pass upon the company's claim that the contract has expired and that the decree
deprives it of its property without due process of law. P. 508.
2. A street railway company in Georgia, which, pursuant to a town
ordinance, made a contract with the town prescribing a maximum
fare with respect to one of its lines situate partly within the town

