TODOK v. UNION STATE BANK.
Syllabus.

439

portant constitutional questions unnecessarily or hypothetically. Liverpool, New York & PhiladelphiaSteamship Company v. Commissioners of Emigration, 113 U. S.
33, 39; Siler v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company,
213 U. S.175, 191, 193; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Company, 213 U. S. 366, 407. The present cases call
for the application of this principle. Questions relating
to the constitutional validity of an excess condemnation
should not be determined uipon conjecture as to the contemplated purpose, the object of the excess appropriation
not being set forth as required by the local law.
We conclude that the proceedings for excess condemnation of the properties involved in these suits were not
taken in conformity with the applicable law of the State,
and in affirming the decrees below upon this ground we
refrain from expressing an opinion upon the other questions that have been argued.
Decrees affirmed.

TODOK ET AL. v. UNION STATE BANK OF HARVARD, NEBRASKA, ET. AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 412.

Argued April 22, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

Article 6 of the treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden and
Norway of Juiy 4, 1827, now. in force with Norway, provides that
"The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective States
may freely dispose of their goods and effects, either by testament,
donation or otherwise, in favor of such persons as they think

proper." Held:
(1) As the text of the original of this provision; found in the
Treaty of April 3, 1783, with Sweden, was in French only, the
French text is controlling in interpretation. P. 454.
(2) The phrase "goods and effects" ("fonds et biens ") includes
real estate. Id.
98234-30-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

(3) While treaties, in sateguarcing important rights in the interest of reciprocal beneficial relations, may by their express terms
afford a measure of protection to aliens which citizens of one or both
of the parties may not be able to demand against their own government, the general purpose of treaties of amity and commerce is
to avoid injurious discrimination in either country against the
citizens of the other. P. 454.
(4) A state law, later than this treaty, providing for the establishment of homesteads with special exemption from execution and
forced sale, and inhibiting conveyances of homestead property by
any instrument not joined in by both husband and wife, is not
invalidated by the treaty as applied to a citizen of Norway who
established such a homestead in that State. P. 455.
118 Neb. 105, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 546, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Nebraska which reversed a judgment
setting aside deeds of homestead property.
Mr. Frank E. Edgerton, with whom Messrs. H. G.
IVellensiek, C. C. Fraizer, and Norris Brown were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Walter D. James, with whom Messrs. Benjamin F.
Butler, Earl M. Cline, and Frank D. Williams were on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Christian Knudson, a native and citizen of Norway,
came to this country in 1868 and settled in Nebraska in
1878. He was never naturalized. He established a homestead on 160 acres of land in Hamilton County, Nebraska,
and resided there until he died intestate in August, 1923.
His father and mother made their home with him until
their death, and his son Knute C. Engen, who came to
Nebraska in 1893, also lived with him for a time. The
wife of Knudson remained in Norway. In July, 1923,
Knudson executed deeds of the homestead to his nieces

TODOK v. UNION STATE BANK.
449

Opinion of the Court.

and their husbands, and these grantees conveyed the
property to the Union State Bank of Harvard, Nebraska.
This suit was brought by the son of Knudson, Knute C.
Engen, in the District Court of Hamilton County to cancel the conveyances of the land upon the ground that they
were obtained by fraud. The widow of Knudson, Mar
Tollefsen Todok, who had not joined in the deeds, was
made a defendant. By her cross petition she attacked
the conveyances, alleging that the property constituted a
homestead in which she had an undivided one-half interest. The other defendants answered her cross petition,
and in her reply she set up the right to take the real
estate of her deceased husband by virtue of the treaty of
amity and commerce between the United States and
Norway.
The District Court determined that no fraud had been
practiced in obtaining the deeds from Knudson, but that
these, and the later conveyances dependent upon them,
were void upon the ground that the land was homestead
property the title to which remained in Knudson until
his death and then descended to his widow and his son.
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the'decision of
the District Court with respect to the issue of fraud, but
reversed the judgment upon the ground that, under the
treaty with Norway, Knudson was entitled to convey
the property and that his grantees took title under his
deeds. Engen v. Union State Bank, 118 Neb. 105. This
Court granted a writ of certiorari, 280 U. S. 546.
We are not called upon to decide as to the validity
under the homestead law of Nebraska of a deed of the
homestead by the husband when the wife is an alien who
has never come to this country and made the homestead
her home. We accept the decision of the Supreme Court
of the State that, aside from the effect of the treaty,
Knudson's c onveyance, were void under the law of the
State. That Court, referring to the statutes of Nebraska

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

as to homestead property, and their application to the
present case, said (118 Neb. 111, 112):
"For, if we consider the provisions of section 2819 and
section 2832, Comp. St. 1922, as applicable to the subject of
the present action, it necessarily follows that certain property within the purview of the treaty before us' cannot be
conveyed . . . unless the instrument by which it is conveyed . . . is executed and acknowledged by both husband and wife,' and also that such property (homestead)
' vests on the death of the person from whose property it
was selected, in the survivor, for life, and afterwards in
decedent's heirs forever, subject to the power of the decedent to dispose of the same, except the life estate of the
survivor, by will.'
"The statutory provisidns referred to thus assume the
nature of limitations, qualifications, or modifications of
the treaty itself, and, if valid, would necessarily change
its true construction. Each of these provisions of the
legislative enactment must therefore be considered to be
pro tanto inconsistent with the terms of the controlling
treaty properly construed. The conclusion follows that,
to the extent inconsistent with the terms of the treaty,
the statutory provisions are inoperative. The unquestioned rule of construction requires that the provisions
of the treaty must be liberally construed and given full
force and effect 'anything in the Constitution or laws
of any state to the contrary, notwithstanding.' Therefore, the legal effect of the conveyances executed by Christian Knudson must be determined wholly by the powers
conferred on him by treaty, and not by the inconsistent
limitations and restrictions prescribed in the -Nebraska
Homestead Act."
The only question before us is as to the construction of
the treaty. The provision invoked is Article 6 of the
treaty with Sweden of April 3, 1783 (8 Stat. 60, 64),
revived by the treaty with Sweden and Norway of Sep-

TODOK v. UNION STATE BANK.
449

Opinion of the Court.

tember 4, 1816 (8 Stat. 232, 240) which was replaced by
the treaty with Sweden and Norway of July 4, 1827 (8

Stat. 346, 354) now in force with Norway (Sen. Doc.,
61st Cong., 2d sess., No. 357, vol. 48 (2 Malloy), p. 1300).

This article is as follows:
"The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective States, may freely dispose of their goods and effects

either by testament, donation or otherwise, in favour of
such persons as they think proper; and their heirs in

whatever place they shall reside, shall receive the succession even ab intestato, either in person or by their attor-

ney, without having occasion to take out letters of
naturalization. These inheritances, as well as the capitals and effects, which the subjects of the two parties, in
changing their dwelling, shall be desirous of removing
from the place of their abode, shall be exempted from all
duty called 'droit de detraction' on the part of the government of the two States respectively. But it is at the
same time agreed, that nothing contained in this article
shall in any manner derogate from the ordinances published in Sweden against emigrations, or which may hereafter be published, which shall remain in full force and
vigour. The United States on their part, or any of them,
shall be at liberty to make respecting this matter, such
laws as they think proper."
It was at one time supposed that the phrase ." goods
and effects" in this article did not cover real property, a
construction which was due in some measure to the view
that the treaties of the United States could not affect
the operation of the laws of the several States of the
Union with respect to the inheritance of land. Opinion
of Attorney General Wirt, July 30, 1819, 1 Op. A. G. 275.
This view of the treaty-making power of the United States
is not tenable. Hauensteinv. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483,489;
Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 266, 267; Sullivan v.
Kidd, 254 U. S. 433; Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 47.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The text of the treaty of 1783 with Sweden was in French
only, and the French text is therefore controlling. The
phrase "goods and effects" is a translation of the French
expression "fonds et biens." The French word "biens"
has a wider significance than the English word "goods"
(used by the American translator) and embraces real
property. Story observed upon this point: "The term
'biens,' in the sense of the civilians and continental
jurists, comprehends not merely goods and chattels as in
the common law, but real estate." Conflict of Laws, chap.
1, sec. 13, note. In a note addressed by the Swedish Minister at Washington to the Department of State under
date of December 12, 1910, in response to an inquiry by
the Secretary of State of the United States, the Swedish
Minister stated his understanding that the authorities in
Sweden had always held that the words "goods and
effects" in article 6 of the treaty of 1783 include real
estate. This view has been taken in judicial decisions
in this country. Adams v. Akerlund, 168 Ill. 632; Erickson v. Carlson, 95 Neb. 182. We think that it is the
correct construction of the article of the treaty, applying
the fundamental principle that treaties should.receive a
liberal interpretation to give effect to their apparent purpose. Geofroy v. Riggs, supra; Tucker v. Alexandroff,
183 U. S.424, 437; Jordtan v. Tashiro, 278 U. S.123, 128;
Nielsen v. Johnson, supra.
The question remains whether the treaty operates to
override the law of the State as to the disposition of
homestead property. If so, it would appear to place an
alien owner of a homestead in Nebraska on a better footing than that of a citizen of the State. This conclusion
seems to us to be repugnant to the purpose of the treaty.
While treaties, iA safeguarding important rights in the
interest of reciprocal beneficial relations, may by their
express terms afford a measure of protection to aliens
which. bitizens of one or both of the parties may not be

TODOK v. UNION STATE BANK,
449

Opinion of the Court.

able to demand against their own government, the general purpose of treaties of amity and commerce is to avoid

injurious discrimination in either country against the citizens of the other. Compare Frederickson v. Louisiana,
23 How. 445, 447; Geofroy v. Riggs, supra; Maiorano v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 213 U. S. 268; Patsone v.
Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138; Petersen v. Iowa, 245 U. S.
170; Duus v. Brown, 245 U. S. 176; Sullivan v. Kidd,
supra. This purpose is indicated in the recital of the
treaty of 1783 with Sweden that the high contracting parties thought that they could not better accomplish the
end they had in view "than by taking for a basis of their
arrangements the mutual interest and advantage of both
nations, thereby avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually sources of debate, embarrassment
and discontent."
It is not to be supposed that the treaty intended to
secure the right of disposition in any manner whatever
regardless of reasonable regulations in accordance with
the property law of the country of location, bearing upon
aliens and citizens alike. For example, conveyances of
land would still be subject to non-discriminatory provisions as to form or recording. Nor can the right to "dispose," secured by the treaty, be deemed to give a wholly
unrestricted fight to the alien to acquire property, without
regard to reasonable requirements relating to particular
kinds of property and imposed upon both aliens and
citizens without discrimination.
It is true that the policy of Nebraska with respect to
the selection of homesteads was established after the
treaty in question was made. (General Laws, Nebraska,
1879, pp. 57, et seq.) But we find no ground for the
conclusion that in establishing this reasonable policy
Nebraska took any action which was inconsistent with
the provisions of the treaty. The citizens of Norway and
Sweden who settled in Nebraska had no reason to com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

plain of that policy and had obtained no right to ignore
it. The homestead property under the law of Nebraska
has a special quality. It is exempt from judgment liens
and from executions or forced sale, except as speciallyprovided (Nebraska, Comp. St. 1922, sec. 2816). The
acquisition of the homestead with these incidents depends
upon the bona fide intention tQ make it a home. Hair v.
Davenport, 74 Neb. 117. It is because* of this quality
that it enjoys special privileges, and that it cannot be
conveyed oz encumbered unless the instrument is executed
and acknowledged by both husband and wife.
When Knudson selected the homestead, he sought the
advantages of the provisions of the local law as to homesteads, and he could not properly obtain the benefits of
these provisions without accepting the property with the
quality which the law attached to it. If he had not been
entitled to establish the homestead, and thus his acquisition lay outside of the homestead law, it would be clear
that the statutory provision against disposition of the
homestead would have no application and there would
have been no occasion for the Supreme Court of the State
to cite the provisions of the treaty in order to strike down
the prohibition against conveying the property. We are
unable to see that anything in the treaty, which was contnued in force with Norway, gave Knudso the right to
establish a homestead and then hold it free from the restrictions which governed it as a homestead, restrictions
which operated upon every citizen of Nebraska who
owned a homestead.
Our conclusion is that the treaty did not invalidate the
provisions of the Nebraska statute as applied to the
present case in relation to the disposition of the land
considered as homestead property.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

