362

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

1918 return, for the tax years 1919 and 1924. But this
argument likewise rests upon the assumption of facts
which arc without support in the findings; that the other
expenses of the London office for 1918 and the foreign
tax paym6nts deducted in the 1919 and 1924 returns did
not accrue in those years. If that assumption is made,
failure of the Commissioner to correct the returns in these
respects is as attributable to his error or oversight or lack
of information as to any opinion on his part as to the
propriety of the deductions in the years made.
Affirmed.
I)OHANY v. ROGERS, STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER OF MICHIGAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 33S.

Argued March 14, 1930.-Decidea April 14, 1930.

1. Decisions of the state supreme court as to the propriety of condemnati6n proceedings under the state constitution and laws,
followed in a suit brought in the federal court to enjoin like condemnation proceedings involving the same project and contract.
P. 365.
2. A state highway project included in the highway an adjacent
railroad right of way, to be acquired from the railroad in exchange
for other lands which the State was to condemn and upon which
the railroad was to be relocated. Held that 'the taking of private
land to he so exchanged is a taking for a 'public purpose. P. 365.
3. Requiring a land-owner to surrender possession in condemnation
proceedings before he is paid is not a denial of due process. so long
as payment is insured by the State. P. 366.
4. In a suit in the District Court to enjoin proceedings whereby
the State of Michigan sought to take private land in order to
exchange it with a railroad company for other land desired by
the State for highway purposes, the land-owner claimed the right
to have the proceeding brought under the Railway Condemniation Act which allows consequential damages and damages without deductidn of benefits, and that another statute, by authorizing

DOHANY v. ROGERS.
362

Opinion of the Court.

condemnation under the Highway Condemnation Act, deprived
him of these and other rights in violation of the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. In
view of decisions of the state supreme court in like cases, held
that there is no ground for anticipating that just compensation
will be denied in this instance, or that any advantages given
by the Railway Act with respect to the amount of compensation
for the land taken or the deduction of benefits, will be withheld.
P. 367.
5. Attorneys' fees and expenses are not embraced within just compensation for land taken by eminent domain. P. 368.
6. Allowing attorneys' fees to Iand-owners in condemnation proceedings brought by railroad companies but not in those brought
by the State is not a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
P. 368.
7. The due process clause does not guarantee to land-owners the
right of trial by jury in condemnation cases, nor the right of
appeal. P. 369.
8. The equal protection clause. permits of different procedure in
condemnation suits brought by the State from that prescribed
where the actor is a private corporation. P. 369.
9. A decree dismissing the bill in an injunction suit tried before
three judges (Jud. Code, § 266) may properly be attested by
one of the judges when authorized by orinions signed by all.
P. 369.
33 F. (2d) 918, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill for an injunction.
Mr. Frank H.

Dohany, pro se.

Messrs. Wilber M. Brucker and Kit F. Clardy for
Rogers.
Messrs. Frederic T. Harward and H. V. Spike were on

the brief for the Detroit, Grand Haven & Milwaukee
Railway Company and the H. W. Nelson Company.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code from
a decree of a district court of three judges, for the Eastern

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

District of Michigan, dismissing appellant's complaint.
The suit was brought to enjoin the State Highway Commissioner and others from acquiring a right of way for
railway use, across land of the appellant, and from prosecuting a proceeding in the state courts for the acquisition of the right of way, by condemnation, on the ground
that the state statutes under which the proceeding was
had infringed the state constitution and the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The State Highway Commissioner is engaged in carrying out a project for the construction and widening of
a state highway between Detroit and Pontiac, Michigan,
which, for several miles, adjoins the right of way of the
respondent, Detroit, Grand Haven & Milwaukee Railway
Company. As a part of the project, it is proposed to
include in the highway the adjacent railroad right of
way. This is to be acquired by relocating the railway on
lands to be taken in the pending condemnation proceedings, and exchanged for the present right of way. As
authorized by No. 215 of the Michigan Public Acts of
1925 and No. 340 of the Acts of 1927, the Commissioner
has entered into a contract with the railroad company
for the proposed exchange, to be effected when the Commissioner has acquired, by purchase or eminent domain,
the lands on which the railroad is to be relocated. Acting under No. 352 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1925,
as amended by No. 92 of the Acts of 1927, the Commissioner has begun, in the Probate Court of Oakland
County, the proceeding which the appellant seeks to
enjoin in the present suit.
In proceedings brought under the act last mentioned,
commissioners appointed by the court fix the compensation for lands taken, after a hearing, and are required to
assess the benefits accruing to land owners by reason of
the establishment of the highway. Review may be had
by certiorari. Proceedings brought by incorporated rail-

DOHANY v. ROGERS.
362

Opinion of the Court.

way companies for condemnation of property for railway
use, so far as relevant to the present inquiry, are governed
by other statutes. Railway Condemnation Statutes, §§
8249-8257, Michigan Comp. Laws (1915). Under them
the land owner, it is contended, is accorded rights or
privileges withheld from him by the Highway Condemnation Act. They are (a) the right to possession of his
property until damages have been finally assessed and
paid, (b) the right to consequential damages for diminution in value of any part of the tract not taken, (c) the
right to damages without deduction of benefits accruing
from the construction of the railroad, (d) the right to attorneys' fees and expenses in addition to damages, (e) the
right to trial by jury, and (f) the right to review by appeal instead of by certiorari. Other differences are of less
importance.
All questions of the propriety, under the state constitution and laws, of condemning plaintiff's land in the
pending proceeding, rather than under the Railroad Condemnation Law, have been resolved in respondent's favor
by the Michigan Supreme Court in other suits, which involved lands taken for the same project under the same
contract and by like procedure. Fitzsimons & Galvin,
Inc. v. Rogers, 243 Mich. 649; Johnstone v. Detroit,
Grand Haven & Milwaukee Ry. Co., 245 Mich. 65. Accepting this interpretation of the local law by the highest
court of the State, Rindge Co. v. Los Angeles Co., 262
U. S. 700, 708, we restrict our inquiry to the questiolis
raised under the Federal Constitution. ,
The appellant contends that the taking of his laud for
the purpose of exchange with the railway company is for
a private and not a public purpose (see Missouri Pacific
Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417,) and that the statute
which authorizes the condemnation of his property by a
proceeding under the Highway Act. whei it is to
e-d
voted to rajivny use. deprivc him of the special ad\vatn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

tages named which are accorded to land owners whose
property is taken under the Railway Condemnation Statutes, and so denies to him due, process of law and the
equal protection of the laws.
We need not inquire whether, under the peculiar provisions of the Michigan statutes, the proposed taking
of appellant's land is for highway or railway purposes. It
is enough that although the land is to be used as a right
of way for a railroad, its acquisition is so essentially a
part of the project for improving a public highway as
to be for a public use. See Brown v. United States, 263
U. S. 78; Pitznogle v. Western Md. R. R. Co., 119 Md.
673; Rogers v. Bradshaw, 20 John. 735. Nor is the requirement of the Highway Act that the appellant surrender, possession of the property before payment of compensation, in itself, a denial of due , 'ocess, so long as
the payment of the award is insured, which is not questioned here. Sec. 20, Act No. 352 of 1925 as amended.
Backus V. Ft. Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557,
568; Joslin Mfg. Co. v. City of Providence, 262 U. S. 668;
Rindge Co. v. Los Angeles Co., supra. In other respects
the advantages of proceeding under the Railway Condemnation Act, alleged to be withheld from appellant,
fall into two classes, those which affect the measure of
his recoveryand those which relate to details of procedure.
The right to just compensation to which appellant is
entitled under the due process clause, without regard to
the particular procedure employed, is guaranteed both
by the Fourteenth Amendment and Art. 13 of the Michigan constitution. We cannot assume that under the
procedure prescribed by the state for the taking of appellant's land he will not be entitled to receive or will in
fact be denied the just compensation which the Constitution guarantees.
On the contrary, the Supreme Court of Michigan has
explicitly pointed out that the procedure and statutes

DOHANY v. ROGERS.
362

Opinion of the Court.

presently involved not only insure just compensation in
the constitutional sense but allow the full measure of
compensation, for the taking, provided by the Railway
Act. In addition, it is emphasized that even though the
land be taken under the Highway Act, that Act, like the
Railway Act, does not permit the offset of benefits arising
from railroad construction against damages for the taking, since it only permits deduction of benefits derived
from the construction of a highway. Fitzsimons & Galvin Co., Inc. v. Rogers, supra, 664,' see Johnstone, et al. v.
'It is true that the highway law of this State provides that in
fixing compensation the benefits accruing to the property owner are
offset against the damage awarded. See Act No. 352, Pub. Acts 1925,
§ 18; In re Macomb County Board of County Road Com'rs, 242
Mich. 239. But it does not follow from this that in a proceeding
wherein the State highway commissioner is seeking to s.ecure a right
of way, the damage to be awarded the property owner will be anything short of the 'just compensation 'provided in section 2 of Art.
13 of the Constitution. In the present case, as in an ordinary proceeding for condemning a right of way for a railroad, it will be the
duty of the commissioners 'to compensate the owner for what his
landed interest will suffer from the use proposed to be made of it by
the railroad company.' Barnes v. Railway Co., 65 Mich. 251. Adequate compensation is such onJy as puts the injured party iii as good
condition as he would have been in if the injury had not been inflicted.
It includes the value of the land, or the amount to which the value of
the property from which it is taken is depreciated. Grand Rapids,
etc. R. Co. v. Heisel, 47 Mich. 393. There is no provision in our statutes for offsetting benefits against damages incident to taking land for
a railroad right of way; and in the absence of an express stattory
provision such a deduction cannot be made. Detroit, etc. R. Co. v.
Natiotal Bank, 196 Mich. 660; State Highway Conimissioner v. Brcisacher, 231 Mich. 317. With this construction placed upon the highway act, it is not subject to the objection that it fails to provide adequate compensation for the property owner and is therefore un'onstitutional. Nor does it leave force to plaintiff's contention that sin'ce
it is here sought to coudemn a railroad right of way the procedure
must be under and in accordance with the general railroad act rather
than under the highway law." Per North, J., Fitzsimons & Galvin,
Inc. v. Rogers, 243 Mich. 649, G64, 665.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Detroit, Grand Haven & Milwaukee Ry. Co., supra, 68;
In re Widening of Bagley Avenue, 248 Mich. 1; In re
Widening of Fulton Street, 248 Mich. 213.
As thus construed the Michigan statutes afford no
basis for anticipating that, in the pending proceeding,
just compensation will be denied, or that any advantages
given by the provisions of the Railway Act with respect
to the amount of compensation for the land taken or the
deduction of benefits will be withheld from appellant.
Hence it is unnecessary to say, in response to the contention pressed upon us, how far these advantages if not
secured to appellant by the Highway Act or embraced
within just compensation are conferred upon him by
constitutional guaranties. See McCoy v. Union Elevator
Railroad Co., 247 U. S. 354; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.
548.
Attorneys' fees and expenses are not embraced within
just compensation for land taken by eminent domain.
See Joslin Mfg. Co. v. City of Providence, supra, 675.
A state may allow the recovery of an attorney's fee in
special classes of proceedings while withholding them in
others. People of Sioux City v. National Surety Co.,
276 U. S. 232, 234; C. & N. W. Ry. v. Nye, etc. Co., 260
U. S. 35; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Cade, 233
U. S. 642; Farmers, etc. Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S.
301. In condemnation proceedings it may classify those
whose property is taken and allow the one class expenses
not granted to another. Joslin Mfg. Co. v. City of Providence, supra, 675. Since a permitted classification of
those upon whom liability for attorneys' fees is imposed
involves the denial of their recovery to some, appellant
cannot object here to a classification allowing attorneys'
fees in condemnation proceedings brought by railroad
companies and denying them when brought by the state.
If the classification is valid he cannot complain, if invalid,

DOHANY v. ROGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

362

the fees denied to him under the Highway Act could not
have been recovered under the Railway Act.
The due process clause does not guarantee to the citizen of a state any particular form or method of state
procedure. Under it he .may neither claim. a right to
trial by jury nor a right of appeal. Its riequirements are
satisfied if he has reasonable notice and reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present his claim or defense,
due regard being had to the nature of the proceeding and
the character of the rights which may be affected by it.
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 508; Hurwitz v. North,
271 U. S. 40; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 593; Backus
v. Union Depot Co., supra, p. 569.
Nor does the equal protection clause exact uniformity
of procedure. The legislature may classify litigation and
adopt one type of procedure for one class and a different
type for another. That condemnation proceedings under the Highway Act are conducted on behalf of the State
is in itself sufficient basis for the exercise of the legislative'
judgment in providing for it a different procedure from
that prescribed for the exercise of eminent domain by a
private corporation. See Backus v. Union Depot Co.,
supra, p. 570.
The decree dismissing the appellant's bill was attested
by only one of the three judges who heard the case. The
appellant contends that it " does not purport to be authorized or sanctioned " by either of the other two judges.
The decree on its face purports to be by the District
Court sitting in the cause. It recites in terms that " the
court, . . . being fully advised in the premises, do now
here order, adjudge and decree . . . " and the record
shows that the court referred to was made up of three
judges, required by § 266. Even if, as appellant assumes,
this statement by one judge is not to be relied upon, there
is ample authorization and sanction for the decree in the
98234*-30--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

281 U. S.

opinion signed by two of the judges and the concurring
opinion of the third. This we think equivalent for that
purpose to an announcement in open court, three judges
sitting. See Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v.
Louisiana Public Service Commission, 260 U. S. 212, 218.
We have conFidered, but do not discuss, other contentions of appellant of less moment.
Affirmed.
COCHRAN ET AL. v. LOUISIANA STATE BOARD OF
EDUCATION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 468.

Argued April 15, 1930.-Decided April 28, 1930.

Appropriation by the State of money derived from taxation to the
supplying of-school books free for children in private as well as
public schools is not objectionable under the Fourteenth Amendment as, a taking of private property for private purposes where
the hooks furnished for private schools are not granted to the
schools themselves but only to or for the use of the children, and
are the same as those furnished for public schools and are not
religious or sectarian in character. P. 374.
168 La. 1030, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiana affirming the refusal of a trial court to issue an
injunction to restrain the State Board of Education and
certain officials, appellees herein, from expending tax
funds for the purchase of free school books.

Mr. ChallenB. Ellis, with whom Messrs. Wade H. Ellis,
Daniel C. Roper, W. D. Jamieson,Herbert S. Ward, James
U. Galloway, and Nash Johnson were on the brief, for
appellants.
Taxes levied by a State must be for a public purpose.
Parkersburgv. Br6wn, 106 U. S. 487; Cole v. LaGrange,

