ESCHER v. WOODS.
Argument for Petitioners.

ESCHER, ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATOR,

ET AL. V.

WOODS, TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 365.

Argued April 17, 1930.-Decided April 28, 1930.

Upon recovery by citizens of a neutral country of the value of
property mistakenly seized during the late war as belonging to
an alien enemy, the Alien Property Custodian is not entitled to a
deduction for administration expenses not shown to have been
incurred in respect of the particular property or fund. P. 383.
33 F. (2d) 556, reversed.

280 U. S. 544, to review a judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing
a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District in a suit
against the Alien Property Custodian.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Spier Whitaker, with whom Messrs. Lawrence A.
Baker, Lyttleton Fox, Henry Escher, and Henry Ravenel
were on the brief. for petitioners.
The Alien Property Custodian was not given, and constitutionally could not be given, the right to appropriate
from the money of petitioners as so-called administrative
expenses the sum of $55,909.83, or any part of it, and
therefore the judgment of the Court of Appeals should
be reversed and the decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia affirmed because:
A. The provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act
expressly limit the deductions for expenses to the amounts
actually and necessarily incurred on account of the particular money and property from which the deduction is
sought to be made; and
B. Even if this would include any part of the salaries
and other general expenses of operating the Custodian's
office-which we deny-the provisions of the Fifth

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondents.

281 U. S.

Amendment do not permit the Custodian to appropriate
under the guise of expenses any percentage of petitioners' money and property, much less a percentage arbitrarily fixed by him without notice to the owner; and
C. The bringing of petitioners' suit under ยง 9 of theTrading with the Enemy Act necessarily restricted the
right and power.of the Treasurer and the Custodian over
the money and property sued for to the mere holding of
it until termination of the suit; and, any provision of the
statute to the contrary notwithstanding, the utmost that
the Custodian can charge against petitioners upon accounting under the decree in their favor is the actual
amount, if any, necessarily expended for protecting and
taking care of their money and property; and
D. The respondents having deducted the full amount
of all expenses directly attributable to the money and
property of petitioners and having admitted that it is impossible to determine the actual amount of the Custodian's
general expenses which were incurred in respect of petitioners' money and property, the Custodian has no right
to deduct and withhold any additional amount whatsoever
on account of his so-called " administrative expenses."
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Attorney
General Mitchell, Messrs. Claude R. Branch and Thomas
E. Rhodes and Mary G. Connor, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, and Mr. J. Frank Staley were on the
brief, for respondents.
I. The Act of March 4, 1923, specifically provided that
the Custodian might pay the necessary expenses incurred
by him in securing the possession, collcction, or control of
money or other property seized by him or in protecting
or administering the same, out of funds seized by the
Custodian. This Court has held that the Custodian.was
authorized to seize property supposed to belong to an
enemy even before an adjudication that it was enemy

ESCHER v. WOODS.
379

Argument for Respondents.

property, and has recognized that all property seized by
the Custodian should be administered by him.
The Act of March 28, 1918, vests the Custodian with
all the powers of a common law trustee in respect of all
property seized by him. Congress intended that the entire cost of administering the office should be borne by
the trust funds administered by him. The practice of
deducting for administrative expenses a fixed percentage
of the trust funds upon their return to the owners had
been in force for several years before the passage of the
Act of March 4, 1923, and that Act operated as a confirmation of the existing practice.
Moreover, it is universally recognized that a trustee
has the right to be reimbursed for the expenses incurred
in the administration of the trust estate. This Court
has said that proper charges and expenses may be deducted even from property wrongfully seized.
II. The deduction of a flat rate charge of two per cent.
has been determined by the Custodian to be the lowest
amount necessary to cover the expenses incurred by him
in collecting, protecting, and administering the seized
property.
The principal of the trust estate of the petitioners
amounted to over $3,000,000, and the estate was administered by the Custodian for over ten years. The
amount deducted is about two per cent. of the principal
sum returned, and is about five per cent. of the total
income.
The petitioners admit that the Custodian could deduct exact amounts expended in the administration of
their property, but contend that they should not be
charged "one cent more than the actual expense of protecting or administering such property" or anything on
account of the general expenses of the Custodian's office.
If deductions can not be made for this purpose, it is
obvious that the authority given to the Custodian to pay

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

expenses from trust funds will be largely ineffective. It
was unavoidable that the Custodian should make mistakes and seize the property of non-enemies.
The action of the Custodian in determining this method
and amount is presumed to be reasonable and proper.
III. The deduction by the Custodian of a fixed percentage to cover administrative costs or expenses did not
deprive the petitioners of their property without due
process of law. The Trading with the Enemy Act was
passed under Art. I, ยง 8, Cl. 11 of the Constitution empowering Congress to declare war and make rules concerning captures on land and water. The power vested
in the President to make rules and regulations with respect to the administration of property seized by the
Custodian included the power to regulate the administrative expenses to be deducted from seized property.
Therefore, the method employed by the Executive Department of deducting a flat rate of two per cent. from the
petitioners' seized property was the exercise of the discretionary power vested in the President, which is not reviewable. The power conferred by the Act to take
enemy-owned property included the authority to seize
property believed to belong to an enemy. This Act, and
its amendments and the. Executive Orders of the President, authorized the Custodian to make the deductions in
question, as stated above. The Fifth Amendment does
not prevent the exercise of war powers, and the Executive must have wide discretion as to the means to be
employed in order to carry out the war successfully.
Moreover, it is not open to the petitioners to raise any
constitutional question, as none was raised in the record in
the courts below.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by citizens of Switzerland to recover property mistakenly seized during the late war as belonging

ESCHER v. WOODS.
379

.Opinion of the Court.

to an alien enemy. The plaintiffs recovered, but on a
statement of account by the Alien Property Custodian he
claimed a deduction of $55,909.83 for administrative expenses, "said sum having been paid by [him] into a fund
maintained by him, out of which the expenses incurred
in administering money and other property seized by the
Alien Property Custodian, are paid." On a rule to show
cause the claim was disallowed by the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, "but the decision was reversed
by the Court of Appeals. 33 F. (2d) 556. A writ of
certiorari was granted by this Court.
In the answer to the motion to show cause why the
charge should not be stricken out it was not alleged and
no evidence was offered to show that the expenses actually
incurred in respect of the particular fund were equal to
this sum, or what, if any, they were. It was said to be
impracticable to prove them or to apportion the general
expenses of the office. The amount was two per cent. of
the assets handed over and it is said that without pleading
or evidence the record shows this to be a reasonable
charge.
To sustain the deduction the respondents rely upon
the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c.
106, ยง 12; 40 Stat. 411, 423, amended by Act of March
28, 1918, c. 28; 40 Stat. 459, 460, by which the Alien
Property Custodian is "vested with all the powers of a
common-lav trustee" in respect of all property, "other
than money," received by him under the Act and may
exercise any powers appurtenant thereto "as though he
were the absolute owner thereof." They also invoke
Executive Order, February 26,. 1918 (No. 2813) that the
Custodian "may pay all reasonable and proper expenses
which may be incurred in or about securing possession or
control of money or other property . . . and in otherwise
protecting and administering the same. So far as may
be, all such expenses shall be paid out of, and in any event

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of thc Court.

281 U. S.

recorded as a charge against, the estate to which such
money or other property belongs." Also Order of July
16, 1918 (No. 2916), of which it is necessary to mention
only the direction that the expenses "shall be limited to
and paid or satisfied out of only the property or business
or undertaking involved and out of which" the expenses
shall have arisen provided that if the property or assets
of the business are insufficient, they may be satisfied out
of other property "received from, or as the property of,
the same enemy." Under these Acts and Orders the Custodian has adopted the course followed in this case and
it is further urged that his conduct is tacitly ratified by
the later Acts of March 4, 1923, c. 285, adding ยง 24 to the
original Act, which embodies so much of the above orders
as limits the liabilityto expenses incurred in respect of the
same property, and to the property concerned or other
property of the same person, 42 Stat. 1511, 1516; and
May 16, 1928, c. 580; 45 Stat. 573, 574, that "all expenses
of the office . . . including compensation of the Alien
Property Custodian . . . shall be paid from interest and
collections on trust funds and other properties under the
control of such Custodian." It will be observed that the
charge for the expenses of the office is upon interest and
collections only; that is, a deduction from income for the
cost of earning it, not as in the present case, a charge
upon the corpus of the fund.
We do not perceive even in 1928 anything that clearly
suggests treating the property in the hands of the Custodian as one great trust, to be called on to bear the
expenses of administration, as one homogeneous whole.
On the contrary the directions are explicit that the expenses charged to a given property are those incurred in
getting or protecting it, or at least others similarly due
from the same owner. But, and this is the main thing,
all of these provisions naturally are interpreted to refer
to property that the Custodian is entitled to hold. It

CHESAPEAKE &c. TEL. CO. v. U. S.
379

Syllabus.

would be extraordinary if the charges incident to a seizure
that the law did not intend the Custodian to make and
a possession that the law requires him to surrender, were
to be imposed upon the owner whose interests were
sacrificed up to the moment of restitution. It seems to
be going far enough to require him to bear the loss that he
has suffered, without compelling him to pay the Government for its outlay in doing him harm. See Hobbs v.
McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 582.
Decree reversed.
CHESAPEAKE & POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 389.

Argued April 21, 22, 1930.-Decided May 5, 1930.

A telephone company, while under a standing written contract, made
with the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Act of June
17, 1910, to furnish telephone equipment and service to the War
Department, installed in a building especially constructed for it
by the Government, an unusually large and very expensive switchboard to meet the growing needs of the Department during the
World War; and after the need was over and the switch-board
had been removed, it sued under the Dent Act to recover the cost
of installation less salvage. Held, upon the facts as found below:
1. That the switch-board was covered by the written contract,
and that the conduct of the parties following installation was
consistent with this view. P. 386.
2. That a contract for extra pay was not to be implied either
(a) from claims addressed to officials of the Department having
no authority to bind the Government and not assented to by them
or known to their superiors; or (b) from the fact that the plans
for the special building, showing the switch-board and equipment
proposed, were submitted to the Secretary of War; or (c) from
the fact that the Government had continued to use the switchboard after the claims were made. P. 388.
68 Ct. Cls. 273, affirmed.
98234 *-30

25

