CHARTER SHIPPING CO. v. BOWRING, &c.
511

515

Syllabus.

pany was authorized to issue 400,000 shares; it had issued
only 50,485 and these represented all its property and
business. The tax at the rate of five cents each on
298,520 shares was held directly to burden the company's
interstate commerce. Cf. Cudahy Co. v. Hinkle, 278
U. S. 460. The case now under consideration cannot be
distinguished from Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson,
supra. And see International Shoe Co. v. Shartel, 279
U. S. 429, AQ9
Decree affirmed.
CHARTER SHIPPING COMPANY, LIMITED, v.'
BOWRING, JONES & TIDY, LIMITED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 397. Argued April 22, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. The retention of jurisdiction of a suit in admiralty between foreigners is within the discretion of the District Court, and the exercise of that discretion may not be disturbed unless abused. P. 517.
2. Liability in general average arises not from contract but from participation in the common venture, and its extent in the absence of
limiting clauses in the bill of lading is, under the admiralty rule,
fixed by the law of the port of destination. Id.
3. In a suit in admiralty between British corporations for the recovery of a general average deposit made in London to release cargo
shipped from ports in the United States, the litigation apparently
involving the application of the law of England to a fund there
located, but it being claimed that limiting clauses in tie bills of
lading modified the liability in general average so as to put in issue
the seaworthiness of the vessel at the beginning of the voyage, on
which question there were American witnesses, held:
•(1) It was for the District Court, upon consideration of all the
circumstances, to say whether it should decline jurisdiction. P. 518.
(2) In declining jurisdiction, the District Court can not be said
to have improvidently exercised its discretion. Id,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

(3) The question of convenience of witnesses was for the District Judge to consider and determine. Id.
:33 F. (2d) 280, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 545, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the
District Court declining jurisdiction of a suit in admiralty
between foreigners to recover a general average deposit
made in a foreign port.
Mr.Cletus Keating for petitioner.
Mr. Theodore L. Bailey for respondent.
MNR.

JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, a British corporation, filed in the District
Court for Southern New York a libel in personam against
petitioner, also a British corporation, to recover a general
average deposit made in London. The libel alleged that'
the petitioner received on its vessel, the "Charterhague,
at various Gulf and Atlantic ports in the United States,
shipments of rosin and turpentine for transportation, to
London, bills of lading for which were endorsed to the
respondent. As grounds for recovery it was set up that
the general average act was due to unseaworthiness of the
vessel at the beginning of the voyage, unknown to respondent when it made the deposit in order to release
the cargo from the general average lien.
On the libel, the general appearance and exceptions of
the libelee, the petitioner here, and an answering affidavit
setting up that after the libel in the present suit was
filed respondent commenced suit in England involving the
same subject matter, the District Court dismissed the
libel, saying that contribution for general average is to

CHARTER SHIPPING CO. v. BOWRING, &c.
515

517

Opinion of the Court.

be determined by law of the port of discharge and that
"under all the circumstances" jurisdiction should be declined. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the
jurisdiction should have been retained. 33 F. (2d) 280.
It pointed out that the suit did not involve a restatenient
of a general average adjustment and said that if the bills
of lading contained a "Jason clause" or incorporated theprovisions of the Harter Act, the question of due diligence
to make the vessel seaworthy would be an issue in the
case, citing The Jason, 225 U. S. 32; The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199; Hurlbut v. Turnure (D. C.) 76 Fed.
587, aff'd 81 Fed. 208; Trinidad Shipping Co. v. Frame,
Alston & Co., 88 Fed. 528; that the rule that general
average is controlled by the law at the port of destination
was consequently an insufficient reason for declining jurisdiction, and, in view of the statement of the affidavit that
there were American witnesses as to seaworthiness, concluded that it was expedient under all the circumstances
for the court to retain jurisdiction. This Court granted
certiorari, 280 U. S. 545.
The retention of jurisdiction Qf a suit in admiralty
between foreigners is within the discretion of the District
Court. The exercise of its discretion may not be disturbed unless abused. The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355,
368; The Maggie Hammond, 9 Wall. 435, 457.
The affidavit states that the bills of lading contain a
clause providing for general average, but the bills of lading are not in the record and it does not appear that they
embraced Jason or other clauses modifying the liability
in general average. - As that liability arises not from contract but from participation in the common venture, see
Hobson v. Lord, 92 U. S. 397; Barnardv. Adams, 10 How.
270, 303; The Roanoke, 59 Fed. 161, 163; Milburn v.
JamaicaFruit,&c. Co., (1900) 2 Q. B. 540, 550, its extent

518

OCTOBER TER M, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

in the absence of such limiting clauses is, under the admiralty rule, fixed by the law of the port of destination.
Hobson v. Lord, supra, 411; Mousen v. Amsinck, 166 Fed.
817, 820; Compagnie Francaise de Navigation a vapeur v.
Bonnase, 15 F. (2d) 202, 203; Congdon, General Average
(2d Ed.) 148. Even if so limited, the extent and effect of
the limitation cannot be determined apart from consideration of the rule limited.
Both the parties being British subjects and the present
litigation, as well as the suit pending abroad, apparently
involving the application of English law to the fund
located there, it was foi the District Court to say, as it
did. upon a consideration of all the circumstances, whether
.it should decline "to take cognizance of the case if justice
would be done as well by remitting the parties to the home
forum." See The Maggie Hammond, supra, p. 457.
Even if we assume, as did the court below, that the bills
of lading may have modified the liability in general average so as to put in issue the care taken to make the vessel
seaworthy before sailing, we cannot say that the District
Court improvidently exercised its discretion. While some
witnesses as to seaworthiness were "American repairmen,"
it does not appear that any were in or near the southern
district of New York. The libel alleges that the Charterhague plied as a common carrier between American ports
and London where, so far as appears, her officers and crew
would be available as witnesses as to the alleged unseaworthy condition of engines and boilers. It was for the
District Judge to consider the facts appearing and the inferences which he might draw from them and reach his
own conclusion as to the convenience of witnesses as well
as the other factors upon which he decided that justice
would be best served by leaving the parties to their suit
in England.
Reversed.

