572

OCTOBER TERM. 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

WHEELER LUMBER BRIDGE AND SUPPLY COMPANY OF DES MOINES, IOWA, v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 15.

Argued April 25, 1929.-Decided May 26, 1930.

1. A certification by the Court of Claims under § 3 (a) of the Act
of February 13, 1925, can not be entertained if the question certified embraces the whole case, because to accept it and proceed to a
determination thereof would be an exercise of original jurisdiction
by this Court contrary to the Constitution, and because the statute
permits a certification only of definite and distinct questions of law.
P. 576.
2. That a certification from a court of first instance, restricted to
definite and distinct questions of law, invokes appellate action, is
settled by early and long continued usage amounting to a practical
construction of the constitutional provision defining the jurisdiction
of this Court. Id.
3. The certification of a definite question of law is not rendered objectionable merely because the answer may be decisive of the case.
P. 577.
4. The importance or controlling character of the question certified, if
it be a question of law and suitabl, specific, affords no ground for
declining to accept the certification. Id.
5. Under the Revenue Acts of 1917 and 1918, which imposed a tax
on transportation of freight payable by the person paying for
the service, the exemption [§ 502, Act of 1917; § 500 (h), Act
of 1918,] allowed in case of transportation rendered to a State
is to be construed as extending to her counties. P. 578.
6. Where a vendor, who had engaged to sell and deliver lumber
needed for public bridges to a county at a designated point in
the county f. o. b. at a stated price, shipped the lumber by rail
to that point preparatory to there effecting the required delivery
and forwarded the bills of lading to the county, and the latter;
conformably to the vendor's intention, surrendered the bills of
lading to the carrier, paid its transportation charges, received
the lumber from it, deducted from the f. o. b. price at destination
the transportation charges paid to the carrier, and remitted the
balance to the vendor-the transportation of the lumber to the
place of delivery was not a service rendered to the county (State)
within the meaning of the exempting provisions of § 502 of the

WHEELER LUMBER CO. v. U. S.
572

Opinion of the Court.

Revenue Act of 1917 and § 500 (h) of the Revenue Act of 1918.
P. 575.
7. Although the transportation in this case was with a view to a
definite sale to the county, the transportation was not in fact
a part of the sale, but preliminary to it and wholly the vendor's
affair; therefore the tax on the transportation can not be regarded as a tax or burden on the sale, and Panhandle Oil Co. v.
Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, is inapplicable. P. 579.

ANSWER to a question certified by the Court of Claims
in a suit by the Lumber Company to recover the amount
of a tax on rail transportation service, which it paid under
protest.
Mr. Jesse I. Miller for the Wheeler Lumber Bridge &
Supply Company.
Attorney General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General Galloway, Messrs. Alfred A. Wheat and Gardner P.
Lloyd, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, and
Joseph H. Sheppard were on the brief for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The Court of Claims has certified to us a question concerning which it desires instruction for the proper disposition of the above entitled cause now pending before it.
Late in the last term we dismissed the certificate in the
belief that the question propounded embraces the whole
case, and so could not be answered consistently with the
applicable statute or with the constitutional limitations
on our jurisdiction. But before the term closed we vacated
the order of dismissal and held the matter for further
consideration.
The facts shown in the certificate are as follows: In
the years 1918, 1919, 1920 and 1921, the plaintiff, a corporate dealer in bridge materials, engaged to sell and

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

deliver to each of several counties in the States of Iowa
and Nebraska a quantity of lumber, which in each instance was needed and used by the purchasing county in
the construction or repair of bridges along public highways within the county. The plaintiff was to ship the
lumber from places outside the State to designated points
within the purchasing county and there deliver the same
to the county f. o. b. at stated prices. The plaintiff fulfilled its engagement as made. The shipping was done by
railroad under bills of lading calling for delivery by the
carrier to the plaintiff, or on its order, at destination. The
plaintiff forwarded the bills of lading to the county clerk;
and when the shipments reached their destination the
county clerk, acting for the county and conforming to the
plaintiff's intention, presented the bills of lading to the
carrier, paid the transportation charges, accepted the
lumber, deducted the transportation charges from the
stipulated f. o. b. price and remitted the balance to the
plaintiff.
The federal revenue laws in force at the time imposed
on the transportation of freight by rail or water a tax
of three per cent of the amount paid for that service; required that the tax be paid "by the person paying for
the service "; and authorized the carrier to collect the
*tax on behalf of the government; but declared that transportation service rendered to a State should be exempt
from the tax. Revenue Act 1917, c. 63, §§ 500, 501, 502,
503, 40 Stat. 300, 314, 315; Revenue Act 1918, c. 18, §§ 500
(a) and (h), 501 (a), 502, 40 Stat. 1057, 1101, 1102, 1103.
In the administrative regulations issued under those laws
the exemption of transportation service to a State was
construed as including such service to her "political subdivisions, such as counties, cities, towns, and other municipalities."
No tax on the transportation service was demanded or
paid when the transportation charges were paid. But

WHEELER LUMBER CO. v. U. S.
572

Opinion of the Court.

thereafter the Collector of Internal Revenue assessed
such a tax against the plaintiff and the plaintiff paid it
under protest. Application was then made by the plaintiff to have the amount refunded; but the application was
denied by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
The suit in the Court of Claims was brought by the
plaintiff against the United States to recover the amount
collected on the tax-that ,exaction being. assailed on two
grounds: One that the ti ansportation service was rendered to the purchasing counties, and therefore was
exempt from the tax, and the other that, as the counties
paid the carrier its transportation charges, the liability,
if any, for the tax did not attach to the plaintiff.
The certificate further shows that the court referred
the-case to a commissioner who, in accord with"the reference, reported special findings of fact; and that both
parties conceded the correctness and accuracy of the report. In making the certificate the court accepted and
summarized the facts'reported by its comfinissioner.
The question certified, somewhat shortened in words
but not altered in substance, isWhere a vendor, who has engaged to sell and deliver
lumber needed for public bridges to a county at a designated point in the county f. o. b. at a stated price, ships
the lumber by rail to that point preparatory to there effecting the required delivery and forwards the bills of
lading to the county, and the latter, conformably to the
vendor's intention, surrenders the bills of lading to the
carrier, pays its transportation charges, receives the lumber from it, deducts from the f. o. b. price at destination
the transportation charges paid to the carrier, and remits
the balance to the vendor-is the transportation of the
lumber to the place of delivery a service rendered to the
county [State] within the meaning of the exempting provisions of § 502 of the Revenue Act of 1917 and § 500(h)
of the Revenue Act of 1918, and within the principle

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

recognized and applied in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218?
The statute providing for certification of questions by
the Court of Claims is § 3 (a) of the act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 939, which reads:
"That in any case in the Court of Claims, including
those begun under section 180 of the Judicial Code, that
court at any time may certify to the Supreme Court any
definite and distinct questions of law concerning which
instructions are desired for the proper disposition of the
cause; and thereupon the Supreme Court may give appropriate instructions on the questions certified and transmit the same to the Court of Claims for its guidance in
the further progress of the cause."
This is.a new provision. Similar provisions have permitted particular federal courts to certify questions to this
Court, but this provision is the first giving such authority
to the Court of Claims.
There are two reasons why a certification by that
court which embraces the whole case cannot be entertained by this Court. One is that to accept such a certification and proceed to a determination thereon, in advance
of a decision by that court, would be an exercise of original jurisdiction by this Court contrary to the constitutional provision which prescribes that its jurisdiction shall
be appellate in all cases other than those affecting ambassadors, other public ninisters and consuls, and those
in which a State shall be a party. Art. III, § 2, cl. 2. The
other is that the statute permits a certification only of
"definite and distinct questions of law."
Even the restricted certification permitted by the statute invokes action which is rather exceptional in the appellate field. But that such action is appellate is now
settled. Early and long continued usage amounting to a
practical construction of the constitutional provision requires that it be so regarded.

WHEELER LUMBER CO. v. U. S.
572

577

Opinion of the Court.

In § 6 of the act of April 29, 1802, c. 31, 2 Stat. 156,
Congress made provision for restricted certifications from
the circuit courts to this Court in advance of a decision
by the former. That provision remained in force and was
given effect for seventy years. Many certifications in
both civil and criminal cases were entertained and dealt
with under it. Indeed, it was the only mode in which
,questions of law in cases of several classes could be
brought to this Court durihg that period.
But in exercising that jurisdiction this Court uniformly
ruled that it could not entertain the certifications unless
they were of distinct questions of law and not of the
whole case, for otherwise it would be assuming original
jurisdiction withheld from it by the Constitution. White
v. Turk, 12 Pet. 238, 239; United States v. Stone, 14 Pet.
524, 525; Nesmith v. Sheldon, 6 How. 41, 43; Webster v.
Cooper, 10 How. 54, 55; The Alicia, 7 Wall. 571, 573;
United States v. Perrin, 131 U. S. 55, 58; Baltimore and
Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 215
U. S. 216, 224.
And, in applying the provision of 1802 and other later
provisions permitting' certifications, this Court, while
holding, on the one hand, that it cannot be required
through certifications thereunder to pass upon questions
of fact, or mixed questions of law and fact; or to accept
a transfer of the whole case; or to answer questions of
objectionable generality-which instead of presenting distinct propositions of law cover unstated matters lurking
in the record--or questions that are hypothetical and speculative, has distinctly held, on the other hand, that the
certification of a definite question of law is not rendered
objectionable merely because the answer may be decisive
of the case, and also that the importance or controlling
character of the question certified, if it be a question of
law and suitably specific, affords rio ground for declining
98234°-30-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

to accept the certification. United States v. Mayer, 235
U. S. 55, 66, and cases cited.
The practice and rulings just described are equally applicable to certifications under the provision relating to
the Court of Claims.
Upon further consideration of the present certificate
in the light of that practice and those rulings we are of
opinion that the certificate is not open to any valid objection and should be entertained. The question certified
is a distinct And definite question of law and its materiality is adequately shown. Neither in form nor in effect
does it embrace the whole case. It does not include any
question of fact, but, on the contrary, treats the facts
as fully ascertained and definitely states those out of
which it arises. No doubt, with these facts ascertained,
an affirmative answer to the question would be decisive
of the case. But if the answer were in the negative the
case would be left where another question of law raised
by the plaintiff's petition and mooted in the Court of
Claims, but not certified, would need to be resolved by
that court before a judgment could be given.
We thus are brought to the solution of the certified
question. Counsel for the government concede, and
rightly so, that the exemption accorded to a State by
§ 502 of the Revenue Act of 1917 and § 500(h) of the
Revenue Act of 1918 should be construed as extending
to her counties, as is done in the administrative regulations. The Court of Claims, evidently entertaining this
view of the exemption, inquires whether the transportation described in the question is a service rendered
to the county within the meaning of those sections. The
transportation is had at the vendor's instance and is his
means of getting his lumber to the place of sale and
delivery. He engages to deliver f. o. b., not at the place
of shipment, but at the place of destination, which is

WHEELER LUMBER CO. v. U. S.
572

•579

Opinion of the Court.

the place of sale and delivery. There is no delivery, and
therefore no sale, until after the transportation is completed. Upon these facts, recited in the question, we
are of opinion that the transportation is.
not a service
rendered to the county in the sense of the sections cited,
but is a service rendered to the vendor. Conceding that
the sections are parts of a taxing scheme, and assuming
that they are intended to recognize and fully respect the
constitutional immunity of a state agency, such as a
county, from federal taxation, we think they neither
require such transportation to be regarded as a service
to the county nor operate to exempt such transportation
from the tax.
The tax is not laid on the sale nor because of the
sale. It is laid on the transportation and is measured
by the transportation charges. True, it appears that
here the transportation was had with a view to a definite
sale; but the fact remains that the transportation was
not part of the saie but preliminary to it and wholly the
vendor's affair. -United States v. Normile, 239 U. S. 344,
348. It follows that the.tax on the transportation cannot
be regarded- as a tax or burden on the sale. Cornell v.
Coyne, :192. U..S. 418.
As the tax is not laid on the sale or in any wise measured by.it the case of Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi,
277 U. S. 218, referred to in the question and relied on
by the plaintiff, is not in point.
Question Ansivered "No."

