OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

WILBUR, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
UNITED STATES EX REL. KADRIE ET AL.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 77.

Argued January 10, 13, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Mandamus is employed to compel performance of a ministerial
duty and also to compel action in matters involving judgment and
discretion, but not to direct the exercise of judgment or discretion
in a particular way nor to direct the retraction or reversal of action
already taken in the exercise of either. P. 218.
2. When the duty of the Secretary of the Interior or other executive
officer, in the administration of statutes, is in a particular situation
so plainly prescribed as to be free from doubt and equivalent to a
positive command, it is regarded as being so far ministerial that the
performance may be compelled by mandamus. Id.
3. But when the duty is not thus plainly p .cribed, but depends
upon a statute or statutes the construction or application of which
is not free from doubt, it is regarded as involving the character of
judgment or discretion that cannot be controlled by mandamus. Id.
4. The Act of January 14, 1889, provided, inter alia, that the money
derived from the disposal thereunder of lands of the Chippewa
Indians in Minnesota, should, after making certain deductions, be
placed at interest in the Treasury of the United States to the
credit of those Indians; that part of the interest should be paid
annually to the Indians in equal shares per capita, and the remainder be devoted, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
to the establishment and maintenance of free schools among them
for their benefit, and that, at the expiration of fifty years, the fund
should be divided and paid to the Indians and their issue then
living, in equal shares. There were also provisions. permitting Congress to appropriate a part of the principal to promoting civilization
and support of the Indians and permitting the Secretary of the
Interior, during the first five years, to expend interest money of
Indians desirous of engaging in farming, in the purchase of livestock, implements, seeds, etc. For its guidance in fixing and paying the annuities, the Department used the original census of the
Indians, taken under the Act, and supplementary rolls of its own,
eliminating the names of all enrolled Indians who died and adding
the names of the living who were entitled to participate and who

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.

.207

Opinion of the Court.

206

were omitted from the census by mistake or. were born after it was
taken. Held:
(1) That a ruling of the Secretary of the Interior placing the
children of an enrolled mixed-blood mother on the supplementary
rolls upon the ground that they were entitled to annuities notwithstanding that she had abandoned her tribal relationship before the
children were born, was a ruling made in the exercise of a continuing administrative authority and subject to be reconsidered by his
successor and revoked for the future, if found wrong. United States
v. Atkins, 260 U. S. 220, distinguished. P. 216.
'(2) The questions whether the fund is a tribal fund and whether,
with the tribe still existing, the distribution of the annuities is to
be confined to members of the tribe (with exceptions not here material) are questions involving the exercise by the Secretary of the
interior of judgment and discretion as to which he can not be controlled by mandamus. P. 221.
(3) The continued existence of the tribe, having been recognized by Congress and by the Secretary of the Interior, is not open
to question in this case. Id.
(4) The time fixed for' the final distribution of the fund is so
remote that no one is now in a position to ask special relief or direction respecting that distribution. P. 222.
30 F. (2d) 989, reversed.
Supreme Court, D. C., affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 833,. to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia., which
reversed a ruling of the Supreme Court of the District

denying a writ of mandamus.
Assistant Attorney, General Richardson, with whom
Messrs. E. C. Finney, Solicitor, Department of the Interior, and Pedro Capo-Rodriguez were on the brief, for

petitioner.
Mr. Webster Ballinger for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus commanding
the Secretary of the Interior to restore the relators to

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the supplemental rolls of the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota and to pay to each of them a per capita share of
all future distributions, whether of interest or principal,
made from the fund created under section 7 of the act
of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642.
The writ was denied by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, but that ruling was reversed by the
Court of Appeals, 30 Fed. (2d) 989, and the matter is
here for review on certiorari.
When the act of 1889 was passed the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota comprised eleven bands or tribes
occupying ten distinct reservations in that State in virtue
of treaties or executive orders. Collectively they were
regarded as a single tribe and commonly called the Chippewas of Minnesota.1 They numberea about 8,300 and
their reservations contained approximately 4,700,000
acres. They were tribal Indians, under the guardianship
of the United States, and held their reservations as tribal
lands. The act of 1889 was directed to accomplishing
their transition from the existing tribal relation and dependent wardship to full individual emancipation with
its incident rights and responsibilities; and to that end
'These Indians formerly were part of the Chippewa or Ojibway
Nation of the Great Lakes region. The Nation comprised many subordinate bands or tribes, some of which came to be permanently
located in Canada and others in Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and
perhaps other States. The bands or tribes which came to be seated
in Minnesota have latterly been designated as the Chippewas of
Minnesota by way of distinguishing them from those seated elsewhere.
Treaties, September 24, 1819, 7 Stat. 203.; June 16, 1820, 7 Stat. 206;
August 5, 1826, 7 Stat. 290; July 29, 1837, 7 Stat. 536; October 4,
1842, 7 Stat. 591; February 22, 1855, 10 Stat. 1165; March 11, 1863,
12 Stat. 1249; October 2, 1863, 13 Stat. 667; May 7, 1864, 13 Stat.
693: March 19, 1867, 16 Stat. 719; House Doc. Vol. 61, 59th Cong.,
1st Sess. pp. 277-280; History of Ojibway Nation, Copway, pp.
170-171; Minn. His. Soc. Cols., Vol. 5, pp. 37-40, 507-509; also,
Vol. IX, pp. 55-56.

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

the act made provision for obtaining, through a commission, a cession of all of their tribal lands save portions
of the White Earth and Red Lake reservations needed for
allotments; for using the unceded lands in making allotments in severalty, which were to be held subject to prescribed restrictions against alienation, encumbrance and
taxation during a period of twenty-five years, or longer
if the President so directed; and for selling the ceded
lands and creating with the net proceeds an interestbearing fund, which was to be held in the United States
Treasury and expended for the benefit of. the Indians as
will appear later on.
The act required that the cession have the assent of
two-thirds of the male adults and have the approval of
the President; directed that the commission obtaining the
cession make a census roll of each band or tribe as a
guide in ascertaining whether the requisite number of
Indians assented to the cession and in making contemplated allotments and payments; required, with exceptions not here material, that the Indians other than those
on the Red Lake Reservation be removed to the White
Earth Reservation, there to receive allotments; and directed that, after the completion of necessary preliminaries, allotments be made to all of the Indians as soon
as practicable.
The contemplated cession was obtained from the Indians and was approved by the President March 4, 1890.
The intended census rolls were made and transmitted to
the Secretary of the Interior. Several provisions of the
act have now been fully executed and others are still in
process of administration. The fund created from the
proceeds of the sale of the ceded lands is a large one;
and the relators here are asserting a right to share in all
future distributions therefrom.
The provisions governing the creation and use of that
fund are embodied in section 7 of the act and are here
°

9,234 -30--14

,216

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

quoted at length-those which the parties emphasize
being put in italics.
"Sec. 7. That all money accruing from the disposal of
said lands in conformity with the. provisions of this act
shall, after deducting all the expenses of making the census, of obtaining the cession and relinquishment, of making the removal and allotments, and of completing the
surveys and appraisals, in this act provided, be placed
in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of all
the Chippewa 'Indians in the State of Minnesota as a
permanent fund, which shall draw interest at the rate of
five per centum per annum, payable annually for the
period of.fifty years, after the allotments provided for in
this act have been made, and which interest and permanent fund shall be expended for the benefit of said
Indians in manner foll~wing: One half of said interest
shall, during the said period of fifty years, except in the
cases hereinafter otherwise provided, be annually paid in
cash in equal shares to the heads of families and guardians of orphan minors for their use; and one-fourth of
said interest shall, during the same period and with the
like exception, be annually paid ini cash in equal shares
per capita to all other classes of said.Indians;and the remaining one-fourth of said interest shall, during the said
period of fifty years, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, be devoted exclusively to the establishment and maintenance of a system of free schools among
said Indians, in their midst and for their benefit; and at
the expiration of the said fifty years, the said permanent
fund shall be divided and paid to all of said Chippewa
Indians and their issue then living, in cash, in equal
shares: Provided, that Congress may, in its discretion,
from time to time, during the said period of fifty years,
appropriate, for the purpose of promoting civilization
and self-support among the said Indians, a portion of
said principal sum, not exceeding five per centum thereof.

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

The United States shall, for the benefit of said Indians,
advance to them as such interest as aforesaid the sum
of ninety thousand dollars annually, counting from the
thne when the removal and allotments provided for in
this act shall have been made, until' such time as said
permanent fund, exclusive of the deductions hereinbefore provided for, shall equal or exceed, the sum of three
million dollars, less any actual interest that may in the
meantime accrue from accumulations of said permanent
fund; the payments of such interest to be made yearly in
advance, and, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, may, as to three-fourths thereof, during the first
five years be expended in procuring livestock, teams,
farming implements, and seed for such of the Indians to
the extent of their shares as are fit and desire to engage
in farming, but as to the rest, in cash; and whenever said
permanent fund shall exceed the sum of three million
dollars the United States shall be fully reimbursed out
of such excess, for all the advances of interest made as
herein contemplated and other expenses hereunder."
In the negotiations resulting in the cession the commission construed the clauses providing for annual payments of one-half of the interest "in equal shares to the
heads of families and guardians of orphan minors" and
of one-fourth of the interest " in equal shares per capita
to all other. classes of said Indians" as meaning that
three-fourths of the interest should be paid annually to
the Indians in equal shares per capita; and the Secretary
of the Interior, in laying the cession before the President
for his approval, pronounced that construction reasonable and declared it should be adhered to. H. R. Ex.
Doc. No. 247, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 5-6, 24. For
several years payments under those clauses were made
on that basis. Then the Secretary of the Treasury submitted' to the Comptroller the question whether that
basis of payment properly could be continued; and the

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of th6 Court.

281 U. S.

Comptroller, after observing that the clauses were obscurely worded, ruled that the construction given to them
by the commission had become the true construction
through its adoption in actual practice, and should be
respected accordingly. 3 Comp. Dec. 158. All subsequent payments have been made, as the prior ones were,
in accordance with that construction.
Manifestly some preliminary steps would need to be
taken before the interest annuities could be rightly paid.
The number of Indians entitled to participate would need
to be ascertained so that the per capita share to be paid
to each could be calculated; and those so entitled would
need to be listed so that the paying tellers would know
whom to pay. From the beginning these practical needs
have been met by taking the commission's census rolls as
a primary guide, eliminating the names of Indians dying
after those rolls were made, making supplemental rolls
of Indians erroneously omitted from the census rolls and
of Indian children entitled to participate but born after
the census was taken, and using the two sets of rollsappropriately brought up to date and made to include
only persons in being at the time-as a correct basis
for the necessary calculation and listing.
This general statement will open the way for a better
appreciation of the special facts and contentions in the
present case.
Mary Blair, a full-blood Chip]2ewa woman, was a member of the White Earth band in Minnesota and as such
was included in the census rolls and given an allotment
on the White Earth Reservation. Sarah Cogger, a
daughter of Mary Blair, is of mixed Chippewa and white
blood. She was born in 1892, after the census rolls were
made, was enrolled on the supplemental rolls soon after
her birth, and was recognized as a member of the White
Earth band up to the time of her marriage. In 1909 she
was married to Mall Kadrie, a Syrian by birth but a

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

206

naturalized citizen of the United States. After her marriage she abandoned her tribal relations and ever since
has resided with her husband among white people-for
several years in Canada and Syria and during the later
years at International Falls and St. Paul in Minnesota.
She was paid a per capita share in all interest annuities
distributed after her enrollment and before her abandonment of the tribal relations, and has received a like share
in all subsequent annuities--these later payments to her
being in accord with the statutes which save to such an
Indian her personal right to share in annuities, tribal
funds, etc., as though her tribal relations were maintained.!
The nine relators are minor children of Sarah and Mall
Kadrie and were born-the first four in Canada and the
others at International Falls and St. Paul in Minnesotaafter their mother had abandoned her tribal relations and
was permanently residing with her husband among white
people. So, while all of the relators have a minor fraction of Minnesota Chippewa blood, they were born of
parents having no tribal relations then or since and have
lived only in white communities.
At their mother's request, following their respective
births, the first three of these children were placed on
the supplemental rolls and shared in some of the interest
annuities. A like request on behalf of the fourth child
led to an inquiry which brought attention to the mother's
marriage to a white man, her abandonment of the tribal
relations and the birth of the four children in Canada
where the parents. were then residing. With these facts
before it the Indian Bureau, in 1916, declined to enroll
the fourth child and cancelled the prior enrollment of the
first three. Paragraph 4 of section 324 of the Regulations of the Indian Bureau, as amended April 1, 1905, was
2

Acts March 3, 1875, c. 131, § 15, 18 Stat. 420; February 8, 1887,
c. 119, § 6, 24 Stat. 390; August 9, 1888, c. 818, § 2, 25 Stat. 392.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

cited as the applicable administrative rule in such matters.
That paragraph reads:
"All children born to annuitants either before or since
the last preceding payment, who have not already been
enrolled, should be enrolled with their parents. This
includes cases where the mother is an Indian woman married to a white man, and such woman and her issue are
recognized by the tribe as belonging thereto, and where
the family so founded identifies itself and affiliates with
the tribe of which the mother is a recognized member.
When an Indian woman by her marriage with a white
man has, in effect, withdrawn from the tribe and is no
longer identified with the tribal community and interests,
the offspring of such a marriage are not entitled to share
in annuities or other benefits as Indians and must not
be enrolled."
In 1919 the Secretary of the Interior, following an
opinion given by the Solicitor for that Department, ruled
that Mrs. Kadrie's children were entitled to share in the
interest annuities. The children born up to that time
were then placed on the supplemental rolls, and those
born thereafter were enrolled soon after birth. All then
shared for a time in the annuities. In 1927 a succeeding
Secretary of the Interior, adopting and applying an opinion given by a succeeding Solicitor, held that these children were not entitled to share in the interest annuities,
and accordingly directed that their enrollment be cancelled and no further payment be made to them.
The two solicitors differed sharply. The first was of
opinion that the act of 1889 should be construed and
given effect as if it were a conventional deed of trust;
and with this as a premise he concluded that the fund
established under section 7 is not a tribal fund but one
held for designated Indian beneficiaries as individuals,
and that the beneficiaries comprise, first, all Indians now
living who were included in the census rolls as members

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

215

Opinion of the Court.

of the tribe, and, secondly, all living lineal descendants
of any Indian so enrolled, regardless of whether the descendant is or ever was a member and even though he
was born of parents neither of. whom was a member at
the time. And as the Kadrie children are lineal descendants (grandchildren) of Mary Blair, who was included
in the census rolls as a member, that Solicitor regarded
them as entitled to share in the distributions.' The
second Solicitor was of opinion that the act is to be construed and given effect as an exertion by Congress of its
authority over the affairs and property of tribal Indians
under the iguardianship of the United States; that the
fund established under section 7 is a tribal fund derived
from the sale of tribal lands, and is held and being administered as. such by the United States; that the tribe
has not been dissolved but is recognized by Congress as
still existing; that in this situation the right to share
in the interest annuities depends' upon existing tribal
miembership, save in exceptional instances where Congress has provided otherwise; and that the Kadrie children, all of whom were born of a white father and after
their mother had separated from the tribe and-was permanently living among white people, are, without tribal
8 The Solicitor said:
"The ancestor must be found to have been of the tribal membership at the time of the creation of the trust.
His descendants (whether children or grandchildren) take an interest, not as
tribal members, but as of the ancestor's blood; his blood entitling
him and them alike, because it was tribal blood."

Also:
"Sarah Kadrie and her children are 'issue' of her mother, a fullblood Chippewa Indian duly enrolled, and as such they' will be
entitled, at the expiration of the trust period, to share in the distribution of the trust fund; and meanwhile they are equally entitled
to share in the annuities arising from that fund. Those rights they
have not forfeited either by acquiring foreign citizenship or by
abandoning, or failing to acquire,. residence on the Indian reservation
or with the tribe."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

membership and not within any exceptional provision
permitting other than existing members to share in such
annuities. This Solicitor rested his opinion in part upon
the general rule that, in the absence of provision to the
contrary, the right of individual Indians to share in tribal
property, whether lands or funds, depends upon tribal
membership, is terminated when the membership is ended,
and is neither alienable nor descendible'
In the present petition the relators assert that the decision of the Secretary of the Interior in 1927, although
given after notice and hearing, is void in that the then
Secretary was without power to reconsider and revoke the
decision of his predecessor in 1919 on the same matter;
and they further assert that the decision in 1927 is otherwise wrong in that it rests upon untenable rulings to the
effect that the fund established under section 7 is a tribal
fund and is held and being administerect as such by the
United States, that the tribe has not been dissolved, and
that the right to share in the annuities from the fund is
confined to members of the tribe, save in exceptional
instances which do not include the relators. Upon these
grounds the relators seek a writ of mandamus directing,
h substance, that the Secretary of the Interior put aside
the decision of 1927 and restore and give effect to that
of 1919.
If at the time of the decision in 1927 the Secretary
of the Interior was without power to reconsider and revoke the decision of 1919, it well may be that the relators
would be entitled to the relief by mandamus which they
seek.' But there was no such want of power. The de4 Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307; Gritts v.
Fisher, 224 U. S. 640, 642; Sizemore v. Brady, 235 U. S. 441, 446;
La Roque v. United States, 239 U. S. 62, 66; Oakes v. United States,
172 Fed. 304, 307.
1 United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 402-403; Noble v. Union
River Logging R. R., 147 U. S. 167, 171; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211
U. S. 249, 261-262.

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

cision in 1919 was, not a judgment pronounced in a judicial proceeding, but a ruling made by an executive officer
in the exertion of administrative authority. That authority was neither exhausted nor terminated by its exertion on that occasion, but was in its nature continuing.
Under it the Secretary who made the decision could reconsider the matter and revoke the decision if found
wrong; and so of his successor. The latter was charged,
no less than the former had been, with the duty of supervising the payment of the interest annuities and of causing them to be distributed among those entitled to them
and no others; and if he found that individuals not so
entitled were sharing in the annuities by reason of a mistaken or erroneous ruling of the former his authority to
revoke that ruling and stop further payments under it
was the same as if it had been his own act.' The powers
and duties of such an office are impersonal and unaffected
by a change in the person holding it.
The case of United States v. Atkins, 260 U. S. 220, relied on by the relators, is not in point. It involved an
enrollment by a special commission under a statute providing that the enrollment when approved by the Secretary of the Interior should be "final" and entitle the
person enrolled to an allotment. The Secretary apl=.voved
and in usual course an allotment was made and a patent
issued. Thereafter the enrollment was drawn in question in a suit brought to cancel the patent. This Court
held that the statute was intended to make the enrollment when approved by the Secretary conclusive of the
individual's existence, membership, etc., and unimpeach6 West v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 200, 210; Beley v. Naphtaly,
169 U. S. 353, 364; Knight v. U. S. Sand Association, 142 U. S. 161,
181-182; New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 266; Greenameyer v.
Coate, 212 U. S. 434, 442; Parcher v. Gillen, 26 L. D. 34, 43; Aspen
Consolidated Mining Co. v. Williams, 27 L. D. 1, 10-11. And see
Pearsonsv. Williams, 202 U. S. 281, 284-285.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

able except for such fraud or mistake as would afford
ground for avoiding a judgment in adversary proceedings. There is no like provision in the act of 1889. Nor
does it contain any mention of supplemental rolls. They
are administrative devices intended to safeguard and
facilitate the distribution of the annuities. No doubt they
are intended to be evidential of the right to share therein,
but there is n6 basis for holding them conclusive or not
subject to revision.
As the decision of the Secretary in 1927 was made in
the e~ercise of lawful authority, it becomes necessary to
examine the complaint that the decision on the merits is
wrong. In doing so there is need for having in mind the
limited scope of the remedy here invoked.
Mandamus is employed to compel the performance,
when refused, of a ministerial duty, this being its chief
use. It also is employed to compel action, when refused,
in matters involving judgment and discretion, but notto direct the exercise of judgment or discretion in a particular way nor to direct the retraction or reversal of
action already taken in the-exercise of either.!
The duties of executive officers, such as the Secretary
of the Interior, usually are connected with the administration of statutes which must be read and in a sense
construed to ascertain what is required. But it does not.
follow that these administrative duties a4 involve judgment or discretion of the character intended by the rule
just stated. Where the duty in a particular situation is
so plainly prescribed as to be free from doubt and equivalent to a positive command it is regarded as being so
7Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, .4 Wal. 522, 534; United
States ex rel. v. Black, 128 U.. S. 40, 48; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock,
190 U. S. 310, 324-325; Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627, 633;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Waste MdrchantsAss'n, 260 U, S.
32, 34.

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

far ministerial that its performance may be compelled by
mandamus, unless there be provision or implication to
the contrary.8 But where the duty is not thus plainly
prescribed but depends upon a statute or statutes the construction or application of which is not free from doubt,
it is regarded as involving the character of judgment or
discretion which cannot be controlled by mandamus.'
A reference to three of the cases just cited will serve to
illustrate the application of this doctrine in instances
where mandamus is sought for the purpose of controlling
a Secretary in the discharge of duties of the latter class.
In Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock mandamus was sought
as a means of compelling the Secretary of the Interior
to retract a decision theretofore given and to make another along different lines. This Court, after pointing
out that the Secretary's duty in the matter was not formal
or ministerial, said: "The court has no general supervisory power over the officers of the Land Department,
by which toI control their decisions upon questions within
their jurisdiction. If this writ were granted we would
require the Secretary of the Interior to repudiate and
disaffirm a decision which he regarded it his duty to make
in the exercise of that judgment which is reposed in him
by law, and we should require him to come to a determination upon. the issues involved directly opposite to
that which he had reached, and which the law conferred
-qRoberts v. United States, 176 U. S. 221, 231; Lane v. Hoglund,
.244 U. S. 174, 181; Work v. McAlester-Edwards Co., 262 U. S. 200,
208; Work v. Lynn, 266 U. S. 161, 168, et seq.; Wilbur v. Krushnic,
280 U. S. 306.
9 Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316,'324-325; Ness v.
Fisher,223 U. S. 683, 691; Knight v. Lane, 228 U. S. 6, 13; Lane v.
Mickadiet, 241 U. S. 201, 208, 209; Alaska Smokeless Coal Co. v.
Lane, 250 U. S. 549, 555; Hull v. Payne, 254 U. S. 343, 347; Work v.
Rives, 267 U. S. 175, 183-184. And see United States ex rel. v.
Hitchcock, 205 U, S. 80, 86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

upon him the jurisdiction to make. Mandamus has
never been regarded as the proper writ to control the
judgment and discretion of an officer as to the decision
of a matter which the law gave him the power and imposed upon him the duty to decide for himself. The
writ never can be used as a substitute for a writ of error.
Nor does the fact that no writ of error will lie in such
a case as this, by which to review the judgment of the
Secretary, furnish any foundation for the claim that mandamus may therefore be awarded." In Knight v. Lane,
where a proposed adjustment of a controversy between
Indians over an allotment had been approved by the Secretary in one decision and afterwards disapproved in another, it was said: "Inasmuch as the decision of the Secretary revoking his prior approval of the proposed adjustment was not arbitrary or capricious, but was given after
a hearing and in the exercise of a judgment and discretion confided to him by law, it cannot be reviewed, or he
be compelled to retract it, by mandamus." And in Lane
v. Mickadiet mandamus was sought as a means of preventing the Secretary from reconsidering, after notice
and hearing, a prior decision determining who were the
heirs of a deceased Indian and sustaining the Indian's
adoption of a child not related to him. The mandamus
was refused on the ground that the Secretary's judgment
and discretion in determining such heirships could not be
thus controlled; and in disposing of an argument similar
to one which is advanced here the court said: "But it is
said that the purpose of the statute was to give the recognized heir a status which would entitle him to enjoy the
allotted land and not to leave all his rights of enjoyment
open to changing decisions which might be made during
the long period of the trust term and thus virtually destroy the right of property in favor of the heir which it
was the obvious purpose of the statute to protect. But

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

in last analysis this is a mere argument seeking to destroy
a lawful power by the suggestion of a possible abuse."
It is apparent that, with the question of the Secretary's
authority resolved against the relators, the only question
open in this proceeding is whether the decision of 1927
was given in the discharge of a ministerial duty controllable by mandamus or of a duty requiring the exercise of
judgment or discretion not thus controllable.
The questions mooted before the Secretary and decided
by him were whether the fund is a tribal fund, whether
the tribe is still existing and whether the distribution of
the annuities is to be confined to members of the tribe,
with exceptions not including the relators. These are all
questions of law the solution of which requires a construction of the act of 1889 and other related acts. A reading
of these acts shows that they fall short of plainly requiring that any of the questions be answered in the negative
and that in some aspects they give color to the affirmative answers of the Secretary. That the construction of
the acts insofar as they have a bearing on the first and
third questions is sufficiently uncertain to involve the
exercise of judgment and discretion is rather plain. The
second question is more easily answered, for not only does
the act of 1889 show very plainly that the purpose was to
accomplish a gradual rather than an immediate transition
from the tribal relation and dependent wardship to full
emancipation and individual responsibility, but Congress
in many later acts-some near the time of the decision in
question-has recognized the continued existence of the
tribe.' This recognition was respected by the Secretary
"0Acts of August 1, 1914, c. 222, 38 Stat. 592; May 18, 1916, c. 125,
39 Stat. 135; March 2, 1917, c. 146, 39 Stat. 979; May 25, 1918, c. 86,
40 Stat. 572; June 30, 1919, c. 4, 41 Stat. 14; February 14, 'I.20, c. 75,
41 Stat. 419; November 19, 1921, c. 135, 42 Stat. 221; January 30,
1925, c. 114, 43 Stat. 798; February 19, 1926, c. 22, 44 Stat., P. 2, 7;
March 4, 1929, c. 705, 45 Stat. 1584.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
281 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

and is not open to question here. 1 With the tribe still
existing the criticism by counsel for the relators of the
Secretary's decision in other particulars loses much of its
force.
The time fixed for the final distribution is as yet so
remote that no one is now in a position to ask special
relief or direction respecting that distribution.
From what has been said it follows that the case is not
one in which mandamus will lie.
Judgment of Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of Supreme Court affirmed.
JOHN BAIZLEY IRON WORKS

ET

AL.

v. SPAN.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 62.

Argued January 8, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

The painting of angle irons as part of necessary repairs in the engine
room of a completed vessel lying tied up to a pier in navigable
waters has a direct relation to navigation or commerce, and a claim
arising out of injuries suffered by a workman in the course of such
employment is controlled exclusively by the maritime law. P. 230.
295 Pa. 18, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an award of compensation under a state workmen's compensation act.

Mr. Owen J. Roberts, with whom Mr. Charles A. Wolfe
was on the brief, for appellants.
The principle of uniformity in admiralty and maritime
matters required by the Federal Constitution, as defined
in the case of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205, has been consistently adhered to by this Court.
"IUnited States v. Holiday, 3 Wall. 407, 419; United States v.
Rickert, 188 U. S. 432, 445; Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221
U. S. 286, 315.

