GEORGIA POWER CO. v. DECATUR.
497

Syllabus.

the purpose of measuring the tax, the value of property, no part of which originally belonged to one spouse,
but which came to the tenancy, mediately or immediately,
as a pure gift from the other, and which, as a consequence
of the latter's death, was relieved from restrictions imposed by the law in respect of tenancy by the entirety
so as to produce in the survivor the right of sole proprietorship, is obviously neither arbitrary nor capricious.
The evident and legitimate aim of Congress was to prevent an avoidance, in whole or in part, of the estate tax
by this method of disposition during the lifetime of the
spouse who owned the property, or whose separate funds
had been used to procure it; and the provision under review is an adjunct of the general scheme of taxation of
which it is a part, entirely appropriate as a means to that
end. Taft v. Bowers, 278 U. S. 470, 482.
No. 428, judgment affirmed.
No. 546, judgment reversed.
No. 547, judgment reversed.
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY v. CITY OF
DECATUR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 363. Argued April 16, 17, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Upon review of a decree of a state court requiring a street railway company to continue operating for a non-compensatory rate
upon the ground that it is bound to operate for that rate by contract with a municipality, this Court must pass upon the company's claim that the contract has expired and that the decree
deprives it of its property without due process of law. P. 508.
2. A street railway company in Georgia, which, pursuant to a town
ordinance, made a contract with the town prescribing a maximum
fare with respect to one of its lines situate partly within the town

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

limits, afterwards claimed that the only franchise for the operation
of the line within the town was an earlier ordinance of the town
under which the line had been constructed by the company's predecessor in title, and that the obligation to operate the line and maintain the contract fare ended with the expiration of the predecessor's
charter some time after the date of the contract. Held, (accepting
the state court's construction of the state law and its decision as to
the effect of the contract), that the new company's franchise to
operate w,-s granted by the State; that all that thb town could
give was its consent to use the streets, which was given by the contract, and that the franchise of the new company and the contract
are still in force. P. 509.
3. There is nothing in the ordinance or contract here in question to
indicate a purpose to terminate the obligation of the carrier in
respect of the fare limited while it continues to operate the line as
part of its system under its present franchise. P. 510.
4. The cc-iract will continue to bind the carrier during the period
intended by the parties unless earlier altered by them or relaxed
by state authority, and losses attributable to the stretch of track
in question and the fares fixed by the contract are immaterial while
the contract continues. P. 511.
168 Ga. 705, affirmed.

CERTioRARI, 280 U. S. 544, to review a decree which
affirmed a decree permanently enjoining the present petitioner from ceasing to operate a street railway line within
the City of Decatur, Georgia, and from violating a contract fixing rates of fare and transfer privileges.
Mr. Walter T. Colquitt, with whom Mr. Ben J. Conyers
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Hooper Alexander for respondent.
MR. J-,sTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The city of Decatur brought this suit in the superior
court of DeKalb county against the Georgia Railway
and Electric Company and the Georgia Railway and
Power Company. The former was the owner and the
latter was the lessee and operator of a system of street

GEORGIA POWER CO. v. DECATUR.
505

Opinion of the Court.

and suburban railway lines of more than 200 miles serving
Atlanta, Decatur and other places in that part of Georgia.
Before trial, they consolidated and became the %Georgia
Power Company, and it was made the defendant. The
city prayed, and the court granted, a decree permanently
enjoining petitioner from violating an ordinance passed
by the city March 3, 1903, from violating a contract of
April 1, 1903, based upon the ordinance, and from ceasing
to operate about a mile of its line in Decatur. The decree
was affirmed by the state supreme court. 168 Ga. 705.
Prior to the commencement of this suit it had been
finally adjudged in litigation between the city and petitioner's predecessors that the ordinance and contract
bound the carrier not to charge more than five cents per
passenger between points on that stretch of track in Decatur and the terminus of the line in Atlanta and required
it upon the payment of each full fare to give to the
passenger a transfer ticket that would entitle him for one
fare to ride between points on such track and points on
any of the carrier's lines in Atlanta. It was also' held
that the state railroad commission was without authority
to change rates that are established by contract. Georgia
Ry. & Power Co. v. Railroad Comm., 149 Ga. I Georgia
Ry. & Power. Co. v. Town of Decatur, 152 Ga. 143.
Georgia Ry. & Power Co. v. Decatur, 153 Ga. 329; 262
U. S. 432. The duration of the defendant's obligation to
operate that line or to serve for such contract fare was not
determined.
August 14, 1919 the commission fixed the carrier's fares
other than those covered by the contract at six -cents;
September 22, 1920, it raised them to seven cents, and
December 15, 1927, it made them ten cents per passenger
but required the carrier to sell four tickets for thirty cents.
The cost of the transportation covered by the contract
fare, exclusive of any compensation for the use of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

erty employed to furnish the service, exceeds the revenue
derived therefrom and is substantially higher per passenger than the cost of service covered by the fares fixed by
the commission. An ordinance of the city of Decatur
passed May 15, 1925, directed paving of the streets occupied by the line in question and the assessment of a substantial portion of the cost against the lessee. Thereupon
lessor and lessee offered to surrender to the city the permit
for the operation of the line and the lessee notified the
city that at a time specified it Would discontinue the
service. The city refused to accept the surrender and
promptly brought this suit.
Petitioner maintained below and here insists that the
franchise and the rate contract expired August 16, 1919.
and that its obligation to operate the line or keep the
five cent fare in force was terminated by such offer and
notice. See Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246
U. S. 178, 184. It contends that the rate is confiscatory,
that the decree requires it to operate the line and to serve
for the five cent fare and that, if compelled so to do, it
will be deprived of its property without due process of
law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This court has recently held that the usual permissive
charter of a railroad company does not oblige the company to operate its railroad at a loss; that, where it is
reasonably certain that future operation will be at a loss,
the company, in the absence of contract obligation' to
continue, may cease, and if in such circumstances the company were compelled by the State to continue to operate
at a loss, it would be deprived of its property without due
process of law. Railroad Commission v. Eastern Texas
R. R., 264 U. S. 79. The State may not by any of its
agencies disregard the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Chicago, Burlington, &c. R'd v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226, 234. Raymond v. Chicago Traction Company, 207 U. S. 20, 36. We are therefore required to

GEORGIA POWER CO. v. DECATUR.
505

Opinion ot the Court.

pass upon the merits of petitioner's claim. Stearns v.
Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223, 232. Ward v. Love County,
253 U. S. 17, 22.
By an Act of the Georgia legislature passed August 16,
1889 (Acts 1888-89, p. 211) the Collins Park and Belt
Railroad Company was incorporated and empowered to
construct and operate street railways in Atlanta, in other
parts of Fulton county and in DeKalb and other counties.
Subsequently its name was changed to the Atlanta Rapid
Transit Company. It applied for and the town of Decatur
by ordinance passed September 4, 1899, granted to it a
" franchise" to construct and operate the line in question.
The Act does not specify the term of the company's charter and there is nothing in it or in the ordinance to fix
the duration of the carrier's obligation to operate the line.
January 1, 1902, the Georgia Railway and Electric Company was incorporated for the term of 101 years and was
empowered by the Act under which it was organized to
acquire and operate street and suburban railways. Acts
1892, p. 37. On March 28, 1902, the Atlanta Rapid
Transit Company conveyed all its property to the last
mentioned company. March 3, 1903, the town of Decatur by ordinance granted the latter permission to discontinue operation and remove one of its Decatur lines
upon the condition that it should continue to operate the
stretch of track here involved and "never charge more
than five cents for one fare" for the transportation above
described. And April 1, 1903, the town and the company
made a contract by which each agreed to do all the things
required to be by it performed under the terms of the
ordinance. October 16, 1911, the Georgia Railway and
Power Company was incorporated as an interurban and
street railroad company for the term of 101 years, and
January 1, 1912, the Railway and Electric Company
leased all its lines of railway and other property to the
latter for a term of 999 years.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

It may be assumed, as contended by petitioner, that
under the state law (Code, ยง 2215) the charter of the
Collins Park Company expired August 16, 1919, thirty
years after passage of the special Act, and that it was not
bound by its franchise to continue to operate the line
after that date. See Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63,
68. The petitioner contends that the ordinance of September 4, 1899, was the only franchise for the operation
of the line in question, and that the obligation to operate
the line and maintain the contract fare ended with the
expiration of the charter of the Collins Park Company.
But franchises for the construction and operation of
street railway lines are granted by the State. And January 1, 1902, the State chartered the Georgia Railway and
Electric Company. In this case the supreme court held
(p. 709) that under the state constitution (Code, ยง 6448)
"all that towns and cities have to give to the construction of passenger street-railways within the limits of the
same is the consent of the corporate authorities." And.
it held that by the contract of April 1, 1903, the city of
Decatur gave its consent for the use of its streets by the
Electric Company. We accept that court's construction
of the Acts of the legislature and the ordinance and its
decision as to the effect of the contract of April 1, 1903.
Upon the conveyance by the Atlanta Rapid Transit Company the system, inclding the Decatur line in question,
passed to the/Georgia Railway and Electric Company, to
be operated under the franchise granted to that company by the Act of the legislature under which it was
incorporated. It is clear that this franchise and the rate
contract of April 1, 1903, are still in force.
There is nothing in the ordinance or contract to indicate a purpose to terminate the obligation of the carrier
in respect of the five cent fare while it continues to operate the line as part of its system under its present franchise (Fort Smith Traction Co. v. Bourland,267 U. S.330),

WESTERN CARTRIDGE CO. v. EMMERSON.
505

511

Counsel for Parties.

and the contract will continue to bind petitioner during
the period intended by the parties unless earlier altered
by them or relaxed by state authority. Georgia Ry.'Co.
v. Decatur,262 U. S. 432, 438. The losses attributable to
the stretch of track in question and the five cent fare are
immaterial while the rate contract continues. Public
Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352, 355. R. R. Commission v. Los Angeles R. Co., 280 U. S. 145, 152.
Decree affirmed.
WESTERN CARTRIDGE COMPANY v. EMMERSON,
SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 375. Argued April 21, 1930.

Decided May 19, 1930.

A state, franchise tax or license fee imposed on a manufacturing corporation at the rate pf five cents per hundred shares of that portion
of its issued capital stock which bore the same ratio to all, its issued
capital stock as the amount of its property and business within the
State bore to its total business and property, held not violative of
the commerce clause although much of the business included in the
computation as transacted in the State consisted of sales of goods
upon orders received from outside and adeepted by mail, the goods
being shipped by the corporation f. o. b. at its factories to the destinations designated by the purchasers. Air Way Corp. v. Day,
266 U. S. 71, distinguished.
335 Ill 150, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S.545, to review a judgment sustaining the dismissal of the bill in a suit to enjoin payment
to the Treasurer of Illinois of the amount of a tax collected
from the petitioner by the respondent Secretary of State.
Mr. Colin C. H. Fyffe for petitioner.
Mr. Bayard Lacey Catron, Asistantf. Attorney General
of Illinois, with whom Mr. Oscar R. Carlstrom, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.

