MILLER v. McLAUGHLIN.
249

Syllabus.

concerns appellants; and the District Court should be
directed to dismiss their bill without costs. See United
States v. Anchor Coal Co., 279 U. S. 812. So far as concerns the carriers-no appeal having been taken by them
-the decree entered belbw should stand.
Reversed with direction to dismiss.
The CHIEF JUSTICE did not take part in this case.

MILLER v. McLAUGHLIN, SECRETARY OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE OF NEBRASKA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 261.

Argued February 28, March 3,. 1930.-Decided April 14
1930.

Iowa and Nebraska are bounded by the middle of the main channel
of the Missouri River. The Act of Congress admitting Iowa into
the Union gave her "concurrent jurisdiction on" the river. An
Iowa statute made it lawful for any person to take fish with nets
and seines from the river, within the jurisdiction of the State, upon
procuring a license. A Nebraska statute forbade the taking of fish
with nets and seines from the waters within the State and prohibited the possession of nets and seines. This suit was brought by
a resident of Nebraska to enjoin enforcement of the Nebraska
statute. Held:
1. That the two statutes as applied to the Missouri River,
though not concurrent, are not inconsistent, each relating only
to the part of the river within the jurisdiction of the State enacting
it, and that the Nebraska prohibition is valid at least as against
residents of Nebraska. P. 263.
2. That a State may regulate or prohibit fishing within its waters,
and, for the proper enforcement of such statutes, may prohibit the
possession within its borders of the special instruments of violation.
regardless of the time of acquisition or the protestations of lawful
intentions on the part of a particular possessor. P. 264.
118 Neb. 174, affirmed.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 541, to review a decree of the Supreme Court of Nebraska which reversed a decree of injunction and ordered that the bill be dismissed, in a suit
to prevent the enforcement of a Nebraska statute against
fishing with nets, etc.

Messrs. A. Henry Walter and Seymour L. Smith for
petitioner.
Mr. C. A. Sorensen, Attorney General of Nebraska, with
whom Mr. George W. Ayres, Assistant Attorney General,
was on the brief, for respondents.
Ma. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The middle of the channel of the Missouri River is the
boundary line between the States of Nebraska and Iowa.
Act of April 19, 1864, c. 59, § 2, 13 Stat. 47; Act of August
4, 1846, c. 82, 9 Stat. 52. A Nebraska statute, prohibits
the taking of "any fish except minnows from the waters
within the state of Nebraska with nets, traps or seines,"
and made the possession of these unlawful "except as
authorized by the Department of Agriculture." Laws of
Nebraska (1927), c. 126, § 10, pp. 343-4. An Iowa statute provides: "It shall be lawful for any person to take
from the Mississippi or Missouri rivers within the jurisdiction of this state any fish with nets or seines upon procuring from the state game warden an annual license for
the use of such nets and seines." Code of Iowa (1927),
§ 1747.
Miller, a resident of Nebraska, brought this suit in a
court of that State, on behalf of himself and others similarly situated, to enjoin the enforcement of the Nebraska
statute. Its Secretary of the Department of Agriculture
and Chief Game Warden were joined as defendants. Miller alleges that he has in his possession nets, traps and

MILLER v. McLAUGHLIN.
261

263

Opinion of the Court.

seines purchased by him prior to the enactment of the
law; that they are used exclusively in taking fish from
the Missouri River; that he plans to use them on the
Iowa side; and that the defendants are threatering to
prevent their use by enforcing the statute. He claims
that, in the absence of concurrence by Iowa, Nebraska is
powerless to prohibit the fishing, even in that part of the
Missouri River which is within its own boundaries, because, on admitting Iowa into the Union, Congress had
granted it "concurrent

jurisdiction on

. .

. every ...

river bordering on the said State of Iowa, so far as the
said river[s] shall form a common boundary to said State,
and any other State . . ." Act of March 3, 1845, c. 48,

§ 3, 5 Stat. 742, 743. He asserts that, in any event, the
prohibition of the mere possession of innocuous traps,
nets and seines violates the Fourteenth Amendment. The
trial court issued an injunction. The Supreme Court of
the State reversed the decree and directed that the bill
be dismissed, 118 Neb. 174. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari, 280 U. S. 541.
The grant of concurrent jurisdiction to Iowa does not
deprive Nebraska of power to legislate with respect to its
own residents within its own territorial limits, Nicoulin
v. O'Brien, 248 U. S. 113; compare McGowan v. Columbia River Packers' Assn., 245 U. S. 352. While the two
States have not concurred in this legislation, there is no
conflict between them. Each has legislated only as to
that part of the river which is within its own territorial
limits. It is unnecessary to consider the questions which
might arise if Nebraska undertook to prohibit the fishing
on Iowa's part of the river, or if Miller were a citizen of
Iowa arid fished under an Iowa license. Compare Nielsen v. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315. Neither Miller, nor any of
the persons in whose behalf he brought the suit, have
licenses from Iowa; nor does it appear that they could
obtain them.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

The claim under the Fourteenth Amendment is also
groundless. A State may regulate or prohibit fishing
within its waters, Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S.
240; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Geer v. Connecticut,
161 U. S. 519; and, for the proper enforcement of such
statutes, may prohibit the possession within its borders
of the special instruments of violation, regardless of the
time of acquisition or the protestations of lawful intentions on the part of a particular possessor, Barbour v.
Georgia, 249 U. S. 454; Samuels v. McCurdy, 267 U. S.
188; compare Lawton v. Steele, supra; Silz v. Hesterberg,
211 U. S. 31; Miller v. Schoene, 276 U. S. 272.
Affirmed.

LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. KANSAS CITY STRUCTURAL STEEL
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 323 and 324. Argued March 13, 14, 1930.-Decided April 14,

1930.
1. Whether in a particular business inventories are necessary for the

determination of income, is a practical question left by the Revenue
Act of 1918, § 203, to the judgment of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. P. 268.
2. The "base stock" method of inventory, using a constant price for
a so-called normal quantity of goods or materials in stock, is inconsistent with the annual accounting required by Congress for income
tax purposes. Id.
3. A company engaged in the business of fabricating and erecting
steel plates for buildings, bridges, etc., under contracts therefor,
ordered the materials for each particular job from the mills, but
aimed to keep an emergency stock on hand for use when mill shipments were delayed, etc., and to keep it replenished from such
shipments. Although no part of the material was earmarked and
set aside as a "stand-by" stock, but all was commingled and indiscriminately used in production, so much of it as fell within the
amount on hand at the close of 1916 was inventoried each year,

