376

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Partics.

281 U. S.

CORLISS v. BOWERS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
SECOND

No. 344.

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 15, 16, 1930.-Decided April 28, 1930.

1. Taxation is not so much concerned with the refinements of titlc
as it is with actual command over the property taxed, the actual
benefit for which the tax is paid. P. 378.
2. The income that is subject to a man's unfettered command and
that he is free to enjoy at his own option may be taxed to him
as his income, whether he sees fit to enjoy it or not. P. 378.
3. Under § 219, (g), (h), of the Revenue Act of 1924, the income
from a fund that has been transferred to trustees, in trust to
pay the income to the donor's wife for life with remainder over to
their children, is to be included in computing his net income if
he has reserved the power to alter or abolish the trust at will; and
this applies to income actually paid over to the wife in the tax
year. P. 377.
34 F. (2d) 656, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 543, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which

affirmed the District

Court, 30 F. (2d) 135, in dismissing an action to recover
money paid as income taxes.

Mr. Joseph M. Hartfield, with whom Messrs. Russell
D. Morrill and A. C. Newlin were on the brief, for peti-'
tioner.

Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, Messrs. Sewall Key and J.

Louis Monarch, Special AssistanL to the Attorney General, Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, and Frederick W. Dewart, Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal

Revenue, were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Marcel E. Cerf, B. E. Witkin, and Henry Robinson filed a brief as amici curiae, by special leave of

Court.

CORLISS v. BOWERS.
376

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to recover the amount of an income tax
paid by the plaintiff, the petitioner, under the Revenue
Act of 1924, June 2, 1924, c. 234, § 219, (g) (h), 43 Stat.
253, 277. (U. S. C., Tit. 26, § 960.) The complaint was
dismissed by the District Court, 30 F. (2d) 135, and the
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
34 F. (2d) 656. A writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court.
The question raised by the petitioner is whether the
above section of the Revenue Act can be applied constitutionally to him upon the following facts. In 1922 he
transferred the fund from which arose the income in respect of which the petitioner was taxed, to trustees, in
trust to pay the income to his wife for life with remainder
over to their children. By the instrument creating the
trust the petitioner reserved power "to modify or alter
in any manner, or revoke in whole or in part, this indenture and the trusts then existing, and the estates and interests in property hereby created" &c. It is not necessary to quote more words because there can be no doubt
that the petitioner fully reserved the power at any moment to abolish or change the trust at his will. The
statute referred to provides that "when the grantor of a
trust has, at any time during- the taxable year, . . . the
power to revest in himself. title to any part of the corpus
of the trust, then the income of such part of the trust for
such taxable year shall be included in computing the net
income of the grantor." § 219 (g) with other similar provisions as to income in § 219 (h). There can be no doubt
either that the statute purports to tax the plaintiff in this
case. But the net income for 1924 was paid over to the
petitioner's wife and the petitioner's argument is that
however it might have been in different circumstances

OCTOBER, TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the income never was his and he cannot be taxed for it.
The legal estate was in the trustee and the equitable
interest in the wife.
But taxation is not so much concerned with the refinements of title as it is with actual command over the
property taxed-the actual benefit for which the tax is
paid. If a man directed his bank to pay over income as
received to a servant or friend, until further orders, no
one would doubt that he could be taxed upon the amounts
so paid. It is answered ihat in that case he would have
a title, whereas here he did not. -But from the point of view
of taxation there would be no difference. The title would
merely mean a right to stop the payment before it took
place. The same right existed here although it is not
called a title but is called a power. The acquisition by
the wife of the -income became complete only when the
plaintiff failed to exercise the power that he reserved.
Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, 271. Chase National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327. Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339. Still speaking with
reference to taxation, if a man disposes of a fund in such
a way that another is allowed to enjoy the income which
it is in the power of the first to appropriate it does not
matter whether the permission is given by assent or by
failure to express dissent. The income that is subject to
a man's unfettered command and that he is free to enjoy
at his own option may be taxed to him as his income,
whether he sees fit to enjoy it or not. We consider the
case too clear to need help from the local law of New
York or from arguments based on the power of Congress
to prevent escape from taxes or surtaxes by devices that
easily might be applied to that end.
Judgment affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUTSTICE

took no part in this case.

