389

DANOVITZ v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Petitioner.

DANOVITZ, SURVIVING PARTNER OF FEITLER
BOTTLE COMPANY, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 424.

Argued April 23, 1930.-Decided May 5, 1930.

1. Upon review of a judgment forfeiting contraband property under
§ 25, Title II of the Prohibition Act, the sufficiency and effect of
the evidence are not open if the trial was to the judge without
written waiver of a jury. P. 396.
2. The word "manufacture" may be used to express the whole
process by which an article is made ready for sale on the open
market. Id.
3. The purpose of the Prohibition Act was to suppress the entire
traffic that it condemns, and it should be liberally construed to
that end. P. 397.
4. Decisions under the revenue acts have little weight as against
legislation under the 18th Amendment. Id.
5. Empty barrels and bottles, corks, labels and cartons offered
for sale in such mode as purposely to attract purchasers who.
want them for the unlawful ". manufacture" of intoxicating liquor
for sale are designed for that manufacture within the meaning of
§ 25, Title II of the Prohibition Act,. and are subject to seizure
and forfeiture. Id.
34 F. (2d) 30, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 548, to review a decision of the

Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree of forfeiture
under the Prohibition Act.
Mr. Ward Bonsall, with whom Messrs. John S. Pyle

and John W. Dunkle were on the brief, for petitioner.
Practically every article included in the libel in this

case comes within the term empty containers, being such

articles as empty barrels, empty bottles and corks, cartons,
paper wrappers,- paper bags, caps for bottles, labels, wrapping

paper, empty jugs, empty demijohns, empty cans,

cardboard, sealing wire, twine and cardboard cases, together with such utensils as are used in bottling, as dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

281 U.S.

tinguished from producing or manufacturing, such as
siphons and filters, crimping machines and labeling
machines.
The act or process of the manufacture of liquor is complete with its production and placing in the receiving tub,
tank or cistern. The placing of the liquor in barrels,
bottles, casks or kegs comes later, and is always separated
from the manufacturing process by a greater or less but
necessarily appreciable period of time.
When the National Prohibition Act was passed the distinction herein made was already in the laws of the United
States and had been there for two generations. §§ 3247,
3267, Rev. Stats.
With such provisions showing that the process of
"manufacture" ended with production, and did not include placing in containers, it is not to be supposed that
the word "manufacture " would have any different meaning when used in the National Prohibition Act.
This case, begun by a seizure on May 10, 1928, was
the first case of the kind in the United States, so far as
counsel knows, and in spite of the fact that large numbers of barrel, and bottle dealers, in every city in the
country, have sold their goods continuously, both before
and since the Eighteenth Amendment and the National
Prohibition Act went into effect, to whatever purchasers
presented themselves, undoubtedly to bootleggers among
others, in exactly the same manner as the Feitler Bottle
Company may have done.
As used in § 25, the term "property designed for the
manufacture of liquor intended for use in violating this
chapter" has a dual meaning, as follows:
(.a) The property must be usable in the process of
making liquor.
(b) The property must be intended by the owner to
be so used by himself. Kohler Co. v. United States, 33 F.

DANOVITZ v. UNITED STATES.
389.

Argument for Petitioner.

(2d) 225, certiorari denied, 280 U. S. 598; Street v. Lin.
coln Safe D. Co., 254 U. S. 88.
The Court of Appeals in this case did exactly what this
Court, in the Street case, said should not be done, namely,
by "inference and construction " they convinced themselves that Congress had expressed an intention to confiscate empty containers, and they did this by extending
and enlarging provisions of law "which have ample field
for other operation in effecting a purpose clearly indicated
and declared." Cf. United States v. 63,250 Gallons of
Beer, 13 F. (2d) 242.
Certain articles possessed and used by bootleggers and
moonshiners have been made contraband, namely, "property designed for the manufacture of liquor," but as yet
bootleggers have not been made outlaws. It is still lawful to sell them other articles. They may lawfully buy,
and others may lawfully sell to them, even knowing them
to be bootleggers, such things as clothing, food, automobiles, houses, furniture, machinery, building materials,
and all articles of lawful commerce and trade, even including bottles and empty containers. A dealer even
under § 18, may sell to a bootlegger property usable in
liquor manufacture if he does not do it for the purpose
of illegal manufacture.
Containers made forfeitable were not empty containers,
they were the containers having illicit liquor in them.
Such containers are included in the second sentence of
§ 25 as forfeitable in the phrase "and such liquor, the
containers thereof, and such property so seized shall be
subject to such disposition as the court may make
thereof."
Even if some of the seized articles are considered usable
for liquor manufacture, yet seizure and forfeiture is improper in the absence of a proved intention on the part
of the possessor that he himself will so use them.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

(1) Under the National Prohibition Act the only possession for sale that justifies seizure and forfeiture is
possession for sale of liquor. § 25.
. (2) As to "property designed, etc.," the only
possession
that justifies seizure and forfeiture is possession of usable
property with the intention on the part of the possessor
that he himself will use such property in the illegal manufacture of liquor which he himself intends to use in
violation of law. § 25.
(3) Possession for sale of "property designed, etc.,"
does not carry seizure and forfeiture as a penalty, either
under § 18 or § 25, but, under § 18 and § 29, carries only
a fine for first offense even when all the various elements
of § 18 are fully proved.
(4) Possession for sale of property either not usable for
manufacture (such as bottles) or not specifically intended
and sold to be illegally used (which intention must be
proved as an independent fact), carries not even a criminal penalty, much less a forfeiture penalty under § 25.
The case in hand falls within the last of these four
classifications; or, at the worst, this being a forfeiture
case in which criminal liability is not directly involved,
it may possibly, as to a few of the articles, fall under the
third classification, and cannot possibly carry forfeiture
as a penalty. See Hunter w. United States, 279 Fed. 567;
Rossman v. United States, 280 Fed. 950; Nosowitz v.
United States, 282 Fed. 575; United States v. Horton, 282
Fed. 731; Hammerle v. United States, 6 F. (2d) 144;
Stroh Products Co. v. Davis, 8 F. (2d) 773; United States
v. 301 Cans of Acme Malt Extract, 28 F. (2d) 213;
Kohler v. United States, 33 F. (2d) 225.
Assistant Attorney General Sisson, with whom Solicitor
General Thatcher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Norman J. Morris-

DANOVITZ v. UNITED STATES.
389

Argument for the United States.

son, and D. Heywood Hardy, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
Since there was no written waiver of jury, -the review
is limited to questions of law presented by the record
proper. Proof of design is consequently not reviewable.
The libel being sufficient, the only question is whether the
property may be usable for "manufacture of liquor intended" for illegal use, that is, whether it is used in, or
after, the manufacture.
The policy of the National Prohibition Act is to make
the term "manufacture" inclusive. Within the meaning of the Act, no article is to be considered manufactured until put into condition for sale upon the market
for the purpose for which it was intended to be used.
The word "manufacture" has been given a varicty of
meanings by judicial construction. Memphis v. St. Louis
& S. F. R. Co., 183 Fed. 529; Henderson v. George Delker
Co., 193 Ky. 248; People v. Roberts, 145 N. Y. 375;
Schlitz Brewing Co. v. United States, 181 U. S. 584; In
re Rheinstrom & Sons Co., 207 Fed. 119; Central Trust
Co. v. George Lueders & Co., 221 Fed. 829; Phillips v.
Byers, 189 Cal. 665; Nixa v. Lehmann, 70 Kan. 664;
Rouda v. United States, 10 F. (2d) 916; United States v.
One Lot of Intoxicating Liquor, 25 F. (2d) 903; LouisVille v. Zinmeister & Sons, 188 Ky. 570; P. Lorrilard Co.
v. Ross, 183 Ky. 217; Standard Tailoring Co. v. Louisville, 152 Ky. 504.
The policy of Congress respecting the subject matter
of the whole Act should be considered. Richardson v.
Harmon, 222 U. S. 96. The purpose of both the Eighteenth Amendment and of the Act was "to stop the whole
business" in so far as beverage liquor was concerned,
Grogan v. Walker & Sons, 259 U. S. 80. The Act aimed
to suppress "the entire traffic" in intoxicating liquor as a
beverage, United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354. It is

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

comprehensive and discloses an intent fully to enforce the
prohibition declared, Donnelley v. United States, 276 U.
S. 505.
"Manufacture" was used in its most inclusive sense.
It was intended to prohibit all manufacture, except for
the permitted purposes, and to reach all states in the
actual process up to and including the finished product in
whatever condition that might be. The piohibition
against possession of property designed for the manufacture of liquor was intended to reach all steps in the
same process. Necessarily, it included the ultimate product as and when fashioned for sale or other disposition.
This intention is emphasized by the descriptive phrase
"liquor intended for use in violating this title." Such
intended illegal uses undoubtedly meant (1) possession
for beverage purposes, (2) transportation, (3) sale, and
(4) export. That part of the process which prepared the
article for any of these uses would, then, obviously be
within the scope of manufacturing it (i. e., making it
ready)' for that particular use. And "having regard to
the artifices which are used to promote the sale of intoxicants "-PurityExtract Co.. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192Congress undoubtedly anticipated that synthetic and imitation liquors would be bottled, labeled, and packed for
a market in which they could, with some semblance of
verity at least, be there extolled as the work of the old
masters. Cf. Woolner & Co. v. Rennick, 170 Fed. 662.
"Liquor intended for use in violating this title" is
equivalent to "liquor intended for illegal sale "-a class of
liquor which no one will contend that Congress did not
mean to abolish. And manufacture becomes, then, more
than a mere. making of liquor. Carroll v. United States,
267 U. S. 132, 154.
It is, furthermore, reasonable and sensible to assum
that Congress used the word '"manufacture " to include

DANOVITZ v. UNITED STATES.
389

Opinion of the Court.

the preparation of liquor for a trade which demanded
bottled goods.
All acts necessary to prepare liquor for sale-from the
assembling of the utensils and ingredients to the finishing
of the product, bottled or barreled as the case may be,
and labeled as desired-are included in the manufacture.
Those things which a manufacturer customarily does before sale may reasonably be said to be manufacture.
Considering the control of liquor in previous legislation as a guide to legislative intent, United States v. Katz,
271 U. S.354, it s1ould be observed that barreling, bottling, marking, stamping, and labeling not only devolve
upon the manufacturer, but they were not uncommonly
treated by Congress as part of the process of preparing
for the market. And as such an incident of manufacture,
these acts were closely regulated and controlled.
Even the National Prohibition Act, in parts other than
§ 25, reflects the close association with which Congress
viewed the actual making and the bottling, labeling, and
packing of liquor. §§ 1, 4, Title II.
At least, § 25 should be liberally construed. § 3, Title
II; Donnelley v. United States, 276 U. S. 505.
Decisions under the Tariff Act are not controlling.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a libel for the forfeiture of alleged contraband
liquors, property and material designed for the manufacture of contraband liquors, specifically described, and
alleged to have been unlawfully held in violation of Section 25, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act. The
District Court found that the allegations of fact contained
in the libel were sustained and ordered a decree of forfeiture. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 34 F. (2d) 30. A writ of certiorari was granted

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

by this Court but confined to the single question whether
the property seized is forfeitable under Sec. 25, Title II,
of the National Proh'bition Act. 280 U. S. 548.
The property in question was containers, barrels; bottles,
corks, labels, cartons, &c. By the statute it is "unlawful
to have or possess any liquor or property designed for the
manufacture of liquor intended for use in violating this
chapter or which has beer. so used, and no property rights
shall exist in any such liquor or property," A search
warrant may issue "and such liquor, the containers
thereof, and such property so seized shall be subject to
such disposition as the court may make thereof. If it is
found that such liquor or property was so unlawfully held
or possessed, or had been so unlawfully used, the liquor.,
and all property designed for the unlawful manufacture
of liquor, shall be destroyed, unless the court shall otherwise order." Act of October 28, 1919, c. 85, Title II.
§ 25,41 Stat. 305, 315. U. S. Code, Title 27, § 39. The argument for the petitioner, so far as it does not go beyond the
limits set in granting the writ of certiorari, is that 'empty
containers, bottles and the other apparatus
described.
cannot be used in or designed for the manufacture of
liquor, because the manufacture is completed before that
apparatus comes into play. There is a further argument
that the containers were not designed in fact for the manufacture of liquor even if they could be, but the objection
to this is that if the terms in which the writ was granted
do not exclude it, the case having been tried without written waiver of jury, the sufficiency and effect of evidence
are not open. Commissioner of Road District No. 2 v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 547, 562.
The argument for the petitioner cannot be helped by
amplifichtion. It is obviously correct if the word "manufacture " be taken in the strictest and most exact sense.
But the word may be used in a looser way to express the whole process by which, an article is made

HOME INS. CO. v. DICK.
389

Syllabus.

ready for sale on the open market. P. Lorrilard Co. v.
Ross, 183 Ky. 217, 223. As the purpose of the Prohibition Act was to "suppress the entire traffic " condemned by
the Act, United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 357, Donnelley v. United States, 276 U. S. 505, 513, it should be
liberally construed to the end of this suppression, and so
directs. Title II, § 3, of the Act. Code, Title 27, § 12.
The decisions under the revenue acts have little weight as
against legislation under the afflatus of the Eighteenth
Amendment. We are of opinion that the word was used
in this looser way, and that if the empty containers and
the other objects seized were offered for sale in such a
mode as purposely to attract purchasers who wanted
them for the unlawful manufacture, as we interpret the
word, they were designed for that manufacture and could
be seized.
Decree affirmtd.

HOMIE INSURANCE COMPANY ET AL. v. DICK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 232.

Argued February 27, 1930.-Decided May 5, 1930.

A contract of fire insurance issued by a Mexican company, made and
to be performed in Mexico, and covered in part by reinsurance
effected there or in New York with New York companiks licensed to
do business in Texas, was assigned by the insured to a citizen of
Texas who was present in Mexico when the policy issued and continued to reside there until after a loss had occurred. He then returned to Texas and sued on the policy in a Texas Court naming the
Mexican company, which was never present in Texas and did not
appear, as principal defendant, and the two New York companies,
because of their reinsurance liability, as garnishees. The policy
stipulated that no suit should be brought under it unless within one
year of the loss; but a defense based on this was over-ruled by
the Texas Supreme Court and recovery against the garnishees
affirmed, by applying a Texas statute which forbade 'any -agreement limiting the time for suit to a shorter period than two years

