OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
98

Syllabus.

whether or not there are persons entitled to compensation under the statute in the particular case, and that this
depends on the further circumstance whether there are
dependents and, if there are, whether they recover at
least as much as the compensation for which the act provides. But this is the classification with respect to the
requirement of the payments by the employer or his insurer for the maintenance of the special funds. That can
not be said to be an unreasonable classification, as it provides for those cases where there are no' persons entitled
to compensation under the act, and thus the immediate
employer and his insurer are relieved of the obligation to
pay compensation. And, in view of the decisions of this
Court, above clted, the validity of subdivisions eight and
nine of section fifteen of the statute, as construed by the
state court, requiring the payments by the employer and
the insured in this instance, have not been questioned. So
far as the provision of section twenty-nine is concerned,
it operates uniformly against all wrongdoers in like circumstances, that is, whenever awards as required by subdivisions eight and nine of section fifteen have been made
against the employer, or his insurer, and such awards have
been paid to the state treasurer.
Judgment affirmed.
OKLAItOMA v. TEXAS; UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
No. 6, Original.

Report submitted October 14, 1929.--Decree
entered March 17, 1930.

Final decree confirming report of the Commissioner heretofore designated to run, locate and mark the boundary between Oklahoma and
Texas along the 100th meridian; establishing the boundary as set
forth in the report and accompanying maps; discharging the Commissioner; and directing the Clerk to send to the Chief Magistrates

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

of those States and to the Secretary of the Interior copies of the
decree, report and-maps, retaining certain copies for future needs

in his office.
'Earlier proceedings in this case are reported in 272 U. S.
21, 273 U. S. 93 and 276 U. S. 596.
PER CURIAM.

On consideration of the report dated July 15, 1929, of
Samuel S. Gannett, Commissioner, heretofore designated
to run, locate and mark the boundary between the State
of Oklahoma and the State of Texas along the true 100th
meridian of longitude west from Greenwich as determined
by the decree of January 3, 1927 (273 U. S. 93), modified
by the decree of March 5, 1928 (276 U. S. 596), showing
that he has run, located and marked such boundary;
And no objection or exception to such i eport being presented, and the time therefor having expired;
It is now adjudged, ordered and decreed as follows:
1. The said report is in all things confirmed.
2. The boundary line delineated and set forth in said
report and on the accompaiying maps is established and
declared to be the true boundary between the States 6f
Texas and Oklahoma along said meridian.
3. The clerk of this Court shall transmit to the Chief
Magistrates of the States of Texas and Oklahoma and the
Secretary of the Interior copies of this decree, duly authenticated under the seal of this Court, together with
copies of said report and of the accompanying maps.
4. As it appears that the said Commissioner has completed his work conformably to said decrees, he is hereby
discharged.
5. The clerk of this Court shall distribute and deliver
to the Chief Magistrates of the States of Texas and Oklahoma and the Secretary of the Interior all copies of the
said report made by the Commissioner, with the accom-

LUCAS v. EARL.
Argument for Respondent.

109

panying maps, now in the clerk's hands, save that he shall
retain twenty copies of each for purposes of certification
and other needs that may arise in his office.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. EARL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 99. Argued March 3, 1930.-Decided March 17, 1930.
Under the Revenue Act of 1918, which taxes the income of every
individual, including "income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service . . . of whatever kind ard in

whatever form paid," the income of a husband by way of salary
and attorney's fees is taxable to him notwithstanding that by a
contract between him and his wife, assumed to be valid in California where they reside, all their several earnings, including salaries
and fees, are to be received, held and owned by both as joint
tenants. P. 113.
30 F. (2d) 898, reversed.

280 U. S. 538, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals upholding a tax upon the respondent's income.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist and Messrs. Millar E. McGilchrist, Claude R. Branch, Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., with whom Messrs. J. M. Mannon, Jr., Robert L. Lipman and Henry D. Costigan were
on the brief, for respondent.
The agreement is valid under the law of California.
Wren v. Wren, 100 Cal. 276; Kaltschmidt v. Weber, 145
Cal. 596; Perkins v. Sunset, etc., Company, 155 Cal. 712;

