MERCHANT FLEET CORP. v. HARWOOD.

519

Syllabus.
U. S. SHIPPING BOARD MERCHANT FLEET
CORPORATION v. HARWOOD, TRUSTEE IN

BANKRUPTCY,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 345.

Argued April 16, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

1. The Fleet Corporation held suable on contracts purporting to bind
it, made by it in its own name, as a corporation organized under the
laws of the District of Columbia, and describing it as representing
and acting for and in behalf of the United States, but containing
no words purporting to bind the United States or in terms
restricting the liability of the corporation. P. 524.
2. The quasi-public character of the Fleet Corporation, and the
duties imposed upon it as an agency of the United States by Acts
of Congress and Executive Orders, do not except it from the rule
that an agent may be bound, notwithstanding his known agency,
by contracts that he executes in his own name. Id.
3. There is no basis for presuming that the Fleet Corporation is not
to be deemed bound by the contracts into which it enters, merely
because it is acting as a public agency; and its liability as measured
by their terms is not to be curtailed, by the presumption which
might be indulged in favor of an individual acting for the Government. P. 525.
4. Section- 2 (b) (2) *of the Merchant Marine Act, which provides
that all rights or remedies accruing as a result of contracts previously made under the Emergency Shipping Fund legislation "shall
be in all respects as valid, and may be exercised and enforced in
like manner, subject to the provisions of subdivision (c) of this
section, as if this Act had not been passed," saves the right to sue
the Fleet Corporation on its contracts. P. 527.
5. Subdivision (c) of § 2 of the Merchant.Marine Act, providing
that any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Shipping
Board " shall have the same right to sue the United States as he
would have had if the decision had been made by the President of
the United States under the Acts hereby repealed," if it is applicable to suits on contracts of the Fleet Corporation at most gave
an additional remedy against the United States'and not a substi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

281 TJ. S.

tute for existing remedies against the Fleet Corporation expressly*
preserved by subdivision (b) (2), supra. P. 527.
32 F. (2d) 680, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S.

544, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of the District Court in a suit, brought originally in a state court,
against the' Fleet Corporation to cancel a contract, for
duress and fraud, and to secure an accounting under
earlier contracts. The District Court dismissed the bill
upon ' the ground that the only remedy was against the
United States, 26 F. (2d) 116. The Court of Appeals,
held otherwise, but limited the relief to an accounting
under the contract sought to be canceled.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant t)- the Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell
and Messrs. J. Frank Staley, Erwin N. Griswold, Chauncey G. Parker, General Counsel, Fleet Corporation, and
0. P. M. Brown, Special Counsel, Fleet Corporation, were
on the brief, for petitioner.
In executing the contract of March 26, 1920, the Fleet
Corporation was acting as the agent of a disclosed sovereign principal. Besides disclosing in the description of
the parties that it was acting solely in a representative
capacity and solely on behalf of its principal, much of the
subjecthiatter of the contract relates tQ matters, such as
the cancellation of contracts and the payments of just
cc -npensation therefor, with which the Fleet Corporation,
under its corporate charter powers, had no concern.
Moreover, the authority under which this public agent
was acting existed by reason of Acts of Congress and
Executive Orders, of which everyone was chargeable with
notice.
When a public officer or agent acts in the line of his
duty and by legal authority, his contracts; made on ac-

MERCHANT FLEET CORP. v. HARWOOD.
519

521

Argument for Petitioner.

count of the Government, are public and not personal.
They inure to the benefit of and bind the Government,
not the agent. It can not matter that the public agent
is a corporation rather than an individual.
In authorizing the President to delegate to such agencies
as he might determine the power conferred on him for the
production of ships for the use of the Nation in the war
emergency, Congress did not intend that the public agents
so selected should enter into contracts for the benefit of
the United States upon the agents' own personal credit,
nor that the enormous sums of public money appropriated
were to be expended for the personal account of the
agents; nor did Congress intend that such agents should
be held personally liable for their lawful acts and engagements while so employed.
The decision of this Court in the Sloan-Astoria cases
(258 U. S. 549; 295 Fed. 415) is not authority for holding
the Fleet Corporation personally liable in this case, because the only question determined in those cases was
the jurisdiction of the District Courts to entertain suits
against the Fleet Corporation. The contract in this case
differs in many particulars from the contract considered in
the Sloan-Astoria cases.
The corporate liability of the Fleet Corporation to account to respondents in this suit, if any exists, must be
predicated upon the contract of March 26, 1920, which
the court below found was an accord and satisfaction of
all prior demands. Since respondents have not asked for
a review of that finding, they may not question it before
this Court. If the court below was right in holding that
the Fleet Corporation had made itself personally liable
on the earlier contracts with the Groton Iron Works because of the frame of the earlier instruments, the contract
of March 26, 1920, constituted a novation by the United
States of any liability which previously may have been

•522

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

incurred by the Fleet Corporation, and the Iron Works
accepted the novation in full accord and satisfaction of
all its rights arising from the earlier contracts.
If the form of the contracts involved in this case, in
the light of the applicable statutory provisions, was not
sufficient to exclude liability on the part of the Fleet
Corporation, this liability was assumed and taken over
by Congress on behalf of the United States, and the remedy provided by. statute for the enforcement of this liability is exclusive. Merchant Marine Act.
Mr. FrederickH. Wood, with whom Messrs. Herbert B.
Lee, Richard S. Holmes, W. H. L. Edwards, and William
W. Robison were on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONi

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case certiorari was granted, 280 U. S. 544, to
review a ruling of the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit that the Fleet Corporation is subject to suit upon
a contract which it entered into, acting as an agency of
the United States under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of
June 15, 1917, (40 Stat. 182) as amended.
On June 15, 1917, -the Fleet Corporation contracted
with Groton Iron Works for the construction of twelve
wooden ships, reduced to eight by contract of September 30, 1918. On August 11, 1917, and April 20, 1918,
contracts were executed, each for the construction of six
steel ships. After the armistice the Fleet Corporation
gave directions to suspend work on a part of the steel
ships.' The Iron Works became financially involved and,
the Fleet Corporation having advanced large sums to it,
negotiation for a settlement of various differences between
the two corporations resulted in the contract between
it and the Fleet Corporation of March 26, 1920. This

MERCHANT FLEET CORP. v. HARWOOD.
519

523

Opinion of the Court.

described the Fleet Corporation as "representing and acting.., for and in behalf of the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as the owner)." It cancelled
the earlier contracts, with some exceptions relating to the
completion of the steel ships, and settled and released
numerous other claims not now important, saving certain
claims growing out of a reconciliation of accounts, then
in progress, to determine the amount due for certain work
on the wooden ships.
The Iron Works, before 'its bankruptcy, brought the
present suit in the Superior Court of Connecticut, which
was removed to the District Court for Connecticut, where,
respondent, the trustee in bankruptcy, having intervened,
the complaint was refrained so as to pray the cancellation
of the contract of March 26, 1920, as procured by duress
and fraud, an accounting and judgment for such amounts
as should be found to be due for breach of the earlier contracts. A fourth separate defense, which alone is presently involved, set up that with respect to all the transactions alleged in the bill of complaint, petitioner acted
solely as an agency of the United States, under powers
delegated to it by the President under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, and that with respect to those transactions
it was under no personal liability and respondent's only
remedy was against the United States.
The District Court confirmed findings of a special master, in favor of petitioner, on the issues of fraud and duress
and his conclusion that the rights of the parties were fixed
by the contract of March 26, 1920, but gave judgment,
sustaining the fourth defense and dismissing the complaint. 26 F. (2d) 116. The Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment, holding that the suit might be maintained
against the petitioner, but limited the relief to an ac.counting under the contract of March 26, 1920. 32 F.
(2d) 680.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

Conc ededly, as both courts below and the special master agree, in entering into the several contracts referred
to, the Fleet Corporation was acting as an agency of the
United States as alleged. But all of the contracts were
signed and sealed by the Fleet Corporation, which was
referred to as a corporation organized under the laws of
the District of Columbia and which promised to pay the
stipulated price for the ships and to perform the other
obligations of the contracts, in terms imposed on it.
They contained no words purporting to bind the United
States or in terms restricting the liability of the petitioner.
One acting as a private agent may be bound, notwithstanding his known agency, upon contracts which he executes in his own name. Sprague v. Rosenbaum, 38 Fed.
386; Guernsey v. Cook, 117 Mass. 548; Brown v. Bradlee,
156 Mass. 28; Sadler v. Young, 78 N. J. L. 594; McCauley
v. Ridgewood Trust Co., 81 N. J. L. 86; Jones v. Gould,
200 N. Y. 18. See Worthington v. Cowles, 112 Mass. 30;
Kean v. Davis, 20 N. J. L. 425; Cream City Glass Co. v.
Friedlander,84 Wis. 53. Compare Whitney v. Wyman,
101 U. S.392; Post v. Pearson, 108 U. S. 418. The only
question now presented is whether the quasi-public character of the Fleet Corporation and the duties imposed
upon it as an agency of the United States by Acts of Congress and Executive Orders, described and considered in
earlier opinions o this Court, require a different conclusion with respect to its centracts. Shipping Act of September 7, 1916, c. 431, 39 Stat. 728, 730-732; Urgent
Deficiency Act of 1917' supra; Merchant Marine Act of
June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988; Executive Orders No.
2664, July 11, 1917, No. 2888, January 18, 19.18, No. 3018,
December 3, 1918, No. 3145, August 11, 1919, and see
The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S.246; United States v. Strang,
254 U. S. 491; Sloan Shipyards v. Fleet Corporation,258
U. S. 549; Skinner & Eddy Corporation v. McCarl, 275
U'. S.1; Emergency Fleet Corporation v. Western Union,
275 U. S.415. 421.

MERCHANT FLEET CORP. v. HARWOOD.
519

525

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner contends that there is a strong presumption, which is here controlling, that a public officer
or agent is not to be deemed bound as an individual upon
his contracts made in behalf of the government in the
performance ofa public duty, since no one participating
in such a contract would be justified in assuming, in the
absence of a clearly expressed intention otherwise, that
the officer intends to bind himself to defray public expense from his private purse. Parks v. Ross, 11 How.
361; Hodgson v. Dexter Company, 1 Cranch 345; Sheets
v. Selden's Lessee, 2 Wall. 177; see District of Columbia
v. Camden Iron Works, 181 U. S. 453, 459.
But we need not decide the point or attempt to draw
the line where that- presumption may be overcome by
language of the written contract which falls short of an
explicit limitation of the personal liability of the agent.
See Hodgson v. Dexter, supra, 364. For in the present
case the agent is not an individual and its liability does
not involve any expenditure of private funds for the
satisfaction of public obligations. Its entire capital stock
is government owned. Its funds and property were furnished to it by the government. They and government
indemnity are alone the sources from which its obligat:ions will be defrayed.
It was created as a; government agency to construct a
fleet of vessels to meet a wartime emergency. It was in
order bctter to fulfill that purpose that Congress chose
an instrument having the power to contract, as well as
all the other powers.of a private corporation, but with its
every action government-controlled and all its assets supplied from government sources. The advantages of resorting to such powers in meeting the national emergency
were urged as grounds for the choice of this particular
form of agency, when the Urgent Deficiency bill was
pending in Congress. See remarks of Senator Underwood, reporting the bill for the Senate Conferees, 55

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

Cong. Rec. 65th Cong., p. 3549; see The Lake Monroe,
supra, p. 254, Skinner & Eddy Corporation v. McCarl,
supra, p. 8. There is thus no basis for presuming that
the Fleet Corporation is not to be deemed bound by the
contracts into which it enters merely because it is acting
as such an agency, and its liability as measured by their
terms is not to be curtailed by the presumption which, it
is urged, may be indulged in favor of an individual acting
for the government.
That is the effect of the decision in Astoria Marine
Works v. United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet
Corporation,258 U. S. 549, 569. It was there held that
suit might be maintained- against the Fleet Corporation
in a district court upon a contract in form and in manner
of execution like those presently involved and where, as
here the Fleet Corporation was described in the contract
as "representing the United States f America." It is
true, as the petitioner argues, that the precise question
at issue was one of jurisdiction of the district court to
entertain the suit rather than the Court of Claims, as one
against the Government. But the jurisdiction was sustained on the ground that the Fleet Corporation was
bound by its contract, even though it acted as an agency
of the United States and so was subject to the suit upon
it in the District Court. The court said (p. 569): "The
whole frame of the instrument [the contract] seems to
us plainly to recognize the corporation as the immediate
party to the contracts. . . . If we are right in this, further
reasoning seems to us unnecessary to show that there
was jurisdiction of the suit. The fact that the corporation
was formed under the general laws of the District of
Columbia is persuasive, even standing alone, that it was
expected to contract and to stand suit in its own person,
whatever indemnities might be furnished by the TJnited
States." See United States v. Wood, 290 Fed. I15, 263
U. S. 680.

MERCHANT FLEET CORP. v. HARWOOD.
519

527

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner also insists that even though the Fleet Corporation is bound by its contracts, the liability has been
undertaken by the United States by §§ 2(b) (1), 2(b)
(2) and 2(c) of the Merchant Marine Act of June 5,
1920, 41 Stat. 988, which now affords the exclusive remedy for the enforcement of the liability. This legislation
repealed, with certain specified exceptions, the Emergency Shipping Fund provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of June, 1917, as amended. Section 2(b) (1)
directed that "all contracts or agreements" previously
made under the Emergency Shipping Fund legislation
"be assumed and carried out by the United States Shipping Board." But § 2(b) (2) saved all rights or remedies
accruing as a result of such contracts and provided that
they "may be exercised in like manner, subject to the
provisions of subdivision (c)" of § 2. Subdivision (c)
directed the Board to settle "all matters arising out of
or incident to the exercise by or through the President of
any of the powers or duties imposed upon the President"
by the earlier legislation "and for this purpose the Board,
instead of the President, shall have and exercise any pf
such powers and duties relating to the determination and
payment of just compensation." It further provided that
"Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Board
shall have the same right to sue the United States as he
would have had if the decision had been made by the
President of the United States under the acts" repealed.
Petitioner points to no provisions of earlier acts giving to the President power to determine the amount
due a contractor under a contract made by -the Fleet
Corporation, and respondent asserts that the powers of
the President referred to in (c) are limited to the award
of just compensation. But even if we assume that his
powers were not so limited, we think subsection (c) at
most, gave an additional remedy against the United
States and not a substitute for existing remedies upon

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

contract liabilities expressly preserved by subdivision (b)
(2). The words of subdivision (b) (2), saving all existing remedies which "may be exercised and enforced in
like manner, subject to the provisions of subdivision (c),"
must be taken to preserve the old remedies and to give
the new one if the matter is one which the Board is
authorized to settle by (c).
Any other construction
would nullify the saving clause of (b) (2), for if the
"decision of the Board" as used in the proviso of (c)
embraces settlements of all matters arising out of contracts which, by paragraph (b) (1), it was directed to
carry out and in the event that its decision is not accepted,
the exclusive remedy is by suit against the United States,
then none of the remedies accruing under such contracts
and in terms saved by paragraph 2, were preserved.
Affirmed.
RICHBOURG MOTOR COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
DAVIES MOTORS, INCORPORATED, v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH AND NINTH CIRCUITS RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 452 and 569.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

Where a person, discovered in the act of transporting liquor unlawfully, has been arrested and the transporting vehicle seized under
§ 26 of the National Prohibition Act, proceedings to forfeit the
vehicle must be taken under that section, which protects innocent
lienors, and will not lie under Rev. Stats. § 3450. P. 532.
34 F. (2d) 38 and 35 id. 928, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 549, and post, p. 707, to review

judgments affirming forfeitures of automobiles under
Rev. Stats. § 3450. The present petitioners intervened

