A., T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. TOOPS.
Opinion of the Court.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. TOOPS, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI'TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 303.

Argued March 6, 7, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. To justify recovery in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, there must be evidence from which the. jury .could
find that the negligence complained of was the cause of the injury.
P. 354.
2. The jury may not be permitted to speculate as to the cause of
the injury; and the case must be withdrawn from its consideration unless there is evidence from which it may reasonably be
inferred that the injury was caused by the employer's negligence.
Id.
3. Evidence considered, and found insufficient to go to the jury on
the question whether the death of a railroad conductor, who was
run down by freight cars during a switching operation at night
and in the absence of eye witnesses, was due to negligence in
moving the cars without signal and without placing a light or
flagman upon them. Pp. 352-355.
128 Kan. 189, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 280 U. S.542, to review a judgment affirming a recovery for death, in an action under the Federal

Employers' Liability Act.
Messrs. William Osmond and William R. Smith, with
whom Messrs. E. E. McInnis, Owen J.Wood, Alfred A.
Scott, and Alfred G. Armstrong were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Carr W. Taylor, with whom Mr. James N. Farley
was .on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent, plaintiff below, brought suit in the District Court of Reno County, Kansas, to recover under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act for the death of her

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

intestate. Judgment in her favor was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Kansas, 128 Kan. 189. This Court
granted certiorari, 280 U. S. 542, on a petition which
urged as grounds for allowance of the writ that there
was no evidence of negligence in the case or that any act
of petitioner caused the death.
Decedent was a conductor in charge of petitioner's
freight train, engaged in interstate commerce, while en
route easterly from Elkhart to Dodge City, Kansas. He
was killed near the station at Rolla, Kansas, at about one
o'clock in the morning, in the course of a switching operation under his direction. At that point, north of the
main line and connected with it by switches, is a "passing track" with an extension at its easterly end known
as a "stock track." South of the station, which is south
of the main line, is a switching track, referred to as an
"elevator track," which forms a junction with the main
line some three hundred feet or more east of the station
platform.
On the night of the accident two switching operations
were to be carried out by deceased at Rolla. The first,
which was successfully completed, consisted of removing
four loaded grain cars from the elevator track and coupling them, deceased assisting, to the train standing west
of the station on the main line. The second involved the
removal of fifteen empty grain cars, coupled to twelve
stock cars, from the passing and stock tracks to the main
line and thence "kicking" the grain cars onto the elevator track, that is, the train of grain and stock cars was
to be pushed by the engine westerly along the main line
and the fifteen grain cars uncoupled from the westerly
end of the stock cars while still in motion and before the
stock cars had reached the switch to the elevator track,
thus propelling the grain cars from the main line to the
elevator track. The stock cars were then to be kicked
back onto the passing track by a similar movement, after

A., T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. TOOPS.
351

353

Opinion of the Court.

which the engine was to be coupled to the grain. cars
standing on the elevator track and they were to be
spotted at desired locations on that track. Ujder the
rules of petitioner, deceased was required to attend personally to these switching movements.
There were no eye witnesses to the accident. Deceased
was last seen alive, standing, lantern and train book in
hand, on the east end of the station platform. Plaintiff's
own witnesses testified, without contradiction, that shortly
before, one of the two brakemen of the train crew had
read to the other and to deceased the switching list calling
for the movement of the grain cars, and had then said
that he would kick the cars onto the elevator track, to
which deceased replied: "All right I will look out for
them." After the grain cars had been kicked onto the
elevator track and the stock cars onto the passing track,
the engine was coupled to the grain cars and the spotting
movement begun, when the body of the deceased was
discovered. It was lying under the engine tender diagonally across the elevator track, with the shoulder against
a "derail" about 180 feet west of the switch, connecting
the elevator track with the main line, and about the same
distance fiom the point on the platform where decedent
had last been seen alive. His feet were toward the north,
his head and arm had been severed from his body and lay
just south of the track. His cap, lantern and lead pencil
were lying near, together, south of the elevator track
two or three feet from the south rail. His tain book
was found lying in the center of the track between the
rails. The surface of the track between the rails showed
that his body, after it had fallen to the ground, had been
moved or dragged westward two or three feet until his
shoulders were jammed against the derail. There were
no marks of flesh or blood on any part of the first grain
car indicating that it had come into contact with the
body of the deceased. There was uncontradicted testi98284°--0-2

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

mony that such marks of flesh and blood were found upon
the south wheels of each of the succeeding fourteen grain
cars and the engine tender.
It was controverted whether, within the meaning of
printed rules of petitioner, the place of the accident was
at a "station" or in a "yard." The rules required that
when cars were pushed by an engine "except when shifting or making up trains in yards," a flagman should be
placed on the front of the leading car so as to signal the
engineer in case of need, and that a white light must be
placed on the leading car at night. No flagman or brakeman, and no light was placed on the leading grain car.
Owing to the location of a curve and cut through which
the grain cars passed in order to reach the elevator track,
it was impossible for the engineer or the two brakemen
to see deceased or his lantern at the point where his body
was found. There was evidence that no warning signal
by bell or whistle was given in the course of the kicking
movement.
It is the theory of the respondent, conforming to the
findings of the jury in its special verdict, that deceased,
while crossing the track near the derail, where, according
to some of the testimony the roadbed was overgrown
with weeds and so thinly ballasted that the track had
become "skeletonized," was knocked down by the leading
grain car and killed by that and the succeeding cars passing over him, and that his death was attributable to
negligence in carrying out the, kicking movement of the
grain cars without signal and without placing a flagman
or a light on them.
But proof of negligence alone does, not entitle the
plaintiff to recover under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The negligence complained of must be the
cause of the injury. The jury may not be permitted to
speculate as to its cause and the case must be withdrawn
from its consideration unless there is evi
r from which

A., T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. TOOPS.
351

355

Opinion of the Court.

the inference may reasonably be drawn that the injury
suffered was caused by the negligent act of the employer.
Patton v. Texas & Pac. Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 65&; New
Orleans & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Harris, 247 U. S. 367, 371;
St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mills, 271 U. S. 344,
347; C. M. & St. P. Ry. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472; New
York Central Railroad Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486.
Even though we assume that in all the respects alleged
the petitioner was negligefit, the record does not disclose
any facts tending to show that the negligence was the
cause of the injury and death. The only evidence relied
upon by respondent to account for the deceased's presence at the point of the accident was that already stated,
which indicated that he had proceeded to the elevator
track in order, as he said, to "look out" for the kicked
cars, whether by climbing onto them and controlling their
movement on the elevator track, as is usual in such movements, or by assisting in the spotting movement to be
later carried out, can only be inferred. It is the theory
of respondent that he attempted to cross the track so as
to be in a position to signal the engineer who was on that
side of the train. But as the grain cars already were, or
were about to be, uncoupled from the train, there was evidently no immediate purpose in his being so located.
What actually took place can only be surmised. Whether
he was run down on the track by the first car or he attempted unsuccessfully to board the train on one side or
the other or succeeded and in either case finally came to
his death by falling under or between the moving cars
is a matter of guesswork.
Even though we make the doubtful assumption that
the train was not within a "yard" and so was required
to signal its movements, it is plain that deceased and
his train crew treated the place as a yard where warning
of switching movements was not required. On respondent's own theory deceased was fully cognizant of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

contemplated movement. He knew that the grain cars
were to be kicked onto the elevator track where he went
to meet them, and knew that his train crew, consisting
of only two brakemen, and the lanterns which they carried, would be needed in attending to the switching,
signalling and uncoupling of cars in order to kick the
train of stock cars onto the passing track and that the
grain cars for which he was to "look out?' would be
without brakeman or warning light. It is presumed that
deceased proceede d with diligence and due care. Looney
v. MetropolitanR. R. Co., 200 U. S. 480, 488. The movement of the fifteen cars to and across the switch and onto
the elevator track in a quiet neighborhood on a still
night can not be assumed to have given no warning
sounds of their approach.
All these factors taken together render highly improbable the theory of respondent that deceased was run down
by the grain cars while he was crossing or standing upon
the track, and they give sharp emphasis to the absence
of any proof of the fact, indispensable to respondent's
case, that deceased, while standing on or attempting to
cross the track, was struck by the leading car. There is
no evidence to suggest that the body, after falling to the
ground, was moved or dragged more than two or three
feet. There were no marks of blood or flesh of the decedent upon any part of the leading car, although such
marks were found on most if not all of the cars following. The kicked grain cars were moving slowly when
they passed the switch to the elevator track as they came
to a stop two or three car lengths west of the derail. It
is true that there was medical testimony that in the case
of crushing injuries bleeding might not immediately ensue, but the length of' this period of delay was not mentioned and the testimony given was not stated by any
witness to be applicable to injuries of the extent and
character suffered by the deceased. It does not account

NILES BEMENT POND CO. v. U. S.
351

Statement of the Case.

for the absence from the leading car of the other evidences of the injury found on the other cars. As evidence
to support the special finding of the jury that the deceased was struck by the first car, this testimony is without substance. See Gulf, Mobile & Northern R. R. v.
Wells, 275 U. S. 455. If allowed to sustain the verdict
it would remove trial by jury from the realm of probability, based on evidence, to that of surmise, and
conjecture.

Reversed.
NILES BEMENT

POND COMPANY

v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 314.

Argued March 7, 12, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Findings by the Court of Claims that the controlling plan-of a
taxpayer's accounts was to show income upon an accrual basis
and that its tax returns were on that basis, are conclusive on
review. P. 360.
2. Under the Revenue Acts of 1916 and 1918, the Commissioner may
correct a return so as to reflect true income by conforming to
the dominating and controlling character of the taxpayer's system
of accounts. Id.
3. In computing the net income of a domestic corporation keeping
its books on the accrual basis, foreign taxes paid in the tax years
should not be deducted if they accrued in prior years and their
deduction in those years was necessary to ascertain true income. Id.
4. It is to be presumed that taxes paid are rightly collected upon
assessments correctly made by the Commissioner; and in a suit
to recover them the burden rests upon the taxpayer to prove all the
facts necessary to establish the illegality of the collection. P. 301.
67 Ct. Cls. 693, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 543, to review a judgment for the
United States in a suit to recover money alleged to have

been illegally collected as income and excess profits taxes.

