202

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

setting forth the extent and effects of the operation of the
sewage treatment plants, respectively, that shall have
been placed in operation, and also the average'diversion
of water from Lake Michigan during the period from the
entry of this decree down to the date of such report.
6. That on the coming in of each of said reports, and
on due notice to the other parties, any of the parties to
the above entitled suits, complainants or defendants, may
apply to the Court for such action or relief, either with
respect to. the time to be allowed for the construction, or
the progress of construction, or the methods of operation,
of any of said sewage treatment plants, or with respect
to the diversion of water from Lake Michigan, as may be
deemed to be appropriate.
7. That any of the parties hereto, complainants or defendants, may, irrespective of the filing of the above-described reports, apply at the foot of this. decree for any
other or further action or relief, and this Court retains
jurisdiction of the above-entitled suits for the purpose
of any order or direction, or modification of this decree,
or any supplemental decree, which it may deem at any
time to be proper in relation to the subject matter in
controversy.
The CHIEF JUsTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOI THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF. ARKANSAS. ,

Nos. 281 and 282.

Argued MaTch 6, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Under Rev. Stats. § 5209, as amended; U. S. C., Title 12, § 592;
which punishes any officer. of a federal reserve or member .bank

UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.
202

203

Opinion of the Court.

who makes any false entry in any book or report of the bank with
intent to defraud or deceive, etc., two entries on a bank's books
referring to the same transaction, based upon the same draft and
which were the correlated means of accomplishing a single fraud,
are not separately punishable as separate offenses. P. 204.
2. The offense under this section of making a false entry in a report
of condition of a bank, showing a credit, is distinct from the offense
of making an earlier false entry on its books, showing the same
credit. P. 205.
3. In a prosecution under this section for making a false entry of
credit in a report of the bank's condition, with intent to defraud
and deceive, a former acquittal upon a charge of making with like
intent earlier entries of the same credit on the bank's books, is not
a bar, since the acquittal, though it establishes that the book e'ntries were not made with criminal intent, does not establish that
they were true, and non constat but that the accused may have
learned of their falsity after entering them on the books and before
making the report. P. 205.
No. 281 affirmed.
No. 282 reversed.
APPEALS from judgments of the District Court sustain-

ing pleas of former acquittal in bar of two indictments,
one charging that the appellee made a false entry on a
book of a bank of which he was president, and the other
that he made a false entry in a report of its condition.

Assistant Attorney General Sisson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring, and Messrs. George C.
Butte and Harry S. Ridgely were on the briefs, for the
United States.

Mr. T. H. Caraway for Adams.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
The defendant was indicted for a false entry in a book
of a bank of which he was president, and which was a
member of the Federal reserve system. The entry imported that he had made a deposit of $75,000 to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

credit of himself and sons, which it is averred that he
had not made. The book was a ledger showing the account of D. D. Adams & Sons, among others, with the
bank. The defendant pleaded a former acquittal. The
previous indictment was for a false entry in another book
of the bank known as the journal ledger and daily balance book, and imported a remittance of $75,000 to another bank to the credit of the defendant's own for which
the defendant took credit as above stated. This remittance was a draft for $75,000 which it was alleged that
Adams was not entitled to draw. The two entries had
reference to the same transaction, were based upon the
same draft and were the correlated means of accomplishing a single fraud if fraud there had been. The District
Court held that on its construction of Rev. Sts. § 5209,
as amended by the Act of September 26, 1918, c. 177, § 7,
40 Stat. 967, 972; U. S. C., Title 12, § 592, there could
be but one prosecution for false entries based upon any
single draft, even though several different entries were
made in the different books of the bank, all relating to
the same. Therefore it sustained the plea. The United
States appealed.
It is a short point. The statute punishes any officer of
a Federal reserve bank who makes any false entry in any
book of the bank with intent, &c. The Government contends for the most literal reading of the words, and that
every such entry is a separate offense to be separately
punished. But we think that it cannot have been contemplated that the mere multiplication of entries, all to the
same point and with a single intent, should multiply the
punishment in proportion to the complexity of the bookkeeping. The judgment in this case is affirmed.
The second case presents a more delicate question than
the previous one, although it was thought by the District Court to come under the same principle. This indictment is for a false entry in a report of conditions of
the defendant's bank showing as due from banks other

UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.
202

Opinion of the Court.

than Federal reserve banks $138,409.52 instead of the'
true sum $91,284.27. The plea of former acquittal-we
take as intended to allege that the difference was made'by three items in respect of which the defendant had been
indicted for false entries in the books of the bank, of a
similar character to those in the other case, with intent to
defraud the bank and the examiners appointed to examine its affairs. On this indictment also the defendant
was acquitted. It is obvious that technically the plea
was bad because the offense alleged was a different offense. The report is not an entry in the books of the
bank and does not purport to be a mere transcript of
entries. It is a present affirmation as to the resources of
the bank-a document different from the books of the
bank and having a different purpose. But although not
technically a former acquittal, the" judgment was conclusive upon all. that it decided. United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S. 85. It establishes that at the time of
making the entries, the defendant was not guilty of an
intent to defraud the-bank or the examiners. It does not
establish that the entries were true, although that might
have been a ground for the verdict. Washington, Alexandria& Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall.
580. De Sollar v. Hanscome, 158 U. S. 216, 221, 222. An
alternative possible ground is that although the entries
were untrue the defendant believed them to be true or
for some reason believed them to be justified. However
unlikely it may be that there was a different intent at the
time of the later act from that with which the entries
were made in the books of the bank, it is entirely possible
that the defendant supposed himself to be acting lawfully
at the earlier moment, but that he had acquired more
accurate knowledge before he signed the report, that he
then knew that it was false and was guilty then although
not before.
281. Judgment affirmed.
282. Judgment reversed.

