PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

trial or from any of the essential elements thereof, and
with a caution increasing in degree as the offenses dealt
with increase in gravity.
The question submitted must be answered in the
affirmative.
It is so ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

participated in the consideration

and agreed to a disposition of the case in accordance with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and MR.
JUSTICE STONE

MISSOURI

concur in the result.

EX REL.

MISSOURI INSURANCE COM-

PANY v. GEHNER, ASSESSOR OF THE CITY OF

ST. LOUIS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 222.

Argued February 26, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. A judgment of a state supreme court so construing a state statute
as to cause it to infringe federal rights is reviewable in this Court
even though the federal question was first presented to the state
court by a petition for rehearing which was denied without referring to the federal question, if the construction- was one that
the party- affected could not have anticipated and the federal
question was presented by him at the first opportunity. P. :320.
2. Property taxable by a State may not be taxed more heavily
because the owner owns also tax-exempt bonds of the United
States. P. 320.
3. A state statute providing generally that, in taxing the assets of insurance companies, the amounts of their legal reserves and unpaid
policy claims shall first be deducted, is unconstitutional in its application to an insurance company owning nontaxable United States
bonds if it require that the deduction, in suc.h case, shall be reduhed
by Ihe proportion tht the value of su.h bonds h:ars t) totl:dl assets,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

281 U. S.

thus inflicting upon the company a heavier tax burden than it would
have borne had it not owned the bonds. P. 32t.
322 Mo. 339, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri sustaining on certiorari a property tax assessed
against the relator Insurance Company by the City
Board of Equalization.

Mr. Ralph T. Finley, with whom Messrs. James C.
Jones, Lon 0. Hocker, Frank H. Sullivan, and James C.
Jones, Jr., were on the brief, for appellant.
The judgment contravenes § 8 of Art. I of the Federal
Constitution because it inevitably results in denying the
exemption of the bonds. Farmers Bank v. Minnesota,
232 U. S. 516; Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, '.75 U. , 136; Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713;
Natidnal Life Tns. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508;
Waco v. Amicable Life Ins. Co., 230 S. W. 698, 248 S. W.
332.
One of the necessary results of the method of calculating the net taxable assets is in effect to tax a portion
of the deductible legal reserve. It subjected the relator's
property to greater burdens because it owned some that
was free from taxation. This, indirectly at least, deprived
the relator of its exemption.
Under the plain terms of § 6383 and the decisions of
the court below, the reserves are deductible from the gross
taxable assets. State v. Buder, 315 Mo. 798; State v.
Schramm, 271 Mo. 227.
The Supreme Court. of Missouri has repeatedly held
that the entire legal reserve is deductible, and that domestic insurance companies having 'no tax-exempt securities may deduct their entire reserve. Central States L.
Ins. Co. v. Gehner, 8 S. W. (2d) 1073' Id., 1068; Indemfity Co. v. Gehner, 8 S. W. (2d) 1067. Consequently
6386 is made to contravene the due process and equal

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

Argument for Appellees.

protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 352; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 412; Quaker City Cab Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 402; Miller v. Milwaukee, 272
U. S. 714.
Mr. Oliver Senti, First Associate City Counselor of St.
Louis, with whom Messrs. Julius T. Muench, City Counselor, Stratton Shartel, Attorney General of Missouri, and
Lieutellus Cuiningham,Assistant Attorney General, were
on the brief, for appellees.
The statute prescribes a system of taxation of net
assets, which shall be assessed like the property of individuals. State v. Schramm, 271 Mo. 223.
Whether that part of the reserve and unpaid policy
claims which consists of taxable property is deducted from
the Company's total taxable property and the assessment
is imposed on the remainder, or whether the taxable property is apportioned between the reserve and unpaid policy
claims (liabilities) and the net assets, and the assessment
is imposed on that part of the net assets which consists of
taxable property, is mere calculation; the result is the
same.
An appellate court reviews the judgment, not the opinion below. M'Clung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598.
It is not claimed that § 6386 as construed imposes a
tax directly on government bonds. The contention is
that an insurance company which is taxed on its net
assets is denied exemption from taxation on government
bonds when the taxing authorities treat such bonds as
being invested in part in the net assets and in part in the
legal reserve and unpaid policy claims.
Distinguishing: Farmers Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S.
516; Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275
U. S. 136; Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713; National
Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508; Waco v.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellees.

281 U. S.

Amicable Life Ins. Co., 230 S. W. 698; 248 S. W. 332;
State v. Buder, 315 Mo. 798; State v. Schramm, 271 Mo.
227; Central States Life Ins. Co. v. Gehner, 8 S. W. (2d)
1073; Id., 1068; Indemnity Co. v. Gehner, 8 S. W. (2d)
1067; Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 352;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 412; Quaker City
Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,277 U. S. 402.
The statute as construed does no more than to authorize the taxation of that part of the net assets which may
fairly be said to consist of taxable property. 'State v.
Buder, 315 Mo. 791. It does not tax the appellant's reserve.
The appellant's right to have the amount of the assessment on its personal property determined in the manner
prescribed by § 6383, rests on that statute, or it does not
exist. The statute means what the highest court of the
State has construed it to mean, or, in contemplation of
law, it does not exist, and personal property to the value
of over $350,000.00 owned by appellant is subject to taxation under § 12766, R. S. Mo., 1919.
When a state statute results in the imposition of a
smaller assessment on the personal property owned by
appellant than would be imposed upon the same property
if owned by a person or corporation to whom the state
statute does not apply, there can be no ir~vasion of appellant's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Practically all of the States treat the legal reserve of
an insurance company as a fund held for the protection
and security of the policyholders, and have adopted laws
designed to keep it intact. In Missouri the highest courthas construed this statute to mean that in determining
what part of appellant's assets is reserve set aside for
the security of its policyholders, and what part is net
assets belonging to appellant and held for its own profit,
the Assessor can make a division of the non-taxable property between those two funds. The appellant has no

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

Opinion of the Court.

right under the Constitution or laws of the United States
to allocate all of its non-taxable property to its net assets,
and the Missouri Supreme Court has held that it has no
such right under the statute. The question, it would appear, is one of state law, in which the decision of the state
court ought to be final. For this Court to hold that the
Assessor cannot apportion the appellant's taxable and
non-taxable property to its reserve and to its net assets,
would increase the extent to which the State has granted
appellant immunity from taxation, and would, in effect
at least, amend a statute of the State.
It would seem that, whether the claim is made that
the result of a statute is to impose a tax upon securities
of the United States, or to impose a burden upon interstate commerce, the rule ought to be the same; that is
to say, that the validity of the tax depends upon the
effect and operation of the statute, and that if the tax
imposed pursuant thereto is no greater than the tax
ordinarily imposed upon property generally within the
State, it is not open to attack as in conflict with the equal
protection clause or due process clause of the Constitutior
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant is an insurance company organized under
the laws of Missouri. It maintains that as construed
in this case § 6386, Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1919,
is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
Section 6386 provides.
"The property of all insurance companies organized
under the laws of this state shall be subject to taxation
for state, county, municipal and school purposes, as provided in the general revenue laws of this state in regard
to taxation and assessment of insurance companies.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

Every such company or association shall make returns,
subject to the provisions of said laws: First, of all the
real estate held or controlled by it; second, of the net
value of all its other assets or values in excess of the
legally required reserve necessary to reinsure its outstanding risks and of any unpaid policy claims, which
net values shall be assessed and taxed as the property of
individuals . .
The company made a return in-pursuance of that section. The total value of its personal property was
$448,265.33 including $94,000 in United States bonds.
The legal reserve and unpaid policy claims amounted to
$333,486.69. It deducted such bonds, reserve and claims
leaving $20,778.64 as the net value to be taxed.
The board of equalization declined to accept the return
and after hearing the parties held that the bonds of the
United States are not taxable, that § 6386 contravenes
provisions of the state constitution requiring uniform
taxation, and that therefore the company was not entitled to deduct the amount of such reserve and claims.
1The substance of the return follows:

Real Estate, Improvement, etc ...................... $142,000.00
Bonds, Municipal .................................. 289,000.00
Bonds, Government ................................
94,000.00
Bonds, M ortgages ................................. 60,000.00

Cash ..............................................
Total Assets ........

.

5,265.33

.......... $590, 265.33

and on"
Less Real Estate assessed as above
which the Company pays taxes ........ $142, 000.00
Less reserve required by law ............ 326,522.69
Less U. S. Government Bonds ...........
94,000.00
Less Unpaid Policy Claims ..............
6,964.00

$569,486.69

$20,778.64

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

Opinion of the Court.

The board assessed the company's taxable property at
$50,000 without disclosing how it arrived at the amount.
On the company's application, the state supreme court
issued its writ of certiorari to bring up for review the
record and action of the board. The court held the section valid, found the company's liabilities were chargeable
against all its assets-taxable and nontaxable alikedeclared that such reserve and claims should be- apportioned between the two classes of assets according to their
respective amounts and determined that approximately
79.03 per cent. of such liabilities should be deducted from
the value of the taxable personal property leaving
$90,710.80 as the net value to be taxed.' And as that
exceeded the amount fixed by the board, the court refused
to disturb the assessment, and entered judgment quashing
the writ.
The company made a motion for rehearing on the
ground, among others, that § 6386 as construed violated
the clause of § 8, Art. I, of the Constitution which gives
to Congress the power to borrow money on the credit
of the United States and also § 3701, Revised Statutes
(31 U. S. C., § 742) which provides that all bonds of the
United States shall be exempt from taxation by or under
state, municipal or local authority. Th court overruled
the motion and modified its opinion. The modified
opinion was the same' as the earlier one except as to details of calculation. It found $74,136.52 to be the tax2

The calculation in the first opinion was in substance as follows:

The court divided total taxable assets $354,265.33 ($349,000 bonds
and $5,265.33 cash) by total personal assets $448,265.33 ($349,003
bonds, $5,265.33 cash and $94,000 United States bonds).

The result

was .7903. Total liabilities, $333,486.69 ($326,522.69 reserve and
$6,964.00, unpaid policy claims) was multiplied by .7903. The result
was $263,554.53. This was subtracted from $354,265.33, and the
difference was $90,710.80.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

able net value.3 The court did not refer to the federal
questions raised by the motion for rehearing.
1. It is well settled that this court will not consider
questions that were not properly presented for decision
in the highest court of the State. Ordinarily it will not
consider contentions first made in a petition to the state
court for rehearing where the petition is denied without
more. Citizens National Bank v. Durr, 257 U. S. 99, 106.
But here the company, at the first opportunity, invoked
the protection of the federal Constitution and statute.
It could not earlier have assailed the section as violative
of the Constitution and laws of the United States. The
board of equalization completely eliminated the bonds
from its calculations, and there is nothing in the language
of the section to suggest that it authorizes any diminution of the amount of the deductible reserve and unpaid
claims or an apportionment of such liabilities between
taxable and nontaxable assets. It may not reasonably be
held that the company was bound to anticipate such a
construction or in advance to invoke federal protection
against the taxation of its United States bonds. Upon
the facts disclosed by this record it is clear that appellant sufficiently raised in the highest court of the
State the federal questions here presented and is entitled
to have them considered. Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S.
317, 320. Ohio ex rel. Bryant v. Akron Park District,
ante, p. 74.
2. It is elementary that the bonds or other securities
of the United States may not be taxed by state authority.
' The court divided total taxable assets $496,265.33 ($349,000 bonds,
$5,265.33 cash, and $142,000 real estate) by total assets $590,265.33
($349,000 bonds, $5,265.33 cash, $94,000 United States bonds and
$142,000 real estate). The result was .84. Total liabilities $333,486.69
was multiplied by .84. The result was $280,128.81. This was subtracted from $354,265.33, taxable personal assets, and the difference
was $74,136.52,

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

Opinion of the Court.

That immunity always has been deemed an attribute of
national supremacy and essential to its maintenance.
The power of Congress to borrow money on the credit
of the United States would be burdened and might be
destroyed 'by state taxation of the means employed for
that purpose. As the tax-exempt feature tends to increase and is reflected in the market prices of such securities, a state tax burden thereon would adversely affect the
terms upon which money may be borrowed to execute
the purposes of the general government. It necessarily
follows from the immunity created by federal authority
that a State may not subject one to a greater burden
upon his taxable property merely because he owns taxexempt government securities. Neither ingenuity in
calculation nor form of words in state enactments can
deprive the owner of the tax exemption established for
the benefit of the United States. Nat'l. Life Ins. Co. v.
United States, 277 U. S. 508, 519, and cases cited.
M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431, 432, 436.
After deducting government bonds (exempt), real
estate (otherwise taxed), legal reserve and unpaid policy
claims from total assets, there remained the amount returned by appellant, $20,778.64. The court held the
section to require the reserve and unpaid claims to be
reduced by the proportion that the value of the United
States bonds bears to total assets. It found $74,136.52
to be appellant's taxable net value. And so it usedthe
value of the bonds, $94,000, to increase the taxable
amount by $53,357.88.
The section discloses a purpose as a general rule to
omit from taxation sufficient assets of the insurance companies to cover their legal reserve and unpaid policy
claims. It would be competent for the State to permit
a less :eduction or none at all. But where as in this case
the ownership of United States bonds is made the basis
of denying the full exemption which is accorded to those
98234 -o---20

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE, .T.,

dissenting.

281 U. S.

who own no such bonds this amounts to an infringement
of the guaranteed freedom from taxation. It is clear
that the value of appellant's government bonds was not
disregarded in making up the estimate of taxable net
values. That is .in Violation of the established rule.
Nat'l. Life Ins. Co. v. United States, supra. Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136. Miller v.
Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713.
Judgment reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

concurs on the ground that this

case is governed by National Life Ins. Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 508.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE.

To state the problem now presented in its sLplest
concrete form, if an insurance company has policy liabilities of $100,000, $100,000 of taxable personal property,
and $100,000 of government bonds, its net assets would
be $100,000. -Under the statute of Missouri taxing net
assets, as applied by the state court, one-half of this net
worth or $50,000 would be subject to the tax since onehalf of its entire property consists of taxable assets and
so contributes one-half of the net. Under the decision
of this Court, the company would go tax free, on the
theory that the Constitution requires that in ascertaining
the taxable net worth, tax exempt bonds must be excluded from the computation as though they were not
liable for the debts of the taxpayer.
That conclusion appears to me to open a new and
hitherto unsuspected field of operation for the immunity
from taxation enjoyed by national and state securities
as instrumentalities of government, and to accord to their
owners a privilege which is not justified by anything that
has been decided or said by this Court.

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

STONE,

J., dissenting.

Since Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, this Court, by
a long line of decisions, has so restricted the immunity
as to relieve only from the burden of taxation imposed
on such securities .or their income. The immunity has
not been supposed to confer other special benefits on
* eir owners. In every case it has been consistently
applied so as to leave reasonable scope for the exercise by
both national and state governments of the constitutional
power to tax. Railroad v: Penniston, 18 Wall. 5; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S.437, 461; Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107, 162-165; Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258 U. S. 384;
Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 12; see Metcalf &
Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S.514, 523, 524.
The present tax differs from those which have previously been considered by the Court -in this connection,
in that it is not imposed on any specific identifiable property or its income. It is a tax on net worth, the value of
the taxpayer's property after providing for the policy
liabilities. Net worth is the result of a mathematical
computation, into which of necessity enter all his assets
subject to liabilities and all such obligations of the taxpayer as the statute permits to be deducted. It is the
result of the computation which is the subject of the tax,
and it is the subject of the tax to which exemptions are
to be applied.
The immunity of government bonds from taxation does
not carry with it immunity from liability for debts.
Scottish Insurance Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, 632.
Hence, whether the measure of the tax be technically described as taxable net worth or as taxable assets less an
allowed deduction representing liabilities to which they',.
are subject, the state, in fixing the tax, does not infringe
any constitutional immunity by requiring liabilities to be
deducted from all the assets, including tax exempt bonds,

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

281 U.S.

or, what comes to the same thing, by deducting from taxable assets their proportionate share of the burden of
policy liabilities.
To say that debts must be deducted from taxable assets
alone; that no part of the net worth of the taxpayer who
owns tax-free securities may be taxed if his debts equal
his tax-free assets, is equivalent to saying, in such a situation, either that the taxable assets constitute no part of
the net worth or that, even though they are a part, still
that part is not taxable. But it is not to be supposed that
a mathematician, an accountant or a business man would
regard the taxable assets as contributing nothing to surplus, or, where one-half of the taxpayer's property is taxfree, that there is -any basis for saying that net worth
could, on any theory, be attributed more to one class of
assets than the other. Yet the result now reached would
seem to presuppose that the tax-exempt securities alone
had contributed to the taxpayer's net worth. These incongruous consequences of the rule applied seem to be
attributable to the only assumption on which the rule itself could proceed, that government bonds, because they
are tax-exempt, are also debt-exempt, or may not be used
for the payment of debts, when in fact and in law taxexempt securities constitute a part of the corporate reservoir of capital, all of which without distinction may be
drawn on for the payment of obligations.
If Missouri, as it undoubtedly might, had levied a tax
on all the property of appellant except its tax exempt
bonds, without any deduction for its policy reserve, it is
difficult to see upon what articulate principle the tax
would be rendered invalid by permitting the taxpayer to
deduct from the value of its assets, the same proportion
of all its reserves which the taxable assets bear to the
total property, all of which is liable for its policies. It
would certainly not be because the ownership of the
bonds was discriminated against in the apportionment of

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

SToNE, J., dissenting.

the deduction, or burdened by the tax. Or if, one-half of
the gross assets of a taxpayer being chattels without the
state, it had taxed his property within the state allowing
as a deduction one-half his indebtedness, I do not suppose
it would have occurred to anyone to say that the levy
was invalid as a tax upon the property beyond the taxing
jurisdiction. Yet neither of these taxes differs from the
present in its effect on the ownership of either taxable or
tax-free property.
The apportionment of net worth according to the
amounts of the constituent elements which enter into its
computation has long been a familiar method of accountants and has repeatedly been incorporated in taxing
statutes where, for one reason or other, it is desirable or.
necessary not to impose a tax on some of these elements.
The fairness and accuracy of that method has not hitherto
been questioned.
In National Leather Company v. Massachusetts, 277
U. S. 413, the state levied a tax upon "such proportion
of the fair cash value of all the shares constituting the
capital stock . . . as the value of the assets . . . employed . . . within the Commonwealth . . . bears to the

total assets of the corporation." The fair cash value of
all the shares was, like net worth, the result of subtracting all the obligations of the company from its gross
assets. See National Bank of Wellington v. Chapman,
173 U. S. 205, 215; cf. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575. The proportion of the net worth which was taxable
because attributable to Massachusetts was computed
after the deduction was made. If the theory of tax immunity here sustained had been followed, all the debts of
the company would have been deducted from that part of the gross assets attributable to the state, since a taxpayer whose gross assets were all taxable would have had
that privilege. While the methods of computing the
taxable portion of net worth vary, the principle that

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE, J., dissenting.

281 U. S.

"deductions for obligations" are to be apportioned
among taxables and non-taxables is supported in Underwood Typewriter Company v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S.
113; Bass, Ratcliff &c., Ltd. v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S.
271; Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 56, 57; and U. S. Glue
Company v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 324, .325.'
It is said that the present tax must be held invalid
because, as a matter of law, exemptions may not be
reduced, nor may tax burdens be increased in consequence of the ownership of tax-free securities, and that
in the present case their ownership was in fact used to
'The difference between the two methods may be illustrated by
supposing a corporation with gross assets of $15,000,000 and obligations of $5,000,000. The fair cash value of all the shares would then
be $10,000,000. Assume that one-tenth of its property is in Massachusetts. The assessment would be $1,000,000 under the Leather
Company case. By the present method $5,000,000 would be deducted
from one-tenth of the gross assets, $1,500,000, because a concern own-

ing no exempt property might make that deduction. Under the
present case the company would be free from tax.

I

In Shaffer v. Carter, Oklahoma levied a net income tax; in the
case of residents, upon income derived from all sources; in the case of
non-residents, upon locally derived income. Residents were permitted
to deduct all losses, non-residents were permitted deductions only for
1
local losses. The Court said (p. 57):
"The difference, however, is only such as arises naturally from the
extent of the jurisdiction of the state in the two classes of cases, and
cannot be regarded as an unfriendly or unreasonable discrimination.

As to residents it may, and does, exert its taxing power over their
income from all sources, whether within or without the State, and it
accords to them a corresponding privilege of deducting their losses,
wherever these accrue. As to non-residents, the jurisdiction extends
only to their property owned within the State and their business,
trade or profession carried on therein, and the tax is only on such
income as is derived from those sources. Hence there is no obligation
to accord to them a deduction by reason of losses elsewhere incurred."
There seems to be as colorable reason in that case as in this for

asserting that the receipt of exempt income is made the basis for a
reduction or elimination of an exemption granted to others.

MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

STONE, J.,

327

dissenting.

increase taxable values. Neither proposition can, I think,
be supported. First, it is not universally true that
ownership of tax exempt securities may not increase the
burden of a tax. Taxes upon transfer at death, state or
federal, may be increased by the ownership by deceased
of tax exempt securities. Plummer v. Coler, supra;
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Greiner v. Lewellyn,
supra; Blodgett v. Silberman, supra. Notwithstanding
Macallen v. Massachusetts,279 U. S. 620, I do not understand that tax exempt securities of a corporation, or the
income from them, may under no circumstances enter
into the computation of a corporate franchise tax and
increase it proportionately, or that a broker or dealer in
securities may not be taxed on his profits from the purchase and sale of government and state securities. Compare Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165; Barclay &"
Co. v. Edwards, 267 U. S. 442. In National Leather
Company v. Massachusetts, supra, an increase of property outside the taxing state might increase the tax on net'
assets within the state. For like reasons it would seem
that the tax-free securities might, rightly enter into the
computation of net worth since'they are liable for debts
and so contribute to net worth, and that the net worth
thus computed shouid be held subject to the state tax
except insofar as tax exeinpt securities contribute to it.
Second, in the present caaOj it is difficult to see in what
respect the mere ownership, of the appellant's tax-free
securities has been resorted to in order to increase taxable
net values.- That concdision-does not follow from the
fact that the state court in its second opinion found a
larger taxable value upbn hdifferent interpretation of the
statute than in its first. It could be true only if, by the
consistent application of the rule finally laid down, the
shifting of- some of the taxpayer's investments from taxable to exempt securities would result in an increase of

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE, J., dissenting.

281 U. S.

the tax. But such is not the effect of the statute, for if
the taxpayer who owns no exempt property may be taxed
on his full net worth, but is taxed only half as much if he,,
converts one-half of his gross assets into tax exempt
bonds, it would seem that ownership of the latter had
resulted in a decrease and not an increase of taxable
values and that the burden of the tax is diminished with
mathematical exactness in the proportion that the taxpayer has chosen to invest in tax exempt securities.
Invoking the rule now laid down, a taxpayer having no
tax exempt securities and legitimately bearing the burden
of a state tax on net worth may put off the burden completely by the simple expedient of purchasing, on credit,
government bonds equal in value to his net taxable assets.
The success of a device so transparently destructive of
-the taxing power of the state may well raise doubts of
the correctness of the constitutional principle supposed
to sustain it. So construed, the Constitution does more
than protect the ownership of government bonds from
the burdens of taxation. It confers upon that ownership
an affirmative benefit at the expense of the taxing power
of the state, by relieving the owner from the full burden
of taxation on net worth to which his taxable assets have
in some measure contributed.
But it is no less our duty to recognize and protect the
powers reserved to the state under the Constitution than
the immunities granted to the federal government.
South Carolinav. United States, supra. The right of the
state to tax net worth, so far as it is attributable to
taxable assets, and that of the national government to
insist upon its exemption so far as tax-free property
enters into its computation, stand on an equal footing.
There is nothing in the Constitution nor in the decisions
of this Court to justify a taxpayer in demanding that
the one should be sacrificed to the other, or which would

'MISSOURI v. GEHNER.
313

STONE,

J., dissenting.

support the national government in saying to the state
that in ascertaining taxable net worth debts must be
deducted from taxable assets alone, any more than it
would support the state in insisting that debts should be
deducted exclusively from the taxpayer's -government
bonds in ascertaining taxable net worth.
Nothing said by this Court in National Life Insurance
Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508, decided one week later
than the National Leather Company case, supra, should
lead to a reversal of the judgment below. In that cast
an Act of Congress taxing the income of insurance 6ompanies granted an exemption of 4% of their reserve 'By
the terms of the statute the benefit of the exemption was
withheld to the extent that the taxpayer received income
from tax exempt securities. The statute regulated only
the exercise of the power of the national government to
tax. Neither it nor the decision of the court affected the
taxing power of a state. The statite was assailed solely
on the ground that it discriminated against the holder
of tax exempt securities merely because they were taxexempt, to the extent that the statutory exemption was
withheld from the holder of government, state and municipal bonds. The effect of this discrimination was that
if the taxpayer shifted investments from its taxable to
its tax exempt list its tax remained undiminished until
the income from the tax-free list equalled the statutory
exemption.
After pointing out that the collector in applying the
statute had diminished the statutory exemption by the
amount of interest received from tax exempt securities,
the ccurt said, p. 519: "Thus he [the tax collector] required petitioner to pay more'upon its taxable income
than could have been demanded had this been derived
solely from taxable securities. If permitted, this would
destroy the guaranteed exemption. One may not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

281 U. S.

subjected to greater burdens upon his taxable property
solely because he owns some that is free."
But the present statute has no such effect. Calling the
deduction of policy liabilities, required for the computation of the tax, an "exemption" and saying that owner-hip of tax exempt securities is made the basis of denying
the " full exemption," may give this case a verbal resemblance to that, but it does no more. True, a change
by appellant from taxable to tax free investments would
result in a smaller deduction from its taxable assets, but
it would also result in a proportionate reduction of its
taxable assets with a corresponding decrease in taxable
values, always in exact proportion to appellant's investment in tax exempt securities.
Only if the taxpayer were the fortunate recipient of a
gift of tax exempt securities could the net worth of its
taxable securities be increased and this not solely or at
all because its newly acquired securities are "free," but
because they, like its taxable assets, may be used to. meet
policy obligations, and thus proportionately relieve taxable assets from that burden. Similarly, a gift by way of
payment of policy obligations or reinsurance would increase the tax although it would not increase taxable assets. So the increase, by gift, of property outside the
state would increase the tax upon net assets within the
state. The property outside the state is not subject to
a tax, but it must pay its share of the debts. But in every
case, as in the present, the tax assessed would correspond
with mathematical exactness to the contributions made
by the taxable assets to the total net worth. Hence, the
question here is not whether the taxpayer has been discriminated against because he owns government bonds,
but only whether the privilege which the state recognizes
as attaching to their ownership is sufficiently great.
If the constitutional inhibition is not directed against
the imposition of burdens, but affirmatively compels the

NATIONAL FIRE INS. CO. v. THOMPSON.
1313

331

Syllabus.

annexation of such benefits to the ownership of government bonds as will increase their currency and stimulate
the market for them, even though those privileges are
extended at the expense of the constitutional powers of
the states, it is difficult to see what the limits of such a
doctrine may be. I suppose that the sale and market
value of government bonds would be materially increased
if we were to say that the Constitution sub silentio had
forbidden their seizure for debts, or rendered their possessor immune from the various forms of state taxation
to which this Court has said he is subject. But however
desirable such a consequence might be thought to be,
that could hardly be taken as a sufficient ground for
saying it.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS col-

cur in this opinion.
NATIONAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
HARTFORD v. THOMPSON, -SUPERINTENDENT
OF THE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT OF MIS-

SOURI,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 104.

Argued January 16, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Under a stipulation made by fire insurance companies in Missouri with the State Stfperintendent of Insurance, in a suit attacking a rate fixed by him (Mo. Rev. Stats., § 6283) that suit
was dismissed, a new hearing was had by the Superintendent and
a new rate promulgated, which was reviewed in a new proceeding
in the state courts (involving no federal question, Aetna Ins. Co.
v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440) and finally sustained by the Supreme
Court of the State. Although the statute provided (§ 6284) that
upon such review rates in excess of those fixed by the Superin-

