CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
Syllabus.

CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
.SAME v. RICHARDS

ET AL.

SAME v. REAKIRT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 372, 373, and 374. Argued April 17, 21, 1930.-Decided May 19,

1930.
1. In considering the application of the Fourteenth Amendment to
cases of expropriation of private property, the question what is
a public use is a judicial one. P. 446.

2. Under Art. XVIII, ยง 10, of the Ohio Constitution, which provides
that a municipality in appropriating property for a public use may
"in furtherance of such public use" appropriate an excess over
that actually. to be occupied by a proposed improvement, and
under ยง 3679, General Code of Ohio, which requires that in, the
making of an appropriation there shall be a resolution of the
municipal council "defining the purpose of the appropriation"
etc., a condemnation of private land in excess of that taken for
widening a street can not be sustained where its purpose is stated
in the resolution only as being "in furtherance" of the widening
of the street and "necessary for the complete enjoyment and
preservation of said public use," and where a like general, but
no specific, explanation of purpose is in the ordnance providing for
the excess appropriation. P. 447.
3. The power conferred on a municipal corporation to take private
property for public use must be strictly followed. P. 448.
4. This Court will not decide important constitutional questions unnecessarily or hypothetically. P. 448.
5. Questions relating to the constitutional validity of an excess condemnation by a city should not be determined upon conjecture as
to the contemplated purposes when the object of the excess appropriation is not set forth as required by the local law. P. 449.
33 F. (2d) 242, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM. 1929.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

281 U. S.

280 U. S. 545, to review decrees affirming

permanent injunctions awarded by the District Court in
suits by owners of land in Cincinnati to restrain appropriations by the City.
Messrs. John D. Ellis, City Solicitor of Cincinnati, and
Ed. F. Alexander, Assistant City Solicitor, for petitioner.
Mr. John Weld Peck, with whom Messrs. Milton Sayler
and Frank H. Shaffer, Jr., were on the brief, for re-

spondents.
Messrs. Gilbert Bettman, Attorney General of Ohio, and
L. F. Laylin, by special leave of Court, filed a brief as
amici curicm, on behalf of the State of Ohio.
Messrs. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New York,
and Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General, by

special leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curie, on behalf of the State of New York.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These three cases were heard together. The suits were
brought by owners of land in the City of Cincinnati to
restrain the appropriation of their property by the City,
upon the grounds that the taking was not in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the constitution and
statutes of Ohio and would constitute a deprivation of
property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, it being alleged that the appropriation was not for a public use. Un der the law of Ohio
these questions could be raised only by injunction proceedings. P. C. C. & St. L. Railway Co. v. Greenville,
69 0. S..487, 496; Sargcnt v. Cincinnati, 110 0. S. 444.
Decrees in favor of plaintiffs for a permanent injunction

CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
439

Opinion of the Court.

were entered in the District Court and were affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 33 F. (2d) 242. This
Court granted writs of certiorari, 280 U. S. 545.
The immediate purpose of the City of Cincinnati in
the condemnation proceedings was the widening of Fifth
Street, one of the principal thoroughfares of the City.
A resolution of the City Council, passed July 6, 1927,
declared its intention to appropriate for this purpose a
strip of land 25 feet in width, adjacent to the south side
of Fifth Street, and no question is raised as to the validity
of the appropriation of this strip.
The controversy relates to what is known as "excess
condemnation," that is, the taking of more land than is
needed to be occupied by the improvement directly in
contemplation. The constitution of Ohio provides (Article XVIII, Section 10):
"A municipality appropriating or otherwise acquiring
property for public use may in furtherance of such public .use appropriate or acquire an excess over that actually
to be occupied by the improvement, and may sell such
excess with such restrictions,,as shall be appropriate to
preserve the improvement made. Bonds may be issued
to supply the funds in whole or in part to pay for the
excess property so appropriated or otherwise acquired,
but said bonds shall be a lien only against the property
so acquired for the improvement and excess, and they
shall not be a liability of the municipality nor be included
in any limitation of the bonded indebtedness of such
municipality prescribed by law."
In this. instance, the City proposes to appropriate
property in excess of that actually to be occupied by
the widened street, and this excess condemnation embraces the following properties of the plaintiffs:
The Vester property. This is a lot, with a three story
brick residence, on Broadway, a street intersecting Fifth
Street. The lot is 27 feet wide by 90 feet deep running

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

parallel to Fifth Street. It lies 44 feet south of Fifth
Street and is thus 19 feet south of the 25-foot strip taken
for the street widening. No part of this property is taken
for the 25-foot strip or abuts on the widened street, and
the entire lot is sought to be appropriated in the proceeding for excess condemnation. Between the Vester
property and the 25-foot strip is the lot of another
owner.
The Richards property. This is a leasehold of an improved lot 23 feet wide running from Fifth Street 100
feet through to Buchanan Street, which is parallel to
Fifth Street on the south. It is held by the plaintiffs,
Richards, with privilege of purchase. The north 25 feet
of this lot is taken as a part of the strip for the widened
street, and the remaining 75 feet to Buchanan Street is
sought to be taken in excess condemnation.
The Reakirt property. This is a tract at the corner
of Fifth Street and Sycamore Street (an intersecting
street), 138 feet on the south side of Fifth Street and 149
feet on the west side of Sycamore Street. The tract,
which is vacant except for a small gasoline filling station,
embraces several lots, two of which are not contiguous to
the 25-foot strip.
Among the statutory provisions of Ohio relating to the
condemnation of property by municipal corporations is
the following with respect to the declaration of the purpose of the appropriation (General Code of Ohio, Section
3679):
"Sec. 3679. Resolution shall be passed. When it is
deemed necessary to appropriate property, council shall
pass a resolution, declaring such intent, defining the purpose of the appropriation, setting forth a pertinent description of the land, and the estate or interest therein
desired to be appropriated. For waterworks purposes
and for the purpose of creating reservoirs to provide for a

CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
439

Opinion of the Court.

supply of water, the council may appropriate such property as it may determine to be necessary."
The excess condemnation of the properties in question
is proposed by the resolution adopted by the City Council,
but the purpose of the appropriation is stated in the resolution only in the most general terms as being "in furtherance of the said widening of Fifth Street" and "necessary for the complete enjoyment and preservation of
said public use." The ordinance providing for the excess
appropriation was not more specific, declaring simply that
it is "in furtherance of the public use," described as the
widening of Fifth Street, and "for the more complete
enjoyment and preservation of the benefits to accrue from
said public use." In what way the excess condemnation
of these properties was in furtherance of the widening of
the street, and why it was necessary for the complete enjoyment and preservation of the public use of the widened
street are not stated and are thus left to surmise.
The plaintiffs alleged in their bills of complaint that
the excess condemnation is "a mere speculation upon an
anticipated increase in the value of the properties adjacent to said improvement," and that the properties were
taken "with the design of reselling the same at a profit
to private individuals to be used for private purposes,
and no use of said property by or for the public is intended
or contemplated." The answers of the City denied these
allegations and summed up the position of the City by
saying that the application of the principle of excess condemnation in these cases would enable the City (1) "to
further the appropriate development of the south side of
Fifth Street" by using or disposing of the excess properties in tracts "with such size and with such restrictions
as will inure to the public advantage," and (2) that the
increase in value of the properties in question which may
accrue by reason of the improvement contemplated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

City "will pay in part the very heavy expense to which
the City will be put in effecting the improvement."
On the hearing in the D'strict Court, the plaintiffs
and the defendant introduced evidence as to the condition and the value of plaintiffs' properties. There was
also a stipulation of evidence as to the amount of money
available for the street widening, the expense of the
appropriation of the 25-foot strip, and the total expense
of the entire proposed appropriation. The stipulation
gave a general description of Fifth Street and of the
improvements of the squares adjoining the widened
street. None of the evidence defined in any specific
manner the purpose of the excess condemnation.
The City argues that in resorting to excess condemnation legislative bodies generally have had in view the
following three purposes (1) the avoidance of remnant
lots, (2) the preservation and amplification of the improvement, and (3) the recoupment of expense from
increased values. Both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that the theory of remnants, and of the protection and preservation of the
improvement, were not applicable to the present cases.
Both courts considered that the sole purpose of the City
was the recoupment by the resale of the properties in
question of a large part of the expense of the street
widening. In this view, both courts held that the excess condemnation was in violation of the constitutional
rights of the plaintiffs upon the ground that it was not
a taking for a public use "within the meaning of that
term as it heretofore has been held to justify the taking of
private property." The Circuit Court of Appeals added
that the provision of the constitution of Ohio relating to
excess condemnation, supra, "would seem to mean in furtherance of the normal use to which the property that is
occupied by the improvement is devoted,-here the use
and preservation of the street for the purposes of travel,"

CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
439

Opinion of the Court.

and the court held that if the provision means that property may be taken "for the purpose of selling it at a
profit and paying for the improvement it is clearly
invalid."
In this Court, the City challenges the propriety of the
assumption upon which these rulings below were based,
that is, that the City was proceeding on the theory of
the recoupment of expense by resale of the properties.
While contending that this would be a valid purpose under
the constitution of Ohio, and would constitute a taking
for public use. and therefore would be consistent with the
Fourteenth Amendment, the City insists that its purpose
in the present cases can not thus be delimited. The City
calls attention to the general statements in the resolution
and ordinance adopted by the City Council and declares
that these broad declarations constitute "practically all
the evidence which directly shows the purpose of the
city." While reference is made to what is said in its
pleadings with respect to its position, the argument for
the City adds that "obviously an impersonality such as a
city cannot very well testify as to what its plans and hopes
are." The Court is asked to take judicial notice of certain desirable objects which the City might have in view.
The City urges that, when the improvement is completed, the City Council will doubtless be in a position to
determine what sized tracts and what kinds of restriction
will be best suited for the harmonious development of the
south side of Fifth Street. But the City also insists that
it may never resell the excess; that it is not compelled to
do so by the constitution; that the question is one to be
determined in the future; that recoupment can come
only from a sale, and that until by some act the City
evidences an intent to sell it cannot be said to be proceeding only on a theory of recoupment. The City says
that it may preserve the public use in many ways, and
that sale with restrictions is one that taay hereafter be

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

chosen, but that there is no warrant upon this record for
discarding every possible use in favor of a use by sale
that may, among other things, result in a possible
recoupment.
We are thus asked to sustain the excess appropriation
in these cases upon the bare statements of the resolution
and ordinance of the City Council, by considering hypothetically every possible, but undefined, use to which the
City may put these properties, and by determining that
such use will not be repugnant to the rights secured to
the property owners by the Fourteenth Amendment.
We are thus either to assume that whatever the City,
entirely uncontrolled by any specific statement of its purpose, may decide to do with the properties appropriated,
will be valid under both the state and Federal constitutions, or to set up some hypothesis as to use and decide
for or against the taking accordingly, although the assumption may be found to be foreign to the actual purpose of the appropriation as ultimately disclosed and thQ
appropriation may thus be sustained or defeated through
a misconception of fact.
It is well established that in considering the application
of the Fourteenth Amendment to cases of expropriation
of private property, the question what is a public use is a
judicial one. In deciding such a question, the Court has
appropriate regard to the diversity of local conditions and
considers with great respect legislative declarations and in
particular the judgments of state courts as to the uses
considered to be public in the light of local exigencies.
But the question remains a judicial one which this Court
must decide in performing its duty of enforcing the provisions of the Federal Constitution.' In the present inFallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 159; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417; Madisonville

Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239, 252; Clark

CINCINNATI v. VESTER.
439

Opinion of the Court.

stance, we have no legislative declaration, apart from the
statement of the City Council, and no judgment of the
state court as to the particular matter before us. Under
the provision of the constitution of Ohio for excess condemnation when a city acquires property for public use,
it would seem to be clear that a mere statement by the
council that the excess condemnation is in furtherance of
such use would not be conclusive. Otherwise, the taking
of any land in excess condemnation, although in reality
wholly unrelated to the immediate improvement, would
be sustained on a bare recital. This would be to treat the
constitutional provision as giving such a sweeping author-

ity to municipalities as to make nugatory the express
condition upon which the authority is granted.
To the end that the taking shall be shown to be within
its authority, the municipality is called upon to specify
definitely the purpose of the appropriation. This is the
clear import of the provision of the Ohio statute (Ohio
General Code, sec. 3679, supra) that the City Council,
when it is deemed necessary to appropriate property,
shall pass a resolution "defining the purpose of the appropriation." It can not be said that this legislative requirement relates only to the principal appropriation and not
to the excess appropriation. It must be deemed to apply,
according to its express terms, to every appropriation of
private property by a municipality. The importance of
the definition of purpose would be even greater in the
case of taking property not directly to be occupied by a
proposed public improvement than in the case of the
latter which might more clearly speak for itself.
v. Nash, 198 U. S; 361, 369;. Strickley v. Highland Boy Mining Co.,
200 U. S. 527, 531; Hairston v. Danville & Western Ry. Co., 208
U. S. 598, 606; Sears v. City of Akron, 246 U. S. 242, 251; Rindge

Company v. County of Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700, 705; Old Dominion
Land Co. v. United States, 269 U. S. 55, 66.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The general declarat'on of the resolution of the City
Council, and of the ordinance if that may be read with
the resolution, for the excess condemnation in the present
cases, is plainly not a definition. To define is to limit,
and that which is left unlimited, and is to be determ'ned
only by such future action as the City may hereafter
decide upon, is not defined. The City's contention is so
broad that it defeats itself. It is not enough that property may be devoted hereafter to a public use for which
there could have been an appropriate condemnation.
Under the gu'se of an excess condemnation pursuant to
the authority of the constitutional provision of Ohio, private property could not be taken for some independent
and undisclosed public use. Either no definition of purpose is required in the case of excess condemnation, a view
of the statute wh'ch cannot be entertained, or the purpose
of the excess condemnation must be suitably defined. In
this view, in the absence of such a definition, the appropriation must fail by reason of non-compliance with statutory authority.
We understand it to be the rule in Ohio, as elsewhere,
that the power conferred upon a municipal corporation
to take private property for public use must be strictly
followed. Harbeck v. Toledo, 11 Ohio St. 219, 222, 223;
Grant v. Village of Hyde Park, 67 Ohio St. 166, 172, 173;
Farber v. Toledo, 104 Ohio St. 196, 200; Roosevelt Hotel
Building Company v. Cleveland, 25 Ohio App. 53, 63, 64.
The validity of the excess condemnation upon the ground
of non-compliance with the state law was challenged in the
bills of 'complaint in these suits. The respondents have
made the same contention here. The City has not met
it by referring us to any decision of the courts of Ohio
construing the statute involved or sustaining the excess
appropriation in the absence of a definition of purpose.
It is an established principle governing, the exercise of the
jurisdiction of this Court, that it will not decide im-

TODOK v. UNION STATE BANK.
Syllabus.

439

portant constitutional questions unnecessarily or hypothetically. Liverpool, New York & PhiladelphiaSteamship Company v. Commissioners of Emigration, 113 U. S.
33, 39; Siler v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company,
213 U. S.175, 191, 193; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Company, 213 U. S. 366, 407. The present cases call
for the application of this principle. Questions relating
to the constitutional validity of an excess condemnation
should not be determined uipon conjecture as to the contemplated purpose, the object of the excess appropriation
not being set forth as required by the local law.
We conclude that the proceedings for excess condemnation of the properties involved in these suits were not
taken in conformity with the applicable law of the State,
and in affirming the decrees below upon this ground we
refrain from expressing an opinion upon the other questions that have been argued.
Decrees affirmed.

TODOK ET AL. v. UNION STATE BANK OF HARVARD, NEBRASKA, ET. AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 412.

Argued April 22, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

Article 6 of the treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden and
Norway of Juiy 4, 1827, now. in force with Norway, provides that
"The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective States
may freely dispose of their goods and effects, either by testament,
donation or otherwise, in favor of such persons as they think

proper." Held:
(1) As the text of the original of this provision; found in the
Treaty of April 3, 1783, with Sweden, was in French only, the
French text is controlling in interpretation. P. 454.
(2) The phrase "goods and effects" ("fonds et biens ") includes
real estate. Id.
98234-30-29

