528

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

281 U. S.

contract liabilities expressly preserved by subdivision (b)
(2). The words of subdivision (b) (2), saving all existing remedies which "may be exercised and enforced in
like manner, subject to the provisions of subdivision (c),"
must be taken to preserve the old remedies and to give
the new one if the matter is one which the Board is
authorized to settle by (c).
Any other construction
would nullify the saving clause of (b) (2), for if the
"decision of the Board" as used in the proviso of (c)
embraces settlements of all matters arising out of contracts which, by paragraph (b) (1), it was directed to
carry out and in the event that its decision is not accepted,
the exclusive remedy is by suit against the United States,
then none of the remedies accruing under such contracts
and in terms saved by paragraph 2, were preserved.
Affirmed.
RICHBOURG MOTOR COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
DAVIES MOTORS, INCORPORATED, v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH AND NINTH CIRCUITS RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 452 and 569.

Argued April 25, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.

Where a person, discovered in the act of transporting liquor unlawfully, has been arrested and the transporting vehicle seized under
§ 26 of the National Prohibition Act, proceedings to forfeit the
vehicle must be taken under that section, which protects innocent
lienors, and will not lie under Rev. Stats. § 3450. P. 532.
34 F. (2d) 38 and 35 id. 928, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

280 U. S. 549, and post, p. 707, to review

judgments affirming forfeitures of automobiles under
Rev. Stats. § 3450. The present petitioners intervened

RICHBOURG MOTOR CO. v. U. S.
528

Opinion of the Court.

in the District Court to set up their interests in the vehicles as innocent lienors. Their claims were rejected by
the courts below as not permissible under the section
mentioned.
Mr. Joseph G. Myerson, with whom Messrs. Phillip W.
Haberman, Charles G. Lee, Jr., and R. R. Williams were
on the brief, for Richbourg Motor Company.
Mr. Duane R. Dills, with whom Messrs. William K.
Young and Berthold Muecke, Jr., were on the brief, for
Davies Motors, Inc.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Youngquist, Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, and Mahlon D. Kiefer, were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In these cases certiorari was granted, 280 U. S. 549, and
post, p. 707, respectively, to pass on the question, whether
proceedings for the forfeiture of a vehicle seized under
26 of the National Prohibition Act,' as one used for
Section 26, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, c. 85, 41
Stat. 30E, 315 (U. S. C., Title 27, Sec. 40):
"When the commissioner, his assistants, inspector., or any otlicer
of the law shall discover ony person in the act of transporting iin
violation of the law, intoxicating liquors in any wagon, bigcv. automobile, water or aircraft, or other vehicle, it shall he his duty Ill
seize any and all intoxicating liquors found therein being rsported
contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors Iransporied or p0sessed illegally shall be seized by an olticer lIe shall take posscssiii
of the vehicle and team or automobile, boat, air or walor craft (,
any other conveyauce, and, Aih:tll arrest aliv person iin ch:n c tierel.
Such officer ,hall at once proceed against beicpersoii
1'11hlr
the provisions of this title in any court h:vin coitnl),1 jui-di992 -

.

::0 -- :1

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

unlawful transportation of intoxicating liquor, but where

there has been no prosecution for that offense, must be
had under that section, or whether they may be prosecuted under the provisions of R. S. § 3450.' The latter
authorizes the forfeiture of vehicles used in the removal
or concealment of any commodity with intent to deprive
the United States of any tax upon it, which is made a
criminal offense. The section does not, as does § 26, protect the interests of innocent lienors. Goldsmith Grant
Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 505; cf. Van Oster v.
Kansas, 272 U. S. 465,
In each case the Court of Appeals answered the question by affirming a judgment of a district court, forfeiting, under § 3450, automobiles in which the petitioners,
tion; but the said vehicle or conveyance shall be returned to the
owner upon execution by him of a good and valid bond, with sufficient sureties, in a sum double the value of the property, which said
bond shall be approved by said officer and shall be conditioned to
return said property to the custody of said officer on the day of
trial to abide the judgment of the court. The court upon conviction
of the person so arrested shall order the liquor destroyed, and unless
good cause to the contrary is shown by the owner, shall order a sale
by public auction of the property seized, and the officer making the
sale, after deducting the expenses of keeping the property, the fee
for the seizure, and the cost of the sale, shall pay all liens, according
to their priorities, which are established, by intervention or otherwise
-at said hearing or in other proceeding brought for said purpose, as
being bona fide and as having been created without the lienor having
any notice that the carrying vehicle was being used or was to be
used for illegal transportation of liquor, and shall pay the balance
of the proceeds into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts. All liens against property sold under the provisions
of this section shall be transferred from the property to the proceeds
of the sale of the property. .. " '
2 Section 3450, Revised Statutes (U. S. C., Title 26, Sec. 1181):
"Whenever any goods or commodities for or in respect whereof
any tax is or shall be imposed, or any materials, utensils, or vessels
proper or intended to -be made use of for or in the making of such
goods or commodities are removed, or are deposited or concealed in

RICHBOURG MOTOR CO. v. U. S.
528

Opinion of the Court.

respectively, asserted an interest as innocent lienors.
Richbourg Motor Co. v. United States (4th Circuit), 34
F. (2d) 38; Davies MOtor Co. v. United States (9th Circuit), 35 F. (2d) 928. In each a person operating an.
automobile belonging to another was arrested and arraigned before a United States Commissioner on a charge
of illegal transportation of intoxicating liquor. The
liquor and the car used for its transportation were seized
by the officer making the arrest. The United States Attorney did not proceed with the prosecution of the charge,
but procured the indictment and conviction of the prisoners, under § 3450, for removing and concealing spirits
with intent to defraud the government of the tax.
The proceedings presently involved for the forfeiture of
the vehicles were also had under that section. In each
the respective petitioners intervened, setting up that
they were lienors under conditional contracts of sale, to
persons other than those arrested, and that petitioners
and the conditional vendees were innocent of any participation in the unlawful acts charged. In No. 452 the
court refused a request of petitioner to submit to the
jury the question whether the seized automobile was used
in the unlawful transportation of liquor and whether the
any place, with intent to defraud the United States of such tax, or
any part thereof, all such goods and commodities, and all such materials, utensils, and vessels, respectively, shall be forfeited; and in
every such case all the casks, vessels, cases, or other packages whatsoever, containing, or which shall have contained, such goods or commodities, respectively, and every vessel, boat, cart, carriage, or other
conveyance whatsoever, and all horses or other animals, and all
things used in the removal or for the deposit or concealment thereof,
respectively, shall be forfeited. And every person who removes,
deposits, or conceals, or is concerned in removing, depositing, or concealing any goods or commodities for or in respect whereof any tax
is or shall be imposed, with intent to defraud the United States of
such tax or any part thereof, shall be liable to a fine or penalty of not
more than five hundred dollars. ..

."

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

persons in the car were arrested at the time of its seizure,
and refused a motion to dismiss the libel on the ground
that by such arrest and seizure the government was
bound to proceed for the forfeiture of the vehicle under
§ 26, and barred from proceeding under § 3450. In No.
569 trial was by the court without a jury, which found
the facts as already stated, and decreed forfeiture of the
vehicle under § 3450.
By § 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act of November 23,
1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222, 223, all laws relating to the
manufacture, taxation and traffic in intoxicating liquors
and penalties for their violation, in force when the National Prohibition Act was adopted, were continued in
force except such provisions as are "directly in conflict
with any provision of the National Prohibition Act."
In United States v. One Ford Coupe, 272 U. S. 321, it
was held that there was no such direct conflict between
§ 26 and § 3450 as to preclude the forfeiture of the interest
of an inncxment lienor under the latter, where the intoxicating liquor was concealed in the seized vehicle with
intent to defraud the government of the tax, and where
it did not appear that there was transportation of the
liquor. In Port GardnerInvestment Co. v. United States,
272 U. S.564, and in Commercial Credit Co. v. United
States, 276 U. S. 226, it was held that prosecution and
conviction of the offender for the transportation of intoxicating liquor under the Prohibition Act, barred forfeiture of the seized vehicle under § 3450, since the disposition of the vehicle after the conviction, prescribed by
§ 26, is mandatory. These cases left undetermined the
question now presented, whether, under § 26, the mere
arrest of the person discovered in the act of transportation, and the seizure of the transporting vehicle, bar the
forfeiture under § 3450.
The language of § 26 is in form mandatory throughout.
It is made the "duty" of the officer discovering any per-

RICHBOURG MOTOR CO. v. U. S.
528

533

Opinion of the Court.

son in the act of transporting liquor to seize the liquor,
when "he shall take possession of the vehicle" and "shall
arrest any person in charge" of it. He "shall at once
proceed against the person arrested under the provisions
of this title." The vehicle " shall be returned to the
owner" upon his giving bond. "The court upon conviction of the person so arrested . . . shall order a sale
by public auction of the property seized" and the officer
making the sale "shall pay all liens which are established . . . as being bona fide and as having been created
without the lienor having any notice that the carrying
vehicle was being used or was to be used for illegal transportation of liquor. . . ." It is plain that, whenever the
vehicle seized by the arresting officers is discovered in use
in the prohibited transportation, literal compliance with
these requirements would compel the forfeiture under
§ 26, with the consequent protection of the interests of
innocent lienors. To that extent, § 26, if interpreted to
exact such compliance, is in direct conflict with the forfeiture provisions of § 3450 and supersedes them whenever any person within the provisions of § 26 is discovered "in the act of transporting . . . intoxicating liquors
in any . . . vehicle," which liquor is "removed ...
deposited or concealed . . . with intent to defraud the
United States" of the tax.
But the government contends that § .26 is not to be
read thus literally; that it was not intended by its mandatory phrases to do more than state generally the duty
resting on all law enforcement officers to enforce the law,
but which leaves them free, when the same act or transaction constitutes an offense under different statutes, to proceed under either one. It is argued that § 26 could not
have been intended to preclude district attorneys from
prosecuting violations of § 3450 merely because they involve transportation, and it can no less be taken to de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

prive them of their election to forfeit the offending vehicle
under either section.
Undoubtedly, "shall" is sometimes the equivalent of
"may'" when used in a statute prospectively affecting
government action. See Railroadv. Hecht, 95 U. S. 168;
West Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Foley, 94 U. S. 100, 103. The
usual provisions of criminal statutes that the offender
"shall" be punished as the statute prescribes is not necessarily to be taken, as against the government, to direct
prosecution under that rather than some other applicable
statute.
But the prescription in detail, by § 26, whenever transportation is involved, of successive steps to be taken
which, if followed, lead unavoidably to forfeiture under
that section and no other, with the important consequence
of protecting the interests of innocent third persons, suggests a definite purpose to make the protection effective
by bringing all forfeitures in such cases under its controlling provisions. If the purpose were the more general
one of imposing on government officers the general duty
to procure the forfeiture at their election, either under
§ 26 or any other applicable statute, most of the requirements of § 26 might have been omitted. The end sought
could have been attained more easily by the simple enactment, in the language of § 3450, that the offending vehicle
"shall be forfeited," saving the rights of innocent lienors
if the proceeding were had under § 26.
It is to be observed that § 26 neither prohibits transportation of intoxicating liquors nor prescribes the punishment of the offender. That is provided for in §§ 3 and
29, as amended by the Jones Ac.t (45 Stat. 1446). The
general duty of inv..tigating and reporting violations of
§ 3, as well as other sections of the National Prohibition
Act, to United States Attorneys, is imposed on all prohibition officers by §§ 2 and 29. That duty is mandatory.
Donnelley v. United States, 276 U. S. 505. The general

RICHBOURG MOTOR CO. v. U. S.
528

Opinion of the Court.

duty to prosecute all criminal offenses is imposed on district attorneys by R. S. § 777. The objective of § 26 is
not the prosecution of the offender, elsewhere provided
for, but the confiscation of the seized liquor and the forfeiture of vehicles used in its transportation, to the limited extent specified in the section. Every act which it
enjoins on public officials is directed to that end.
In providing for forfeitures under this section, Congress
was not unaware that the enactment of the National Prohibition Act would enormously increase seizures of vehicles, beyond those made under § 3450, and that their
forfeiture would place an incredsed and heavy burden on
many innocent persons, unless afforded some protection
by the new legislation. By § 26 it gave such protection
in all cases where the prosecution of the person guilty of
the transportation is had under the National Prohibition
Act. This would have been but an idle gesture and the
Congressional purpose would have been defeated if, in
practically every case where the transporting vehicle is
seized, the prosecuting officers could compel forfeiture
of the interests of innocent third persons under § 3450.
Yet, that is the effect of the construction of § 26 contended for by the government, since, with the enactment
of national prohibition, there can be few cases of illegal
transportation which do not involve the concealment of
non-tax-paid liquor. See One Ford Coupe v. United
States, supara, p. 326.
We think that Congress did not take the precaution to
enact the carefully chosen language of § 26 merely to impose general duties on prosecuting officers already placed
on them by other sections of the Act, but that its purpose
was to preclude the nullification of the protection which
§ 26 had extended to innocent third persons.
This Court has already held that the provision in § 26
that "The court, upon the conviction of the person so

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

arrested, shall . . . order a sale by public auction of the
property seized" is mandatory and requires the forfeiture
to proceed under that section. Port GardnerInvestment
Co. v. United States, supra; Commercial Credit Co. v.
United States, supra. No tenable ground of distinction is
suggested which would enable us to say, where forfeiture
is involved, that the preceding requirement of the section,
that the proceedings against the person arrested "shall
be under the provisions of this title," is any less so.
The conclusion we reach is not without support in the
legislative history of § 26. The clause protecting the interests of innocent lienors was added by amendment in
the House of Representatives to I. R. 6810, which became
the National Prohibition Act. The sponsor for the
amendment pointed out that the procedure prescribed by
the section as originally drawn protected the interests of
the innocent owner and stated that the amendment was
designed to save from forfeiture the interests of innocent
lienors and innocent owners alike. Congr-ssional Record, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 58, Pt. 3, p. 2902, .July 19,
1919.
Report No. 151 of th? Senate Judiciary Committee on
this bill, August 18, 1919, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., stated
that the " seizure of any vehicle in which liquor is being
transported in violation of law, together with liquor being
transported, is authorized, as well as the arrest of the
person engaged in such illegal transaction, the property
seized to be disposed of under the direction of the court,
as provided in § 26."
We are of opinion that under § 26 it is the duty of
prohibition officers .oarrest any person discovered in the
act of transportation and to seize the transporting vehicle;
that such arrest and seizure require the government to
proceed for forfeiture of the vehicle under § 26. It is
uimecessary to say whether, if for any reason the seizure

BROAD RIVER CO. v. SO. CAROLINA.
528

Syllabus.

cannot be made or the forfeiture proceeded with, prosecution for any offense committed must be had under the
National Prohibition Act rather than other statutory
provisions.
Reversed.
BROAD RIVER POWER COMPANY ET AL. V. SOUTH
CAROLINA EX REL. DANIEL, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 528. Argued May 2, 1930.--Decided May 19, 1930.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court denying the existence
under the local law of a right alleged to exist under that law and
for which protection was claimed under the Federal Constitution,
the province of this Court is to inquire whether the decision rests
upon a fair or substantial basis; and if there was no evasion of the
constitutional issue, and the non-federal ground has fair support,
this Court will not inquire whether the rule applied by the state
court is right or wrong, or substitute its own view of what should
be deemed the better rule for that of the state court. P. 540.
2. Two South Carolina corporations, one of them with a franchise
to establish and operate an electric street railway and power system
upon condition that the railway be in operation within five years,
and the other with a franchise to sell and distribute electricity for
light and power and for that purpose to erect poles and conductors,
were consolidated under a special act of the legislature, in a new
corporation, whose franchises and privileges were granted for its
corporate life, extending beyond the lives of the other companies.
Under the consolidation act the franchises of the old companies
were consolidated and became vested in the new one. The new
company established a street railway and an electric power and
lighting plant, using, so far as practicable, the same poles, wires
and rights of way for both systems, and for forty years operated
the properties as one business. In a suit brought by the State, the
South Carolina Supreme Court decided that, by virtue of the consolidation, the privilege of operating the street railway was in-

