WESTERN CARTRIDGE CO. v. EMMERSON.
505

511

Counsel for Parties.

and the contract will continue to bind petitioner during
the period intended by the parties unless earlier altered
by them or relaxed by state authority. Georgia Ry.'Co.
v. Decatur,262 U. S. 432, 438. The losses attributable to
the stretch of track in question and the five cent fare are
immaterial while the rate contract continues. Public
Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S. 352, 355. R. R. Commission v. Los Angeles R. Co., 280 U. S. 145, 152.
Decree affirmed.
WESTERN CARTRIDGE COMPANY v. EMMERSON,
SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 375. Argued April 21, 1930.

Decided May 19, 1930.

A state, franchise tax or license fee imposed on a manufacturing corporation at the rate pf five cents per hundred shares of that portion
of its issued capital stock which bore the same ratio to all, its issued
capital stock as the amount of its property and business within the
State bore to its total business and property, held not violative of
the commerce clause although much of the business included in the
computation as transacted in the State consisted of sales of goods
upon orders received from outside and adeepted by mail, the goods
being shipped by the corporation f. o. b. at its factories to the destinations designated by the purchasers. Air Way Corp. v. Day,
266 U. S. 71, distinguished.
335 Ill 150, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S.545, to review a judgment sustaining the dismissal of the bill in a suit to enjoin payment
to the Treasurer of Illinois of the amount of a tax collected
from the petitioner by the respondent Secretary of State.
Mr. Colin C. H. Fyffe for petitioner.
Mr. Bayard Lacey Catron, Asistantf. Attorney General
of Illinois, with whom Mr. Oscar R. Carlstrom, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTICE

BUTLER

281 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, a Delaware corporation licensed to do business in Illinois, brought this suit in the circuit court of
Sangamon county to enjoin payment to the state treasurer
of the amount of a license fee or franchise tax that respondent as secretary of state collected from petitioner
under § 105 of the general corporation act of that State.
The suit was based upon the claim that, as construed and
enforced by respondent, the section violates the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution. Art. I, § 8, cl. 3.
After hearing upon bill, answer and an agreed statement
of facts the court dismissed the bill. The state supreme
court (335 Ill. 150) affirmed the decree following our
decision in Hump HairpinCo. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290,
which affirmed 293 Ill. 387.
Section 105 provides: "Each corporation for profit,
. . . except insurance companies, . . . organized under
the laws of this state or admitted to do business in thig
state, . . . shall pay an annual license fee or franchise
tax ... of five cents on each one hundred dollars of the
proportion of its issued capital stock . . . represented
by business transacted and property located in this
state, .
Petitioner operates factories and has its principal office
in Illinois. It there receives, upon forms furnished by it,
orders for its products from persons in Illinois and elsewhere and by sending written acceptance consummates
contracts of sale. In accordance with the directions contained in the orders, petitioner delivers the goods at its
factories to common carriers for transportation to purchasers at various destinations in Illinois, other States and
foreign countries.
Petitioner had issued capital stock of the par value of
$5,701,800; it had property valued at $6,924,804.92 of

WESTERN CARTRIDGE CO. v. EMMERSON. 513
511

Opinion of the Court.

which $6,894,903.27 was situated in Illinois; its business
for the year in question amounted to $11,670,925.51 of
wh ich $1,919,822.73 represented products shipped to purchasers in Illinois and $9,751,042.78, reported as interstate
commerce, was made up of shipments to customers outside the State.
Respondent treated all of petitioner's business as having been transacted in Illinois and based the tax on such
proportion of its outstanding capital stock as its business
plus its Illinois property was of such business and all its
property. The tax so calculated amounted to $2,808.03,
a substantial part of which resulted from the inclusion
of the transactions reported by petitioner as interstate
commerce.
All of the goods sold were manufactured by the petitioner in Illinois and the manufacturing was business carried on in that State. The receipt and acceptance of
orders, the packing, giving shipping directions and delivery to common carriers also constituted business in
that State; these things were common to all sales whether
the goods sold were sent to destinations within or without
the State, but as to products shipped to other States or
foreign countries the acceptance of orders and what was
subsequently done by petitioner became component parts
of interstate or foreign commerce. Dahnke-Walker Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 290. Lemke v. Farmers
Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, 54. Flanaganv. Federal Coal Co.,
267 U. S. 222, 225. Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific
PaperAssn., 273 U. S. 52, 63-64.
Unquestionably Illinois has power to tax all petitioner's
property therein without regard to its use in connection
with interstate transactions and to impose a license fee
or excise upon petitioner's local business. International
PaperCo. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 141. The tax
in question was not laid directly upon interstate commerce or any of its elements. For the determination of
98234°-30- -33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

the amount the taxpayer's business and property located
in Illinois is divided by the total of all its business and
property and that percentage is applied to the issued
shares and the resulting number taken for taxation at the
rate of'five cents per $100. As the amount depends on
the relation each to the others of the various elements
employed. in the calculation, the fee or tax does not directly depend upon the amount of the taxpayer's interstate transactions. The exaction may rise while the sales
to customers outside Illinois decline and may fall while
such sales increase.
The amount imposed upon petitioner did not even indirectly burden the interstate transportation resulting
from the shipping directions given by petitioner in fulfillment of its contracts of sale. There is nothing to indicate that by the enactment in question the State intended
to regulate or burden such commerce or to discriminate
as between sales to Illinois customers and those made to
buyers in other States and countries. The tax cannot be
said directly or by necessary operation to affect any of the
things done by petitioner which, by reason of transportation of goods to places outside Illinois in accordance with
the directions of the purchasers, became elements or component parts of interstate or foreign commerce. Petitioner's sales prices are based on deliveries to common
carriers at its factories. The expense of transportation
is not involved in the calculation. And it is plain that,
if the fee or tax in question affected petitioner's interstate
or foreign commerce at all, the burden was indirect and
remote and not a violation of the commerce clause.
The petitioner relies on Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266
U. S. 71. But, as shown by the opinion, the tax considered in that case was based on the authorized capital stock
and the rate was applied to a number of shares greatly in
excess of the total of all that had been issued. The com-

CHARTER SHIPPING CO. v. BOWRING, &c.
511

515

Syllabus.

pany was authorized to issue 400,000 shares; it had issued
only 50,485 and these represented all its property and
business. The tax at the rate of five cents each on
298,520 shares was held directly to burden the company's
interstate commerce. Cf. Cudahy Co. v. Hinkle, 278
U. S. 460. The case now under consideration cannot be
distinguished from Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson,
supra. And see International Shoe Co. v. Shartel, 279
U. S. 429, AQ9
Decree affirmed.
CHARTER SHIPPING COMPANY, LIMITED, v.'
BOWRING, JONES & TIDY, LIMITED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 397. Argued April 22, 1930.-Decided May 19, 1930.
1. The retention of jurisdiction of a suit in admiralty between foreigners is within the discretion of the District Court, and the exercise of that discretion may not be disturbed unless abused. P. 517.
2. Liability in general average arises not from contract but from participation in the common venture, and its extent in the absence of
limiting clauses in the bill of lading is, under the admiralty rule,
fixed by the law of the port of destination. Id.
3. In a suit in admiralty between British corporations for the recovery of a general average deposit made in London to release cargo
shipped from ports in the United States, the litigation apparently
involving the application of the law of England to a fund there
located, but it being claimed that limiting clauses in tie bills of
lading modified the liability in general average so as to put in issue
the seaworthiness of the vessel at the beginning of the voyage, on
which question there were American witnesses, held:
•(1) It was for the District Court, upon consideration of all the
circumstances, to say whether it should decline jurisdiction. P. 518.
(2) In declining jurisdiction, the District Court can not be said
to have improvidently exercised its discretion. Id,

