OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllablis.

281 U. S.

most needed the power to charge the reserve. The language of the circular pointed to the depositor's interestfor the cash letter that was to be charged was merely
another name for the checks that the letter contained.
The existence of the power must be assumed to have been
one of the considerations inducing the owner of the check
to give the Richmond Bank authority to send it directly
to the drawee. All parties must be taken to have understood that in the event that happened it was the duty of
the Richmond Bank when it knew the facts to charge the
reserve account of the South Carolina Bank, and if so the
account should be charged. There was no overt act necessary in addition to what the parties had agreed upon.
The case of Equitable Trust Co. v. First National Bavk
of Trinidad,275 U. S. 359, cited by the petitioner, has no
application because there in the opinion of the Court
there was no attempt to create a lien upon an identified
fund, whereas here the reserve was identified. The fact
that the fund might be diminished by drafts of the South
Carolina Bank does not invalidate the lien, any more than
the right of a depositor to draw against his account invalidates a banker's lien, not to speak of the paramount
power of the Richmond Bank mentioned above.
Judgment affirmed.
GUNNING v. COOLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 31.

Argued November 26, 1929.-Decided March 12, 1930.

1. A mere scintilla of evidence is not enough to require the submission
of an issue to the jury in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. P. 94.
2. Upon a motion for a peremptory instruction the question is not
whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any

GUNNING v. COOLEY.
90

Opinion of the Court.

upon which a jury can properly find a verdict for the party producing it, upon whom the onus of proof is imposed. P. 94.
3. In determining a motion by . the defendant for a peremptory
instruction, the court assumes that the evidence for the plaintiff
proves all that it reasonably may be found sufficient to establish
and that from such facts there should. be drawn in favor of -the
plaintiff all the inferences, that fairly are deducible from them.
P. 94.
4. Where uncertainty as to the existence of negligence arises from
a conflict in the testimony or because, the facts being undisputed,
fair-minded men will honestly draw different conclusions from them,
the question is not one of law but of fact to be settled by the
jury. P. 94.
5. In an action for personal injuries due to negligence, the burden is
on the plaintiff to establish the negligencaand the injury alleged;
and, if the evidence fails adequately to support either element, the
defendant's motion for a peremptory instruction should be granted.
P. 95.
6. Plaintiff's evidence examined and found sufficient to justify a finding by the jury that the defendant, while treating her as her
physician, negligently put some harmful fluid into her ears, causing
her pain and injury. P. 95.
7. Upon a review by certiorari, this Court is not called on to consider
any question not raised by the petition for the writ. P. 98.
30 F. (2d) 467, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 828, to a judgment of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia affirming a judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District for the plaintiff in
an action for personal injuries.

Mr. H. Prescott Gatley, with whom Messrs. Benjamin
S. Minor and Arthur P. Drury were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Alvin L. Newmyer, with whom Mr. Ralph A. Cusick
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent brought this action in the supreme court
of the District of Columbia to recover damages from peti-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

tioner, a practicing physician, for injuries claimed to have
been caused by his negligence while treating her. Her
complaint is that he put into her eacs some tissue-destroying liquid, 'which for brevity we shall refer to as acid, and
thereby injured the drums and other parts of her ears.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff and the judgment thereon was affirmed in the Court of Appeals. 30
F. (2d) 467.
At the close of all the evidence defendant moved the
court to direct the jury to return a verdict in his favor.
He maintained that the evidence failed to show that plaintiff was injured by the negligence alleged and that it left
the cause of her injury in the realm of conjecture. The
motion was denied. Defendant sought reversal on that
ground. And that is the only ruling of which complaint
was made in the petition for this writ.
An opinion written by the Chief Justice of the Court of
Appeals held that the motion accepted as true plaintiff's
evidence together with all inferences reasonably deducible
from it, and that the motion could be granted only when
all reasonable men could "draw but one conclusion from
it, and that conclusion utterly opposed to plaintiff's right
to recover." He cited Railroad Co. v. Carrington,3 App.
D. C. 101, 108; Warthen v. Hammond, 5 App: D. C. 167,
173; Adams v. Railroad Co., 9 App. D. C. 26, 30; Glariav.
Washington Southern R. Co., 30 App. D. C. 559, 563;
Catholic University v. Waggaman, 32 App. D. C. 307, 320,
and Chesapeake Beach R. Co. v. Brez, 39 App. D. C. 58, 69.
There was a concurring opinion by one of the associate
justices and dissent by the other. The concurring justice
held that under the strict rule adopted in that court there
was sufficient evidence to carry the case to the jury. He
said (p. 470): "It is a mere travesty to say that the court
is bound to send the case to the jury, if there is any evidence tending to support the contention of the plaintiff,
and shut its eyes to the justice or injustice of a verdict resting upon such a flimsy basis. It is my fixed opinion, as

GUNNING v. COOLEY.
90

Opinion of the Court.

expressed on many occasions, that the rule established in
t~i decisions referred to, and in many other decisions of
this court, is too strict, and should be modified to the
extent of confiding in the court the power to determine
whether or not the evidence is sufficient to raise a reasonable issue of fact, capable of supporting a verdict that will
meet the substantial ends of justice. I trust that such a
rule of procedure may yet be adopted by the unanimous
concurrence of the justicei of this court, as will lift the
trial justice in this District from a mere automaton to the
exercise of his lawful and proper judicial function of see-.
ing that cases are submitted to juries in accordance with
such lawful rules of procedure as will elicit verdicts based
upon substantial issues of fact rather than mere caprice
and sympathy." The dissenting justice found in the evidence " no basis whatever for the verdict and judgment."
"When, on the trial of the issues of fact in an action
at law before a Federal court and a jury, the evidence,
with all the inferences that justifiably could be drawn
from it, does not constitute a sufficient basis for a verdict
for the plaintiff or thq defendant, as the case may be, so
that such a vdrdict, if returned, would have to be set aside,
the court may and should direct a verdict for the other
party." Slocum'v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228
U. S. 364, 369.*
*And see Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32.

Montclairv.

Dana, 107 U: S. 162-163. People's Savings Bank v. Bates, 120 U. S.
556, 561-562. North Penn, Railroad v. Commercial Bank, 123 U. S.
727, 733. Kane v. Northern Central Railway, 128 U. S. 91, 94.
Delaware, &c. Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469, 472. Elliott v.
Chicago, Milwaukee, &c. Railway, 150 U. S. 245. Union'Pacific Ry.
Co. v. McDonald, 152 U. S. -262, 283. McGuire v. Blount, 199 U. S.
142, 148. Empire State Cattle Co. v. Atchison Ry. Co., 210 U. S. 1,
10. Delk v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R.) 220 U. S. 580, 587.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S.521, 524. Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 478. St. Louis-San
Francisco Ry. v. Mills, 271 U. S. 344, 347-348. New York Central
R. R. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U.S.

A mere scintilla of evidence is not enough to require the
submission of an issue to the jury. The decisions establish a more reasonable rule "that in every case, before the
evidence is left to the jury, there is a preliminary question for the judge, not whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any upon which a jury can
properly proceed to find a verdict for the party producing
it, upon whom the onus of proof is imposed." Improvement Company v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 448. Pleasants
v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 122.
Issues that depend on the credibility of witnesses, and
the effect or weight of evidence are to be deciJed by the
jury. And in determining a motion of either party for
a peremptory instruction, the court assumes that the evidence for the opposing party proves all that it reasonably
may be found sufficient to establish and that from such
facts there should be drawn in favor of the latter all the
inferences that fairly are deducible from them. Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 606. Gardner v
Michigan qentral Railroad,150 U. S. 349, 360. Baltimore
& Ohio R. R Co. v. Groeger,266 U. S. 521,524,527. Where
uncertainty as to the existence of negligence arises from
a conflict in the testimony or because, the facts being undisputed, fair-minded men will honestly draw different
conclusions from them, the question is not one of law but
of fact to be settled by the jury. Richmond & Danville
Railroad v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43, 45.
Where the- evidence upon any issue is all on one side or
so overwhelmingly on one side as to leave no room to
doubt what the fact is, the court should give a peremptory
.instruction to the. jury. People's Savings Bank v. Bates,
120 U. S. 556, 562. Southern Pacific Company v. Pool,
160 U. S. 438, 440. "When a plaintiff produces evidence
that is consistent with an hypothesis that the defendant
is not negligent, and also with Qne that he is, his proof
tends to establish neither." Ewing v. Goode (by Taft,

GUNNING v. COOLEY.
90

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Judge), 78 Fed. 442, 444. See Patton v. Texas &
Pacific Railway Co., 179 U. S. 658, 663. New York Central R. R. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486.
The burden was on plaintiff to establish the negligence
and injury alleged; and, if the.evidence failed adequately
to support either element, defendant's motion should have
been granted. We need not consider whether the opinion
written by the Chief Justice could be sustained if it stood
alone. The concurrence vas essential to the judgment.
The concurring opinion rests upon the conception that
the rule stated by the Chief Justice required denial of
defendant's motion if plaintiff's claims were supported by
any evidence, however slight. That is not the rule applied in federal courts. But it does not follow that a verdict should have been directed for the defendant. It remains to be considered whether, having regard to the applicable rules established by the decisions of this court,
the evidence was sufficient to warrant a finding by the
jury that defendant was negligent as charged and thereby
injured plaintiff.
It is not claimed by plaintiff that defendant knowingly
put acid in her ears, but that he negligently did so while
intending to apply oil. She gave testimony that tends
to show the following facts. Prior to defendant's treatment her hearing was good and she never had any disease
or injury in or about either ear. She first consulted de,
fendant on Saturday, October 21, 1922. He treated her
throat. On the following Monday defendant told her
that there was something wrong with her nose and that
mouth breathing had made her throat sore. He treated
her nose. On Wednesday she told defendant she had
some cold and felt wax or something in her right ear.
He examined it and said there was nothing wrong. She
repeated that she felt wax in it. He then said that he
would put some Inineral oil in her ears. There were several small white bottles and a dropper on a cabinet in his

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

office. He took the dropper from one of the bottles and
put some liquid in her right ear. She immediately suffered much pain, became dizzy and heard great noises
in that ear. He then put some of the liquid in her left
ear. She experienced the same sensations, became very
ill and lost control of her body. Other evidence shows
that she went or was taken to a bed in defendant's house
and there remained for some hours and until a friend came
and took her to her mother's home.
There was testimony given by plaintiff's mother and
sister that, up to the time defendant treated her ears,
plaintiff's hearing was good; that she never had any disease or injury of the ears; that, when she was brought
from defendant's office, she was very ill, apparently suffered much pain, remained in bed for about two days and
was deaf. On the Friday following defendant's last treatment she was taken to Doctor Patten, a specialist. He
treated her daily for some months and two or three times
a week until October, 1926. Then Doctor Morgan treated
her twice a week until the time of the trial. Neither Doctor Patten nor Doctor Morgan testified at the trial. The
record shows that the former could not be called, but it is
silent as to the latter.
In 1923 Doctor Crisp, treating her for something else,
casually examined her ears. He found the drum of the
right ear broken and that of the left ear inflamed. In
1925, after the commencement of this action,, at the request of the defendant, Doctor Allen was permitted to
examine the plaintiff. He found both eardrums retracted
and a perforation in the right but none in the left. Early
in 1927, in preparation for the trial, plaintiff had Doctor
Gill examine her ears. He found practically all of the
right and about half of the left drum gone and that she
had one-third hearing in the right and two-fifths in the
left ear. He gave testimony to the effect that, if applied

GUNNING v. COOLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

90

to them, acid would injure or destroy eardrums and would
cause pain and possibly other sensations like those which
plaintiff testified she suffered at the time of the treatment.
Defendant testified plaintiff told him her hearing had
become impaired and that her ears had been treated. He
found both eardrums perforated. On her last visit she
was nauseated and complained of dizziness and roaring
in her head. He dropped mineral oil into her ears with a
dropper to close up the eieternal ears in order to prevent
noise from penetrating into the middle ears. The noise
subsided, she became composed, went to a bed in his house
and remained until taken home by a friend. He denied
that he put acid in her ears and testified that he never had
any in his office.
The evidence shows that, while difficult to do, it would
be possible by means of a dropper to apply acid to eardrums without allowing it to come into contact with
other tissues. There was no scar or anything to indicate
that acid hadtouched any part of the canal leading to
either eardrum. Plainly it would have been impossible
for defendant to have closed the external ears without
allowing the liquid used for that purpose to touch the
canal tissue. 'But plaintiff was not required specifically
to show What defendant did put in her ear or that the
treatment destroyed either of her eardrums or made her
deaf. If the evidence was sufficient to justify a finding
that defendant negligently put a harmful fluid in her ears
causing her pain and injury, th6 motion was properly
denied.
As the credibility of witnesses and the weight to be
given to their testimony are for the jury, plaintiff's testimony as to the treatment and immediate effect upon her
and the testimony of others as to her condition shortly
afterwards constituted sufficient evidence to warrant a finding that instead of oil defendant negligently put some
98234*-0----7

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

harmful liquid into her ears thereby causing her pain, suffering and some injury in and about her ears. It was not
necessary for the trial court in passing upon the motion
to determine, and we need not consider, whether under
the rules laid down in the decisions of this court the evidence was sufficient to warrant a finding that the perforation of either eardrum or permanent deafness resulted
from defendant's treatment.
Defendant seeks reversal on a number of grounds that
were not mentioned in his petition for the writ. But this
court is not called on to consider any question not raised
by the petition. Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. 'S.
463, 464.
Judgment affirmed.
STATEN ISLAND RAPID TRANSIT RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PHOENIX INDEMNITY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 307.

Argued March 7, 1930.-Decided March 17, 1930.

Under the Workmen's Compensation Law of New York, ยง 15, subdivisions 8 and 9, when an employee, in the course of his employment,
suffers an injury causing death, and there are no persons entitled
to compensation from the employer, the employer or his insurer
shall be required by award to make payments of $500 each to the
state treasurer for two special funds, which are used in furnishing
additional compensation and vocational training to certain classes
of disabled employees (see Sheehan Co. v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 371).
These provisions are applicable where the death was due to the act
of a stranger to the employment and the right of the employee's
dependent to compensation under the Compensation Law was
waived by collection oi an equal or greater sum through settlement
)f an action for negligence in causing the death, brought by the
decedent's personal representative, on behalf of the dependent,
under ยง 130 of the Decedent's Estate Law. In such case, by ยง 29
of the Compensation Law, as amended, an insurer who has paid the

