CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1929

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.

GUARDIAN TRUST COMPANY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 22.. Argued January 15, 16, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. When used without qualification in a decree of a federal court,
the word "costs" means the amounts taxable as such under Acts
of Congress, rules promulgated by its authority and practice established consistently with governing enactments. P. 9.
2. In equity costs not otherwise governed by statute are given or
withheld in the sound discretion of the court according to the facts
and circumstances of the case. Id.
3. A decree merely allowing costs to be taxed does not mean that
anything is to be included on account of counsel fees in addition
to the nominal amounts specified in the statute (U. S. C., Title
28, §§ 571, 572) as attorney's fees. Id.
4. Even if it be assumed that federal equity courts have jurisdiction
to allow costs as between solicitor and client and to include therein
attorney's fees in excess of the amount prescribed by statute, the
purpose to authorize such costs and to make such allowance should
be clearly expressed in the decree. Id.
5. Where a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the
District Court with directions to enter a specific decree with costs,
to be taxed under the principles, rules and practice in equity, was
entered after a rehearing at which, for the first time, it was sug98284-30-1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondent.

281 U. S.

gested that the defeated party should be found guilty of bad faith
in instigating and prosecuting the litigation, and, on that ground,
should be taxed with solicitor's fees and other expenses incurred by
the prevailing party, as part of its costs, held, construing the decree
in connection with the opinion of the court and with regard to
the isques before it on appeal, that the decree did not authorize or
permit the taxation of costs as between solicitor and client. P. 10.
6. The District Court can not vary a mandate of this Court requiring
the execution of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, or give
any further relief. P. 11.
28 F. (2d) 233, reversed; District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 827, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the
District Court refusing to tax counsel fees and other expenses as costs in favor of the Trust Company as part
of a decree entered under an earlier ruling of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. See also 210 Fed. 696; 240 U. S. 166;
146 Fed. 337; 171 id. 43.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
Moore, Cyrus Crane and A. F. Smith were on the brief;
for petitioner.
Mr. Justin D. Bowersock, with whom Messrs. Robert
B. Fizzell and John F. Rhodes were on the brief, for respondent.
The District Court had power to effect reimbursement
of the Trust Company without regard to any other principle justifying the imposition of solicitor and client costs,
for the reason that it was defending thq Belt collateral
against the attack of the Southern Company upon the
title of its pledgor.
The mandate of this court on the former appeal dealt
only with party and party costs, and not with solicitor and
client costs, and has no bearing upon the issues herein.
The Act of February 26, 1853, regulates party and party
costs only.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. TRUST CO.
1 Argument for Respondent.

The federal courts are, by the Constitution, vested with
the equity powers possessed by the High Court of Chancery in England at the time the Constitution was adopted.
The English authorities allow solicitor and client costs
even in the absence of a fiduciary relationship, where
charges of gross fraud and misconduct have been made and
not sustained. Ex parte Simpson, 15 Ves. Jr. 476 (1809);
Passinghamv. Sherborn, 9 Beavan 424 (1839) ; Ibberson v.
Worth, 1 Jur. (N. S.) 440 (1855); D'Oechsner v. Scott, 24
Beavan 239 (1857); Forester v. Read, L. R. 6 Ch. App.
40 (1870); Kevan v. Crawford,L. R. 6 Ch. D. 29 (1877);
Fane v. Fane, L. R. 13 Ch. D. 228 (1878); Bruty v. Edmundson, L. R. (1917) 2 Ch. 285; cf. Mayhew v. Phoenix
Insurance Co., 23 Mich. 105.
Many authorities allow solicitor and client costs, even
in the absence of a fiduciary relationship, where the litigation is so baseless and unwarranted as to justify an
implication of bad faith. The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362;
Pattersonv. Ball, 18 Fed. Cas. No. 10,823; The Elizabeth
Frith, 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4361; In re Wright, 16 Fed. 482;
Gulf & S. I. R. Co. v. Walker, 104 Miss. 363; Joslyn v.
Parlin, 54 Vt. 670; Spring Garden Insurance Co. v.
Amusement Syndicate Co., 178 Fed. 519; J. E. North
Lumber Co. v. Gary, 83 Miss. 640; Bank of Philadelphia
v. Posey, 130 Miss. 530; O'Neal v. Spivey, 145 S. E. 71;
North Missouri R. Co. v. Lackland, 25 Mo. 515; Beach v.
Macon Grocery Co., 125 Fed. 513; In re Lacov, 142 Fed.
960; In re Wentworth Lunch Co., 191 Fed. 821; Myers v.
Frankenthal,55 Ill. App. 390; St. Louis v. St. Louis Gas
Light Co., 11. Mo. App. 237; Weston v. Watts, 45 Hun.
219; Hernandez v. Brookdale Mills, 232 N. Y. 552; Anderson v. MariettaNational Bank, 93 Okla. 241; Delcambre
v. Murphy, 5 S. W. (2d) 789; Atlantic Trust Co. v.
Chapman, 208 U. S. 360; Buell v. Kanawha Lumber
Corp., 201 Fed. 762; Ephriam v. Pacific Bank, 129 Cal.
589; In re Shockett, 177 Fed. 583.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

A public policy in favor of the imposition of solicitor
and client costs against one who instigates an unwarranted
and baseless suit, is evidenced by various statutes and
rules of court imposing costs and attorneys' fees in certain cases where unreasonable or unwarranted claims or
defenses are insisted upon.
Where a fiduciary relation exists between the parties,
expenses occasioned by baseless and unwarranted litigation are taxable as solicitor and client costs against the
offending party.
Various fiduciary relationships were involved, and the
Southern Company itself was trustee for the Trust Company. There was a fund in court.
MR. JUSTICE BuTLER delivered the opinion bf the Court.
The question is whether the Guardian Trust Company,
in addition to amounts taxable as costs between party
and party, is entitled to recover anything on account of
counsel fees or other expenses as costs between solicitoi
and client.
In a judgment creditor's suit brought in the United
States Circuit Court for the Western District of Missouri
by the Cambria Steel Company. against the Kansas City
Suburban Belt -Railroad Company, receivers were appointed for the latter. It had given its notes for large
amounts to the Trust Company and pledged stocks and
bonds as collateral security. The Kansas City Southern
Railway Company had acquired on mortgage foreclosures
the properties of the Belt Company, and of the Kansas
City, Pittsburg & Gulf Railroad Company.
The Trust Company claimed that the Southern Company, having succeeded to the properties of the Belt
Company and of the Gulf Company on terms that preferred shareholders to creditors, became liable'for their

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. TRUST CO.
I

Opinion of the Court.

debts.* It brought three suits in a Missouri court to
compel the Southern Company to pay the debts owing
to it by them. Thereupon the Southern Company
brought two suits against the Trust Company in the
United States court to enjoin prosecution of the state
court cases. One related to the actions on the debts of
the Belt Company (146 Fed. 337) and the other to all the
actions. 171 Fed. 43. Injunctions granted by the lower
court were dissolved by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In the creditor's suit, the Belt Company and its receivers filed an ancillary bill against the Trust Company
to have the claims of the latter against the former declared invalid, to recover the collateral security, and to
have an accounting. The Southern Company intervened,
claiming under the foreclosure, and sought to recover the
collateral security and other property from the Trust
Company. The decree of the Circuit Court, except as to
matters not important here, denied relief against the
Trust Company, established its claims against the Belt
Company and, notwithstanding the Trust Company's contention that the issue was not before the court, adjudged
that the Southern Company was not liable therefor, and
ordered that one-third of the costs be borne by the Trust
Company and two-thirds by the Southern and Belt
Companies.
The matters adjudged in favor of the Trust Company
were not taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for review.
The Trust Company appealed. It insisted that the lower
court erred in holding that the Southern Company was
not indebted to it. Preferring to pursue that company
in the actions pending in the state court, it had not prayed
judgment in this suit against the Southern Company. It
*

Northern Pacific Ry. v. Boyd, 22S U. S. 4S2, decided while this

case was pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals on the first appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

also maintained that the lower court erred in holding it
liable for any part of the costs.
After the case had been argued and submitted but before opinion was announced, owners of a small minority
of the shares of the Trust Company were permitted to
file a suggestion that the Trust Company should have
judgment against the Southern Company for the debt of
the Belt Company. The court reversed the decree below,
decided the Southern Company became liable for that
debt, postponed for further argument the question
whether under the pleadings the Trust Company might
have judgment therefor, and held it was entitled to recover its entire costs. 201 Fed. 811, 829.
Later the same stockholders by leave of the Circuit
Court of Appeals filed, and at the final submission of the
case were heard in support of, the following suggestions:
That the court embody in its order for reversal a special
finding that the creditor's bill, ancillary bill and intervening petition were instigated and prosecuted by and for
the Southern Company without good faith, and that the
entire litigation was trivial, wanton and oppressive. That
it direct the lower court to reserve jurisdiction to ascertain the amount of solicitors' fees and other expenses
necessarily incurred by the Trust Company in making its
defenses, to find the amount of such expenses, tax them
as costs in the case and enter a further decree against the
Southern Company therefor. Or in the alternative that
the final decree below be without prejudice to the right
of the Trust, Company to sue the Southern Company for
such expenses. That such additional decree also include
the expenses and damages incurred by and resulting to
-the Trust Company from the second injunction suit (171
Fed. 43) and that it be without prejudice to the rights of
the Trust Company to move for such damages and expenses in the first injunction suit. 146 Fed. 337.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

* In its second opinion the Circuit Court of Appeals dealt
with these suggestions. 210 Fed. 696. It said (p. 723):
"A deliberate consideration of this petition and of the
exhaustive arguments of counsel have, however, persuaded
that inasmuch as the questions suggested came for the
first time into this suit at the rehearing in this court, as
no evidence has been taken relative to them and as the
evidence upon the issues tried in this case was not brought
to this court, it would be unwise and might be unjust to
adjudicate the questions presented by the petition of these
stockholders. Moreover, as this court cannot rightly determine the questions relating to the costs to be taxed
at this time, as there are established rules of practice concerning them and as directions to the court below to open
and try new issues might, and probably would, prolong
this litigation through several years more, our conclusion
is that our just course is to leave the taxation'of costs to
the court below under the principles, rules, and practice
in equity." And, " as a conclusion of the whole matter,"
it gave directions for the entry of a specific decree with
"costs."

And the court adjudged that the decree of the lower
court be reversed and remanded the case "with directions
to render a decree for the Trust Company in accordance
with the views expressed in the opinion of this Court."
The Southern Company appealed but did not raise any
question concerning costs. And there was no cross-appeal.
February 21, 1916, this court affirmed the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 240 U. S. 166. The mandate
set out the. decree below, ordered that it be affirmed and
remanded the case to the District Court.
April 15, 1916, pending, exact determination of the
amount conceded to be payable under the decree, the
Southern Company paid $821,623.28 to the Trust Company. Later the payment being found in excess of the

gOCTOBER

TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

amount required, the difference was adjusted. April 18,
1916, the mandate was filed in the District Court. October 4, 1922, the Trust Company applied to have final
decree entered, and claimed not only such costs as are
taxable as between party and party but also counsel fees
and other expenses as costs between solicitor and client.
The court construed the opinion of the .Circuit Court of
Appeals to find that in carrying on this litigation there
was lack of good faith and a purpose on the part of the
Southern Company to despoil the Trust Company, held
itself bound by such findings, and interpreted the decree
to require it to ascertain and tax against the Southern
Company counsel fees and other expenses incurred by the
Trust Company in making its defenses.
A special master was appointed to ascertain and report
the amount of such expenses. -The Trust Company presented items of its demand in\two groups. The first
included those claimed to be taxable as between party and
party; the second included other expenses amounting to
$319,829.97 of which $299,137.30 was attorneys' fees, the
balance being to cover printing briefs, services of experts,
miscellaneous and incidental disbursements. The master
found the costs taxable as between party and party and
as to that there is no controversy here. He also found
the Trust Company entitled to counsel fees and other
expenses amounting to $296,520.37 to be taxed as costs
between solicitor and client. After hearing upon exceptions the court, contrary to its earlier decision, held that
the proper construction of the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals limited recovery of costs to those taxable between party and party, and entered decree accordingly.
The Trust Company again appealed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, apparently assuming that its decree
and the mandate of this court authorized the District
Court to allow the Trust Company costs as between solicitor and client, reversed the decree. 28 F. (2d) 233. It

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. TRUST CO.

9

Opinion of the Court.

referred to the character of the litigation, held that federal
courts of equity have jurisdiction to allow such costs, citing the practice in the High Court of Chancery in England
as applicable here, concluded that the Trust Company
is entitled to such an allowance and remanded the case
with directions to the lower-court to make proper allowances for costs as between solicitor and client.
Did the mandate of this court authorize the'District
Court to make any allowance in favor of the Trust Company on account of attorneys' fees and other 'expenses to
be taxed as costs between solicitor and client?
The decree here affirmed required the "taxation of
costs . . . under the principles, rules and practice in
equity."
It undoubtedly covered ascertainment of
amounts taxable between party and party. There was
no specific reference to any additional allowance. The
language used disclosed no intention to require more than
the usual taxation. When used in a judgment or decree
without qualification, the word "costs" means the
amounts taxable as such under Acts of Congress, rules
promulgated by its authority and practice established consistently with governing enactments. Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 265 U. S. 78, 83. Ex parte Peterson, 253
U. S. 300, 316. In actions at law costs follow the result as
of course, but in equity costs not otherwise governed by
statute are given or withheld in the sound discretion of
the court according to the facts and circumstances of the
case. The nominal amounts fixed by statute (28 U. S.
C., §§ 571, 572) and taxable as attorneys' fees are not
meant to cover the compensation to which lawyers in
charge of the litigation are reasonably entitled. A decree
merely allowing costs to be taxed does not mean that anything is to be included on account of counsel fees in addition to the amount specified in the statute. Even if it be
assumed that federal equity courts have jurisdiction to
allow costs as between solicitor and client and to include

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

therein attorneys' fees in excess of the amount prescribed
by statute-and as to that we express no opinion-the
purpose to authorize such costs and to make such allowance should be clearly expressed in the decree. 2 Daniell's
Chancery Pleading and Practice, 6th Ed., p. 1410.
For the proper construction of the decree under consideration, regard is to be had to the issues before the court
on appeal, the findings applied for and the directions
given. The proposed findings and additional recovery
extended to matters not before the court. The costs taxable as between party and party were involved on the appeal and the court reversed the decree of the lower court
which charged one-third against the Trust Company. No
question of costs as between solicitor and client had been
raised below. No issue of bad faith had been framed, and
no such charge was suggested until after the filing of the
first opinion. The stockholders' second applicat'on, made
pending rehearing, contained the first request for a finding
of fact on which to base a decree for allowance of attorneys' fees and other expenses to the Trust Compaiy. As
there was no appeal by the Belt Company or the Southern
Company, the merits of the claims on which they sought
recovery against the Trust Company were not before the
court.
The lateness of the application, the lack of evidence
and danger of injustice mentioned in the opinion were
good reasons why the court should deny the application.
The suggested danger of prolonging the litigation by trial
of new issues was a reason for refusing to direct the lower
court to open the case and to make the requested determinations. The failure of the court to make the requested
special finding, to adopt the alternative suggestion or to
take any action in reference to the parts of the application relating to the Trust Company's damages and expenses. in the injunction suits goes to show a purpose to
deny any recovery of expenses in addition to the costs

LUCAS v. NORTH TEXAS CO.
Syllabus.

which under established practice are taxable as between
party and party. And the opinion makes it clear that
the decree directed to be entered below was intended to
be an end of the whole matter. It is plain that the stockholders' application was denied and that the decree did
not authorize or permit the taxation of costs as between
solicitor and client.
The mandate required the execution of the decree. The
District Court could not vary it or give any further relief.
In *re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, 255.
Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S. 228, 241. In re Washington &
Georgetown R. Co., 140 U. S. 91, 96. Ex parte Union
Steamboat Company, 178 U. S. 317, 319. That court
was right in holding that, by the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and the mandate of this court, the costs
recoverable by the Trust Company were limited to those
taxable between party and party.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and that of the District
Court affirmed.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. NORTH TEXAS LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 92. Argued January 15, 16, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
An option offered by one corporation to another to buy lands at a
specified price was accepted late in 1916 by a notice from the

vendee, in which it declared itself ready to close the transaction and
pay the price as soon as the transfer papers were prepared by the
vendor. The vendor did not prepare the papers, trausfer or tender
title or possession, or demand or receive the purchase price, until
early in 1917, when the transaction was closed. Held that, as
unconditional liability of the vendee was not created in- 1916, the
vendor, though it kept its accounts on the accrual basis, was not

