NATIONAL FIRE INS. CO. v. THOMPSON.
1313

331

Syllabus.

annexation of such benefits to the ownership of government bonds as will increase their currency and stimulate
the market for them, even though those privileges are
extended at the expense of the constitutional powers of
the states, it is difficult to see what the limits of such a
doctrine may be. I suppose that the sale and market
value of government bonds would be materially increased
if we were to say that the Constitution sub silentio had
forbidden their seizure for debts, or rendered their possessor immune from the various forms of state taxation
to which this Court has said he is subject. But however
desirable such a consequence might be thought to be,
that could hardly be taken as a sufficient ground for
saying it.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS col-

cur in this opinion.
NATIONAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
HARTFORD v. THOMPSON, -SUPERINTENDENT
OF THE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT OF MIS-

SOURI,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 104.

Argued January 16, 1930.-Decided April 14, 1930.

1. Under a stipulation made by fire insurance companies in Missouri with the State Stfperintendent of Insurance, in a suit attacking a rate fixed by him (Mo. Rev. Stats., § 6283) that suit
was dismissed, a new hearing was had by the Superintendent and
a new rate promulgated, which was reviewed in a new proceeding
in the state courts (involving no federal question, Aetna Ins. Co.
v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440) and finally sustained by the Supreme
Court of the State. Although the statute provided (§ 6284) that
upon such review rates in excess of those fixed by the Superin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

tendent should not be charged, the companies in this instance,
in virtue of the stipulation, collected their old rates, pending the
review, by giving a bond to refund excess collections to the assured. Plaintiff, a party to the stipulation, sued in the United
States court to enjoin the enforcement of the order on the ground
that § 6283 and the order were repugnant to the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
lower court found the stipulation valid and denied plaintiff's
application because it had not repaid the excess charges, but
without prejudice to renewal after such payment.
Held that the stipulation, pursuant to which the higher rates
were collected, amounted to a promise to return the excess if the
reduction should be finally sustained, and it cannot be said that
the lower court erred in withholding. relief until plaintiff makes
,god its promise to refund. P. 335.
2. Courts of equity 'frequently decline to interfere on behalf of a
complainant whose attitude is unconscientious in respect of the
matter .oncerning which it seeks relief. Deweese v. Reinhard, 165
U. S. 386, 390. P. 338.
3. Judicial notice taken of a matter in the record of another case.
P. 336.
4. A decree of the District Court denying an interlocutory injunction
will not be reversed unless shown to be contrary to some rule of
equity or the result of an improvident exercis. of judicial discretion.
P. 338.

34 F. (2d) 185, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges denying an interlocutory injunction in a suit to
restrain the enforcement of an order of the Missouri
Superintendent of Insurance reducing rates for fire and
allied classes of insurance. Another phase of the controversy was before this Court in 275 U. S. 440.

Mr. Robert J. Folonie, with whom Messrs. John S.
Leahy, William S. Hogsett, and Ashley Cockrill were on

the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Floyd E. Jacobs and John T. Barker, with
whom Messrs. Stratton Shartel, Attorney General of

Missouri, and G. C. Weatherby, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellees.

NATIONAL FIRE INS. CO. v. THOMPSON.
331

333

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is one of 155 suits brought by stock insurance
companies to have § 6283, Revised Statutes of Missouri,
1919, adjudged invalid and to restrain the enforcement of
an order of the state superintendent of insurance promulgated October 9, 1922, on the ground that the section
and order are repugnant to the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. In
each case there was an application to a court of three
judges for an interlocutory injunction. 28 U. S. C., § 380.
It was denied, without prejudice to renewal upon condition specified, in 114 cases of which this is one, and it was
granted in 41 cases. 34 F. (2d) 185. This is an appeal
from the denial of plaintiff's application. 28 U. S. C.,
§ 345(3).
Section 6283 provides:
"The superintendent of insurance . . . is hereby empowered to investigate the necessity for a reduction of
rates, and if, upon such investigation, it appears that the
result of the earnings in this state of the stock fire insurance companies for five years next preceding such investigation shows there has been an aggregate profit therein in
excess of what is reasonable, he shall order such reduction
of rates as shall be necessary to limit the aggregate collections . . . to not more than a reasonable profit. Any reduction ordered . . . shall be applied subject to his approval: Provided, that the superintendent of insurance
shall designate the class or classes to which the reduction
shall be applied if the companies do not, within thirty
days from the order of reduction, submit a class or classes
which meet his approval. . '. "
Section 6284 provides that the orders
of the superintendent shall be reviewable by the courts, that upon
such review the entire matter shall be determined de novo,

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

and that while it is pending insurers shall not charge
any rate in excess of that fixed by the superintendent.
January 5, 1922, the superintendent had directed that
rates on all fire, lightning, hail and windstorm insurance
be reduced 15 per cent. The plaintiff and other stock
insurance companies doing businss in Missouri brought a
joint suit in the circuit court of Cole county to enjoin
the enforcement of that order. Temporary restraint was
granted. The attorneys for the respective parties entered into a stipulation reciting that the superintendent
had revoked the rate order and agreeing that there be
entered of record in the case an order in substance as
follows:
The case is dismissed and the r,. -raining order dissolved.
The superintendent may call a hearing to investigate
the necessity for a rate reduction; the companies will
produce evidence required by him or that they may see
fit to present; at the conclusion of the hearing he will
make findings of fact and announce his determination
thereon, and he shall also make certain specified findings.
If based on such findings and determination, an order
be made reducing rates, it will apply alike to all classes
of risks and, if dissatisfied, the companies will proceed to
secure a review of the order in the circuit court of Colc
county.
No injunction to restrain the reduction shall be applied for; but, pending such review and until final determination of the case, the rates in force prior to the making
of the order will be collected by the companies and they
will "give bond, conditioned and in such amount as the
court may direct, to refund to the assured any excess
of premiums collected by them if such order . . . be
finally sustained by decree or judgment of a court of last
resort."

NATIONAL FIRE INS. CO. v. THOMPSON.
331

'335

Opinion of the Court.

The question of the constitutionality of !§ 6283 and
6284 will not be raised nor will the legality of the hearing
provided for be questioned.
October 9, 1922, the superintendent made the order
that is the subject of this suit. It directed that, effective
November 15, rates be reduced 10 per cent. November
10, plaintiff and other companies brought the matter
before the court named in the stipulation for review.
Upon the requirement of the court they executed a bond
for the use of those to whom insurance policies might be
issued by them prior to final decree. That court held
the rates confiscatory and set aside the order. Its judgment was reversed in the state supreme court. 315 Mo.
113. The case was brought here and, January 3, 1928,
was dismissed on the ground that no federal question wa4
presented. Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440.'
February 1, 1928, the superintendent designated the'
classes of risks to which the reduction should be applied,
and thereupon this suit was commenced. The district
court found the stipulation valid and that under it plaintiff, and other companies in whose behalf it was made,
had collected rates in excess of those prescribed and had
failed to refund. On that ground the court denied plaintiff's application, but without prejudice to renewal after
repayment.
Plaintiff contends that the stipulation made in the
earlier case by the attorneys for all the companies cannot
operate against it in this case. The stipulation shows
that when it was made another rate reduction was contemplated. All its provisions, except the one dismissing
the review then pending, relate to procedure to be followed in making the reduction and for review. In lieu
of the rule that during the pendency of the review insurers should not charge any rate in excess of those fixed

-336

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion, of the Court.

281 U. S.

by the superintendent (§ 684), it was arranged that the
rates existing prior to the order should continue to be
charged until final determination of the case. The companies were to give a bond to be fixed by the court to
secure refund should the reduction finally be sustained.
It is clear that the stipulation was intended to apply to
the subsequent order and to any review of it.
But plaintiff insists that the stipulation contains no
promise to ,refund. The pertinent language is quoted
above. The stipulation and order constituted the only
basis of the companies' right 'to continue, to collect the
higher premiums. When read having regard to the circumstances and context, the quoted language reasonably
may be construed to be a promise by each company to
return to its policy holders the excess charges paid by
them pending final determination of the validity of the
reduction.
Plaintiff claims that the superintendent failed to make
the specified findings and so relieved it from any obligation under the stipulation. An affidavit filed in support
of its motion for temporary injunction states that the
superintendent did not make these findings. The order
is not in the record. The plaintiff failed to present the
findings that were made. There is no showing that the
companies produced the information called for by the
superintendent or that he was not lawfully excused.from
making such findings. We may notice the record of that
case in this court.* 275 U. S. 440. The order is there
* Butter v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240, 243. Aspen Mining & -Smelting
Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 38.' Waghington & Idaho R'd. v..Coeu
D'Alene Ry., 160 U. S. 101. Craemer v. Washington, 168 U. S. 124,
129. Bienville Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217.
Dimmick v. Tompkins, 194' U., S. 540, 548. Fritzlen v. Boatmen's
Bank, 212 U. S. 364, 370. de Beam v. Safe Deposit Co., 233 ,U. S.
24, 32. Freshman v. Atkins, 269 U. S. 121, 124. United States v.
California Canneries,279 U. S. 553, 555. Cf. Pickford v. Talbott, 225
U. S. 652, 654.

NATIONAL FIRE INS. CO. v. THOMPSON.
331

Opinion of the Court.

fully set forth. It states that the companies refused to
furnish the superintendent the necessary facts and that
accordingly such findings could not be made. Clearly
plaintiff's showing is not sufficient to require the court to
find that the superintendent was not excused by the companies' refusal to furnish information as agreed.
Plaintiff contends that the collection of the higher rates
was not made pursuant to the stipulation. It does not
appear whether, in addition to prescribing the bond, the
court authorized the collection of higher premiums until
final determination of the validity of the reduction. The
stipulation was sufficient to support such an order, and
there is nothing in the record to require a finding that
one was not made. See State ex rel. Hyde v. Westhues,
316 Mo. 457, 466. In view of the requirement of § 6284
that pending review insurers shall not charge more than
the reduced rates and in the absence of any other disclosed authority to continue to exact the higher premiums, it is right to attribute the excess charges to the
promise to refund.
Plaintiff lays much emphasis upon the fact that it will
suffer irreparable loss if compelled to apply the lower
rates during the litigation and the order is finally held
unlawful, whereas, if the temporary injunction be granted,
policy holders may be protected by an appropriate provision in the decree. Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 279 U. S.
813, 815. But, in respect of plaintiff's right to have a
temporary injunction, its position is not as good as it
would have been if this suit had been brought when the
rate order was passed. As against the joint attack the
reduction has been sustained by the court of last resort.
Plaintiff has not repaid the policy holders. It now assails the statute as well as the order and seeks again to
prevent the taking effect of the prescribed rates. The
retention of the higher premiums that it obtained by
means of the stipulation and the denial of its promise to
98234°-

:*

-- 22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

refund are facts properly to be considered. Courts of
equity frequently decline to interfere on behalf of a complainant whose attitude is unconscientious in respect of
the matter concerning which it seeks relief. Deweese v.
Reinhard, 165 U. S. 386, 390. While the rule which
plaintiff invokes is one of general application, it cannot
be said that the lower court erred in withholding relief
until plaintiff makes good its promise to refund.
Plaintiff contends that, as the companies failed to submit, and the superintendent until February 1, 1928, did
not designate the classes to which the reduction should
be applied (§ 6283), the lower rates did not take effect
until that time. But by the stipulation the parties
agreed that such order should apply to all classes alike.
That was a sufficient designation in advance. And the
promise to refund, the bringing of the suit to review the
reduction and the giving of the bond all support the view
that, as to the companies making the stipulation, the rate
reduction was then consummated. The court's imposition of the condition that excess premiums collected
from November 15, 1922, be repaid is not without adequate support.
A decree of the district court denying an interlocutory
injunction will not be reversed unless shown to be contrary to some rule of equity or the result of an improvident exercise of judicial discretion. Meccano, Ltd., v.
John Wanamaker, 253 U. S. 136, 141. Chicago Great
Western Ry. v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94, 100. Applying that
rule we find no adequate ground for reversal.
Decree affirmed.

