OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

281 U. S.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY & GUARANTY COMPANY v. GUENTHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 179.

Argued January 23, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. A statute of Ohio prohibiting the employment of a child under 16
years of age to operate an automobile does not affect the validity
of a municipal ordinance making it unlawful for any owner or bailee
of a motor vehicle to permit a minor under the age of 18 years to
operate the same upon the streets of the city. P. 36.
2. The term "fixed by law" as used in a provision of an automcbile
insurance policy exempting the insurer from liability where the
automobile is operated by a person under the age limit fixed by
law, held to include Valid municipal ordinances as well as statutes.
P. 37.
3. A municipal ordinance making it unlawful for any owner or bailee
of a motor vehicle to permit a minor under the age of 18 years
to operate the same upon the streets of the city, held within the
meaning of a provision of an automobile insurance policy exempt.
ing the insurer from liability where the automobile is being operated
by any person "under the age limit fixed by law." P. 38.
31 F. (2d) 919, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 540, to review a judgment against
the insurer on an automobile insurance policy. The case
was removed to the District Court from a state court
upon the ground of diverse citizenship. The court below
affirmed a recovery in the District Court.

Mr. Clinton M. Horn, with whom Mr. Fred J.Perkins
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William M. Byrtes, with whom Messrs. James G.
Bachman and Eugene Quigley were on the brief, for
respondent.

U. S. FIDELITY & G. CO. v. GUENTHER.
34

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In February, 1925, the Fidelity & Guaranty Co. issued
to Guenther, a resident of Cleveland, Ohio, an automobile
insurance policy, insuring him against loss and expense
arising from claims upon him for damages in consequence
of any accident occurring within the United States or
Canada by reason of the use of his automobile and resulting in bodily injuries to another person. The policy
provided that it was subject to the express condition that
it "shall not cover any liability of the assured while [the
automobile is] being operated by any person under the
age limit fixed by law or under the age of sixteen years
in any event."
In May, while the policy was in force, the automobile
was being operated, with Guenther's consent and permission, by a minor seventeen years of age upon the highways and streets of the city of Lakewood, Ohio, and collided with and inflicted personal injuries upon a third
person. At that time there was in force in the city of
La~kewood ai ordinance which madc it "unlawful for any
owner, bailee, lessee or custodian of any motor vehicle to
permit a minor under the age of 18 years to operate or
run said motor vehicle upon public highways, streets or
alleys in said City of Lakewood."
No statute of the State of Ohio made unlawful the operation of an automobile by minors' over sixteen years
of age.
The injured person sued Guenther and recovered judgment. Guenther, having paid this judgment, brought
an action against the Company on the insurance policy
to recover the loss and expense incurred by him in the
personal injury suit. This was removed to the Federal
District Court for northern Ohio, where Guenther recovered judgment, which was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 31 F. (2d) 919.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

The sole question presented here is whether, under the
terms of the policy, liability of the Company was excluded by reason of the municipal ordinance.
1. We think that within the plain meaning of the policy
the operator of the automobile was "under the age limit
fixed" by the ordinance. True it is that the ordinance
does not fix a general age limit for operators of automobiles. But as the ordinance makes it unlawful for the
owner of an automobile to permit a minor under eighteen
years of age to operate it, to say that when the owner
permits a minor only seventeen years of age to operate it
the operator is not "under the age limit fixed" by the
ordinance would be merely sticking in the bark.
2. The fact that a State statute prohibits the employment of a child under sixteenyears of age to operate an
automobile does not affect the validity of the city ordinance. Municipal corporations in Ohio are given "special power to regulate the use of the streets, to be exercised in the manner provided by law," and "the care,
supervision and control of public highways, streets," etc.2
Plainly, the general statute which -merely forbids the employment of minors under sixteen y6ars to operate automobiles, does not prevent the city, in the exercise of its
delegated power to regulate the use of its streets, from
prohibiting the operation of automobiles by minors under
eighteen years of age. Such a regulation merely supplements locally the provision of the general statute and is
not in conflict with it. Thus, in Heidle v. Baldwin, 118
Oh. St. 375,. 385, the court held that a municipality had
the power to adopt regulations as to the use of its streets
in addition to those imposed by a state statute, and sustained an ordinance imposing a more onerous obligation
upon drivers at intersecting streets than that imposed by
the 6tatute.
1

Throckmorton's Annotated Code of Ohio, ยง 13002.
Annotated Code of Ohio, ยง 3714.

2 Throckmorton's

U. S. FIDELITY & G. CO. v. GUENTHER.
34

Opinion of the Court.

3. This brings us to the question whether the age limit
fixed by the municipal ordinance is one "fixed by law"
within the meaning of the policy.
In Imperial Fire Insurance Co. v. Coos County, 151
U. S. 452, 462, this court said: "It is settled . . . that,
when an insurance contract is so drawn as to be ambiguous, or to require interpretation, or to be fairly susceptible
of two different constructions, so that reasonably intelligent men on reading the contract would honestly differ
as to the meaning thereof, that construction will be
adopted which is most favorable to the insured. But the
rule is equally well settled that contracts of insurance,
like other contracts, are to be construed according to the
sense and meaning of the terms which the parties have
used, and if they are clear and unambiguous, their terms
are to be taken and understood in their plain, ordinary,
and popular sense."
Applying that rule here, we think that when the words
of the exclusion clause are taken in their ordinary meaning they are free from any ambiguity that requires them
to be construed most strongly against the Company. The
plain and evident purpose of the clause was to prevent the
Company from being held liable for any accident occurring
while by reason of the age of the operator the automobile
was being operated in violation of law. To that' end
liability was excluded when the operator was under "the
age limit fixed by law." This is not limited to the case
where the age limit is fixed by "a law," a specific phrase
frequently limited in a technical sense to a statute, which,
to say the least, would have involved doubt as to whether
a municipal ordinance was included. On the contrary the
clause uses the broad phrase "fixed by law," in which the
term "lav" is used in a generic sense, as meaning the
rules of action or conduct duly prescribed by controlling
authority, and having binding legal force; including
valid municipal ordinances as well as statutes. Thus in

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

the Matter of Petition of Mutual Life Insurance Co., 89
N. Y. 530, 531, 533, the court held that a street grade
fixed and established by an ordinance of the city council,
duly authorized- thereto, was one "fixed and established
by law."
We find no ambiguity in the phrase "under the age
limit fixed by law" contained in the exclusion clause of
the policy; and think that, by reason of the ordinance,
liability on the part of the Company is precluded.
The judgment is
Reversed.
LINDGREN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 25.

Argued October 25, 28, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. The Merchant Marine Act establishes as a modification of the
prior maritime law a rule of general application in reference to
the liability of the owners of vessels for injuries to seamen, and
supersedes all state legislation on that subject. P. 44.
2. Where a seaman in the course of his employment suffers injuries
resulting in death, but leaves no survivors designated as beneficiaries by th4 Employers' Liability Act,-made applicable in case of
the-death of a seaman by ยง 33 of the Merchant Marine Act,--the
administrator is not entitled to maintain an action for the recovery
of damages under the provisions of the federal Act, nor may he
resort to the death statute of a State, either to create a right of
action not given by the Merchant Marine Act, or- to establish a
measure of damages not provided by that Act. P. 47.
3. Prior to the enactment of the Merchant Marine Act, the maritime
law gave no right of recovery for the death of a seaman, although
occasioned by negligence of the owner or other members of the
crew or by unseaworthiness of the vessel. P. 47.
4. The right of action given' by the second clause of ยง 33 of the
Merchant Marine Act to the personal representative to recover
damages,. for and on behalf of designated beneficiaries, for the,

