OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

listing personal property for assessment. We are led to
make this statement because the record suggests, if it does
not show, that on that day 21,235 of the blankets purchased by the plaintiff were held by it in a private warehouse in Little Rock, the county seat of Pulaski County,
and 64,371 was the number remaining in the government
storehouses at Camp Pike. Whether the assessment
which was on the whole can be proportionally sustained
as to the part in Little Rock so that the plaintiff will be
charged with only such portion of the tax as pertains to
that part of the blankets is a question of state law on
which we intimate no opinion.
The judgment will be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

ANN ARBOR RAILROAD COMPANY
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 7.

Argued February 25, 1929. Reargued October 21, 22, 1929.Decided June 2, 1930.

1. The Joint Resolution of January 20, 1925, known as the HochSmith Resolution, declares it to be the true policy in rate-making
that the conditions which at any given time prevail in the several
industries should be considered, in so far as it is legally possible
to do so; directs the Interstate Commerce Commission to proceed along stated lines for the purpose of securing prompt observance of existing laws requiring that a rates be just and reasonable and prohibiting all undue preferences and unjust discriminations, whether relating to shippers, commodities, classes of traffic,
or localities; declares that, in the adjustment of rates, the factors
to be considered shall include (a) the general and comparative
levels in market value of the various classes and kinds of commodities as indicated over a reasonable period of years, (b) a natural

ANN ARBOR R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
658

659

Statement of the Case.

and proper development of the country as a whole, and (c) the
maintenance of an adequate system of transportation; and directs
that, in view of existing depression in agriculture, the Commission
shall effect such "lawful changes" in the rate structure of the
country as will promote free movement of agricultural products
"at the lowest possible lawful rates compatible with the maintenance of adequate transportation service." Held:
(1) That the Resolution introduced no new factor in the fixing
and adjustment of* rates and requires no change in rates that
are reasonable and lawful under §§ 1 (5) and 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 666.
(2) A construction of the Resolution by the Commission whereby
it operates as a change "in the basic law," as placing agricultural products in a " most favored" class, and as justifying a
Teduction in the rates on deciduous fruits moving from California
to eastern points, notwithstanding that the rates are otherwise
lawful and reasonable and that most of the carriers affected "have
not as yet made the fair return " for which § 15a of the Interstate Commerce Act makes provision as a means of securing
the maintenance of an adequate transportation system, is therefore erroneous. P. 667.
(3) The words "at the lowest possible lawful rates compatible
with the maintenance of adequate transportation service,." are
more in the nature of a hopeful characterization of an object
deemed desirable if, and in so far as, it may be attainable, than
of a rule intended to control rate-making, and should not lightly
be Accepted as overturning positive and unambiguous provisions
constituting part of a system of laws reflecting a settled legislative policy, such as the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 668.
2. Where the words of a statute are susceptible of various meanings,
that construction should be avoided which would bring into question the constitutionality of the statute. P. 669.
Reversed. See also 30 F. (2d) 940.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges under U. S. C., Title 28, § 47, dismissing the bill
in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission condemning existing rates for the transportation of deciduous fruits from California to eastern destinations. See 129 I. C. C. 25; 132 id. 582.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

Mr. Herman Phleger, with whom Messrs. Maurice E.
Harrison, James S. Moore, Jr., Platt Kent, James E.
Lyons, Elmer Westlake, R. S. Outlaw, M. B. Pierce, F. D.
McKenney, Clyde Brown, P. F. Gault, J. N. Davis, A. B.
Enoch, Kenneth F. Burgess, Elmer A. Smith, F. M.
Angellotti, E. W. Camp, A. S. Halsted, and Guy V.
Shoup were on the brief, for appellants.
Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Messrs. J. Stanley
Payne, Assistant Chief Counsel, Interstate Commerce
Commission, Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, and
George C. Butte, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States et al., on
the reargument.
The Act requires that all rates shall be just and reasonable and reposes authority in the Commission to determine and prescribe rates whichmeet that standard. § 1
(5); § 15 (1). But since it is impossible to determine
with accuracy what rates are just and reasonable, that
question is left to the judgment and discretion of the
Commission. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541. Its judgment is to be formed
from the evidence; and its conclusion is accepted as final
when its action is not arbitrary or otherwise unlawful.
In other cases this Court has recognized the zone of
reasonableness and the wide range of discretion in the
exercise of the power to prescribe reasonable rates.
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515;
American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617; Northern Pac. R. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Norfolk
& Western Ry. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605.
The broad discretion of the Commission in- fixing rates
is, of course, within the control of Conigress. Section 15a
is a prominent example of such cong.essional control.
Likewise, the Hoch-Smith Resolution controls the
Commission's discretion to the extent that the Resolution

ANN ARBOR R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
658

661

Argument for the United States.

directs "the lowest possible lawful rates compatible with
the maintenance of adequate transportation service."
The direction of the Resolution is evidently, like that of
§ 15a, to be carried out by the Commission in the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable rates.
The Resolution, indeed, sets no new standard of lawfulness, since it did not contemplate that any rate hould
be fixed under it which would not have been a lawful rate
under prior law. But it recognizes that the fixation of
any particular rate within the zone of lawfulness depends upon the relative weight which the Commission
might give to the various factors which are normally considered in rate-making. The Resolution recognizet, both
as a legal and a factual possibility, that there may be a
lowest possible lawful rate, and, conversely and necessarily, a highest possible lawful rate. Such relative weight
is to be given factors entering into determination of
a reasonable rate as will produce the lowest possible lawful rate compatible with the maintenance of adequate
transportation service. By the Resolution the Commission is directed to prescribe rates on a level at which
prior to the Resolution the Commission would have been
justified in fixing them, though not obliged to fix them.
The principle of rate-making that consideration should
be given to the value of the commodity and what the
traffic will bear, finds ample recognition in decisions of
the courts as Well as of the Commission. Kansas City
Sou. Ry. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Imperial Coal Co. v. P. &
L. E. R. Co., 2 I. C. C. 618. The underlying theory was
clearly stated in Investigatiom and Suspension Docket 26,
22 1. C. C. 604.
If the Commission correctly construed the Resolution
as stating an additional test in accordance with which it
should exercise its discretion in determining whether an
existing rate on agricultural products should be reduced,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

it was warranted in finding that any rate which did not
accord with that test was unreasonable and in setting it
aside.
We submit that the Commission's finding that the rate
here assailed was unreasonable, whether that finding be
deemed to have been made under §1 of the Act albne or
under the Act as supplemented by the Hoch-Smith Resolution, is entitled to the same sanction of conclusiveness
as would have been a finding of unreasonableness in a
non-agricultural case under the law as it existed prior to
the Resolution. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231
U. S. 298.
The' Commission properly construed the Resolution as
applicable to particular cases involving agricultural
products.
The Resolution does not contemplate confiscatory rates
and is not otherwise violative of the Fifth Amendment.
It is a valid exercise of the power to regulate commerce.
It is not an attempted regulation of industry, and does
not grant "bounties," "special privileges," or "subsidies."
Mr. Allan P. Matthew, with whom Messrs. J. M.-Mannon, Jr., John F. Cassell, John 0. Moran, and J. Richard
Townsend were on the brief, for the California Growers'
and Shippers' Protective League, intervener and appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEvANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit to Set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission condemning existing rates for
the transportation of deciduous fruits from California to
eastern destinations-chiefly points between the-Mississippi River and the Atlantic seaboard. A hearing in the
District Court before three judges under § 47, Title 28,
U. S. C., resulted in a decree dismissing the bill; and a
direct appeal has brought the case here.

ANN ARBOR R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
658

663

Opinion of the Court.

The proceeding which resulted in the order was instituted before the commission December 27, 1926, by the
California Growers' and Shippers' Protective League
through a complaint assailing the existing rates as unjust
and unreasonable under § 1 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, unduly and unreasonably preferential under § 3 of
that act, and having an unjust and unreasonable basis
and being too high within the meaning of the joint resolution of Congress of January 30, 1925, known as the
Hoch-Smith Resolution. The order was made July 20,
1927, and was changed by the commission in some particulars November 14 of that year. Originally it was
to be effective October 10, 1927, but the Commission
extended the time to January 10, 1928.
The plaintiffs in the suit are the railroad companies
which participate in the transportation. In their bill
and on this appeal they challenge the validity of the order
upon the ground, among others, that the Commission
based it upon the joint resolution and a construction
thereof which is inadmissible.
The Interstate Commerce Act, Title 49, U. S. C., provides in §§ 1, 3 and 15 Sec. 1, par. (5) "All charges . . . shall be just and
reasonable, and every unjust and unreasonable charge
is prohibited and declared to be unlawful:....
Sec. 3, par. (1) "It shall be unlawful . . . to make or
give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage
to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or
locality, or any particular description of traffic, in any
respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person,
company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular
description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable
prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
Sec. 15, par. (1) "Whenever, after full hearing, upon
a complaint . . .or . .. under an order for investigation and hearing made by the commission on its own

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

initiative, . . . the commission shall be of opinion that
any individual or joint rate, fare, or charge whatsoever
is or will be unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential or prejudicial, ...
the commission is authorized and empowered to determine and prescribe what will be the just and reasonable
individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or rates, fares, or
charges, to be thereafter observed in such case ....
The joint resolution, c. 120, 43 Stat. 801, reads:
"That it is hereby declared to be the true policy in rate
making to be pursued by the Interstate Commerce Commission in adjusting freight rates, that the conditions
which at any given time prevail in our several industries
should be considered in so far as it is legally possible to do
so, to the end that commodities may freely move.
"That the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized and directed to make a thorough investigation of
the rate structure of common carriers subject to the interstate commerce act, in order to determine to what extent
and in what manner existing rates and charges may be
unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, or unduly
preferent.ial, thereby imposing undue burdens, or giving
undue advantage as between the various localities and
parts of the country, the various classes of traffic, and the
various classes and kinds of commodities, and to make,
in accordance with law, such changes, adjustments, and
redistribution of rates and charges as may be found necessary to correct any defects so found to exist. In making any such change, adjustment, or redistribution the
commission shall give due regard, among other factors,
to the general and comparative levels in market value
of the various classes and kinds of commodities as indicated over a reasonable period of years, to a natural and
proper development of the country as a whole, and to
the maintenance of an adequate system of transportation. In the progress of such investigation the commis-

ANN ARBOR R. CQ. v. UNITED ST1,TES.
658

665

Opinion of the Court.

sion shall, from time to time, and as expeditiously as
possible, make such decisions and orders as it may find
to be necessary or appropriate upon the record then made
in order to place the rates upon designated classes of
traffic upon a just and reasonable basis with relation to
other rates. Such investigation shall be conducted with
due regard to other investigations or proceedings affecting rate adjustments which may be pending before the
commission.
"In view of the existing depression in agriculture, the
commission is hereby directed to effect with the least
practicable delay such lawful changes in the rate structure of the country as will promote the freedom of movement by common carriers of the products of agriculture
affected by that depression, including livestock, at the
lowest possible lawful rates compatible with the maintenance of adequate transportation service: Provided, That
no investigation or proceeding resulting from the adoption of this resolution shall be permitted to delay the
decision of cases now pending before the commission involving rates on products of agriculture, and that such
,ases shall be decided in accordance with this resolution."
The original and supplemental opinions of the commission show quite plainly that the commission based
the order entirely upon the joint resolution. It is said in
the opinions that " the joint resolution was primarily relied upon " by the complainant; that while a violation of
§ 3(1) of the Interstate Commerce Act was alleged in the
complaint "no great reliance was placed upon that allegation "; that the "primary issue to be determined " was
whether the existing rates were in accord with the resolution; that the resolution effected a change " in the basic
law "; and that this change operated to eliminate a decision made June 25, 1925, in another proceeding between
the same parties wherein tbc . commission found the same
rates neither unreasonable nor unduly preferential and

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

sustained them as lawful rates, 100 I. C. C. 79. True, in
both the original and supplemental opinions it is said
that the existing rates are unreasonable, but the opinions
taken as a whole show that this means the rates were
deemed unreasonable under the joint resolution when
construed as the commission construed it, and not that
they were deemed unreasonable under § 1(5) or § 3(1)
of the Interstate Commerce Act. Throughout the opinions it is manifest that the commission was testing the
reasonableness and validity of the rates by considerations
not applicable under those sections but believed by it to
have been brought into the problem by the resolution.
The joint resolution is the outgrowth of several measures proposed in Congress but not adopted. Some of
the measures may have been designed by their proposers to make real changes in existing laws relating to
transportation rates. But they are not before us. The
measure that is before us is the joint resolution which
emerged from the legislative deliberations and proceedings. It is brought here to the end that we may determine
its proper construction, which of course is to be done by
applying to it the rules applicable to legislation in general.
The question presented is whether the resolution
changes the substantive provisions of existing laws relating to transportation rates, and particularly whether
rates which would be lawful under those laws are made
unlawful by it.
The resolution is in three paragraphs. The first declares it to be a true policy in rate making that the conditions which at any given time prevail in the several
industries "should be considered" in so far as it is
"legally possible" to do so, to the end that commodities
may move freely. This policy is not new. In rate making under existing laws it has been recognized that conditions in a particular industry may and should be considered along with other factors in fixing rates for that

ANN ARBOR R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
658

667

Opinion of the Court.

industry and in determining their reasonableness; and
it also has been recognized that so far as can be done with
due regard for the interests afftcted rates should be such
as will permit the commodities to which they relate to
move freely in the channels of commerce.
I The second paragraph is devoted chiefly to requiring
the Commission'to proceed along stated lines for the purpose of securing prompt observance of existing laws, such
as §§ 1(5) and 3(1) of the Interstate Commerce Act, requiring that all rates be just and reasonable and prohibiting all undue preferences and unjust discriminations,
whether relating to shippers, commodities, classes of traffic or localities. The only substantive provision in the
paragraph is one declaring that in the adjustment of rates
the factors to be considered shall include (a) the general
and comparative levels in market value of the various
classes and kinds of commodities as indicated over a reasonable period of years, (b) a natural and proper development of the country as a whole, and (c) the maintenance
of an adequate system of transportation. These matters
have all been regarded as factors requiring consideration
under existing laws. The prohibition in § 3(1) of the
Interstate Commerce Act of any undue preference of one
locality over another always has been treated as intended
to prevent the use of rates as a means of promoting the
artificial development of one locality to the detriment of
another. And what is said about the maintenance of an
adequate system of transportation is but a reiteration of
provisions embodied in existing laws.
The third paragraph was construed by the commission
-as making a change "in the basic law," as placing agricultural products in a "most favored" class, and as justifying a reduction in the rates on deciduous fruits
moving from California to eastern points, notwithstanding most of the carriers "have not as yet made the fair
return" for which § 15a of the Interstate Commerce Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

makes provision as a means of securing the maintenance
of an adequate transportation system. Indeed, it is apparent from the commission's opinions that it regarded
this paragraph as requiring it to condemn the existing
rates as unreasonable and unlawful, although, had' they
been considered independently of the paragraph, they
must have been upheld as reasonable and lawful under
the applicable sections, 1(5) and 3(1), of the existing
law.
We are of opinion that the commission's construction
can not be supported. The paragraph does not purport
to make any change in the existing law, but on the contrary requires that that law be given effect. Nor does
it purport to make unlawful any rate which under the
existing law is a lawful rate, but on the contrary leaves
the validity of the rate to be tested by that law.
The paragraph requires only that "lawful changes"
in the rate structure be made; and we find in it no sanction
for any other change. Unless the paragraph can be said
to give its own definition of a lawful change, reference
must be had to § 15, par. (1) of the existing law which
shows under what conditions and how a lawful change of
rate may be effected by the commission.
The commission stresses the concluding words in the
same sentence with "lawful changes." and evidently regards them as qualifying the natural import of the latter
and in effect specifying a new and reduced scale to be
applied in rate making., The words stressed are, "at the
lowest possible lawful rates compatible with the maintenance of adequate transportation service."
. Considering the connection in which these words are
brought into the sentence, we think they fall much short
of supporting the construction adopted by the commis- sion. They are more in the nature of a hopeful charac-

ANN ARBOR R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
658

669

Opinion of the Court.

terization of an object deemed desirable if, and in so far
as, it may be attainable, than of a rule intended to control
rate making. See United States v. New York Central
R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 603. Of course they should not
lightly be disregarded. Neither should they lightly be
accepted as overturning positive and unambiguous provisions constituting part of a system of laws reflecting a
settled legislative policy, such as the Interstate Commerce
Act. If they mean no moie than that the depressed condition of the industry is to be given such consideration
as may be reasonable considering the nature and cost of
the transportation service and the need for maintaining
an adequate transportation system, they work no change
in the existing law. But if they mean more and are intended to require that rates be reduced to some uncertain
level below that standard, they give rise to a serious question respecting the constitutional validity of the paragraph of which they are a part. See Northern Pacific
R. R. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595; Norfolk
& Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605, 608.
By reason of their uncertain meaning, United States v.
Barnes, 222 U. S. 513, 520, and of the constitutional question which would be raised if they were taken as the commission thinks they should be taken, Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407, 422, we think
they must be held to work no substantial change in the
meaning or operation of §§ 1(5), 3(1) and 15, par. (1) of
the existing law.
Our conclusion is that the order of the commission was
based upon an erroneous construction of the joint resolution, and therefore should have been set aside by the
court below.
Decree reversed.

