OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U.S.

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 732. Argued April 28, 1930.-Decided May 26, 1930.
Section 6 of the National Prohibition Act, which provides that "no
one shall . . . purchase . . . any liquor without first obtaining a permit from the commissioner so to do . . .," relates
only to that class of persons who may lawfully be authorized to
sell, purchase, or otherwise deal with intoxicating liquors for nonbeverage purposes, but who proceed to do so without a permit,
and does not impose any criminal liability upon the purchaser
of liquor for beverage purposes. P. 631.
38 F. (2d) 515, affirmed.

by the United States under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment of the Di.,.ict Court sustaining a motion to quash an indictment charging the
purchase of intoxicating liquor in violation of the National Prohibition Act.
APPEAL

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell and Mr. John J. Byrne were
on the brief, for the United States.
The question involved should be viewed in the light
of the ultimate aim and purpose of the National Prohibition Act, which is to prevent the use of intoxicating
liquor as a beverage. Corneli v. Moore, 257 U. S. 491;
Donnelley v. United States, 276 U. S. 505; Yudelson v.
Andrews, 25 F. (2d) 80. See also Selzman v. United
States. 268 U. S. 466; United States v. Dodson, 268 Fed.
397: Goldberg v. Yellowley, 290 Fed. 389; Schnitzler v.
Yellow~eg, 290 Fed. 849; Fritzel v. United States, 17 F.

(2d) 965.
The failure to include the purchase of liquor in the
enumeration of acts prohibited by § 3 does not establish

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
624 .

Argument for the United States.

that Congress intended that the purchase of liquor should
not be an offense.
There are many acts and omissions, some relating to
transactions authorized under regulations and permits
and some to transactions wholly prohibited, which, though
not included in that enumeration, are unquestionably
made offenses by the Act and punishable under § 29.
Among them are the failure of investigating officers to
report violations to the United States Attorneys (9 2);
the use or disposition of intoxicating liquor by manufacturers of denatured alcohol, medicinal or toilet preparations, flavoring extracts, etc., otherwise than as an
ingredient of such articles (§ 4); the sale by any person
of any of such articles for beverage purposes (§ 4); the
prescribing of liquor by anyone not a physician holding
a permit to do so, as well as the prescribing by such a
physician of liquor otherwise than in good faith as a
medicine (§ 7); the failure to keep a record of liquor
manufactured, purchased for sale, sold, or transported
(§ 10) ; the failure of the manufacturer of liquor to attach
to each container thereof a prescribed label (§ 12); the
advertising of where or from whom liquor may be obtained (§ 17); the maintenance of a "common nuisance"
(§ 21), and the possession of property designed for the
manufacture of liquor intended for illegal use (§25).
The purchase of liquor for a purpose not authorized by
the Act is within the terms of the prohibition of § 6.
The provision of § 6 is manifestly broad enough to embrace all persons, and, therefore, to include the appellee.
To confine its application :to persons to whom permits may
issue has the anomalous effect of making the purchase of
liquor without a permit an offense under the statute if the
liquor is purchased for lawful purposes, but not an offense
if the liquor is purchased to be disposed of illegally. This
would appear to run counter to the command of § 3 that
" all the provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed
fS2;4

30-40
.'--

OCTOBER TERM. 1929.
Argument for the United States.

281 U. S.

to the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a, beverage may be prevented." See Bombinski v. State, 183
Wis. 351.
There is no more reason for assuming that the failure
to provide a special penalty for the purchase of liquor
shows the intent of Congress not to make that act an
offense-than there is for assuming that the unauthorized
transportation, importation, exportation and possession
of liquor are not offenses because no special penalties are
provided therefor. The only penalties specially imposed
by Title II are those for maintaining a "common nuisance" (§ 21), and for the illegal manufacture and sale of
liquor (§ 29). The penalties for all other violations of
Title II are prescribed by the provision of § 29: "Any
person

.

.

.

who

.

.

.

violates any of the

provisions of this title, for which offense a special penalty
is not prescribed, shall be fined," etc. See Donnelley v.
United States, 276 U. S. 505. Manifestly, that provision
is not confined to violations by permittees.
There are, however, considerations tending to show
that the purchase of liquor, except as authorized by the
National Prohibition Act, is not an offense under that
Act. See Lott v. United States, 205 Fed. 28.
A prohibition against the purchase of liquor for beverage purposes was intentionally omitted from the Eighteenth Amendment. Cong. Rec., Vol. 55, Part 6, p. 5647
et seq. This does not necessarily mean that such a purchase is not made unlawful by the National Prohibition
Act. Many acts not mentioned in the Amendment, including the possession of intoxicating liquor, the maintenance of a common nuisance, and the advertising of
liquor, are made offenses by that Act.
Dealing with the permissive features of the Prohibition
Act, see S. Rep. No. 151, p. 20, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.;
H. Rep. No. 91, p. 2, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
624

Argument for the United States.

When discussing the origin of the bill on the floor of
the House, Mr. Volstead, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, observed: "The bill was largely modeled on the
Ohio law.

.

.

. Every State, I believe, that has a

prohibition law has the essential features of this bill, including Iowa, Oregon, Kansas, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Nebraska, Idaho, Alaska, Washington,
and I might mention a number of others." Cong. Rec.,
Vol. 58, Part 3, p. 2512.
An examination of these prohibition laws shows that
only in Nebraska was the purchase of beverage liquor an
offense. See further Cong. Rec., Vol. 58, Part 3, p. 2802.
Section 32, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act
provides that "It shall not be necessary in any affidavit,
information, or indictment to give the name of the purchaser." This apparently was intpnded to apply only to
charges of sale and to obviate the necessity of naming the
person to whom the sale was made. It can. not have application to other offenses, such as possession, transportation, etc., nor of course can it have application to a charge
of purchase if purchase is a crime.
From the passage of the National Prohibition Act
down to the time of this indictment, a period of approximately ten years, the National Prohibition Act was construed by the administrative departments charged with
its enforcement as not making the purchase of liquor an
offense. The reports fail to disclose any other case in
which such a charge was brought.
In the following cases courts have said obiter that the
purchase of liquor is not an offense. Singer v. United
States, 278 Fed. 415; Vannata v. United States, 289 Fed.
424; United States v. Kerper, 29 F. (2d) 744; Norris v.
United States, 34 F. ,(2d) 839.
In United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, this Court
held that § 10 is one of a group of sections, including

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Farrar

281 U. S.

§ 6, which apply only to those dealing in liquor for purposes authorized by the Act. The application of § 6 was
not directly involved.
Mr. William H. Lewis, with whom Mr. James A. Cresswell was on the brief, for appellee.
The buyer of liquor was not guilty of an offence under
the National Prohibition Act, and § 6 relates solely to
permittees. United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 362, and
footnote; s. C., 5 F. (2d) 528.
If Congress had intended to prohibit the straight purchase of beverage liquor, we should expect to find the word
" purchase " inserted in the first paragraph of § 3.
There
is no possibility that the word was there omitted by inadvertence, since the section is a short one, and "purchase"
in regard to nonbeverage liquors is inserted in the next
paragraph Congress mentioned "purchase" in § § 4, 6,
10, 11 and 13, and in every case the purchaser is referred
to in connection with a permit.
A glance at § 29, dealing with punishments, is illuminating. The first paragraph obviously deals with violations
of the law by others than permittees. It is noted that the
word "purchase" does not appear in this clause. The
Government finding no penalty for the alleged offense
of purchasing liquor either in the first or second clause,
relies upon the third; "or violates any of the provisions
of this title, for which offense a special penalty is not prescribed." It might be pertinent to ask, What "provision
of this title " has the purchaser violated for which a
penalty is not prescribed?
If we return to § 6, the purchaser there is a purchaser
with a permit, and a special penalty is provided for the
violations of the terms of the permit in the second clause
of § 29. The fact that the word "purchase" does not
appear either in § 3 or 29 is clear and convincing evidence that Congress never intended to make the purchaser
an offender.

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
624

Argument for Farrar.

There is no inconsistency or contradiction in the contention that Congress intended to punish purchasers who
are required to have a permit, and not those who are not
required to have a permit. The former class owes a legal
duty to the Government for the privilege it holds; the
latter owes no duty to the Government and runs the risk
of prosecution for other offences. As the learned Judge
in the court below put it: "There are strong reasons why
permittees should be penalized for the abuse of the privileges granted them."
This Court is asked to write the word "purchase" into
the first paragraph of § 3, or strike out the words "without a permit" in § 6. It must do one or the other to
make the purchaser an offender. To borrow a phrase
used by the late Mr. Justice Sanford in Everard Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 543, this would be "to pass the line
which circumscribes the judicial department and to tread
upon legislative ground."
United States. v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, is decidedly
analogous to the case at bar.
It is not admitted that there is any ambiguity here,
but if there is, the character of the statute determines the
construction, and a criminal statute is strictly construed,
and the Court will so construe the statute as to carry
out the intention of the legislature.
The records of Congress show that there was a proposal to insert the word "purchase " into the Eighteenth
Amendment, and it was rejected by a vote of 62 to 4, 30
not voting. Cong. Rec., 65th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 55,
Part 6, p. 5645.
It is to be presumed that Congress intended to keep
within the scope of its constitutional authority, and not
to go outside. United States v. Standard Brewery, 251
U. S. 220.
This Court may take judicial notice of Senate Bill 1827,
introduced by the same Senator Sheppard, proponent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Farrar

281 U. S.

the joint resolution which became the Eighteenth Amendment, September 30, 1929,-the Bill entitled "A Bill
Amending the National Prohibition Act so as to Prohibit
the Purchase of Intoxicating Liquors as a Beverage."
It has been uniformly held by prosecuting officers and
the public at large for more than ten years, that the purchase of liquor was not an offence under the National
Prohibition Act.
If the meaning of a statute is open to doubt, the contemporaneous construction placed upon it when it became
operative, and acquiesced in by the executive, the legislature, and the courts, or those charged with its enforcement, is highly persuasive of what the law is.
As pointed out by the opinion of the court below, there
are dicta from at least three circuits-Beecher v. United
States, 5 F. (2d) 45; Norris v. United States, 34 F. (2d)
839; Dickinson v. United States, 18 F. (2d) 887-to the
effect that a sale is not punishable under the National
Prohibition Act.
Every textwriter upon the National Prohibition law
for the last ten years has held that a purchaser is not
guilty of any offence under it. McFadden on Prohibition, p. 294, § 267; Blakemore on Prohibition, p. 151;
Thorpe, National and State Prohibition, p. 196; Nelson,
Federal Liquor Laws, p. 326, § 1022; Wayne B. Wheeler,
Federal & State Laws Relating to Intoxicating Liquor,
3d ed., p. 69.
Administrative necessity or supposed public policy cannot add to an Act of Congress and make conduct criminal
which the law leaves untouched. Sarlls v. United States,
152 U. S. 570; United States v. Standard Brewery, '251
U. S. 210.
It is fundamental that a penal law must inform the
potential criminal that the act he is about to do is punishable as a crime. United States v. Wilterberger, 5
Wheat. 96; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Ex parte
Webb, 225 U. S. 663.

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
624

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By indictment returned in the federal district court
for Massachusetts, the defendant (appellee) was charged
with unlawfully and knowingly having purchased intoxieating liquor fit for use for beverage purposes, in violation
of the National Prohibition Act. The district court sustained a motion to quash the indictment on the ground
that the ordinary purchaser of intoxicating liquor does
not come within the purview of the act. 38 F. (2d) 515.
The government appealed under the Criminal Appeals
Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246; U. S. C.,
Title 18, § 682, and § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended
by the act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938;
U. S. C., Title 28, § 345.
Section 3 of the Prohibition Act, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305,
308, makes it unlawful for any person to "manufacture,
sell, barter, transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or
possess any intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this
Act . . ."; but provides that "Liquor for nonbeverage
purposes and wine for sacramental purposes may be manufactured, purchased, sold . . . but only as herein provided, and the commissioner may, upon application, issue
permits therefor: ....
Section 6 of the act, 41 Stat. 310, provides: "No one
shall manufacture, sell, purchase, transport, or prescribe
any liquor without first obtaining a permit from the commissioner so to do, except that a person may, without a
permit, purchase and use liquor for medicinal purposes
when prescribed by a physician as herein provided . .. ."
Following this language, the section regulates with much
detail the issue, character, and duration of the permit,
and the application therefor, which application, among
other things, must set forth "the qualification of the applicant and the purpose for which the liquor is to be
used." The form of the permit and application, and the

OCTOBER TERM. 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

facts to be set forth therein are to be prescribed by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. who is to require a
bond in such form and amount as he may prescribe to
insure compliance with the terms of the permit and provisions of the act. A large part of the act, including § 6,
is devoted to the subject of the authorized manufacture,
sale, transportation, and use of intoxicating liquor for
nonbeverage purposes; while § 3 .plainly deals with the
prohibited traffic in such -liquors for beverage purposes.
The government relies upon the literal terms of 9 6,
that"' No one shall . . . purchase . . . any liquor without first obtaining a permit from the commissioner so to
do . . ."; but, at the same time, frankly concedes that
the application of this language to the present case is
not free from doubt. The contrary view is that these
words, considered in connection with the other provisions of § 6 and correlated sections, relate only to that
class of persons who lawfully may be authorized to sell,
purchase, or otherwise deal with intoxicating liquors for
nonbeverage purposes, and who proceed to do so without
a permit. That this defendant does not belong to that
class, and could not, under any circumstances, have obtained a permit to make a purchase of the character here
made, is not in dispute. The question thus presented is
very nearly the same as that decided in United States v.
Katz, 271 U. S. 354; and ini principle is concluded by that
case.
There, the defendants were charged with conspiring to
sell intoxicating liquors without making a permanent record of the sale, in violation of § 10 of the act. The indictments were quashed in the district court on the ground
that § 10, which required a permanent record to be made
of sales, applied only to persons authorized to sell alcoholic
liquor, and that the indictment failed to allege that either
of the defendants held a permit or was otherwise author-

UNITED STATES v. FARRAR.
624

Opinion of the Court.

ized to sell. This court, in affirming the judgment, said
(pp. 361-362):
" Of the thirty-nine sections in Title II of the Act,
which deals with national prohibition, more than half,
including the seven sections which precede § 10, contain
provisions authorizing or regulating the manufacture, sale,
transportation or use of intoxicating liquor for nonbeverage purposes. These provisions, read together, clearly indicate a statutory plan or scheme to regulate the disposition of alcoholic liquor not.prohibited by the Eighteenth
Amendment, in such manner as to minimize the danger of
its diversion from authorized or permitted uses to beverage purposes. These provisions plainly relate to those
persons who are authorized to sell, transport, use or possess intoxicating liquors under the Eighteenth Amendment and the provision of §3 of the Act, already quoted." *
And it was held (p. 363) that "the words 'no person'
in §-10 refer to persons authorized under other provisions
of the act to carry on traffic in alcoholic liquors," not to
the ordinary violator of a provision prohibiting transactions in respect of liquors for beverage purposes.
It is not necessary to repeat the citation of authorities
or the pertinent canons of statutory construction set forth
in the opinion to support this conclusion. We are unable
to find any logical ground for holding that the words "no
person" in § 10 are used in the restricted sense thus
stated, but that identical words in § 6, which forms a part
of the same general plan for controlling the authorized
traffic in intoxicating liquors, may be given an unlimited
application. Obviously the National Prohibition Act
deals with the liquor traffic from two different points of
view. In the case of beverage liquors, except for sacramental and medicinal purposes, the traffic is prohibited
refers to the portion of § 3 relating to the manufacture, etc.,
of liquor for nonbeverage purposes and wine for sacramental purposes.
*This

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of 1he Court.

281 LT. h.

absolutely and unconditionally; in the case of nonbeverage liquors, it is permitted but carefully regulated. The
prohibitions in § 3 are with respect to the former; while
those in § 6 are with respect to the latter. In the former
the sale, but not the purchase, is prohibited; in the latter
both are prohibited.
Since long before the adoption of the Eighteenth
Amendment it has been held with practical unanimity
that, in the absence of an express statutory provision to
the contrary, the purchaser of intoxicating liquor, the sale
of which was prohibited, was guilty of no offense. And
statutes to the contrary have been the rare exception.
Probably it was thought more important to preserve the
complete freedom of the purchaser to testify against the
seller than to punish him for making the purchase. 'See
Lott v. United States, 205 Fed. 28. However that may
be, it is fair to assume that Congress, when it came to pass
the Prohibition Act, knew this history and, acting in the
light of it, deliberately and design~edly omitted to impose
upon the purchaser of liquor for beverage purposes any
criminal liability. If aid -were needed to support this
view of the matter, it would be found in the fact, conceded
by the government's brief, that during the entire life of
the- National Prohibition Act, a period of ten years, the
executive departments charged with the administration
and enforcement of the act have uniformly construed it
as not including the purchaser in a case like the present;
no prosecution until the present one has ever been undertaken upon a different theory; and Congress, of course
well aware of this construction and practice, has signifi,
cantly left the law in its original form. It follows that,
since the indictment charges no offense under § 6, it was
properly quashed.
Judgment affirmed.

