OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

particular highways or to the extent or frequency of
the use, and that, as in California, they are not exacted
of non-resident automobilists passing through the state
(1923 California Statutes, c. 266, ยง 47,) marks them as
demands of sovereignty, not of proprietorship, and likens
them to taxes rather than tolls. The fact that they may
have been held justified, in other connections, because of
their similarity to " tolls for the use of highways" affords
no basis for saying that the present fees are prohibited
tolls within the meaning of the Federal Highway Act.
Such fees were a common form of state license tax
before the Federal Highway Act was adopted in 1921.
That act contemphIted the continued maintenance by
the States of state highways, constructed with federal aid,
the expense of which must necessarily be defrayed from
revenues derived from state taxation. It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to procure the abandonment by the states of this well recognized type of taxation without more explicit language than that prohibiting
tolls found in ยง 9. Judgments in both cases
Affirmed.

OHIO Ex REL. BRYANT v. AKRON METROPOLITAN

PARK DISTRICT
OHIO

EX REL.

ET AL.

WADSWORTH v. ZANGERLE

ET AL.

APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
Nos. 237 and. 238.

Argued February 27, 28, 1930.-Decided

March 12, 1930.
1. An Ohio statute empoNers the probate judge of any county, upon
petition and after notice and hearing, to establish a park district,
if he finds the proceedings regular and that the district will be conducive to the general welfare, and thereupon to appoint a board of
park commissioners of the district. It empowers the board, so
appointed, to acquire lands within the district for the conservation
of its natural resources, and to that end to create parks, parkways

OHIO v. AKRON PARK DISTRICT.
74

75

Statement of the Case.

and other-reservations and develop, improve and protect the same
in such manner as they may deem conducive to the general welfare;
to lay assessments upon specially benefited lands in proportion to,
and not exceeding, the special benefits conferred by the development
or improvement; to levy limited taxes upon all taxable property
within the district; and to adopt regulations for the preservation of
good order within and adjacent to such parks and reservations and
of property and natural life therein, violation of which regulations
shall constitute a misdemeanor. It further provides for annexing
additional -territory to a district through probate court proceedings
in the county embracing the additional territory, and for the levying of additional taxes for the use of a district when authorized
by the electors of the district at an election to which the question
is submitted by the board. The board is empowered to issue bonds
in anticipation of the collection of such levy for the purpose of
acquiring and improving lands. Held that no substantial federal
question is Presented.by a contention that the statute, in delegating
legislative power to the probate court and the non-elective commissioners, violates the Fourteenth Amendnment. P. 79.
2. Section 2 of Article IV of the Ohio Constitution, ptroviding that
"no law shall be held unconstitutional and void by the Supreme
Court without a concurrence of at least all but one of the judges,
except in the affirmance of a judgment of .the Court of Appeals
declaring a law unconstitutional and void," held not violative of
the due process or equal protection , clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 79.
3. It is well settled that questions arising under the guaranty to
every State of a republican form of government (Const. Art. IV,
ยง 4,) are political,-for Congress and not for the courts. P. 79.
4. The right of appeal is not essential to due process, provided that
due process has already been accorded in the tribunal of first
instance. P. 80.
5. The equal protection clause is not violated by diversity in the
jurisdiction of the several courts of a State as t6 subject matter or
finality of decision if all persons within the territorial limits of the
respective jurisdictions of the state courts have an equal right in
like cases under like circumstances to resort to them for redress.
P. 81.
120 Oh. St. 464, affirmed.

APPEALS from judgments of the Supreme Court of
Ohio, affirming, as a result of a divided court and a pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

76

Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

vision of the State Constitution (Art. IV, ยง 2,) judgments
of the Court of Appeals sustaining the Ohio Park District
Act in two suits brought by taxpayers to restrain its enforcement. The appeals were also directed to orders of
the court below overruling motions to vacate its judgments of affirmance and to enter judgments of reversal.
Messrs. Frederick A. Henry and Luther Day, with
whom Mr. George D. Hile was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Chester L. Dinsmore, Frederick W. Green, Joseph A. H. Myers. and William A. Spencer were on the
brief for the Akron Metropolitan Park District et al.,
appellees.
Messrs. Frederick W. Green, Newton D. Baker, William
C. Boyle and Thomas M. Kirby were on the brief for
Zangerle et al., appellees.
M

. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion

of the Court.
These two cases were argued together and present substantially the same questions. Each suit was brought in
the state court by a taxpayer attacking the validity of the
Park District Act of the State (General Code of Ohio,
secs. 2976-1 to 2976-10i; 107 0. L. 65-69, 108 0. L., pt. 2,
1097-1100). The one suit related to the Park District
Board of the Akron District, and the other to that of the
Cleveland District, and in each suit the taxpayer sought
an injunction against the Park Boards, respectively, together with the auditor of the county where the Board
revenues and disbursements are handled, from expending
public moneys, or incurring obligations requiring such expenditure, and from taking any other official action on
behalf of the district. The statute was assailed as being
in violation of the constitution of the State and also of
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The

OHIO v. AKRON PARK DISTRICT.
74

Opinion of the Court.

validity of the act was sustained by the Court of Common
.Pleas, and by the Court of Appeals, of the counties where
the suits were brought. On error proceedings from these
judgments, the cases were heard together in the Supreme
Court of the State, and that court was divided in opinion,
two of the justices holding the statute to be valid, and
five of them being of the contrary view. Section 2 of
Article IV of the constitution of Ohio provides that "no
law shall be held unconstitutional and void by the Supreme Court without a concurrence of at least all but
one of the judges, except in the affirmance of a judgment
of the Court of Appeals declaring a law unconstitutional
and void." Accordingly, in these suits, the judgments in
favor of the defendants were affirmed by the Supreme
Court and, thereupon, motions were made in that court
to vacate the judgments and to enter judgments of reversal. It was then alleged that the above-mentioned
provision of the constitution of the State was in conflict
with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution in that it denied to citizens of Ohio due process of law
and the equal protection of the laws, and also that the
provision was repugnant to Section 4 of Article IV of the
Federal Constitution assuring to every State a republican
form of government. The Supreme Court of the State
overruled the motions, and from the judgments of affirmance, and the orders denying the motions to vacate, appeals
have been taken to this Court.
The grounds for attack, under the Fourteenth Amendment, on the validity of the Park District Act relate to
the organization and powers of the Park District Boards.
The act provides for the presentation to the probate
judge of the county of a petition for the establishment
of the proposed district and, after notice and hearing,
the probate judge, with or without diminishing or altering, but without enlarging, the suggested boundaries, is to
enter an order creating the district, provided he finds the

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

proceedings to be regular and that the creation of the
district will be conducive to the general welfare. The
probate judge is then to appoint three commissioners who
are to constitute the Board of Park Commissioners of the
district, being a body politic and corporate. The Board
thus constituted is to have power to acquire lands within
the district for the conservation of its natural resources
and, to that end, may create parkways, parks and other
reservations of land, and develop, improve and protect
the same in such manner as they may deem conducive to
the general welfare.. The Board is authorized to lay
assessments upon specially benefited lands in an amount
not exceeding, and in proportion to, the special benefits
conferred by the development or improvement. The
Board is also authorized to levy 'taA-s upon all taxable
property within the district in an amount not in excess
of one-tenth of one mill upon each dollar of the assessed
value of the property in the district in any one year, subject, however, to the combined maximum levy for all purposes otherwise provided by law. On further petitions,
and on the determination by the Park Board of the advisability of the annexation of additional territory, whether
located within or without the county in which the district is created, the probate court of the county within
which tle additional territory is located, in proceedings
similar to those originally instituted, may provide for
such annexation. The Board is also authorized to adopt
by-laws, rules and regulations for the preservation of good
order within and adjacent to the parks and reservations
of land under their jurisdiction and of property and natural life therein. The violation of such by-laws, rules
or regulations constitutes a misdemeanor. The Board
may submit to the electors of the district the question of
levying additional taxes for the use of the district, declaring the necessity of such levy, the purpose for which
the taxes are to be used, the annual rate proposed and

OHIO v. AKRON PARK DISTRICT.
74

Opinion of the Court.

the number of consecutive years that such rate shall be
levied. If a majority of the electors voting upon the
question favor the levy, such taxes shall be levied accordingly, provided the rate submitted to the electors at any
one time shall not exceed one-tenth of one mill annually
upon each dollar of valuation. The Board is empowered
to issue bonds, in anticipation of the collection of such
levy, for the purpose of acquiring and improving lands.
It was insisted by the taxpayers, plaintiffs in the state
court, that these statutory provisions involved an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power to the probate
court and to the nonelective park commissioners. We do
not consider it necessary to consider at length this objection, or the other points sought to be made against the
statute under the Fourteenth Amendment, as, in view of
the repeated decisions of this Court, we do not find any
substantial Federal question presented. Houclc v. Little
River DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S. 254, 262; Orr v. Allen,
245 Fed. 486, 248 U. S. 35; Soliah v. Heskin, 222 U. S. 522.
The question with respect to the validity, from a Federal standpoint, of the provision of the state constitution
that no law shall be held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the State without a concurrence of at
least all but one of the judges, except in the affirmance of
a judgment of the Court of Appeals declaring a law unconstitutional, was not raised in these suits until after
the judgments of affirmance by the Supreme Court. But
it is insisted that the point could not have been taken
earlier, as in advance of the affirmance on a vote of the
minority the question would have been speculative.
Hence, it is said that the Federal question was raised at
the earliest opportunity. (Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S.
317, 320.) Assuming that the Federal question is thus
brought here, we find it to be without merit.
As to the guaranty to every State of a republican form
of government (See. 4, Art. IV), it is well settled that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

questions arising under it are political, not judicial, in
character and thus are for the consideration of the Congress and not the cqurts. Pacific States Telephone &
Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118; O'Neill v. Learner,
239 U. S. 244, 248; State of Ohio ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant,Secretary of State of Ohio, 241 U. S. 565; Mountain
Timber Co. v. State of Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 234.
As to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is sufficient to say that, as frequently determined
by this Court, the ,ight of appeal is not essential to due
process, provided that due process has already been accorded in the tribunal of first instance. McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687; Pittsburgh, etc. Railway Co. v.
Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 427; Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S.
505, 508; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 435; Standard Oil
Company of Indiana v. State of Mis, "ri,224 U. S. 270,
286. The opportunity afforded to litigants in Ohio to
contest all constitutional and other questions fully in the
Common Pleas Court and again in the Court of Appeals
plainly satisfied the requirement of the Federal Constitution in this respect and the State was free to establish the
limitation in question in relation to appeals to its Supreme
Court in accordance with its views of state policy.
In invoking the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is argued that the result of the
application of the provision of the state constitution may
be that the same statute may be held constitutional in a
case arising in one county, and unconstitutional in another case arising in another county. This point is obviously not of importance in relation to the question of the
validity of the Park District Act under the Federal Constitution, as the Act of Congress makes appropriate provision for the hearing and determination by this Court of
such a question where a Federal right has been passed
upon by the highest court of the State in which a deci-

OHIO v. AKRON PARK DISTRICT.
74

Opinion of the Court.

sion could be had. But it is said that, from the standpoint
of the state constitution, the statute may. operate unequally. It is unnecessary to comment on this point so
far as the mere inconvenience which may be caused by
possible conflicts is concerned. It is urged that the situation has been described as deplorable by the Supreme
Court of the State (Board of Education v. Columbus, 118
0. S. 295) but it is not for this Court to intervene to protect the citizens of the State from the consequences of its
policy, if the State has not disregarded the requirements
of the Federal Constitution. In the present instance, there
has been as yet no conflict of decision. The provision of
the state constitution which is attacked is one operating
uniformly throughout the entire State. The State has a
wide discretion in respect to establishing its systems of
courts and distributing their jurisdiction. It has been held
by this Court that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is not violated by diversity in the
jurisdiction of the several courts of a State as to subject
matter or finality of decision if all persons within the territorial limits of the respective jurisdictions of the state courts
have an equal right in like cases under like circumstances
to resort to them for redress. A State "may establish one
system of courts for cities, and another for rural districts,
one system for one portion of its territory, and another
system for another portion." Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S.
22, 30, 31. Different courts of appeal may be set up for
different portions of the State. Id., p. 33. It is thus well
established that there is no requirement of the Federal
Constitution that the State shall adopt a unifying method
of appeals which will insure to all litigants within the
State the same decisions on particular questions which may
arise. Missouri v. Lewis, supra; Pittsburgh etc. Railway
Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 427; Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589, 597-599.
Judgments affirmed.
98284%-',-

-6

