66

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
281 U. S.

Syllabus.

distinguishable. from the expense and prospective profit
not actually incurred or earned by respondent, represented
by the retail price. See Central of Georgia R. R. Co. v.
American Coal Co., supra; Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v.
Delta Grocer Co., supra, 146. Compare Cincinnati,N. 0.
& T. P. Ry. Co. v. Hansford, 125 Ky. 37; Smith v. N. Y.
0. & Western Ry. Co., supra; Quanah A. & P. Co. v.
Novitt, supra.
Reversed.
CARLEY & HAMILTON, INC., ET AL. v. SNOOK,
CHIEF OF THE DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLES,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
COTTINGHAM

ET AL.

v. SAME.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 86 and 267.

Submitted January 9, 1930.-Decided
February 24, 1930.

1. Fees exacted y the California Motor Vehicle Act for the registration of specified classes of motor vehicles u-ed for intrastate transportation of passengers for hire and of property, the revenue from
which fees is applied by the Act to the support of the State
Division of Motor Vehicles and to the construction and maintenance of public roads, held exactions made in the exercise of
the state taxing power for the privilege of operating such vehicles
over public highways, expended for state purposes, and not in
conflict with the due process clause of. the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 71.
2. There is nothing in the Federal Constitution which requires a State
to apply such fees, for the benefit of those who pay them. P. 72.
3. The proposition that, although the fees' are not per se dispioportionate to the privilege of operating over all the highways of the
State, owners are entitled to licenses limiting the operation of their
motor vehicles to a few highways which they wish to use (e. g. to
streets in particular cities) upon payment of correspondingly reduced fees, is not supported by any constitutional principle. P. 72.

CARLEY & HAMILTON v. SNOOK.
66

Counsel for Parties.

4. Owners of motor vehicles operated wholly or principally within
the limits of California cities may not escape payment of-the registration fees exacted by the Motor Vehicle Act upon the ground. that
they already pay the fees imposed by the cities, since the imposition
of two taxes by different state statutes upon the same subject matter does not transgress the due process clause if the imposition of
the total tax by a single statute would not do so. P. 72.
5. The California Motor Vehicle Act, in imposing graduated registration fees on described classes of motor vehicles used for the
transportation of passengers for hire or of property, exempts vehicles weighing, when unladen, less than 3,000 lbs. Held not violative of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
or of the similar provision of § 21, Art. I, of the California Constitution. P. -72.
6. The legislature may graduate such fees according to the propensities of the vehicles to injure the public highways, and may exempt
those with respect to which it finds this tendency to be slight or
non-existent. P. 73.
7. These registration fees are not "tolls" within the meaning of § 9
of the Federal Highway Act, providing "that all highways constructed or reconstructed under the provisions of this Act shall be
free from tolls of all kinds." P. 73.
Affirmed.
APPEALS

from decrees of the District Court of three

judges dissolving temporary injunc*tions and dismissing the
bills in two suits against California officials, to enjoin them
from enforcing provisions of the state Motor Vehicle Act
with respect to the imposition and collection of certain
registration fees for motor vehicles.
Messrs. W.

R.

Crawford and Edwin C. Ewing, with

whom Mr. J. F. Vizzard was on the brief, submitted for
Carley & Hamilton; Inc., et al., appellants.
Messrs. W. R. Crawford and Henry Hotchkiss, with
whom Mr. J. F: Vizzard was on the brief, submitted for

Cottingham, et al., appellants.
Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California,
and William F. Cleary, Deputy Attorney General, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

whom Alberta Belford was on the brief, for Snook,
appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

These are appeals under § 266 of the Judicial Code, from
final decrees of District Courts of three judges for the
Northern District of California. Each, on motion to dismiss the complaint, dissolved a temporary injunction, dismissed the complaint and upheld the constitutionality of
§ 77 (b) and (c) of the Motor Vehicle Act of California,
1923 California Statutes, c. 266, as amended, 1927 California Statutes, c. 844. Section 36 (a) requires every motor vehicle operated upon the public highways of the state
to be registered. Under § 77 (a) an annual fee of $3.00
is exacted for the registration of all motor vehicles. By
subsections (b) and (c), printed in the margin so far as
relevant,1 a graduated license or registration fee, payable
1 Sec. 77.

Registration fees.

(a) A r~gistration fee of 'three dol-

lars shall be paid to the division for the registration of every motoK
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, except for those which are exempted
in this act, and such fee shall be paid at the time application is made
for registration.

(b) In addition to the registration fee specified in subdivision
(a) of this section, there shall be paid for the registration of every
electric passenger motor vehicle a registration fee of ten dollars, and
for the registration of every electric motor vehicle designed, used or
maintained primarily for the transportation of passengers for hire,
or for the transportation of property, there shall be paid fees according to the following schedule:
For each such vehicle weighing when unladen, less thar
six thousand pounds .................................
$50.00
For' each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, six
thousand pounds or more, but less than ten thousand
pounds ........................
70.00'
For each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, ten
thousand pounds or more ............................ 90.00
(c) The following registration fees in addition to the registration
fee specified in subdivision (a) of this section, shall be paid for the
registration of vehicles, including trailers and semitrailers, designed,

CARLEY & HAMILTON v. SNOOK.
66

69

Opinion of the Court.

in advance, is exacted for registration of motor vehicles
used for transportation "of passengers for hire or for
transportation of property." The duty of enforcing the
.Act is committed to the appellee, the Chief of the Division of Motor Vehicles, who is required to deposit the
fees collected in the state treasury to the credit of the
" motor vehicle fund." After deductions for the support
of the Division of Motor Vehicles, the fund is required to
be expended, one-half by paying it over to the counties,
to be used by them in the construction and maintenance
of public roads, the other half for the maintenance of
state roads.
Under §§ 51 and 153 (c), operation of a motor vehicle
for which the registration fees have not been paid is a
used or maintained primarily for the transportation of patsengers for
hire or for the transportation of property, according to if following table, except that the fees specified in this subsection need not be
paid for electric vehicleg.
When such vehicles are equipped wholly with pneumatic tires:
For each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, three
thousand pounds or more, but less than six thousand
pounds ............................................... $15.00

For each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, six
thousand .pounds or more, but less than ten thousand
pounds and limited under the provisions of this act to a
total weight, including vehicle and load, not exceeding
twenty-two thousand pounds ..... ................ 40.00
For each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, ten
thousand pounds or more and limited under the provisions of this act to a total weight, including vehicle and
load, not exceeding twenty-two thousand pounds ........ 50.00
For each such vehicle weighing, when unladen, six
thousand pounds or more and entitled under the provisions of this act to a total weight, including vehicle
and load, in excess of twenty-two thousand pounds ...... 70.00
When such vehicles are not equipped wholly with pneumatic tires
there shall be paid in addition to the fees specified in subdivision
(a) of this section fees according to the weight thereof unladen
amounting to twice the fees set forth in the foregoing table.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 1. S.

misdemeanor, punishable by fine of not more than $500,
or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
By § 81, fees not paid for thirty days after they become
due are doubled. Their payment is secured by a lien
upon the vehicles required to be registered, enforcible by
seizure and sale.
Incorporated cities in California-may enact ordinances
requiring license fees for the operation of motor vehicles
used in transporting passengers for hire, and property,
within city limits. Constitution of California, Art. XI,
§§ 11, 12; § 145 Motor Vehicle Act. It is conceded that
all California cities have passed ordinances imposing such
registration fees, varying from $5 to $42 per motor vehicle, in addition to those scheduled in § 77, and that
75% of the fees collected under these ordinances are
applied to the maintenance of streets in cities.
The appellants in both suits are owners of motor vehicles of various types, described in § 77 (b) or (c), which
appellants in No. 86 operate exclusively over highways
within the limits of incorporated cities, and which appellants in No. 267 operate over highways principally
within but partly without city limits. Both complaints
assail the validity of the Act under the Constitution of
California and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The bill in No. 86 was filed December
29, 1928. Its allegations, admitted by the motion to dismiss, are that the appellants will be required to pay
license fees for the ensuing year on or before January
31st, 1929, in order to use their motor vehicles upon
streets of incorporated cities, and to avoid the destruction of their business and irreparable loss by the seizure
and sale of their motor vehicles and the imposition of
the penalties of the Act, which appellee threatens to
enforce. See Packardv.Banton, 264 U. S. 140.
Appellants insist that the registration fees imposed by
§ 77 (b) and (c) are in effect tolls for the use of the high-

CARLEY & HAMILTON v..SNOOK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

ways maintained by the state, see Matter of Application
of Schuler, 167 Cal. 282, 290; Bacon Service Corp. v.
Huss, 199 Cal. 21, 29, and as they pay the license tax
imposed by the cities for the use of city streets, the exaction of the additional "tolls" with respect to highways
outside of cities, which appellants in No. 86 do not use
and which the appellants in No. 267 use less than the city
streets, is a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This argument is based upon cases in this Court arising, not under the Fourteenth Amendment, but the commerce clause of the Constitution, where the tax assailed
was levied by a state on interstate carriers and purported
to be exacted for their use of the state highways. In
such cases this Court must ascertain whether a forbidden
burden is imposed on interstate commerce. For that
purpose it may inquire whether the tax bears some reasonable relation to the use of the state facilities by the
carrier. Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163; Interstate
Busses Corporationv. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 246; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v. New Jersey,
242 U. S. 160; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554.
But we are now concerned only with the use of motor
cars in intrastate commerce, and, in any case, not the precise name which may be given to the money payment
demanded, but its effect upon the persons paying it, is
of importance in determining whether the Constitution
is infringed. Whatever other descriptive term may be
applied to the present registration fees, they are exactions, made in the exercise of the state taxing power, for
the privilege of operating specified classes of motor
vehicles over public highways, and expended for state
purposes. Such fees, if covered into the state treasury
and used for public purposes, as are general taxes, obviously Would not offend against the due process clause.
Nor can we see that they do so the more because the
state has designated the particular public purposes for

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

which they may be used. There is nothing in the Federal Constitution which requires a state to apply such
fees for the benefit of those who pay them. See Thomas,
v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264, 280.
A corollary of this contention is that although the fees
are not per se disproportionate to the privilege of operating over all the highways of the state, appellants are
nevertheless entitled to receive licenses limiting the operation of their motor cars to the few highways which they
wish to use, upon payment of correspondingly reduced
fees. But no constitutional principle is suggested, and
we know of none, which would enable a licensee thus to
regulate the extent of the privilege granted or to assail
an otherwise valid tax upon it merely because a reduction of the privilege and the tax would better suit his
convenience or his pocketbook.
The objection that the appellants should not be required to pay the challenged fees because they are already
paying the city license tax is but the familiar one, often
rejected, that a state may, not, by different statutes,, impose two taxes upon the same subject matter, although,
concededly, the total tax, if imposed by a single taxing
statute, would not transgress the due process clause. See
Swiss Oil Corporation v. Shanks, 273 U. S. 407, 413; St.
Louis, Southwestern Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 367,
368; Shafler v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 58; Fort Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532, 533.
Only a word need be said of appellants' contention that
the exemption of all vehicles weighing less than 3,000
pounds, although their loaded weight may be much more
than vehicles not exempt, infringes the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the similar § 21
of Art. I of the State Constitution.2 That the legislature
.
Nor shall any citizen, or class of citizens, be 'granted
2"
privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall not begranted to all citizens."

CARLEY & HAMILTON v. SNOOK
66

Opinion of the Court.

may graduate the fees according to the propensities of the
vehicles to injure or to destroy the public highways, and
may exempt those with respect to which this tendency is
slight or nonexistent, cannot be doubted. We may not
assume that vehicles weighing less than 3,000 pounds, with
loads which they usually carry, are not of this class, or that
vehicles weighing more than 3,000 pounds with their accustomed burden added do not have this tendency. It is for
the legislature to draw the line between the two classes.
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283,
300, 301; Clark v. Titusville, 184 U. S. 329, 331; Quong
Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62; Citizens Telephone
Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322; Watson v. State Comptroller,
254 U. S. 122, 125; FranchiseMotor Freight Assn. v. Seavey, 196 Cal. 77, 81; In re Schmolke, 199 Cal. 42, 48; cf.
Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. New York, 221 U. S. 467, 484;
Packard v. Banton, supra; Silver v. Silver, 280 U. S. 117,
123.
These conclusions are decisive of the like questions raised
in No. 267. An additional objection raised in that suit
is that the registration fees under § 77 are "tolls" prohibited by the Federal Highway Act, 42 Stat. 212, under
which the state has received grants of federal aid for the
construction and reconstruction of highways. Section 9
of the Federal Highway Act provides "that all highways constructed or reconstructed under the provisions
of this Act shall be free from tolls of all kinds."
The present registration fees cannot be said to be tolls
in the commonly accepted sense of a proprietor's charge
for the passage over a highway or bridge, exacted when
and as the privilege of passage is exercised. See Huse v.
Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548; Sands v. Manistee River Imp.
Co., 123 U. S. 288, 293; St. Louis v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 97. The fact that registration fees are imposed generally upon all residents who use
motor vehicles within the state, without reference to any

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

281 U. S.

particular highways or to the extent or frequency of
the use, and that, as in California, they are not exacted
of non-resident automobilists passing through the state
(1923 California Statutes, c. 266, § 47,) marks them as
demands of sovereignty, not of proprietorship, and likens
them to taxes rather than tolls. The fact that they may
have been held justified, in other connections, because of
their similarity to " tolls for the use of highways" affords
no basis for saying that the present fees are prohibited
tolls within the meaning of the Federal Highway Act.
Such fees were a common form of state license tax
before the Federal Highway Act was adopted in 1921.
That act contemphIted the continued maintenance by
the States of state highways, constructed with federal aid,
the expense of which must necessarily be defrayed from
revenues derived from state taxation. It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to procure the abandonment by the states of this well recognized type of taxation without more explicit language than that prohibiting
tolls found in § 9. Judgments in both cases
Affirmed.

OHIO Ex REL. BRYANT v. AKRON METROPOLITAN

PARK DISTRICT
OHIO

EX REL.

ET AL.

WADSWORTH v. ZANGERLE

ET AL.

APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
Nos. 237 and. 238.

Argued February 27, 28, 1930.-Decided

March 12, 1930.
1. An Ohio statute empoNers the probate judge of any county, upon
petition and after notice and hearing, to establish a park district,
if he finds the proceedings regular and that the district will be conducive to the general welfare, and thereupon to appoint a board of
park commissioners of the district. It empowers the board, so
appointed, to acquire lands within the district for the conservation
of its natural resources, and to that end to create parks, parkways

