IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
342

Syllabus.

indicate that it was made to be rejected. O'Conor's signature to such a claim under the circumstances of course
does not estop him when in fact it was not allowed; and
certainly should not be used to bolster up a broad construction of the 11th and 12th claims when, as we have
said, the state of the art must limit them.
We are clear then that the estoppel of the 11th and
12th claims against O'Conor does not extend to a single
step process such as he has participated in as partner,
stockholder or officer; and if it does not affect him, a
fortiori does it not affect the respondent company.
This result makes it unnecessary for us to consider the
objections that the .Formica Company is not affected by
an estoppel which would operate against O'Conor, or that
the alleged nominal character of the consideration moving
to O'Conor can not support an estoppel.
Decree affirmed.
IN THE MATTER OF PETITION OF EAST RIVER
TOWING CO., INC., FOR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF THE STEAMTUG EDWARD, HER
ENGINES, ETC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 81.

Argued November 25, 1924.--Decided December 8, 1924.

1. An action at law brought under § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act of June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, to recover damages
for the death of a seaman from personal injuries suffered in the
course of his employment, is subject to the injunction provided
by Admiralty Rule 51 in aid of limitation of liability proceedings.
P. 366
2. The Merchant Marine Act, § 33, did not impliedly repeal the
statute regarding limitation of liability of shipowners (Rev. Stats.,
§§ 4283, et seq.,) so far as claims or suits based on personal injuries to, or death of, seamen are concerned. Id.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

CERTIpICATE

266 U. S.

from the Circuit Court of Appeals in a

proceeding in admiralty for limitation of liability, appealed
from the District Court. See 291 Fed. 1017.
Mr. E. C. Sherwood and Mr. John M. Woolsey, with
whom Mr. Clarence S. Zipp was on the brief, for appellant.
The purpose of the law of limitation of liability is to
encourage the building of and investment in ships. As
a consequence, it is to be liberally construed and fully
enforced. The Main v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122; Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96; Norwich Co. v. Wright,
13 Wall. 104; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; Providence
S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578; Butler v. Boston
S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205; La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95; Moore v.
American Transp. Co., 24 How. 1.
That the Limited Liability Law is applicable to cases of
personal injury and death is well established. Butler v.
Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527; Craig v. Continental Ins.
Co., 141 U. S. 638; White v. Island Transp. Co., 233 U. S.
346; Richardson v. Harmon, supra.
The proceeding must necessarily be exclusive in order
to give the hipowner the remedy and relief intended
by Congress. Admiralty Rules, 51-55; The San Pedro,
223 U. S. 365; Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co.,
supra; Norwich Co. v. Wright, supra.
The theory is that, as there was one 'wrong committed by the shipowner, he is entitled to a remedy somewhat analogous to the old Bill of Peace in equity, to
enable him to try out his liability as against everyone
interested, in the one proceeding. See La Bourgogne,
supra; The Titanic, 233 U. S. 718; The Lusitania, 251
Fed. 715.
In The F. H. Marvin, 1924, Am. Mar. Cas. 53, a motion
to vacate a stay of state court proceedings, on the ground

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

Argument for Appellant.

that § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act overrode a shipowner's remedy in limitation of liability, was properly
denied.
The outstanding feature of § 33, which materially
changes or purports to change the rights of a seaman, is
the provision abolishing the fellow-servant rule as a defense. This had been ineffectually attempted in § 20
of the Seaman's Act. Chelentis v. Luckenback S. S. Co.,
247 U. S. 372. That principle and the principle of limited
liability do not conflict. Both continue in force at the
same time. One forms a part of the rules by which is
determined the presence or absence of legal liability on
the part of the employer; the other relates to the aggregate amount that an employer who has been found legally
liable shall be made to pay.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act (adopted in
the Merchant Marine Act,) does not by implication
repeal the statutory provisions permitting shipowners to
limit their liability, or affect the right of the owner to
maintain proceedings for such limitation in a court of
admiralty. The Passaic, 204 Fed. 266.
By reason of their very nature, many provisions of
the "statutes of the United States modifying or extending the common law right or remedy in cases of personal
injury to railway employees" do not apply to actions by
seamen, and cannot be made to apply, the fiat of Congress
to the contrary notwithstanding. A seaman is not concerned with defects in railroad tracks, cars, locomotives
or roadbeds; or with safety appliances on locomotives
and railroad cars. In these circumstances, it is not too
much to say that Congress understood that the sweeping
language employed must of necessity be limited by many
exceptions not therein expressed or suggested. The result is plainly to cast upon the courts the burden of
determining what changes in the maritime law were intended and effected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

266 U. S.

Section 33 created new rules of liability as between
seamen and shipowners; the substantive nature of their
relationship was modified. At the same time, moreover,
these rules of liability were enforceable, either at common law with a jury "as an incident ", or in admiralty
before the court. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264
U. S. 375.
The statute thus construed merely places seamen in
a remedial status the same as that in which they have
always been. They could always bring a common law
action to enforce their substantive rights. The jury was
not a part of the right conferred, but merely a part of the
machinery of the remedy.
But a petition for limitation of liability is also a remedy
which is available to the shipowner. It does not affect
the rights of the seamen under § 33, but only the form
of the seamen's remedy.
There has never been a right of trial by jury in admiralty. Rev. Stats., § 648, excludes juries from proceedings under equity and admiralty jurisdiction, and this
Court has uniformly sustained this procedure.
Inasmuch as this Court has construed § 33 to have
become part of the maritime law, all question of any
alleged right to a jury trial is excluded. Indeed, it is
difficult to understand on what the alleged right to a
jury trial, in this case, could be based, except on a constitutional provision. So far as the admiralty court is concerned, there is no such provision. Consequently, whena
shipowner invokes an admiralty remedy in the admiralty
court, the fact that a jury might be available in another
forum seems immaterial.
There was not any repeal of the limitation statutes by
implication. The Merchant Marine Act, § 2, repeals certain enumerated acts, but no mention is made of the
limited liability laws. The rule that the enumeration
of certain members of a class is the exclusion of all others

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

359

Argument for Appellant.

of that class not enumerated, applies. Soliss v. General
Elec. Co., 213 Fed. 204. When Congress determined to
exempt seamen's wages from the operation of the limited
liability statute, it did so in specific terms. 23 Stat. 57.
Repeals by implication are not favored. To find a
repeal by implication, that implication must be the necessary deduction from the later statute. If the two statutes can be construed so as to be reconcilable, that construction should be taken rather than one which effects
repeal of the earlier law. The two statutes here under
consideration are not so hostile that both cannot stand.
The contention that acts giving new rights against or imposing new liabilities on shipowners have repealed in
part, at least, the limitation of liability statutes, is not
novel; where this contention has been made the courts
have disapproved it. Chappell v. Bradshaw, 35 Fed.
923; The Hoffmans, 171 Fed. 455; The Passaic,204 Fed.
266; Alaska S. S. Co. v. United States, 259 Fed. 713; s. c.
253 U. S. 113; Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527.
The application of the limited liability statutes is not
confined to cases involving claims of seamen. It applies
to cases involving claims of passengers, owners of other
ships, shippers, salvage claimants, stevedores, the Government, and bridge owners. [Citing cases.] These various parties must come into.a limitation .proceeding to
assert their claims, although quite obviously they would
have no concern with any of the provisions of the Merchant Marine Act. Also, the great majority of injured
seamen would never be in collision with the limited liability statutes.
Thus there is no identity between the field of operation
of the one statute and that of the other which could serve
as a basis for a conclusion that the later act was intended
to repeal the eariler.
Passengers and other classes have a right to a jury
trial and full indemnity, subject to a shipowner's right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

266 U. S.

limit his liability. When a seaman is given a right to a
jury trial and full indemnity, it is presumably for the purpose of granting him rights equal to those of the other
classes. The statute is without words of preference which
would indicate an intent to grant him greater rights. The
provision as to jury trial was put in to make it clear that
the new maritime law was to be enforced on the commonlaw side of the court, and that the usual defenses should
not apply in seamen's cases in common-law courts.
The appellee contends that § 6 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, forbidding removal from a state to
a federal court, is incorporated by reference into the
Merchant Marine Act, and that appellant's proceeding
to limit its liability is a removal. The answer is obvious.
Appellant's proceeding is not a removal of the appellee's
state court action; it is an entirely new proceeding in a
new forum in arrest of that state court action. Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578.
It is then unnecessary to consider appellee's argument
that § 6 is incorporated in the Merchant Marine Act;
although it may be noted that an action at law in a state
court, brought b a seaman under that act, has been held
removable into a federal dourt. Wenzler v. Robin Line
S. S. Co., 277 Fed. 812.
The limitation of liability acts deal with remedies, not
with substantive rights. Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130
U. S. 527; The Titanic, 233 U. S. 718.
Mr. William S. Butler and Mr. James A. Gray, with
whom Mr. Henry J. Beilman was on the brief, for appellee.
The limited liability statutes have no application to
cases brought under the Merchant Marine Act for personal injury resulting in death. Their history and judicial construction show their purpose to have been not
only to encourage the building of a merchant marine,
but also to safeguard the rights of seamen, such as the
exemption of seamen's wages and the exclusion, from

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

Argument for Appellee.

the benefits of limitation, of loss incurred with the privity
and knowledge of the owner.
The limitations and qualifications particularly applicable to this proceeding are such as leave the owner only
liable for his own fault, neglect and contracts. Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96; Pendleton v. Benner Line,
246 U. S. 353; Liverpool Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129
U. S. 397.
Prior to the Merchant Marine Act, except for unseaworthiness, a seaman injured in course of his employment
could recover only maintenance, wages and cure; if death
ensued, no right of action existed under the admiralty
law. That act placed seamen upon the same footing with
railroad employees engaged in interstate commerce, both
as to personal injuries and death as the result of such
injuries. Now a seaman who suffers personal injury
may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at
law with the right of trial by jury, and all statutes modifying or extending the common-law right or remedy of
railway employees shall apply; and, in case of his death
from such injury, his personal representative may maintain an action at law with the right of trial by jury, and
in such case all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating the right of action for death in case
of railway employees shall apply.
The petition of appellant to limit its liability constituted. a removal of the action from a state court to a
federal court. The San Pedro, 223 U. S. 365. The
state court is ousted of all jurisdiction, and the remedy
sought therein must be pursued in the proceeding in
the admiralty court. Appellee's right to damages and
the amount thereof, if any, must be determined by a
commissioner named by the admiralty court instead of,
as Congress says, "an action for damages at law with
the right of trial by jury." The court is without power
thus to abrogate a valid provision of statute law. Sec19458o-25--

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

266 U. S.

tion 6 of the Employers' Liability Act prevents the removal from a state court to a federal court on any ground
whatever. Martin v. New York R. R. Co., 241 Fed. 696;
Teel v. Chesapeake Ry. Co., 204 Fed. 918; Hulac v. Chicago Ry. Co., 194 Fed. 747. It is hardly conceivable that
Congress, when it passed the Merchant Marine Act, was
ignorant of § 6 of the Employers' Liability Act, or of
the construction that had been put upon it by the courts.
As it did not except from the statute the application of
this section to cases of seamen, the conclusion is that
it was intended to apply.
It is said that the repealing clause of the act says nothing of limited liability, while, if Congress intended to
affect that provision, it would have referred to it specifically. Why, when the system brought into the admiralty
law contains a prohibition of limited liability (Employers' Liability Act, § 5) should further reference be necessary? Section 5 declares an established policy,-that
full indemnity shall be paid for the injury sustained by
all who come within its provisions,-and it prohibits any
device to exempt the employer from liability. See Liverpool Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397.
Certainly Congress never intended to permit a limitation of liability which it prohibited the parties themselves to create by agreement. To do so would be to
practically nullify the removal of a distinction between
employees differing only in the place of employment and
to render nugatory a remedial act which must always be
given such construction as will best tend to prevent the
mischief and advance the remedy.
The power of Congress to enact § 33 of the Merchant
Marine Act is sustained in PanamaR. R. Co. v. Johnson,
264 U. S: 375. Congress, exercising the power it has always possessed but has never before used, brought into
and made part of the maritime law that system of rules
which, since 1908, has been applicable to railroad employees. This is no greater innovation in the existing

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

Argument for Appellee.

order than was the original incorporation of the rules in
the system from which they are taken.
Repeals by implication are not favored; but, in so far
as a subsequent statute is inconsistent with an existing
one, or the new statute covers the entire field to which
it relates or changes a legislative policy theretofore established, or qualifies existing law, the subsequent statute
will prevail. The Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677;
United States v. Yuginovich, 246 U. S. 448; Campbell v.
Wadsworth, 248 U. S. 169. An analogous situation
arose in connection with the construction of the Act of
1884, adding to the existing limited liability statute.
See Richardsonv. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96, 103.
For the benefit of seamen, and in a manner approved
by this Court, the rules applicable to railroad employees
were made a part of the maritime system. PanamaR. R.
v. Johnson, supra. If the restriction contended for by
the appellant attaches, the system is in effect nullified
and the great step forward rendered worthless to those
intended to be benefited thereby. See Benedict, Admiralty, 4th ed., p. 149, § 190; In re Charles Nelson Co.,
294 Fed. 926.
The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239, is not an authority
either to stay the prosecution of the action now pending
or for the proposition that the limited liability act is applicable under the circumstances of the instant case. The
theory of that decision is that the flexibility of admiralty
proceedings is such as to enable courts so to shape their
course as to obtain justice between the parties, and extends the right to limit the liability after the damages
have been assessed by the trial court.
The classes of persons other than seamen who must
come into a limitation proceeding to assert their claims
of course have no concern with the Merchant Marine
Act, and hence are in no way affected by it but remain
just where the limited liability statutes place them.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

On the other hand, the representative of the seaman
whose death resulted from personal injuries is vastly
concerned. His cause of action was unknown to the maritime law until almost three quarters of a century after the
Limited Liability Act was passed. The section of the
Merchant Marine Act which created this cause of action
attached no limitation or qualification to it, but made it
specifically applicable to seamen only, and to them only
when death ensued from injury sustained in the course
of employment.
Under the limited liability statutes, the shipowner,
while liable without limit for his own negligence, is liable
only to the extent of the ship and freight for the negligence or misconduct of the master and crew. Under the
system imported into the maritime law and which appellee invokes, he is liable, without limit, not only for his
own negligence, but for the negligence of those to whom
he delegates the duties imposed by law upon himself,
that is to say, for death resulting in whole or in part
from the negligence of any of the officers, agents or em1loyees of the shipowner or by reason of any defect or
insufficiency due to his negligence in the ship's appliances
or machinery.
In case of death, "election" is not a part of the provision.. The right to "maintain" the action is not subjected to any limitation or qualification whatever.
Mr. Chauncey I. Clark and Mr. Samuel C. Coleman,
by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Frank P. Deering, Mr. Haloey L. Rixford and Mr.
Robert M. Jones, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amici curiae.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case comes here upon a certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The facts

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

365

Opinion of the Court.

are few. On August 2, 1922, the Steamtug Edward, belonging to East River Towing Company, Inc., a New
York Corporation, sank in New York harbor because of
an explosion of her boiler. This caused the death of her
captain, Thomas McCaffrey, and his administratrix
brought a suit against the Company in the Supreme Court
of New York. Thereupon the Company filed a petition
for limitation of liability in the District Court of the
United States. Rev. Stats., §§ 4283, et seq. Admiralty
Rules 51-55. The District Court made an order under
Rule 51 restraining the further prosecution of the suit,
but on motion vacated the stay on the ground that the
statutes limiting liability were repealed so far as they
applied to this case by the Merchant Marine Act, June
5, 1920, c. 250, § 33; 41 Stat. 988, 1007; under which the
suit purports to be brought. 294 Fed. 686. The questions certified are: " (1) If an action at law be brought
such as is described in Merchant Marine Act 1920, Sec.
33, can the prosecution thereof be enjoined by the injunction provided for in Admiralty Rule 51? (2) Has
the Merchant Marine Act 1920, Sec. 33, impliedly repealed the statute regarding limitation of liability of
ship owners so far as claims or suits based on personal
injuries to or death of seamen are concerned?"
Section 33 of the Merchant Marine Act gives an action
at law with the right of trial by jury to any seaman
suffering personal injury in the course of his employment,
or to his personal representative in case of his death from
such injury. In the former cases the statutes of the
United States modifying or extending the common law
right or remedy of railway employees shall apply; in the
latter such statutes conferring or regulating the right of
action for death of such employees. The argument that
this section removes the personal injury or death of seamen from the statutes limiting liability is based upon
the growing considerations for the claims of labor; the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

suggestion that the enlistment of seamen needs to be encouraged equally with the building of ships; and the supposed inconsisteficy of the right to a jury trial and of
some of the statutes incorporated by reference, with the
continued application of the older law. Thus the Act of
April 22, 1908, c. 149; 35 Stat. 65; as amended by the
Act of April 5, 1910, c. 143; 36 Stat. 291; regulating
actions for injuries or death of railroad employees gives
concurrent jurisdiction to the courts of the States and of
the United States and forbids the removal of cases arising
under the act from state courts of competent jurisdiction
to any court of the United States. It is argued that a stay
of proceedings in the State Court and an adjudication
in the District Court would be a removal; which of course
it would not be in a technical sense. It is said with more
force in The El Mundo, 294 Fed. 577, 579, that when
§ 33 was passed a seaman at his election already had his
action with trial by jury, or a libel in the admiralty, but
in either case subject to injunction and a concourse
under Rev. Stats., § 4285, and that if the new section
left the seaman's election liable to be defeated by the
election of the owner to surrender his ship, it was empty
words. So the "election" to "maintain" an action at
law given by § 33 is thought not reconcilable with the
possibility that he should be called into admiralty against
his will, and his action at law stopped. In re Charles
Nelson Co., 294 Fed. 926, 929; (reversed however, October 27, 1924; 1 F. (2d) 774).
We are of opinion that these arguments cannot prevail.
We shall not follow the discussions in the briefs as to
the origin of the Admiralty rule, a question that cannot
be answered with confidence from the historical material
now at hand. The English Courts interpreting, we presume, the scope of their own decisions, rather than passing upon historical fact, refer the Admiralty liens to the
commercial convenience of security and repudiate the

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
355

Opinion of the Court.

reference of liability to the guilt of the ship. The Tervaete, [1922] P. 259, 270. In this Court the ship has
been personified so far as to incur liability in cases where
the owner could not be held. The China, 7 Wall. 53.
See The Malek Adhel, 2 How. 210, 234; Liverpool, Brazil
& River Plate Steam Navigation Co. v. Brooklyn Eastern
District Terminal, 251 U. S. 48, 53. It is laid down in
The China that "originally, the primary liability was
upon the vessel, and that of the owner was not personal,
but merely incidental to his ownership, from which he
was discharged either by the loss of the vessel or by
abandoning it to.the creditors." If this be true it gives to
our statute a distinguished family tree but hardly throws
light upon the question now before the Court.
The short point is that the later act determines the extent of the seaman's substantive rights and the measure
of damages, PanamaR. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375,
391; the earlier one, from what he shall collect those damages in certain exceptional cases, where those rights have
been infringed. If there is no surrender of the ship,
which we presume is made relatively rarely, the limited
liability statutes play no part. Section 33 has no relation
to means of collection but only to principles of liability
and the ordinary course of trial. Naturally therefore
the limited liability laws are not mentioned in the list of
statutes repealed, in § 2; yet there can be no doubt that
those laws would apply unless repealed. No sufficient
reason is offered for the extraordinary preference over
other claims that would be given to seamen were the
decree of the District Court sustained. When a preference in respect of seamen's wages was intended it was
expressed. Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, § 18; 23 Stat. 57.
On the other hand it .has been laid down with reference
to this same § 33 that an intention to depart from a
policy deliberately settled in a general statute, is not
lightly to be assumed. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson,

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

264 U. S. 375, 384. See also Butler v. Boston & Savannah
S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527. The Bankruptcy Act might provide a bar to recovery-homestead and other exemptions
might make collection of a judgment impossible-yet we
do not suppose that it would be argued that such laws
were overridden by § 33. The wholesale adoption of the
law for railroads above mentioned must be taken as an
adoption of principles not as a basis for meticulous discovery of conflict with an established system in matters
of detail. The choice of a jury trial is given when things
take their ordinary course, not to break in upon the settled mode of adjustment when the ship is given up.
We answer these questions as they are asked and assume that the State Court had jurisdiction to try the case
under the concluding words of the section: "Jurisdiction
in such actions shall be under the court of the district in
which the defendant employer resides or in which his
principal office is located." For assuming that it had
jurisdiction we have no doubt that the injunction may
issue and that the statute regarding limitation of liability
of ship owners has not been repealed so far as claims
like the present are concerned. We answer
Question (1): Yes.
Question (2): No.

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, TRANSFERRED FROM
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided December 8, 1924.

1. In an action brought in the District Court under Jud. Code, § 24,
(20) to recover compensation for property taken by the United
States, judgment is reviewable directly by this Court and not by
the Circuit Court of Appeals P. 369.

