WEBSTER v. FALL.
503

Syllabus.

641-642. It may be said in passing that the case is here
upon appeal not upon writ of error, the appropriate mode
of review in criminal contempts; but that is unimportant
under c. 448, § 4, 39 Stat. 726, 727, requiring disregard of
such mistakes.
Appellant insists, however, that the jurisdiction of this
court attaches upon the grounds that the district court
was without jurisdiction to make the order and that
there was a denial of constitutional rights. See Grant v.
United States, 227 U. S. 74, 78-79. Jurisdiction of the
district court here over the person and over the subjectmatter of contempts is beyond question; and the challenge to the jurisdiction, as well as the assumed denial of
constitutional rights, apparently, are made to rest only
upon the assertion that it was not within the power of
the referee or the district court, as a court of bankruptcy,
to require the bank, by a summary order, to restore to the
trustee the amount of the payment in question; the contention being that the only remedy was by plenary action
with the right of trial by jury. Bu, since the decision of
the circuit court of appeals, as already stated, is conclusively against appellant upon that issue, and prevented
any further consideration of it by the district court, the
asserted basis for a direct resort to this court is without
any substance.
Appeal dismissed.
WEBSTER v. FALL, SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLA

OMA

No. 149. Argued December 11, 1924. Decided January 5, 1925.
1. A suit lacking a necessary party defendant should be dismissed.
on that ground without deciding the merits. P. 510.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

266 U. S.

2. Under the Act of March 3, 1921, § 4, c. 120, 41 Stat. 1249, the
power and responsibility in respect of the making of payments
to incompetent Osage Indians are with the Secretary of the
Interior, and neither the Superintendent of the Agency nor a disbursing agent has any primary authority in the matter. P. 510.
3. Therefore the Secretary is a necessary party to a suit by a
member of the Osage Tribe to compel payments and attacking as
unconstitutional a statute and orders and regulations of the Secretary under which payment was withheld. Id. Gnerich v. Butter,
265 U. S. 388.
4. Questions which lurk in the record, neither ruled upon nor
brought to the attention of the Court, are not to be considered
as having been so decided as to constitute precedents. P. 511.

Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, dismissing,
for want of equity, a bill for a mandatory injunction to
compel payments of money to the plaintiff, an incompetent Osage Indian.
Mr. PrestonA. Shinn for appellant.
In support of his contention that the Secretary of
the Interior was not a necessary party, he cited: School
of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; Public Clearing
House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 505; Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S.
1; Regal Drug Co. v. Wardell, 260 U. S. 386; Waite v.
Macy, 246 U. S. 606; Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557;
Corneli v. Moore, 257 U. S. 491; Ng Fung Ho v. White,
259 U. S. 277; National Life Ins. Co. of U. S. v. National
Life Ins. Co., 209 U. S. 317; Lewis Pub. Co. v. Morgan,
229 U. S. 288; Eastman v. Armstrong Co., 212 Fed. 662;
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Swigart v. Baker, 229
U. S. 187. Gnerich v. Rutter, 265 U. S. 388, distinguished.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Wells and Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, appeared for appellees.

WEBSTER v. FALL.
507

Opinion of the Court..

MR. JuSTIcE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant, an adult member of the Osage Tribe of Indians and without a certificate of competency, brought
this suit against the Secretary of the Interior, Wright,
the Superintendent of the Osage Agency, and Wise, a Special Disbursing Agent charged with the duty of paying
and disbursing funds and moneys due individual Osage
Indians, to secure a mandatory injunction commanding
and requiring that moneys and funds due appellant under
the Act of March 3, 1921, §4, c. 120, 41 Stat. 1249, 1250,
be assigned and paid over to him, alleging that the same
were being unlawfully withheld. The act requires the
Secretary to cause to be paid to each adult nember of the
Osage Tribe not having a certificate of competency one
thousand dollars quarterly, etc., payments to be made
under the supervision of the Superintendent of the Osage
Agency. But § 2087, Rev. Stats., provides: "No annuities, or moneys, or goods, shall be paid or distributed
to Indians while they are under the influence of any
description of intoxicating liquor, or while there are good
and sufficient reasons leading the officers or agents, whose
duty it may be to make such payments or distribution,
to believe that there is any species of intoxicating liquor
within convenient reach of the Indians, etc." In virtue
of this provision payments to appellant were refused.
This refusal is attacked by the bill of complaint upon
the ground that § 2087 and all orders, rules, or regulations issued thereunder by the Secretary of the Interior,
in so far as appellant is concerned, are unconstitutional.
The facts upon which it was determined that appellant
came within the statutory prohibition are not in question.
There has been no service upon the Secretary and he
has not appeared in the suit. The other defendants were
served, the case went to trial, and the bill after a hear-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U.S.

ing was dismissed for want of equity and on the merits.
But the suit was one which required the presence of the
Secretary, and the bill should have been dismissed for
want of a necessary party. Gnerich v. Rutter, 265 U. S.
388; Warner Valley Stock Co. v. Smith, 165 U. S.28, 34.
The statutory direction to cause quarterly payments to be
made (subject to § 2087) is addressed to the Secretary.
The power and responsibility are his. Neither Wright nor
Wise has any primary authority in the matter. They
can act only under, and in virtue of, the Secretary's general or special direction. In the absence of it no payments
or disbursements properly can be made. Authority in
the Superintendent to supervise such payments is not
authority to cause them to be made. The statement of
this Court in'the Gnerich Case (p. 391) is pertinent here:
"They act under his direction and perform such acts only
as he commits to them by the regulations. They are responsible to him and must abide by his direction. What
they do is as if done by him. He is the public's real
representative in the matter, and, if the injunction were
granted, his are the hands which would be tied." In
the Smith Case, suit was brought against the Secretary
of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General
Land Office to enjoin them from exercising further jurisdiction with respect to the disposition of certain public
lands; from further trespassing upon complainant's right
of quiet possession; and to command the issue of patents
to plaintiff. The suit abated as to the Secretary because
of his resignation, and it was held that it could not be
continued against the Commissioner alone. We quote
from the opinion (pp. 34-35): "The purpose of the bill
was to control the action of the Secretary of the Interior;
the principal relief sought was against him; and the relief
asked against the Commissioner of the General Land
Office was only incidental, and by way of restraining him
from executing the orders of his official head. To main-

NORTON v. LARNEY.
507

Syllabus.

tain such a bill against the subordinate officer alone, without joining his superior, whose acts are alleged to have
been unlawful, would be contrary to settled rules of equity
pleading."
Counsel for appellant directs our attention to other
cases, where this Court proceeded to determine the merits
notwithstanding the suits were brought against inferior
or subordinate officials without joining the superior. We
do not stop to inquire whether all or any of them can be
differentiated from the case now under consideration,
since in none of them was the point here at issue suggested or decided. The most that can be said is that the
point was in the cases if anyone had seen fit to raise it.

Questions which merely lurk in the record, neither
brought to the attention of the court nor ruled upon, are
not to be considered as having been so decided as to
constitute precedents. See New v. Oklahoma, 195 U. S.
252, 256; Teift, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222 U. S.
114, 119; United States v. More, 3 Cr. 159, 172; The
Edward, 1 Wheat. 261, 275-276. In any event, this case
falls within the principles definitely established by the
Gnerich and Smith Cases.
Decree reversed with directions to dismiss the bill
for want of a necessary party.

NORTON ET AL. v. LARNEY, A MINOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 146. Submitted December 8, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
1. An averment in a bill to quiet title to a Creek Indian allotment
that the plaintiff went into possession by authority of treaties

between the Creek Nation and the United States and the laws
of Congress dealing with the lands and individuals of the Creek

