MILLER v. ROBERTSON.

243

Syllabus.

MILLEjR, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET
AL. v. ROBERTSON.
ROBERTSON v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY
CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

Nos. 35 and 145. Argued May 1, 2, 1924.-Decided November 17,
1924.
1. Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, which gives to
"any person, not an enemy, or ally of enemy . . . to whom
any debt may be owing from an enemy, or ally of enemy," the
right to "institute a suit in equity in the district court
to es tablish the

.

.

.

debt so claimed," should be construed

liberally to effect its purpose of preventing or lessening less or
inconvenience likely to result to non-enemy persons from seizures
of enemy property under the act. P. 247.
2. The term "debt" in this section is not confined to causes for
which the common law action of debt might be maintained.
P. 248.
3. An instrument executed by the owner of an operating mine and
an ore-buyer, for the sale of ore which both parties knew to exist
in the mine in substantial quantity, described the product covered by it as the total production of ore "shipped by the seller"
from the mine, but manifested its intention as binding the seller,
during a specified period, to mine ore, select it for shipment with
the aid of an increase of plant, and ship all of a specified grade
to the buyer, and as binding the buyer to take such higher grade
ore at the prices designated, and as giving the buyer an option
on the lower grades. Held, a mutual and valid contract. P. 250.
4. In determining the validity of such contract, an opinion as to the
seller's legal obligations under it, expressed by the seller's manager to the buyer's agent after the contract was made, is of no
weight. P. 252.
5. The evidence does not sustain a contention that the plaintiff's
assignor failed to ship ore "in as nearly as possible equal weekly
quantities." as required by the contract in controversy. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

6. Where a mining company and a smelting company were both
subsidiaries of a parent corporation, with common executive officers and boards of directors, but were, nevertheless, independent
entities, with different general managers and operating staffs, a
contract by the smelting company for the sale of its ore does not
include ore of the mining company which might be similarly described, and which, if the contracting company had control over
the other, might be deemed to be included. P. 254.
7. Facts found on undisputed evidence by a master, whose report
was confirmed by the District Court and its ruling sustained by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, will be accepted here. P. 256.
8. The plaintiff's assignor, a mining corporation, upon a buyer's refusal to accept ore under a contract of sale, resold it, for the best
price obtainable after diligent, bona fide effort, to a smelting corporation, which could have gotten like ore-in the market on as
favorable terms. The two corporations were separate entities but
both subsidiaries of a third. Held, that their intercorporate relations afforded no ground for setting off profits made by the
smelting company after smelting the ore against the damages resulting to the mining company from the original buyer's breach
of contract. P. 256.
9. Service of summons and complaint upon representatives of a
German firm in this country in an attempt to commence an action
for breach of contract, held a demand from which interest might
be allowed. P. 257.
10. The rule of sovereign immunity from liability for interest is inapplicable to a suit under the Trading with the Enemy Act, in
which no debt is alleged as owing from the United States to the
plaintiff. P. 257.
11. Though generally not allowable upon unliquidated damages, interest or its equivalent may be included, in the exercise of a sound
discretion, when necessary in fixing fair compensation. P. 258.
12. Where a German firm broke its contract to buy ore and damages
were demanded before this country entered the late war, and for a
long time after that event it continued to have general representatives here and property sufficient to pay the damages, which was
taken over by the Alien Property Custodian, interest was properly
allowed, in a suit against it under the Trading with the Enemy Act,
from the time of the demand, including the period of this country's
participation in the war. P. 258.

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

13. Upon breach of a contract of sale, if the seller in reselling pays
less freight on the goods than he must have paid had he shipped
them under the contract, the difference should be credited to the
buyer in estimating the damages for the breach. P. 259.
286 Fed. 503, affirmed.

CRoss appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed, with a modification, a decree for the
plaintiff, Robertson, in a suit for damages for breach of
contract, brought under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Mr. Lindley M. Garrison,Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck,
Mr. Adna R. Johnson, Jr., and Mr. Dean Hill Stanley,
Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the
briefs, for Miller, Alien Property Custodian, et al.
Mr. Alfred Sutro and Mr. C. W. Stockton, with whom
Mr. Kenneth E. Stockton, Mr. E. S. Pillsbury,Mr. Frank
D. Madison, Mr. H. D. Pillsbury and Mr. Oscar Sutro
were on the briefs, for Robertson.
MR. JusTIcE BUTIER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit brought under § 9 of the Act of Congress,
approved October 6, 1917, known as the "Trading with
the Enemy Act," c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, 419. The plaintiff
below, Frederick Y. Robertson, is a citizen of the United
States, and sued as assignee of the Mammoth Copper
Mining Company, a Maine corporation, hereinafter called
The defendants are the Alien Property
the "seller."
Custodian, the Treasurer of the United States and five
citizens of Germany, enemies of the United States, as defined by the act, copartners doing business under the name
of Beer, Sondheimer & Company, and hereinafter called
the "buyers." The purpose of the suit is to establish a
"debt" plaintiff claims to be owing from the enemy defendants on account of damages alleged to have resulted

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

to the seller from the buyers' breach of a contract for the
purchase of zinc ore.
The contract provided: "The product covered by this
contract is the total production of zinc crude ore shipped
by the seller from its properties in Shasta County, California. The buyer is not obligated to accept any of the
product running less than thirty-three (33%) per cent.
metallic zinc. Should the seller produce a zinc product
running less than thirty-three (33%) per cent. metallic
zinc, the buyer reserves the option to purchase same
under the terms of this contract. If the buyer should
not elect to accept such product, the seller has the privilege of disposing of it elsewhere. This contract shall run
for a period of one year from the date of first shipment
made after the completion of the picking plant which the
seller contemplates building, but in no event shall the life
of the contract exceed eighteen (18) months from the date
of its execution." Places of delivery were provided for,
and the seller agreed to bear freight charges to Bartlesville, Oklahoma, or their equivalent. Shipments were to
be made in as nearly as possible equal weekly quantities.
The prices were $19 per ton for ore containing 40 per cent.
metallic zinc, based on a spelter price of. $5 per cwt. at St.
Louis, to be increased $1 per ton for each unit of one per
per cent. over, and to be decreased correspondingly for
each unit below, 40 per cent.; and also to be increased
or decreased five cents per ton for each cent the market
price of spelter at St. Louis rose above or fell below $5
per cwt. And it was provided that, "Whenever the production or shipment of ore by the seller or the receipt or
treatment of the ore by the buyer is prevented or delayed . . . by . . . any cause . . . which
may be properly termed 'Vis Major' . . . this agreement shall be suspended during such delay or prevention;
the seller, if so prevented or delayed in producing or

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

247

Opinion of the Court.

shipping the ore hereby contracted for, shall not be under
any duty or obligation to furnish ore to the buyer . .
while . . . so prevented or delayed, and the buyer if
so prevented or delayed in receiving or treating the ore
hereby contracted for, shall not be under any duty or
obligation to receive any of the ore hereby contracted for,
while so prevented or delayed. Upon the termination of
the delay or interruption herein set forth, the obligation
of the contracting parties shall be resumed."
The District Court gave judgment in favor of the seller
for $259,597.21 with costs. On appeal by the Custodian
and Treasurer, and a cross appeal by the plaintiff (Judicial
Code, § 128), the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
decree, except that the amount of interest allowed by the
trial court was increased. 286 Fed. 503. The Custodian
and Treasurer have appealed to this court. Judicial Code,
§ 241. They contend that plaintiff's claim was not a
"debt" within the meaning of § 9 of the act; that the
alleged contract was lacking in mutuality and void for
want of consideration; that the seller broke the contract
by refusing to make shipments "in as near as possible
equal weekly quantities"; that the contract was not enforce'able because made in violation of an earlier contract
for the sale of the same ore; that no more than nominal
damages should have been awarded; and that the lower
court erred in allowing interest. The plaintiff has appealed and contends that the lower courts erred in giving
the buyers credit for the amount by which the freight
charges on the ore resold were less than they would have
been if the ore had been shipped under the contract. The
enemy defendants did not appear in the case; and it has
been stipulated that the decree will not be enforced against
them personally.
1. Is plaintiff's claim a "debt" within the meaning of
§9 of the act?

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

This section gives to "any person, not an enemy, or
to whom any debt may be owing
ally of enemy .
from an enemy, or ally of enemy," the right to "institute
(to which
.
a suit in equity in the district court
suit the alien property custodian or the Treasurer of the
United States, as the case may be, shall be made a party
debt so claimed.
defendant), to establish the
At the time of the passage of the act, a large amount
of property was owned and much business was carried on
by alien enemies and their allies in this country. Congress determined that their property should be taken over
and that trade with them should cease. The purpose
was to weaken enemy countries by depriving their supporters of power to give aid. But the seizure of the
money and property of enemies and their allies would tend
to hinder and might embarrass or ruin those having business transactions with them. By the taking, the property seized would be put out of reach of persons claiming
it and beyond the power of creditors to attach it for debt.
The purpose of § 9 was to prevent or lessen losses and inconvenience liable to result to non-enemy persons. This
provision is highly remedial and should be liberally construed to effect the purposes of Congress and to give
remedy in all cases intended to be covered. United States
v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 65, 66; United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 531, 538. The just purpose of the section
is not to be defeated by q narrow interpretation or by
unnecessarily restricting the meaning of the word within
technical limitations. United States v. Freeman, 3 How.
556, 565; Danciger v. Cooley, 248 U. S. 319, 326; French
v. Weeks, 259 U. S. 326, 328.
Appellants contend that "debt ", as used in § 9, is limited to its common law meaning. Undoubtedly, Congress
intended to include causes of action which at common law
were enforceable in an action of debt, such as those arising

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

on bonds, notes, and other express promises to pay,
(Raborg v. Peyton, 2 Wheat. 385; United State. v. Colt,
25 Fed. Cas. No. 14,839, p. 581) quantum meruit and
quantum valebat. Smith v. First CongregationalMeetinghouse, 8 Pick. 178, 181;Norris v. School District, 12
Me. 293, 297; Jenkins v. Richardson, 6 J. J. Marshall
(Ky.) 441; .Mahaffey v. Petty, 1 Ga. 261, 264.
The meaning of the word "debt" as used in many
statutes is not restricted to demands enforceable in actions
of debt. Lord Coke, referring to the Statute of Merton
(A. D. 1235) said (II Institutes, 89): "Debitum signifieth not only debt, for which an action of debt doth
lie, but here in this ancient act of parliament, it signifieth generally any duty to be yielded or paid

.

"

Chief Justice Shaw, referring to a statute making members of a corporation liable for its "debts ", said (Mill
Dam Foundery v. Hovey, 21 Pick. 417, 455): "For,
though a question was made, whether such a claim for
unliquidated damages is a debt, within the meaning
of the statute, we do not think it admits of a reasonable
doubt, that all such claims for damages were intended to
be included in the term 'debt.'!' A cause of action for
damages for breach of contract is a debt within the
meaning of the Bankruptcy Act, and of laws relating to
attachments, to receiverships, to stockholders' liability for
corporate debts, to probate, to set-offs, to fraudulent conveyances, and to limitation of actions.'
1

Bankruptcy Act: Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn.,
240 U. S. 581, 592. Ccmpare Rev. Stats., §§ 1237, 1610, 2296, 4537.
Attachment laws: Fisher v. Consequa, 9 Fed. Cas. No. 4816, p. 120;
New Haven Saw-Mill Co. v. Fowler, 28 Conn. 103, 108; Showem v.
J. L. Owens Co., 158 Mich. 321, 334; Hyman v. Newell, 7 Colo.
App. 78, 80; Hunt v. Norris, 4 Mart. (La.) 517, 532; Wilson v.
Wilson, 8 Gill. (Md.) 192, 194; Baumgardner v. Dowagiac Mfg.
Co., 50 Minn. 381; Cheney v. Straube, 35 Nebr. 521; Barber v.
Robeson, 15 N. J. L. 17, 19; Lenox v. Howland, 3 Caines (N. Y.)
19458°-25---20

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

There is nothing in the language of the act or the reasons for its enactment to indicate a purpose to restrict the
right to institute suits in equity as authorized in § 9 to
causes of action cognizable in debt under technical procedural rules. The words of a statute are to be read in
their natural and ordinary sense, giving them a meaning
to their full extent and capacity, unless some strong reason
to the contrary appears. Birks, App., Allison, Resp., 13
C. B. (N. S.) 12, 23; Minor v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Pet. 46,
64; DeGanayv. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, 381.
We think it immaterial whether plaintiff's *cause of action is one for which an action of debt might be maintained. It would be unreasonable and contrary to the
intention of Congress to exclude claims like that here in
question, and we hold them to be included.
2. Was there a lack of mutuality and want of consideration?
Appellants contend that the parties failed to make a
contract, and assert the seller promised only such ore as
323; Ward v. Howard, 12 Oh. St. 158, 163; Peter v. Butler, 1 Leigh
(Va.) 285; State v. Superior Court, 93 Wash. 98, 101. Receivership
laws: Kalkhoff v. Nelson, 60 Minn. 284, 290; Rosenbaum v. Credit
System Co., 61 N. J. L., 543, 548; Steel & Iron Co. v. Detroit R. R.
Co., 154 Mich. 182, 185. Stockholders' liability laws: Mill Dam
Foundery v. Hovey, 21 Pick. 417, 455; American Ice Cream Co. v.
Economy Laundry Co., 148 Ga. 624; Dryden v. Kellogg, 2 Mo. App.
87, 93; Green v. Easton, 74 Hun (N. Y.) 329, 330. Probate laws:
Frazer v. Tunis, 1 Binney (Pa.) 254, 263; Insurance Co. v. Meeker,
37 N. J. L. 282, 300, et seq.; Hebert v. Handy, 29 R. I. 543. Set-off:
Moore v. Weir, 3 Sneed (Tenn.) 46, 50; Russell v. Miller, 54 Pa.
St. 154, 164. Fraudulent conveyances: Woodbury v. Sparrell Print,
187 Mass. 426, 428; Anderson v. Anderson, 64 Ala. 403, 405. Statutes
of limitation: Davies v. Texas Central R. R. Co., 62 Tex. Civ. App.
599, 605. See also Irving Bank-Columbia Trust Co. v. New. York
Rys. Co., 292 Fed. 429, 433; Lothrop v. Reed, 13 Allen (Mass.) 294;
State v. Sayre, 91 Oh. St. 85, 94; Little v. Dyer, 138 Ill. 272, 277;
Allen v. Distilling Co. of America, 87 N. J. Eq. 531, 539; Melvin v.
State, 121 Cal. 16, 24.

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

it might ship from the mine and was not bound to ship all
the ore produced or to mine or ship any ore. They also
argue that certain statements made by the seller's manager, in correspondence between him and the agent of the
buyers, after the instrument was signed, show that the
seller itself so interpreted the writing. The provision to
which they refer is this: "The product covered by this
contract is the total production of zinc crude ore shipped
by the seller from its properties in Shasta County, California." The statements of the manager were made in
October and November, 1914, in answer to inquiries of the
buyers' agent, and were to the effect that the tonnage of
ore to be shipped depended altogether on the market price
of spelter, and that with spelter quotations below $5 per
cwt. shipments would be very light, and that if prices rose
above that figure, the seller would probably ship about
200 tons per month.
The intention of the parties is to be gathered, not from
the single sentence above quoted, but from the whole instrument read in the light of the circumstances existing at
the time of negotiations leading up to its execution. The
buyers had a large business in the smelting of zinc ore in
the United States. The seller had been engaged for a long
time in the mining of copper ore from the Mammoth
Mine. Early in 1914, there was discovered in that mine
a large body of zinc ore, containing about 40,000 tons.
The sellers desired to dispose of, and the buyers wanted,
zinc ore. While there had been no regular weekly or
monthly production or shipments prior to the signing of
the writing, the seller had made a number of shipments
to the buyers. The work of developing the ore body in
preparation for production was in progress. The mine
was already equipped and capable of producing ore. The
writing shows that the completion of a picking plant was
contemplated. The year covered was to commence on
the date of the first shipment after its completion. When

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the instrument was executed, September 29, 1914, both
parties knew the quality of the ore and that the quantity
was substantial.
The parties intended to make a contract,-one to sell,
and the other to buy, zinc ore. By plain statements and
manifest implications, the seller was bound for a definite
time not ot therwise to dispose of its ore; the buyers were
given an option on the lower grade ore; the seller was
bound at all times, when not prevented or delayed by
some cause beyond its control, to mine and to ship to the
buyers the total production of zinc ore of the specified
grade; and the buyers were bound to take and pay for all
such ore when not prevented or delayed by causes beyond
their control as specified in the contract. The quantities
of ore to be mined and shipped were not limited to those
to be produced by the equipment and methods employed
at the time of the execution of the contract. The proposed picking plant was to be added, and increased output
was expected and bargained for.
The opinion of the manager of the seller as to its legal
obligations under the contract, as reflected by his statements in correspondence after the execution of the instrument, is not entitled to any weight in determining
whether a valid contract was made. The writing did not
give the seller the option to ship or to refrain from shipping as it saw fit, or leave the quantity to be delivered to
its choice. There was no want of consideration or lack of
mutuality.
3. Appellants contend that the seller failed to make
shipments in as nearly as possible equal weekly quantities, as provided in the contract, and that the buyers
thereby were released from performance.
The contract was signed September 29, 1914, but the
first shipment was not until November 28. Between the
last mentioned date and March 11, the seller made 28
shipments, which were accepted and paid for. There was

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

considerable inequality in the weekly shipments. It is
apparent from the language of the contract that variations were expected. It was contemplated that production would be increased substantially by the use of the
picking plant. From the time of the execution of the
contract to about the time of the first shipment, the
market price of spelter did not exceed $5 per cwt. and
consequently the contract price of ore was not more than
$19 per ton. When the first shipments were made, spelter
prices were $5.10 per cwt. By March 1, they advanced
to $9.40, making the contract price of ore $41 per ton.
By March .17, they receded to $7.80, making the contract
price of ore $33 per ton. January 20, when spelter was
at $6 per cwt. and the contract price of ore was $24 a ton,
the agent of the buyers wrote a letter to the manager of
the seller in which he called attention to the high price
and, in effect, suggested that the seller ship as much as
possible.
Later, the prices of spelter rose enormously, but the
market prices of ore declined until buyers could obtain it
on their own terms. The war had created a great demand
for zinc. The ores produced in Japan, Spain, Mexico, and
Australia were cut off from their former markets in
Germany and were shipped into this country in quantities
far in excess of the capacity of the smelters. February 23,
when the spelter prices were over $8.00 per cwt., making
the price of ore more than $34 per ton, the buyers tried
to get the seller to consent to reduction of the contract
prices. But no change was made. Increased tonnag&
were shipped after completion of the picking plant, March
5. March 17, the buyers sent a telegram to the seller,
calling attention to the shipment of 50 tons daiy:&p
March 6 to March 9, and stating that the monthly average
.
from the beginning had been about 200 tons, i4j
to onlyaccpt
will
we
conditions
abnormal
of
view
"In
nages reasonably equal to the average monthly amount

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

shipped heretofore. We are unable to receive and smelt
any further tonnage in accordance with page five [meaning the vis major clause] of our contract with you. We
have advised all other shippers accordingly." They did
not object to iriequality of weekly shipments, but attempted to invoke the vis major clause to justify or
excuse their refusal to take and pay for the ore at the
contract price applicable at that time.
The District Court found that the seller attempted in
good faith to carry out its part of the contract until it
was stopped; that the claim that the seller broke the
contract was without merit; that no objection to the
deliveries was made on the ground of inequality, and that
the breach was waived as to all ore accepted; that the
buyers' refusal to accept the ore tendered in March was
based solely on the vis major clause; and that there was
no evidence that the seller did not ship in as nearly equal
weekly quantities as possible. And the Circuit Court of
Appeals found that the Mammoth Company carried out
its promises under the terms of the contract. No reason
has been shown why the findings of the lower courts
should be disturbed. Washington Securities Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 76, 78. Our own examination
of the evidence satisfies us that there is no merit in appellants' contention that there was a breach of the contract
by the seller.
4. Appellants contend that the contract sued on was
not enforceable because made in violation of an earlier
agreement, dated June 10, 1914, selling the same ore.
The Mammoth Mining Company, operating in Kennet, California, and the United States Smelting Companiy, operating in Salt Lake City, Utah, were subsidiaries
h''le tUnited States Smelting, Refining & Mining Company. The executive officers and boards of directors of
e gtibfdiary companies and of the parent company
tife' iibstantially identical, but each subsidiary had a

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

separate general manager and operating staff. On June
10, 1914, the Smelting Company made a contract covering the sale of certain ores to the American Metal Company, and appellants assert that it covered the same ore
which was subsequently sold by the contract in suit. The
product described in the earlier contract is "all the zinc
sulphide crude ore, zinc sulphide concentrates and zinc
sulphide middlings, shipped from Midvale, Utah, Kennett, California, or any other point by or under the
control of the seller during the period of this agreement."
Through some misapprehension, the lower courts considered the case as if the Mammoth Company were a
subsidiary of the Smelting Company. This was more
favorable to appellants than was warranted by the facts.
Nevertheless, they declined to sustain appellants' contention. Both held that the Mammoth Company and
the Smelting Company were separate and independent
corporations, and the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
the Smelting Company did not make the contract for the
Mammoth Company. 286 Fed. 503, 509. The zinc product of the Mammoth Mine is not specifically mentioned.
The language is not definite, and, as that mine is at
Kennett, one of the shipping points mentioned, the product might be deemed to be included, if under the control
of the Smelting Company. Neither of the parties to this
suit was a party to that contract, and parol evidence was
given to show what ore was covered. Barred v. Silsbee,
21 How. 146, 169; Central Coal & Coke Co. v. .Good
d Co., 120 Fed. 793, 798. It was shown that the Mammoth Company and the Smelting Company, while both
subsidiary to the Mining Company, were wholly independent; that neither had control over the other and that
the Smelting Company did not control and had no authority to sell the product of the Mammoth Mine. Appellants' contention is not supported by the facts.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

5. Appellants insist that no more than nominal damages
should have been awarded because, as they say, the evidence showed no actual loss on resale. After Beer, Sondheimer & Company rejected the ore, the Mammoth Company resold it to the United States Smelting Company.
The amount of the judgment is based on the difference
between resale prices and those fixed by the contract in
suit. The purchaser smelted the ore and made a profit.
The master found that the price obtained on resale represented the best price that the Mammoth Company could
obtain after energetic efforts in good faith to sell the ore
on more favorable terms. Appellants make no claim of
bad faith. There was no dispute as to the evidentiary
facts. The report of the master was confirmed by the trial
court, and its ruling was sustained on appeal. It must be
taken as established that the resale was made in good faith
for the best obtainable price. Crawfordv. Neal, 144 U. S.
585, 596. The Mammoth Company and the Smelting
Company were separate entities. The intercorporate relations above referred to furnish no ground for charging
against the Mammoth Company the profits made by the
Smelting Company. It is obvious from the facts found
that the latter could have obtained zinc ore in the market
on as favorable terms. The Mammoth Company did not
operate a smelter or use the ore in its own business. The
smelting of the ore was separate and apart from the contract in suit, and the seller was not bound to smelt the ore
or have it smelted and account for the profits, if any, to
the buyers. The amount of profits realized by the Smelting Company was immaterial, and the buyers had no right'
to have it set off 'against the damages resulting from their
breach of the contract.
6. The District Court allowed interest from July 3,
1919; the Circuit Court of Appeals from June 29, 1916.
Appellants object on the ground that this is a suit against
the United States, and interest is not allowable against it;

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of the Court.

that at common law interest was not recoverable, and the
case was not a proper one for the exercise of chancery discretion; and that, if it was not an abuse of discretion to
allow interest from the date when the war was practically
ended, its allowance from June 29, 1916, was erroneous.
In an attempt to commence an action in Utah against the
buyers to recover damages resulting from their breach,
the seller, on June 29, 1916, served a summons and complaint on the representatives of the buyers. On the facts
found, which need not be repeated here, the Circuit Court
of Appeals (286 Fed. 511) rightly held the attempted
service to amount to a demand, and that interest might
be allowed from that date. See Goddard v. Foster, 17
Wall. 123, 143; Kaufman v. Tredway, 195 U. S. 271, 273;
United States v. Poulson, 30 Fed. 231; Dwyer v. United
States, 93 Fed. 616; Mather v. Stokely, 218 Fed. 764, 767.
While the suit, as held in Banco Mexicano v. Deutsche
Bank, 263 U. S. 591, 603 (affirming 289 Fed. 924), is one
against the United States, the claim was not against it.
No debt was alleged to be owing from it to the plaintiff.
The rule of sovereign immunity from liability for interest (Judicial Code, § 177; National Volunteer Home v.
Parrish,229 U. S. 494; United States v. North American
Co., 253 U. S. 330, 336; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v.
United States, 261 U. S. 299, 304) does not apply.
Compensation is a fundamental principle of damages,
whether the action is in contract or in tort. Wicker v.
Hoppock, 6 Wall 94, 99. One who fails to perform his
contract is justly bound to make good all damages that
accrue naturally from the breach; and the other party is
entitled to be put in as good a position pecuniarily as he
would have been by performance of the contract. Curtis
v. Innerarity,6 How. 146, 154. One who has had the use
of money owing to another justly may be required to pay
interest from the time the payment should have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

made. Both in law and in equity, interest is allowed on
money due. Spalding v. Mason, 161 U. S. 375, 396.
Generally, interest is not allowed upon unliquidated damages. Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620, 653. But when
necessary in order to arrive at fair compensation, the court
in the exercise of a sound discretion may include interest
or its equivalent as an element of damages. See Bernhard
v. Rochester German Insurance Co., 79 Conn. 388, 397;
Frazer v. Bigelow Carpet Co.., 141 Mass. 126; Faber v.
City of New York, 222 N. Y. 255, 262; De La Rama v.
De La Rama, 241 U. S. 154, 159, 160; The Paquete
Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 467; Eddy v. Lafayette, 163 U. S.
456, 467; Domotte v. Whybrow, 263 Fed. 366, 368.
In this case, at least as early as June 29, 1916, the date
of demand, the seller was entitled to have from the buyers
the difference between the sum which it would have received prior to that date, if the buyers had kept their contract, and the amount it received on resale. Payment in
1924 or later of that sum is not full compensation. Cf.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, 306.
All damages had accrued prior to the demand. There was
nothing dependent on any future event. The elements
necessary to a calculation of the amount the seller was
then entitled to have to make it whole,--namely, the
quantities of ore produced, its metallic content, the prices
to be paid by the buyers under the contract, and the
amount realized on resale,-were known or ascertainable.
Our entrance into the war was long subsequent to June
29, 1916, the date of the demand. General representatives, who had long been in charge of the business in this
country of Beer, Sondheimer & Company, remained here
until after that event. At all times until it was taken over
under the act, they had money and property of that firm
more than sufficient to make good the seller's damages.
It would be unjust and inconsistent with the remedial purposes of § 9 to hold that the seized enemy property cannot

MILLER v. ROBERTSON.
243

Opinion of ,the Court.

be held for the full amount of the seller's loss, and that,
to the extent of interest during the period of the war,2
compensation must be denied. The proposition that the
enemy defendants, as a matter of law, are entitled to be
relieved from interest during the war cannot be sustained.
Cf. Ward v. Smith, 7 Wall. 447, 452; Conn. v. Penn, 6
Fed. Cas. No. 3104, pp. 282, 291; Yeaton v. Berney, 62
Ill. 61, 63; Gates v. Union Bank, 12 Heisk. (Tenn.) 325,
330. The allowance of interest made by the Circuit Court
of Appeals was just and is sustained.
7. The seller agreed to deliver the ore free on board
cars at the buyers' smelting works at Bartlesville, Oklahoma, or at such other works as the buyers might designate, and any difference of freight charges between the
point of shipment and other smelting works so designated
as against those to Bartlesville should be for the account
of the buyers. The ore which was rejected by the buyers
and resold was shipped to Altoona, Kansas. The freight
rates were graduated on the basis of "actual value" of
the ore shipped and were the same from Kennett, California, to Altoona as to Bartlesville. The rates on the
shipments to Bartlesville were based on the prices fixed by
the contract in suit; and those on shipments made to
Altoona on the resale prices. The charges for the transportation of ore resold were $42,201.50 less than they
would have been if based on prices fixed by the original
contract. The master reported that if the ore had been
shipped under the contract the carrier, for the lack of any
other available standard, would have based its rates on
the contract prices. And he excluded from the amount
fixed as damages the excess over the charges actually paid.
His report was adopted by the trial court, and its decision
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The plain2

Restrictions on intercourse between citizens of this country and
citizens of Germany were removed by War Trade Regulation No. 814,
July 20, 1919. See Ward v. Smith, 7 Wall. 447, 452.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

tiff on his appeal contends that under the Interstate Commerce Act there cannot be two freight rates in effect at
the same time between the same points on the same commodity dependent upon the invoice under which it is
shipped, and that the courts below erred in making the
deduction. But we think that the question whether rates
that might be so produced would be unlawful was not
involved in the case. The ore covered by the original
contract was not shipped from Kennett to Bartlesville
and Altoona at the same time, nor would it have been if
there had been no breach; and it was not shown that any
other zinc ore was so moved. If different rates had been
exacted for contemporaneous transportation of ore to the
same destination, or its equivalent, a question between
the carrier and shipper might have arisen. But on the
facts of this case :do such question was involved. The
cost of transportation on the resale was less than it would
have been if the buyers had accepted all the ore. Both
courts so found. The seller was not entitled to charge
against the buyer anything on account of the expense of
resale in excess of the amount it paid. It was not entitled
to be put in a better position by the recovery than if the
buyers had fully performed the contract. Plaintiff's appeal is without merit.
Decree affirmed.
THE FERRIES COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 46. Argued October 8, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
A ten year lease of ferry property provided that, at its termination,
the property leased, including any additions and betterments that
might be made by the lessee, should be valued by appraisers, and
that if such valuation were less than the value of the property as
similarly appraised when the lease was made, the lessee should
pay the difference, but, if more, the lessors should pay it. During

