92

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

266 U. S.

and of course where the board does not approve it can
give no authority to collect. As the collection was made
without the prescribed approval, and therefore without
right, the settlers were entitled to repayment. The state
law does not purport, nor has it been construed, to vest
the board with power to adjudicate rights to repayment
of moneys thus wrongfully collected; so their adjudication
in the courts is not an encroachment on the province of
the board.
3. It is also complained that the findings of fact on
which the decree rests are not in accord with the evidence.
Of this it suffices to say that the courts below concurred
in the findings and we think there was sufficient evidence
to sustain them.
Decree affirmed.
DAVIS, AGENT, v. HENDERSON.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 44. Submitted October 8, 1924.-Decided October 27, 1924.
1. A judgment of a state court rendered against an interstate carrier, when under federal control, through failure to give effect to
a rule in its tariff, held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ
of error. P. 93.
2. A tariff rule, approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, providing that orders for cars given the carrier's local agent
must be in writing, cannot be waived by the carrier through the
agent's acceptance of oral notice from the shipper. Id.
157 Ark. 43, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas affirming a judgment against a carrier
in an action by a shipper for failure to furnish a car within
a reasonable time after notice.
Mr. A. A. McLaughlin, Mr. Thomas B. Pryor and Mr.
Vincent M. Miles, for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
No brief filed for defendant in error and respondent.

DAVIS v. HENDERSON.
92

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JuSTICE BRA DEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Henderson, a shipper of cattle, brought this suit in a
state court of Arkansas against an interstate carrier then
under federal control. The cause of action alleged was
failure to furnish a car within a reasonable time after
notice. The carrier defended on the ground that the shipper had not complied with a rule, approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and contained in its tariff,
which provided that orders for cars must be placed with
the local agent in writing. Written notice was not given.
The plaintiff was permitted to testify that he had notified
the station agent orally and that the latter had accepted
his oral notice. The trial court refused to instruct the
jury that the shipper could not recover without proving
a notice in writing. Exceptions were duly taken. The
plaintiff got the verdict; and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the highest court of the State. 157
Ark. 43. The carrier brought this writ of error; and,
also, filed a petition for a writ of certiorari, consideration
of which was postponed until the hearing on the writ of
error. The former must be dismissed. Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, ยง 2, 39 Stat. 726.. The writ of certiorari is now granted.
There is no claim that the rule requiring written notice
was void. The contention is that the rule was waived.
It could not be. The transportation service to be performed was that of common carrier under published
tariffs. The rule was a part of the tariff. Georgia,Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S.
190, 197; Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Ward, 244
U. S. 383, 388; Davis v. Cornwell, 264 U. S. 560, 562.
Writ of Errordismissed.
Writ of Certiorarigranted.
Judgment reversed.

