OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

to remand the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Lutcher Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 268; Brown
v. Fletcher, 237 U. S. 583, 588. But since they were not
expressly decided by the District Court, we conclude that,
under all the circumstances, we should take the course
adopted in Marconi Wireless Co. v. Simon, 246 U. S. 46,
57, that is, reverse the decrees in both the courts below
and remand the case to the District Court. If it be
determined that the financial statement was materially
false and that the Bank made the loans in reliance upon
it, the discharge should be denied; otherwise it should
be granted.
The decrees of the District Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals are accordingly reversed, and the cause
is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
UNITED STATES v. NORWEGIAN BARQUE
"THEKLA," HER TACKLE, ETC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 258. Argued November 20, 1924.-Decided December 1, 1924.
1. When the United States comes into court to assert a claim, it so
far takes the position of a private suitor that justice may be done
with regard to the subject matter. P 339.
2. In a collision case, wherein libel and cross libel of the respective
owners had been consolidated and the first libelant had been ordered under old Admiralty Rule 53 to give security for the other's
damages, the United States intervened, standing on the first libel,
and filed a claim alleging its possession and ownership of that
libelant's vessel at the time of collision, with a stipulation of the
Emergency Fleet Corporation for security in a specified sum conditioned that the claimant (United States) and the Corporation
should abide all orders of the court and pay the amount awarded
by the final decree. The District Court, finding that the United

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Argument for the United States.

States was owner, pro hac vice, of the vessel claimed, using it for
war service, and that that vessel alone was at fault, decreed damages against the United States and the Fleet Corporation, as stipulator, with interest and costs. Held:
(a) That the District Court was empowered to enter the decree, p.

339, since
(b) The subject matter was the collision rather than the vessel first
libeled, p. 340;
(c) The reasons against creating government liability for tort were

inapplicable, id.;
(d) The Government's joinder in the suit carried with it acceptance
of whatever liability the courts might decide to be reasonably incident to that act and for such acceptance no statute was necessary,

p. 341;
(e) The stipulation for security, ordered before the United States

made itself a party, was valid, id.;
(f) Interest and costs can be recovered from the Fleet Corporation
and the United States. Id.

QUESTIONS certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals on
an appeal from a decree of the District Court against
the United States, as claimant, and the Fleet Corporation,
as stipulator, for damages resulting from a collision, with
interest and costs. The questions propounded were:. (1)
Was the District Court empowered by law to render the
decree entered? and, if that were answered in the negative,
(2) Must the Fleet Corporation, as stipulator, respond
for the damages proven? The certificate is reported in
full in 295 Fed. 1020.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. J. Frank
Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the briefs, for the United States.
The rule is now definitely established that the liability
or nonliability of the Government does not depend upon
procedural considerations but wholly upon the underlying
principle that no obligation or liability can be impuled to
it except of its creation. The Western Maid, 257 U. S.
419, 432, 433.
19458°-25---25

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

The questions now subnitted, after careful analysis,
do not present new problems. The ruling in The Western Maid is controlling. The subject matter of the cross
libel (in rem) is an assumed lien liability of an Army
cargo transport for resulting collision losses. The status
of the Luckenbach at the time of the collision was identical with the status of the Carolinianin The Western Maid
Case, in which this Court has determined that Army transports are not subject to the incurment of lien liability for
collision losses. No proceedings in, rem can be successfully maintained against Army transports for collision
losses, because no in rem liability exists. In the absence
of an in rem liability cross libels in rem can not be prosecuted. The District Court was without jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the cross libel.
The owners of the Thekla could not have successfully
maintained an original libel in rem against the Luckenbach. They could not have maintained an action against
the United States for this collision in any court, as the
United States has not consented to be sued upon tort
claims. The owners of the Thekla did not file a cross libel
against the Luckenbach Steamship Company and could
not successfully have done so, because the ownership of
the Luckenbach had passed to the United States pro hac
pice, and no liability rested upon the steamship company.
Since the owners of the Thekla could not maintain an
original action against the Luckenbach, or against her
owners, or against the United States as owner pro hac
vice, they can not create jurisdiction over the subject matter in any court to hear their claim merely by turning to
the cross libel.
Whatever jurisdiction may be acquired by authority
of Admiralty Rule 53, as the cross libel proceeds in rem
against the vessel, the proofs must establish an in rem
liability of the vessel, otherwise the cross libel must be
dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Argument for the United States.

By the rules recently promulgated by this Court (254
U. S. 679, 702,) Admiralty Rule 53, with some slight
modification, is now Rule 50. The substantial purpose of this rule is that both the original and cross
libelants should be similarly protected by adequate
security. Vianello v. The Credit Lyonnais, 15 Fed.
637; Empresa Maritima a Vapor v. North & South
American Steam Nay. Co., 16 Fed. 502. It did not
intend that the courts should assume jurisdiction over
substantive rights or matters which otherwise were
not within the admiralty jurisdiction. Only such
claims as are enforceable by original proceedings can
be made enforceable by cross libel. The Electron, 48
Fed. 689.
The uniform decisions of our courts in admiralty matters, as well as in actions at law or in equity, have been to
deny in cross actions affirmative relief against the Government (government property) in the absence of legislative
consent to suit. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co. v. State Public
Util. Comm., 245 U. S. 493; Roumaniav. Guaranty Trust
Co., 250 Fed. 341.
The accepted practice under Admiralty Rule 53 has
been to deny that cross libels can be maintained against
the Government or its property for the collision torts of
its public vessels. BarendrechtS. S. Co. v. United States,
286 Fed. 390; Bouker v. United States, 105 Fed. 398;
s. c. 186 U. S. 135.
The same ruling has been announced in proceedings at
law, United States v. Nippissing Mines Co., 206 Fed. 431;
De Groot v. United States, 5 Wall 419; United States v.
Eckford, 6 Wall. 484; Reeside v. Walker, 11 How. 272;
and in equity cases, Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. State
Public Utilities Comm., 245 U. S. 493; French Republic
v. Inland Nay. Co., 263 Fed. 410.
Unless expressly permitted by act of Congress, no injunction can be granted against the United States. Case

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199; Hill v. United States, 9 How.
386; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 16.
This Court in Ex parte State of New York, 256 U. S.
490, denied that "the uniform operation and effect of the
characteristic principles and rules of the maritime law as
a body" can impose itself upon and overrule the privileges
and prerogatives which belong to the sovereign.
The Government's claim is one for damages. The
Government has not brought the res into court, and asked
that an adjudication in prize or forfeiture be had. Neither
has it asked for the determination of rights to specific res
nor for the distribution of a specific fund. The rules announced in prize and such other cases are not related to
nor controlling in the present case.
The Fleet Corporation by its undertaking has assumed
the payment of the lien liability of the Luckenbach.
There is no lien liability. Query: Is the decree properly
enforceable against the Fleet Corporation? If our reasoning is sound, it cannot be enforced.
We assume the second question also asks for instructions on the question whether or no the decree as entered
properly includes an allowance of interest and costs. The
stipulator only becomes responsible for the payment of
such money as may properly be decreed.
The cross-libel proceedings can not be converted into a
proceeding against the Fleet Corporation. It continues
as a proceeding in rem against the Army transport Luckenbach.
In the absence of statutory authority, interest does not
run against the Government. This general rule controls
here. Even under private act cases in collision matters,
where the act provides for the determination of liability
upon the same principles as between private parties, in
the absence of terms expressly allowing interest, interest
is denied. Pennell v. United States, 162 Fed. 72, 78;
Watts v. United States, 129 Fed. 222, 226; The May-

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Argument for the United States.

flower, 1924, A. M. C. 586; United States v. Barker, 2
Wheat. 395; Angaricav. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251.
We do not regard the rule announced in prize causes,
land condemnation, and just compensation cases as applicable here. The claim, if it can be said to be a claim,
is merely a demand for money owing, of the same character as a suit upon contract.
Costs are not recoverable in the absence of statutory

authority.
The opinion in Washington-SouthernNay. Co. v. Baltimore & PhiladelphiaSteamboat Co., 263 U. S. 629, fully
reviews the history and application of old Admiralty Rule
53 and new Rule 50.
This Court in Ward v. Chamberlain,21 How. 572, declared that on a cross libel in rem process must be taken
out and served in the usual way. The Bristol, 4 Ben. 55.
In Crowell v. The Theresa Wolf, 4 Fed. 152, and Southwestern Transp. Co. v. Pittsburg Coal Co., 42 Fed. 920,
the stay was denied because the counterclaim was not a
proper subject for a cross libel.
The libel and cross libel are separate proceedings. The
Dove, 91 U. S. 381, 383, 384; The Keystone State, 185
Fed. 781.
The consolidation of separate and distinct causes and
of original actions and cross actions, in federal courts, is
authorized by § 921, Rev. Stats. The North Star, 106
U. S. 17; Adler v. Seaman, 266 Fed. 828.
The libel and cross libel arise out of the same collision
but present separate and distinct causes of action.
Since the Western Maid decision, the English courts
have sustained the ruling that public vessels do not incur
lien responsibilities for collision losses. The Tervaete
[1922] P. 259; The Sylvan Arrow [1923] P. 220.
The reasoning of the District Court is in conflict with
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Roumania v. Guaranty Trust Co., 250

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the Thekla.

266 U. S.

Fed. 341, 343. See also In re Patterson-MacDonaldShipbuilding Co., 293 Fed. 192.
The cases upon which the District Court based its conclusions are prize and forfeiture cases. In such cases the
United States has resorted to the aid of the court to procure the condemnation of vessels and has thus placed
either the vessel or its proceeds in the court for judicial
administration. Claims against the vessel or the funds
thus have been satisfied. Carr v. United States, 98
U. S. 433.
In the Porto Rico cases cited, title to real property
was involved, and the court adjudicated the interest of
Porto Rico in and to such property.
"The objection to a suit against the United States is
fundamental, whether it be in the form of an original
action or a set-off or a counterclaim. Jurisdiction in
either case does not exist unless there is specific congressional authority for it." Nassau Smelting Works v.
United States, ante, 101, 106.
Mr. CharlesS. Haight,with whom Mr. John W. Griffin
and Mr. Wharton Poor were on the brief, for the
"Thekla."
The United States has submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the court.
The right, if any, to recover the damages sustained by
the Luckenbach, and the liability, if any, for the damages
sustained by the Thekla, were throughout the right and
the liability of the United States; the Luckenbach Steamship Company, originally made a formal libelant apparently for some supposed tactical advantage, was subsequently dropped out of the case; the United States has,
from the beginning, been the only real party in interest, as it is now the only party before the Court on the
Luckenbach's side. The Government's brief clearly recognizes the fact that both the libel and the answer filed

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Argument for the Thekla.

by the Luckenbach Steamship Company were filed on
the Government's behalf.
The United States deliberately invoked the judgment
of the court below. Claiming that the Thekla was at
fault for the collision, it actively and affirmatively sought
the judgment of the court, asked to be made a formal
party-libelant with full knowledge that a cross libel was
pending, filed its claim, took up the defense of the cross
libel and gave security for the recovery claimed therein.
It accepted the condition originally imposed by the District Court while the Luckenbach Steamship Company
was the only party named as libelant, namely, that security must be given for the cross libel before the original
libel could be prosecuted.
The position of the Thekla is (1) that, where the Government is the actor and asks the judgment of the Court
with respect to a certain subject matter, it submits itself, quoad that subject matter, to the jurisdiction of
the court; (2) that, in such a case, the Government's
affirmative liability, if any, may be determined; (3) that
these principles are especially applicable to cross suits in
admiralty for collision, which form one subject matter;
(4) that the Government, having accepted the court's
condition and having appeared and given security, cannot, after having lost its case, reverse that action; (5)
that a decree may be entered, liquidating and adjudicating the Government's liability; (6) and that, where a
private corporation, the Emergency Fleet Corporation,
which is admittedly suable, is before the court as a stipulator, a decree may, in any case, be rendered against it.
The cases of The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, The Davis, 10
Wall. 15, and The Western Maid, 257 U. S.419, while
they employ varying terminology, all recognize that collision and salvage, even where government vessels or
other property are involved, give rise to claims of some
sort, whether described as "inchoate," or "legal but un-

336

OCTOBER- TERM, 1924.
Argument for the Thekla.

266 U. S.

enforcible," or "ethical only," and when the Government comes into court as actor in a case involving such
a claim, it opens the way for an adjudication by the
court-though not, of course, for enforcement by execution against government property.
The rule, then, being, as stated in The Western Maid,
that, when the United States comes into court to enforce
a claim, it will be "assumed to submit to just claims of
third persons in respect of the same subject matter," the
only question before the court in this case is whether
the claim of the owners of the Thekla is a "just claim"
"in respect of the same subject matter."
In determining what is and what is not a " just claim,"
the court would ordinarily look for guidance to the general rules promulgated by the sovereign for its subjects; the sovereign, who has formulated these rules, may
not assert that they are less than just. But in fact, the
United States has expressly declared by statute that the
collision rules shall be binding upon its public vessels-not only upon its subjects, but upon itself. It has, therefore, in the most solemn manner, recognized the justice
of the rules in question and has definitely expressed its
intention that its vessels shall obey them. Act of August
19, 1890, c. 802, § 1, Art. 13, 26 Stat. 320, 325.
The Government insists that the subject matter of the
cross libel is the lien liability of the Luckenbach. This is,
however, an obvious error. The subject matter of a case
is quite independent of the question whether the libelant
does or does not have a lien to secure his claim. Thus a
libel for collision may be filed in personam as well as in
rem; also, the libel may be in rem and the cross libel in
personam, and still the libel and cross libel constitute one
suit and the single question before the court is, "Where
does the responsibility for the collision rest. "
The subject matter of a collision case is the collision,
and in every such case the subject matter of the libel

UNITED STATES v. THE TEKLA.
328

Argument for the Thekla.

and the cross libel must be the same. Bowker v. United
States, 186 U. S. 135.
Cross suits for collision are one litigation and give rise
to only one liability. Bowker v. United States, supra;
The North Star, 106 U. S. 17; The Manitoba, 122 U. S.
97; The Dove, 91 U. S. 381; Stoomvaart Mattschappy
Nederland v. Peninsular& OrientalSteam Nay. Co., L. R.
7 A. 0. 795.
Therefore, in determining whether this is a "just
claim," to the adjudication of which the sovereign submitted by bringing suit, it is to be remembered (1) that
the suit which the sovereign brought necessarily involved
deciding as to the fault of both vessels; (2) that the
questions as to the fault of both vessels, with the resulting legal consequences, were the very subject matter on
which the Government asked the court's decision; (3)
that the cross suit is one litigation with the original suit
and is "incidental to and dependent upon the original
suit"; (4) that the suits had been consolidated before
the Government asked to be made a formal party; (5)
that, under settled principles, only one liability arose
from the collision; and (6) that the sovereign has expressly subjected its public vessels to the collision rules.
The Nuestra Seora de Regla, 108 U. S. 92; The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677.
A sovereign who intervenes in a suit may become subject
to the entry of a money judgment against him, although
the court has no express statutory authority to enter such
a judgment. Porto Rico v. Ramos, 232 U. S. 627; Richardson v. FajardoSugar Co., 241 U. S. 44; Veitia v. Fortuna
Estates, 240 Fed. 256; Gunterv. Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co., 200 U. S. 273; Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436; The
Newbattle, 10 P. D. 33; The Tervaete, [1922] P. 259.
The principle that a sovereign, by instituting, or intervening in, a suit, submits itself to cross libel is illustrated
by the rule that, when a sovereign comes into court, he

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

comes "not as a sovereign but as a suitor."

Walker v.
United States, 139 Fed. 412; United States v. Barber
Lumber Co., 169 Fed. 184; King of Spain v. Hullett, 1
Cl. & F. 333; Prioleauv. United States, L. R., 2 Eq. Cas.
659; 33 Yale Law Journal, pp. 420, 421.
In the case at bar, the United States is not suing in
its capacity as parenspatriae,i. e., to assert a right affecting public welfare, but in its private capacity as a property owner. Denver, etc. R. R. Co. v. United States,
241 Fed. 614.
MR. JusTicD HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here upon a certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, stating
more at length the following facts. The Luckenbach
Steamship Company on behalf of itself and the other
owners libelled the barque Thekla in admiralty for a
collision with the steamship F. J. Luckenhach. The owners of the Thekla moved under the old fifty-third admiralty rule for a stay until the libellant should give security to respond in damages as claimed in the cross libel,
and filed a claim, stipulation for value, an answer and
a cross bill against the steamer. On October 7, 1918, the
motion was granted and the libel and cross libel were consolidated and proceeded as one cause. On June 4, 1919,
the United States was made a party libellant upon its
motion and stood on the Steamship Company's libel. It
filed a claim "without submitting itself to the jurisdiction" of the Court, alleging possession and ownership
at the time when the libel was filed. Thereupon a stipulation executed by the United States Shipping Board
Emergency Fleet Corporation was filed, which recited
that the F. J. Luckenbach" was under requisition charter
to, and in the possession of the United States; claimant,
at the time of the collision; that the liability, if any, was

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Opinion of the Court.

that of the United States, acting through the Corporation, the operator of it; and that the Corporation agreed
in case of default on the part of the claimant that execution should issue against its chattels and lands in the
sum of $130,000. The condition was that the claimant
and Corporation should abide by all orders of the Court
and pay the amount awarded by the final decree. On
October 3, 1919, the Steamship Company on behalf of
itself and other owners excepted to the cross libel on the
ground that the steamship being under charter to the
United States the matters alleged in the cross libel were
not within the jurisdiction of the Court. At the trial it
appeared that the United States was owner pro hc vice,

as alleged, using the vessel for war service, and that the
Luckenbach alone was in fault, a finding affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. A decree was entered against
the claimant and stipulator for the damages, $120,619.71,
with interest and costs.
The first question certified is: Was the District Court
empowered by law to render the decree entered? In
answer the Government relies upon the proposition established by The Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419, that the
collision inflicted no legal wrong upon the Thekla, and
the further proposition that generally speaking a claim
that would not constitute a cause of action against the
sovereign cannot be asserted as a counterclaim; Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission
of Illinois, 245 U. S. 493, 504, 505; see also Nassau
Smelting & Refining Works v. United States, ante, 101;
and that a cross libel is governed by the same rule. Washington-Southern Navigation Co. v. Baltimore & Philadelphid Steamboat Co., 263 U. S. 629.
We do not qualify the foregoing decisions in any way,
but nevertheless are of opinion that the District Court
had power to enter a decree for damages. When the
United States comes into Court to assert a claim it so

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

far takes the position of a private suitor as to agree by
implication that justice may be done with regard to the
subject matter. The absence of legal liability in a case
where but for its sovereignty it would be liable does not
destroy the justice of the claim against it. When the
question concerns what would be paramount claims
against a vessel libelled by the United States were the
vessel in other hands, the moral right of the claimant is
recognized. The Western Maid, 257 TT. S. 419, 433, 434.
The Siren, 7 Wall. 152. The Athol, 1 Wm.Rob. 374,
382. The doubt in this case arises not from the absence
of a maritime lien, but from the fact that the counterclaim is not against the Thekla libelled by the United
States but for affirmative relief against a different vessel,
the F. J. Luckenbach. There certainly is a strong argument for regarding this claim as standing no better than
those dealt with in the cases cited by the Government.
But we are of opinion that this is to construe the submission of the United States too narrowly. A collision
involves two vessels. The trial of such cases in the ordinary course is upon libel and cross libel, consolidated
under authority of statute. Rev. Stats. § 921. The North
Star, 106 U. S. 17. If both parties were in fault the
entire damage would be divided equally between them,
and it could not be argued that the United States could
avoid the consequences of the rule although the damage
'to the other. vessel might bar its recovering anything.
This shows that the subject matter is the collision, rather
than .theyiessel first libelled. Bowker v. United States,
186 U. S. 135, 139. The libel in such a case is like a bill
for an account, which imports an offer to pay the balance
if it should turn out against the party bringing the bill.
Columbian Government v. Rothschild, 1 Sim. 94, 103.
Goldthwait v. Day, 149 Mass. 185, 187.
The reasons that have prevailed against creating a
government liability in tort do not apply to a case like

UNITED STATES v. THE THEKLA.
328

Opinion of the Court.

this, and on the other hand the reasons are strong for
not obstructing the application of natural justice against
the Government by technical formulas when justice can
be done without endangering any public interest. As
has been said in other cases the question of damages to
the colliding vessel necessarily arose and it is reasonable
for the Court to proceed to the determination of all the
questions legitimately involved, even when it results in
a judgment for damages against the United States. The
Nuestra Seliora de Regla, 108 U. S. 92. The Paquete
Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 465, 466. We gather that our
conclusion accords with the opinion of the English Courts.
The Newbattle, 10 P. D. 33. The Tervaete, [1922] P.
259, 272. It is said that there is no statute by which the
Government accepted this liability. It joined in the suit,
and that carried with it the acceptance of whatever liability the courts may decide to be reasonably incident
to that act.
It follows from what has been said, without the need
of going further, that the stipulation ordered before the
United States made itself a party, is valid, and that
interest and costs can be recovered from the Fleet Corporation. See Sloan Shipyards Corporation v. United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation,258
U. S. 549. Interest was allowed against the United States
in The NuestraSefiora de Regla and The PaqueteHabana,
supra, and interest and costs by the judgment affirmed in
Porto Rico v. Ramos, 232 U. S. 627.
Answer to Question 1: Yes.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC & MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. FORMICA INSULATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102. Argued October 22, 23, 1924.-Decided December 8, 1924.
1. An assignment of a patent, or of the invention upon which a
patent is subsequently granted to the assignee, though not required to be under seal, works an estoppel as by deed, preventing
the assignor from denying the novelty and utility of the patented
invention when sued by the assignee for infringement. P. 348.
2. This estoppel, however,--distinct from any that might arise in
pais from special representation,--while it estops the assignor
from denying the validity of the claims, does not prevent him
from narrowing or qualifying their construction by showing the
state of the art. Pp. 350, 352.
3. The estoppel is applicable to claims added by an assignee and
allowed by the Patent Office after the assignment, which were
foreshadowed by the specifications sworn to by the assignor and
accompanying his application. P. 353.
4. But it will not be enlarged by a claim originally made by the
assignor but so manifestly invalid that it was promptly rejected
by the Patent Office as embracing the prior art. P. 354.
5. Patent No. 1,284,432, issued to the plaintiff as assignee of O'Conor,
covering a process of making composite electric insulation materials by coating sheets of fibrous material, such as cardboard,
with adhesive binders and subjecting them to heat and pressure,
applies, as between assignor and assignee, to nonplaniform articles (claims 11 and 12, added after assignment) but only where
the "two-step" procedure,--viz., application of heat and high
pressure to the superposed sheets and cooling them, and then
the baking of them under lower pressure,-is employed in the
manufacture. P. 353.
288 Fed 330, affirmed.

THIS is a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in a patent suit. The
Westinghouse Electric Company sued the Formica Coin-

