TWIN FALLS CO. v.. CALDWELL.
71

Syllabus.

cents per share on all its shares, but would require the
latter to pay a fee based only on the proportion of its
shares representing its property owned and used and
business transacted in Ohio.
It is clear that the mere number of authorized non-par
value shares is not a reasonable basis for the classification
of foreign corporations for the purpose of determining
the amount of such annual fees. Such a classification is
not based on anything having relation to the purpose for
which it is made. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S.
400, 417; Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412,
415. The act has no tendency to produce equality; and
it is of such a character that there is no reasonable presumption that substantial equality will result from its
application. Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S.
135, 139; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240
U. S. 55, 58; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement District,256 U. S. 658, 660. The act violates
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Plaintiff's motion for a temporary injunction should
have been granted.
Decree reversed.
TWIN FALLS SALMON RIVER LAND & WATER
COMPANY ET AL. v. CALDWELL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 8. Argued March 3, 1924.-Decided October 27, 1924.
1. Where the existence and merits of a controversy brought into an
equity cause by a supplementary petition and decided by the District Court were adequately revealed by the record taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, though the supplementary petition itself
was omitted, but the court, misled by this omission, reversed the
decree upon the ground that the matter, for lack of a pleading,
was not before the District Court, it was not necessary, when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

mistake was called to its attention by a petition for a rehearing
accompanied by a transcript embodying the omitted pleading,
that it should grant a rehearing before recalling its first decision
and deciding the appeal on the merits, the term not having
elapsed and a full hearing having been had at the beginning.
P. 89.
2. The laws of Idaho concerning irrigation projects under the Act
of Congress known as the Carey Act (c. 301, § 4, 28 Stat. 422,)
provide that assessments for maintenance and operation, where
the operating company has not come under the control of the
settlers, shall receive the approval of the State Land Board
before payment is exacted from the settlers, making it a condition
to such approval that the Board be satisfied that the proposed
expenditures for which the assessment is made are necessary for
the maintenance and operation of the irrigation works and are
proper charges against the settlers. Held, that an act of the
Board, purporting to approve an assessment tentatively as for
maintenance, leaving for future determination the question
whether the work in view was indeed for maintenance, or construction work for which settlers could not be assessed, and providing that, in the latter event, the Board would require that
amounts collected be credited on settlers' contracts for water
rights or be repaid them in cash by the company-was in effect
no approval, and that settlers were entitled to repayments of
amounts collected under it by the company. P. 90.
3. As the Idaho law does not vest the State Land Board with power
to adjudicate rights to repayment of moneys thus wrongfully collected, their adjudication in the courts is not an encroachm6nt
on the province of the Board. P. 92.
4. Concurrent findings of two lower courts that work for which an
irrigation assessment was made was construction work and not
for maintenance, held sustained by sufficient evidence. Id.
272 Fed. 356, affirmed.

APPFtL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court requiring the
appellant company above named to repay to settlers on
an irrigation project moneys collected from them by assessments to defray the cost of certain work thereon.
Mr. Oliver 0. Haga, with whom Mr. McKeen F. Morrow and Mr. J. L. Eberle were on the briefs, for appellants.

TWIN FALLS CO. v. CALDWELL.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James R. Bothwell for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This appeal presents a controversy over an assessment
for operation and maintenance of the Salmon River irrigation project in the State of Idaho.
In 1914 eight settlers under the project, for themselves
and all others similarly situated, brought a suit in equity
in the United States District Court to obtain a comprehensive adjudication of various disputes which had arisen
respecting the relative rights and obligations of the parties
interested in the project,-the court's jurisdiction being
invoked because of the involution of the construction and
application of the Carey Act, c. 301, § 4, 28 Stat. 422, and
its amendments. The principal defendant was the company which had contracted with the State to construct
the irrigation works and to sell necessary water rights to
settlers; and another was the company which was to operate and maintain the works when completed, but which
was as yet under the control of the construction company. The early proceedings in the suit are reported in
225 Fed. 584, and 242 Fed. 177.
In 1919, while that suit was still pending, the two companies-one still under the control of the other-made
and sought to collect from the settlers an assessment of
fifty cents per acre to defray the cost of work about to be
done on a section of the irrigation works called the check
basin. The assessment was made as part of an annual
maintenance charge which the settlers were to bear; but
they refused to pay because they regarded the work as
construction work the cost of which was to be borne by
the construction company. The companies threatened
to shut off the water if payment was not made; and one
of the plaintiffs in the equity suit, for himself and all
other settlers, brought an action in a court of the State

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

to have the assessment annulled and to enforce delivery
of the water.
During a subsequent hearing in the equity suit the
defendants therein, who were also defendants in the action
brought in the state court, presented to the District Court
a petition setting forth the institution of that action,
alleging there was such relation between the two proceedings that their prosecution in distinct tribunals would
embarrass the parties and lead to possible conflicts of authority, and praying for an injunction against the prosecution of the proceeding in the state court. An informal
but extended discussion followed, in which counsel on
both sides recognized the propriety of drawing the whole
matter into the District Court. Counsel for the plaintiffs took the position that, if the injunction was granted,
there should be some provision assuring prompt repayment to the settlers if the assessment was collected and
their objection to it afterwards was sustained by the court.
Counsel for the defendants assented to this and indicated
that the defendants or some of them stood ready to give
a bond of that character. Accordingly the court, with full
acquiescence of the parties, entered an interlocutory order
(a) enjoining the prosecution of the action in the state
court, (b) requiring the construction company within a
limited time to execute a bond to repay within thirty
days all moneys collected on the assessment if the court
determined it was a construction charge to be borne by
that company rather than a maintenance charge to be
collected from the settlers, and, (c) enjoining the collection of the assessment if the bond so required was not
given. The bond was given and the settlers paid the assessment. Subsequently, after a due hearing, the court
rendered a decree determining that the work was construction work the cost of which was to be borne by the
construction company, and requiring that company to
repay to the settlers within thirty days the amounts collected from them.

TWIN FALLS CO. v. CALDWELL.
85

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which at first reversed the decree, but later in the
same term, on finding that it had proceded on a mistaken
understanding of the circumstances in which the District
Court came to adjudicate the controversy, changed the
reversal into a decree of affirmance. 272 Fed. 356. The
appeal to this court is from that decree.
1. The defendants complain that the Circuit Court of
Appeals in changing its decision acted on an application
for rehearing and evidence submitted therewith without
granting a rehearing.
It is true that the change in decision was prompted by
an application for rehearing, but not that any evidence
was submitted with the application. What the defendants
refer to as evidence was not such, but was a supplemental
transcript containing their petition for an injunction
against the prosecution in the state court of the action
relating to the assessment. The petition had not been
included in the original transcript sent to the Circuit
Court of Appeals; and that court, finding no pleading
relating to the controversy over the assessment, held that
the District Court had no occasion to adjudicate the controversy, and accordingly reversed its decree. When that
decision was announced the plaintiffs obtaimed the supplemental transcript and, under a prior stipulation permitting omissions in the record to be supplied, filed it in the
Circuit Court of Appeals with an application for rehearing. The court then recalled its first decision and substituted another dealing with the merits of the controversy
and affirming the decree. The second decision was given
at the same term as the first, and therefore while the
matter was still within the court's control. An examination of the two transcripts shows that the supplemental
one served only to bring sharply to the court's attention
what already appeared in the original-that the controversy was laid before the District Court in circum19458°-25--10

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

stances which made it admissible and appropriate for the
court to proceed to its adjudication. Among other things,
the original transcript set forth at length the discussion
had when the defendants presented the petition for an injunction, and also contained the interlocutory order made
at the time and the bond given under that order. The
discussion, as set forth, disclosed the substance and purpose of the petition, the nature of the controversy over
the assessment and a tacit consent of the parties that the
matter be dealt with on the lines followed in the interlocutory order and bond. The ultimate decree recited that
it was rendered after a hearing had under the order and
bond. In short, the original transcript showed such a
submission of the controversy that the absence from the
record of the petition for an injunction was not material.
In our opinion it was quite admissible in the circumstances for the Circuit Court of Appeals to change its first
decision and correct the mistake therein by disposing of
the merits without granting a rehearing. The parties had
been fully heard in the beginning.
2. The defendants further complain that in adjudging
that the moneys collected on the assessment should be
repaid to the settlers the court failed to give proper effect
to what the State Land Board had done in the matter and
encroached on the board's province.
By the laws of the State the board is invested with
authority to supervise the fulfilment of contracts for the
construction of irrigation works under the Carey Act and
to accept the work when completed. But there was no
acceptance in this instance. One of the state laws, c. 14,
Sess. Laws 1917, requires that assessments for the operation and maintenance of such works, where the operating
company has not come under the control of the settlers,
which was the case here, shall be submitted to and receive
the approval of the board before payment is exacted.
This assessment was submitted to the board, and the

TWIN FALLS CO. v. CALDWELL.
85

Opinion of the Court.

settlers objected that it was not for operation or maintenance but for construction. A hearing resulted in the
adoption by the board of a resolution declaring that it was
not then prepared to pass definitely on the matter and
would secure further data during the approaching irrigation season on which to rest a definite conclusion, but that
it would temporarily approve the assessment as one for
maintenance in order that the money might be collected
and the work proceed, and if it ultimately concluded that
the work was construction work it would require the
amounts collected to be applied as credits on the settlers'
contracts for water rights or to be repaid in cash. This
was not satisfactory to the settlers, so the matter was
taken into court as before shown.
It is not necessary to consider what effect should be
given to an unqualified approval by the board, for there
was none here. In effect what the board did was to say:
"We cannot determine from the data before us whether
the work, to pay for which the assessment is made, is construction work which the construction company is bound
to do, or is maintenance the cost of which is to be collected
from the settlers, so we reserve that question for future
investigation and determination; but to tide the matter
over we now give the assessment a merely tentative approval, and if we ultimately determine that the work is
construction work we shall see that the settlers receive
credit on their water-right contracts for the amounts
collected or that they are repaid." The state law makes
it a condition to giving an approval that the board be
"satisfied" that the proposed expenditures "are necessary for the operation and maintenance" of the irrigation
works and " are proper charges against" the settlers. This
prerequisite was plainly wanting, as is affirmatively shown
by the board's resolution, and therefore the tentative approval, only formally given, was in contravention of the
statute and of no effect. The law also makes the board's
approval a condition to the right to collect an assessment;

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

266 U. S.

and of course where the board does not approve it can
give no authority to collect. As the collection was made
without the prescribed approval, and therefore without
right, the settlers were entitled to repayment. The state
law does not purport, nor has it been construed, to vest
the board with power to adjudicate rights to repayment
of moneys thus wrongfully collected; so their adjudication
in the courts is not an encroachment on the province of
the board.
3. It is also complained that the findings of fact on
which the decree rests are not in accord with the evidence.
Of this it suffices to say that the courts below concurred
in the findings and we think there was sufficient evidence
to sustain them.
Decree affirmed.
DAVIS, AGENT, v. HENDERSON.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 44. Submitted October 8, 1924.-Decided October 27, 1924.
1. A judgment of a state court rendered against an interstate carrier, when under federal control, through failure to give effect to
a rule in its tariff, held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ
of error. P. 93.
2. A tariff rule, approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, providing that orders for cars given the carrier's local agent
must be in writing, cannot be waived by the carrier through the
agent's acceptance of oral notice from the shipper. Id.
157 Ark. 43, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas affirming a judgment against a carrier
in an action by a shipper for failure to furnish a car within
a reasonable time after notice.
Mr. A. A. McLaughlin, Mr. Thomas B. Pryor and Mr.
Vincent M. Miles, for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
No brief filed for defendant in error and respondent.

