PANAMA R. R. CO. v. ROCK.
200

209

Syllabus.

211, 221. No peculiarity of state procedure will be permitted to enlarge or to abridge a substantive federal right.
Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 511;
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Burnette, 239 U. S. 199;
New Orleans & Northeastern R. R. Co. v. Harris, 247
U. S. 367, 371; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v.
Mullins, 249 U. S. 531. But to enforce a claim by subjecting property within the State to its satisfaction,
through attachment proceeding, does not enlarge the substantive right.
The practice of obtaining in this way satisfaction of a
claim in personam against an absent defendant is not one
abhorrent to, or uncommon in, federal courts. In admiralty, district courts take original jurisdiction under
such circumstances. Atkins v. Disintegrating Co., 18
Wall. 272. At law, they do so on removal. When the case
is removed, it proceeds to judgment in the federal court
and the judgment is enforced there as against the attached
property with the same effect as if the cause had remained
in the state court. Clark v. Wells, 203 U. S. 164.
Writ of error dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.
PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. ROCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 4. Submitted October 6, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. At common law no private cause of action arises from the death
of a human being, and such, it seems, was also the general rule of
the Roman civil law. P. 211.
2. Article 2341 of the Civil Code of Panama, which reads: "He
who shall have been guilty of an offense or fault, which has caused
another damage, is obliged to repair it, without prejudice to the
principal penalty which the law imposes for the fault or offense
committed,"--was made"operative in the Canal Zone by Executive
Order of May 9, 1904, and confirmed as valid and binding there
by the Act of August 24, 1912, ยง 2, 37 Stat. 560. P. 211.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

3. In view of the Spanish affinities of the South American countries
that adopted this article,--first Chile, then the States of Colombia,
including Panama, which apparently took it from Chile,--it is to be
assumed that it was adopted from a like provision in the Spanish
Code rather than from another in the Code Napoleon. P. 212.
4. Hence an earlier French construction sustaining a private action
for death caused by negligence can not be presumed to have been
adopted with the statute, and the more clearly so in the .absence
of ground to infer that the adoption was with knowledge of such
construction. Id.
5. In the absence of construction by Spain prior to the adoption by
Chile, by Chile prior to the adoption by Panama and by Panama
or Colombia prior to the adoption for the Canal Zone, the article
must be independently construed, according only .persuasive force
to decisions of the Spanish-speaking countries. P. 213.
6. The Executive Order and the Act of 1912, having continued in
force in the Canal Zone the laws of the land "with which the inhabitants are familiar," the population there having immediately
become largely American, and the local courts having adopted
common-law principles in construing statutes, the article should
be construed in accordance with the common law, as not granting
a private cause of action for death by negligence. P. 214.
272 Fed. 649, reversed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a judgment recovered by Rock in the District Court for the Canal Zone for damages resulting from
the death of his wife, due, as it was alleged, to negligence
of the Railroad Company.
ERROR

Mr. Walter F. Van Dame for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William C. Todd for defendant in error.

MR. JusTICE SuTHELAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought in the District Court for the
Canal Zone by James Rock to recover damages for the
death of his wife, alleged to have resulted in 1918 from the
negligence of the railroad company, while she was being

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. ROCK.
209

Opinion of the Court.

transported as a passenger. Upon the verdict of a jury,
final judgment was rendered for plaintiff, which was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 272 Fed. 649.
The sole question presented for our determination is
whether, under the law of the Canal Zone then in force,
there was a right of action.
It is settled that at common law no private cause of action arises from the death of a human being. Insurance
Co. v. Brame, 95 U. S. 754, 756. The right of action, both
in this country and in England, depends wholly upon
statutory authority. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.
11, 21; Seward v. The "Vera Cruz ", L. R. 10 App. Cases
59, 70. This Court, also, after elaborate consideration,
held that no such action could be maintained in the courts
of the United States under the general maritime law. The
Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199. And the general rule of the
Roman civil law seems to have been the same as that of
the common law. Such was the conclusion of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in a case which was discussed with
great fullness and learning at the bar and well considered
by that court upon its original presentation and upon rehearing. Hubgh v. New Orleans & C. R. R. Co., 6 La.
Ann. 495, 509-511.
But it is contended.that the action is maintainable under
Art. 2341 of the Civil Code of Panama, which became
operative in the Canal Zone by Executive Order of May 9,
1904. That article reads:
"He who shall have been guilty of an offense or fault,
which has caused another damage, is obliged to repair it,
without prejudice to the principal penalty which the law
imposes for the fault or offense committed."
The applicable passage of the Executive Order is, "The
laws of the land, with which the inhabitants are familiar,
and which were in force on February 26, 1904, will continue in force in the Canal Zone . . . until altered
or annulled by the said Commission. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, c. 390, ยง 2, 37
Stat. 560, 561,1 had the effect of confirming this article
as valid and binding within the Canal Zone.
The provision under consideration apparently was
adopted from the Code of Chile by the several States of
Colombia, the adoption by Panama being in 1860. The
contention is that the provision in the Chilean Code, in
substance, was taken from the Code Napoleon and is to
be found, also, in the Civil Code of Spain; that both the
French and the Spanish courts had interpreted it as justifying an action such as we are here reviewing; and the
familiar rule is invoked that a provision adopted by one
country from the laws of another country is presumed to
carry with it the meaning which it had acquired by the
known and settled construction of the latter. Undoubtedly the decisions of the French courts were to the effeci
stated. La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 138. It must be
borne in mind, however, that the South American countries named were predominantly Spanish in race and
language, and, therefore, it may scarcely be doubted that
the statute was taken directly from the Spanish and not
the French Code. It follows that the presumption that
the French construction was adopted with the adoption
of the statute cannot be indulged. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Humble, 181 U. S. 57, 65. Moreover, there is
nothing in any of the circumstances called to our attention to support an inference that the statute was adopted
with knowledge of the French construction. See Hunter
v. Truckee Lodge, 14 Nev. 24, 38-40. The earliest decision of the Spanish courts of which we are informed was
in 1894, Borrero v. CompaiiiaAnonyma de la Luz Elec1 " That

all laws, orders, regulations, and ordinances adopted and
promulgated in the Canal Zone by order of the President for the
government and sanitation of the Canal Zone and the construction of
the Panama Canal are hereby ratified and confirmed as valid and
binding until Congress shall otherwise provide."

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. ROCK.
209

Opinion of the Court.

triza, 1 Porto Rico Fed. 144, 147, long after the adoption
of the statute by either Chile, Colombia or Panama. The
presumption in respect of the adoption of the Spanish
construction, therefore, has no foundation upon which to
rest and must, likewise, be rejected. Stutsman County v.
Wallace, 142 U. S. 293, 312.2 We are not advised that
the courts of Chile had construed the provision prior to
its adoption by Panama; and it is asserted and not denied,
that prior to its adoption by the Executive Order and
congressional act, there had been no decision on the question by the courts of either Colombia or Panama.
It remains, then, only to inquire whether the asserted
right of action exists in virtue of the language of the statute independently construed. Upon that question decisions of the various Spanish-speaking countries are of
persuasive force only; and even that is overcome or greatly
diminished when it is shown that the cognate statute in
Porto Rico, and, for aught that appears to the contrary,
in the other Spanish-speaking countries, is supported by
procedural or other provisions lending aid to its construction as a death statute. In the Borrero Case (p. 146) it is

said:
"Under the practice formerly existing in Porto Rico,
in.a proper case the law provided for, not only criminal
proceedings, but for indemnification on account of the
unlawful act to those entitled to it, all in the same proceeding; but those entitled to the civil indemnity could
decline to proceed with the criminal action, and yet sue
for civil liability. Article 16 of the Penal Code provided
that one liable for a misdemeanor was also liable civilly.
Both the penal and civil liability could be determined in
the same proceeding; and article 123 provided: 'The ac2 We

have the authority of the Hubgh Case for the statement that
the earlier Spanish law was to the contrary effect. 6 La. Ann.
510-511.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tion to demand restitution, reparation, or indemnification
is also transmitted to the heirs of the person injured.'"
The Supreme Court of Louisiana in the Hubgh Case,
supra, considering the similar provision in .the Louisiana
Code, held that it did not include a civil action for death.
This conclusion was reached after submitting the language
to the test of civil law as well as common law principles.
The Executive Order continued in force in the Canal
Zone the laws of the land "with which the inhabitants
are familiar;" and this, in effect, was ratified by the Act
of Congress of 1912. Immediately following, the native
population disappeared and the inhabitants of the Canal
Zone since, largely American, have been only employees
of the Canal and of those doing business in the Zone, who,
it is to be presumed, were familiar with the rule of the
common law rather than the construction said to have
been put upon the statute by the various Spanish-speaking countries. As early as 1910, the Supreme Court of the
Canal Zone declared that.the courts of the Zone were "in
duty bound to follow the rules of statutory construction of
the courts of common law and ascertain by them the meaning and the spirit of the codes." Kung Ching Chong v.
Wing Chong, 2 Canal Zone Supreme Court, 25, 30. In
the later case of Fitzpatrick v. The Panama Railroad Co.,
Id. 111, decided in 1913, the same court said (p. 121):
"
if there is doubt or uncertainty as to the construction and interpretation of the laws here existing prior
to February 26, 1904, the courts of the Canal Zone should
accept and adopt that construction which more clearly
harmonizes with the recognized principles of jurisprudence
prevailing in the United States."
Under all the circumstances, we conclude that the reach
of the statute is to be determined by the application of
common law principles, Panama R. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249
U. S.41, 45; and, applying these principles, it is clear that
the general language of Art. 2341 does not include the
.

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. ROCK.
209

Holmes, Taft, McKenna, and Brandeis, JJ., dissenting.

right of action here asserted. It would not be difficult to
find generalizations of the common law quite as comprehensive in terms as the provision now under reviewas, for example, "There is no wrong without a remedy ";' but, nevertheless, under the principles of the common law, it has required specific statutes to fix civil liability for death by wrongful act; and it is this requirement, rather than the construction put upon the statute
in civil law countries, that the inhabitants of the Canal
Zone are presumed to be familiar with, and which affords
the rule by which the meaning and scope of the statute
in question are to be determined.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTicE

HoL s, dissenting.

There is no dispute that the language of the Civil Code
of Panama, Art. 2341, which has been quoted, is broad
enough on its face to give an action for negligently causing the death of the plaintiff's wife. Taken literally it
gives such an action in terms. The article of the Code Napoleon from which it is said to have been copied is construed by the French Courts in accord with its literal
meaning. La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 138, 139. It
would seem natural and proper to accept the interpretation given to the article at its source, and by the more
authoritative jurists who have had occasion to deal with
it, irrespective of whether that local interpretation was
before or after its adoption by Spanish States, so long as
nothing seriously to the contrary is shown. The only
thing that I know of to the contrary is the tradition of the
later common law. The common law view of the responsibility of a master for his servant was allowed to
help in the interpretation of an ambiguous statute in

8 The

maxim was applied in Like v. McKinstry, 41 Barb. 186,

188, to support a right of action for slandei of title to personal
property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Holmes, Taft, McKenna, and Brandeis, JJ., dissenting.

266 U. S.

PanamaR. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249 U. S. 41, 45, for reasons
there stated. But those reasons have far less application
here, even if we refer to the common law apart from
statute, and in any case are not enough to override the
plain meaning of statutory words.
The common law as to master and servant, whatever may
be thought of it, embodied a policy that has not disappeared from life. But it seems to me that courts in dealing
with statutes sometimes have been too slow to recognize
that statutes even when in terms covering only particular
cases may imply a policy different from that of the common law, and therefore may exclude a reference to the
common law for the purpose of limiting their scope.
Johnson v. UnitedStates, 163 Fed. 30, 32. Without going
into the reasons for the notion that an action (other than
an appeal) does not lie for causing the death of a human
being, it is enough to say that they have disappeared. The
policy that forbade such an action, if it was more profound than the absence of a remedy when a man's body
was hanged and his goods confiscated for the felony, has
been shown not to be the policy of present law by statutes
of the United States and of most if not all of the States.
In such circumstances it seems to me that we should not
be astute to deprive the words of the Panama Code of
their natural effect.
The decision in the Hubgh Case, 6 La. Ann. 495, stands
on nothing better than the classic tradition that the life
of a free human being, (it was otherwise with regard to
slaves,) did not admit of valuation, which no longer is true
sentimentally, as is shown by the statutes, and which
economically is false.
I think that the judgment should be affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concur in this opinion.

and MR.

