OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
298

Order.

would delay the distribution of the proceeds, which in the
aggregate reach large figures, and would be distinctly
prejudicial to many claimants. Other objections to it
have been suggested, but they need not be considered.
An order will be entered in accordance with this opinion.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.

UNITED STATES,

INTERVENER.

IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Order entered November 18, 1924.

Order amending an earlier order (265 U. S. 513, par. 4) for payment
of a gross-production tax to Texas out of funds held by the receiver and denying the State's supplemental petition for payment
of another like tax.

On consideration of the supplemental petition of the
State of Texas for a modification of paragraph 4 of the
order of June 9, last, it is ordered that the petition be
denied in'so far as it relates to the tax prescribed in ยง 11
of the Texas statute of February 20, 1917, regulating pipe
lines,--the denial to be without prejudice to such right as
the State may have to collect this tax from persons other
than the receiver,-and that paragraph 4 of the said order
of June 9, last, relating to the payment of the gross-production tax prescribed by Article 7383 of the Revised
Civil Statutes of Texas, as amended by an Act of June 2,
1923, be so modified as to require (a) that the amounts to
be paid by the receiver be computed on the full production of each well, (b) that the payment in respect of any
well be not in excess of the net proceeds from that well
remaining in the receiver's hands, (c) that the payments
be only of such part of the tax as has not been paid by
parties in interest, and (d) -that as between owners and

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

lessees the payments by the receiver be charged against
the lessees, they being the ones on whom as between the
two the tax would fall.

UNITED STATES v. CHILDS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF J. MENIST COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Submitted October 14, 1924.-Decided November 24, 1924.
In the provision of the Act of 1916 (ยง 14-a, Tit. I, Part II, 39 Stat.
756) adding the sum of 5% to delinquent income tax and "interest"
at the rate of 1% per month upon the tax from the time it became
due, the interest is not penal but compensatory, and its allowance,
on a claim by the Government against a bankrupt, is therefore consistent with ยง 57-j of the Bankruptcy Act. New York v. Jersawit,
263 U. S.493, distinguished. P. 307.
290 Fed. 947, reversed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming an order of the District Court which, in
turn, affirmed an order of a referee. in bankruptcy allowing the Government's claim for an income tax, but fixing
the interest thereon at 6% per annum, the legal rate in
the State, in lieu of the 1% per month demanded by the
Government.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr. Sewall Key
for the United States.
The Government is entitled to interest upon its claim
at the rate of one per centum per month.
While ยง 57-j of the Bankruptcy Act forbids the allowance of penalties against the estate of a bankrupt, it
specifically allows "such interest as may have accrued

