KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
377

379

Syllabus.

not been put in jeopardy." Furthermore if directing the
verdict was wrong it certainly was not beyond the jurisdiction of the Court. The jury were there and the prisoners before them, and so far as jurisdiction is concerned
it did not matter whether evidence had been put in or not.
We stop at the point of jurisdiction, the want of which
would be the only pretext that could be offered for going
behind the literal meaning of the statute. But we do not
mean to imply that an opening by counsel or the offer of
evidence is necessary in order to justify directing a verdict
of not guilty; there are other cases in which it is done.
It is suggested that the course adopted in this case
offers to the lower court a means of escaping the review
allowed by the act; and there is an innuendo that there
was a desire of that sort below. But such considerations
do not affect the construction of the act, and it is fair to
say that while the judge should not have directed a verdict when he did so, and if he thought the indictment bad
should have quashed it before the jury came in, and left
the question in form to be taken up, still we see no sufficient reason for supposing that the direction was given
with any notion of escaping the jurisdiction of this Court.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO.
3 OF SEVIER COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 33.

Argued May 1, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.

1. An act of a state legislature, consistent with the state constitution,
requiring that the cost of a public road improvement be distributed
over private lands according to the benefits they will respectively
receive from it, and determining what lands will be so benefited
and in what amounts, cannot be said to offend the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment unless the determina-

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tion is palpably arbitrary, and therefore a plain abuse of power.

P. 386.
2. And only where there is manifest and unreasonable discrimination
in fixing the benefits which the several parcels will receive can
the legislative determination be said to contravene the equal protection clause of the Amendment. Id.
3. To, justify an assessment of benefits to particular lands it is not
essential that the benefits be direct or immediate, but it is essential
that they have a better basis than mere speculation or conjecture.
P. 387.
4. In the case of railway property, the benefits may consist of gains
from increased traffic reasonably expected to result from the improvement. Id.
5. A special act confirming existing assessments and recognized by
the Supreme Court of the State as a legislative determination of
the lands which will be benefited by the improvement and of the
proportions in which they will share in the benefits, must be
treated by this Court as an admissible legislative assessment of
benefits so far as the state constitution is concerned. Id.
156 Ark. 116, affirmed.

a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment sustaining a special road improvement assessment made against property of the plaintiff in error railroad company. A petition for certiorari
was also made here, which the Court denied.
ERROR to

Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. Frank H.
Moore, Mr. Arthur F. Smith and Mr. James B. McDonough were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Hal L. Norwood, for defendants in error, submitted.
Mr. E. K. Edwards, Mr. J. I. Alley and Mr. B. E. Isbell
were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This jase presents a controversy over the constitutional
validity of an assessment of benefits accruing to railway
property from the improvement of a public road in Sevier
County, Arkansas.

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
379

381

Opinion of the Court.

The road reaches from DeQueen, the county seat, to
the eastern border of the county, eighteen miles. It had
been a mere dirt road, not good in any season and impassable at times. The improvement consisted in reducing
objectionable curves and grades, installing modern bridges
and culverts, reconstructing the roadbed, putting on a
hard and durable surface and generally fitting the road
for economical and expeditious rural travel and transportation. To accomplish the improvement a road district
covering approximately three miles of territory on either
side of the road was created under a general law of the
State, §§ 5399 et seq., Crawford & Moses Digest, 1921.
Money to pay the cost of the improvement, estimated at
$200,000, was to be obtained primarily through an issue
of interest bearing bonds and ultimately through a special
tax spread over a period of twenty years. The-tax was
to be laid on all lands, town lots, railroads and other real
property within the district in the proportions in which
they would be benefited by the improvement. Assessors
appointed by the county court were to assess the benefits
and to set forth in their report the name of the owner of
each parcel, a description of the property, its "present
assessed value" for general taxing purposes, and the
amount of benefits assessed to it. When completed the
assessment was to be filed in the county court, a time for
hearing parties in interest was to be fixed and public
notice thereof was to be given. The court was to review
the work of the assessors and to equalize, lower or raise
the assessment of benefits to particular parcels as justice
might require. An appeal could be taken to the circuit
court, which was to give a hearing de novo in respect
of such objections as were set forth in the affidavit for
appeal; and a further appeal could be taken to the Supreme Court of the State. A comprehensive statement of
the various steps to be taken in the proceedings and of
their nature is given in Commissioners, etc. v. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 547.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U.S.

Within the road district, at DeQueen, are two miles of
main track, nine miles of side tracks, a depot and other
buildings, which form part of a railway line, called the
Kansas City Southern, which extends from Kansas City,
Missouri, to Port Arthur, Texas. The assessed value for
general taxing purposes of this railway property within
the district was $129,615. The district assessors assessed
it with benefits amounting to $21,270, or approximately
16 per cent. of its assessed value. The assessed value of
the farm lands and town lots within the district for general taxing purposes was $897,660. The district assessors
assessed them with benefits amounting to $48,354, or
approximately 54 per cent. of their assessed value. Other
property in the district, not requiring special notice here,
was assessed with benefits amounting to $40,409. Thus
the aggregate of the benefits assessed was $510,033. The
special tax amounted to 70 per cent. of the benefits assessed, or 31/ per cent. per annum for twenty years-the
full tax being intended to cover the bond issue with interest. The portion of the tax laid on the railway property was $14,899, or $744.45 per annum.

In regular course the assessment was reviewed by the
county court and confirmed, the court finding that the
lands and other real property in the district would be
"greatly benefited" by the improvement and that the
assessment of benefits was "fair, just and equal to all
land owners."
Two companies interested in the railway property appealed to the circuit court and in the affidavit for appeal
assailed the assessment, in so far as it affected them, on
the grounds, first, that it was purely arbitrary, and therefore in contravention of the due process of law clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, because the railway property neither would
nor could receive any benefit from the improvement of the
road; secondly, that it was not in accord with the equal

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
379

383

Opinion of the Court.

protection clause of that Amendment, because the railway
property on the one hand and the farm lands and town lots
on the other were assessed with benefits in grossly- unequal
proportions, to the detriment of the railway property, and,
thirdly, that it was made in disregard of the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States, because
the benefits assessed to the railway property were not such
as would or could accrue to that property, but were such
as would acrue, if accruing at all, to the interstate business in which that property was being used, and therefore
could not be made the basis of a special improvement tax
without burdening interstate commerce.
While the appeal was pending in the circuit court the
state legislature passed a special act (No. 98, approved
February 7, 1920) recognizing the creation and boundaries of the district, approving the plans for the improvement of the road, confirming the assessment of benefits
as sustained by the county court and declaring that the
assessment "fairly represents the benefits that will
accrue" to the railway property and other tracts in the
district. The companies then took the position that the
legislative confirmation was open to the same constitutional objections that were made to the original assessment.
A hearing was had in the. circuit court at which the
companies assumed the burden of establishing that their
objections were well founded in so far as they turned on
matters of fact. Much evidence was produced on both
sides. The greater part was addressed to the question
whether the railway property within the district would
receive any substantial benefit from the improvement.
The witnesses differed pronouncedly. Some expressed
positive opinions on the subject without advancing anything of substance in support of their opinions. This was
true to a greater degree of the witnesses for the companies
than of those for the district. Some of the latter referred

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1921
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

to and detailed conditions and transactions tending to
give their opinions strong support. Among other things,
they testified that theretofore the lands in the vicinity of
the road had necessarily been put to uses which made only
a light contribution to the tonnage and business of the
railway; that the lands were naturally well adapted to
other uses, such as growing fruits and vegetables, but
could not profitably be used for these purposes in the absence of road facilities for getting the products to places
of shipment expeditiously and without injury from jolting; that when plans for the improvement of the road
were adopted fruit growing and truck farming began to
displace the prior uses; that at the time of the hearing,
which was after one-half of the road was completed and
the rest graded, the new crops were being grown and sent
to distant markets in large and increasing quantities; that
these products were hauled over the new road in motor
trucks to DeQueen and Locksburg,. those taken to Locksburg being then forwarded over a short local railroad to
DeQueen; that all were there shipped over the railwaythe one in question-to Kansas City and other points beyond, and that there was no other railway leading to
available markets. The same witnesses further testified
that the change from the old to the new uses was still progressing; that other lands tributary to the new road and
not cultivated before were being prepared for cultivation,
and that timber and other heavy products which could not
reach the railway before were being hauled over the new
road and shipped out in substantial volume. On the
question of discrimination the evidence was meagre. The
assessed value of the railway property for general taxing
purposes was conceded to be about one-half its actual
value. On the basis of assessed values, that property was
assessed with a much lower proportion of the total benefits than the farm lands and town lots were, the proportional relation being that of 16 to 54. There was some

•KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
379

385

Opinion of the Court.

evidence of instances in which the assessed value of farm
lands and town lots for general taxing purposes was less
than one-half their real value, but there was no evidence
that this was general. Even in the instances named the
benefits assessed were generally much in excess of 16 per
cent. of one-half the real value. There was no evidence
of in intentional over assessment of benefits to the railway property or of an intentional under assessment to
the farm lands and town lots. The three assessors testified that they assessed all the property in the same wayaccording to the benefits which in their judgment the particular parcels would receive from the improvement of
the road.
The circuit court was of opinion on all the evidence that
the improvement would bring to the railway a very .substantial increase in tonnage and business at DeQueen;
that this would enlarge its receipts and net revenue and
thereby materially benefit its property at DeQueen, and
that the assessment of benefits to that property was
neither arbitrary nor unreasonably discriminatory but
just and fair. On that determination of the issues of fact
the court entered a judgment overruling the objections
and upholding the assessment. The companies appealed
to the Supreme Court of the State and it affirmed the
judgment, 156 Ark. 116. That court put its decision on
two grounds taken collectively-one that the special confirmatory act constituted a legislative determination of
the correctness of the assessment, which could not be
overturned unless found to be obviously arbitrary or unreasonably discriminatory, and the other that there was
ample evidence to sustain the findings of the circuit court,
which negatived the existence of any such error, and that
the circuit court's solution of the conflicts in the evidence
was not open to review on appeal.
The companies brought the case here on writ of error
and afterwards presented a petition for certiorari, consid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924,
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

eration of which was passed to the hearing on the writ of
error. As the constitutional validity of the special confirmatory act was directly challenged in the state courts
and sustained by them, the case is properly here on the
writ of error; so the petition for certiorari will be denied.
The objection based on the commerce clause of the
Constitution has been abandoned, but those based on the
due process of law and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment are pressed on our attention.
By a long line of decisions in this Court it has been
settled that, where the state constitution as construed by
the state court of last resort does not provide otherwise,
the legislature of a State may require that the cost of a
local public improvement, such as the construction or reconstruction of a public road, be distributed over the
lands particularly benefited and charged against them according to their value, their area or the benefits which
they will receive; may itself determine what lands will be
benefited and in what proportions they will share in the
benefits, and may avail itself, for the purposes of that
determination, of any information which it deems appropriate and sufficient, including such as may be afforded by
reports and estimates made in prior assessment proceedings having the same object. Only where the legislative
determination is palpably arbitrary, and therefore a plain
abuse of power, can it be said to offend the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355-357; French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 338, et seq.; Houck v.
Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 262, 265;
Myles Salt Co. v. IberiaDrainageDistrict,239 U. S. 478,
481; Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 189; Valley Farms
Co. v. County of Westchester, 261 U. S. 155, 163. And
only where there is manifest and unreasonable discrimination in fixing the benefits which the several parcels will
receive can the legislative determination be said to con-

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
379

387

Opinion of the Court.

travene the equal protection clause of that Amendment.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement
District No. 6, 256 U. S. 658; Thomas v. Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co., 261 U. S. 481.
To justify an assessment of benefits to particular lands
it is not essential that the benefits be direct or immediate,
Valley Farms Co. v. County of Westchester, supra; but
it is essential that they have a better basis than mere
speculation or conjecture. Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co. v. Road Improvement District No. 6, supra. In
the case of railway property they may consist of gains
from increased traffic reasonably expected to result from
the-improvement. Thomas v. Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co., supra; Branson v. Bush, supra.
The special confirmatory act was recognized by the
Supreme Court of the State as a legislative determination
of the lands which will be benefited and of the proportions
in which they will share in the benefits. It therefore must
be treated here as an admissible legislative assessment of
benefits so far as the state constitution is concerned.
The evidence, as before outlined, falls short of showing
that the assessment against the railway property was
either palpably arbitrary or unreasonably discriminatory.
The burden was on the railway companies to overcome
the presumption attending the legislative determination,
and this they failed to do; for, under the evidence produced, it is an entirely admissible view that the railway
property will be substantially benefited by the road improvement and that the benefits are fairly assessed as between that property and the farm lands and town lots.
True, the amount of benefits which will accrue to the railway property is largely a matter of forecast and estimate;
but the same thing is true of the farm lands and town
lots, and also of benefit assessments in general. See
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. BarberAsphalt Paving
Co., 197 U. S. 430, 433; Butters v. Oakland,263 U. S. 162,

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

165. Forecast and estimate based on a solid premise of
fact and experience are not to be confused with mere
speculation and conjecture.
The road in question extends, at right angles to the railway line, a distance of 18 miles into a country well
adapted to supplying large traffic for the railway when
the improvement is completed. Adjacent to the road, as
is conceded in the brief for the railway companies, are
1587 tracts of farm lands of less than 80 acres and 246
tracts of a larger acreage. The only practicable route to
available markets is through DeQueen and over the railway. These facts, together with the affirmative evidence
of what was undertaken and done in the way of growing
new crops and shipping them out over the railway as soon
as the improvement was well under way, illustrate that
there was a real basis for assessing the railway property
at DeQueen with substantial benefits. Had the companies
recognized this and devoted themselves to showing that
the amount of benefits assessed to their property was excessive instead of attempting to show that it would receive no benefits whatever, they possibly might have made
a better case. But that course was not taken; and necessarily the state courts rested their decision on the evidence
that was presented. That evidence fairly admitted of
the view, taken in those courts, that the assessment was
not excessive.
The companies make a contention which may be summarized as follows: Assume that the improvement will
bring to the railway, at DeQueen, an increased tonnage
and business yielding gross receipts amounting to $10,000
a year. According to the evidence one-fourth of that
sum, or $2,500, will be net revenue. This increase in net
revenue must be spread over the entire railway, which
is 800 miles long. The portion assignable to the two miles
of main line within the road district is $6.25. This sum
capitalized on a six per cent. basis, which gives $104.16,

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. DUNKEN.
379

389

Syllabus.

represents the full benefit to the railway property within
the district.
The contention is faulty in several respects. The increased traiffic will not be carried from one end of the railway to the other, but only from DeQueen to Kansas City.
The railway property within the district includes much
more than the two miles of main track. Doubtless, the increased traffic will in a way benefit the railway as a whole;
but the traffic will be appurtenant to the portion of the
railway at DeQueen, and will specially enhance the importance and value of the property there as a part of the
line.
Other contentions are advanced which need not be
specially noticed here, because they are shown to be quite
untenable in the decisions before cited.
We conclude that the objections made to the assessment
on constitutional grounds are not well taken.
Judgment affirmed.
AETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY ET AL. v.
DUNKEN, ADMINISTRATRIX OF DUNKEN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS OF THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 62. Argued October 14, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.
1. A finding of a state court that a contract was completed,--a pure
question of fact,--held not reviewable by this Court where the
.'federal right involved depended on the legal question whether, the
contract being completed, rights and obligations under it were
governed by a local statute or the laws of another State. P. 393.
2. A seven-year term policy, issued by a life insurance company in
Connecticut and delivered to the insured in Tennessee where he
resided, provided that, at the sole option of the insured, upon any
anniversary of its date, without medical regxamination, it was convertible into a twenty payment life commercial policy, bearing
the same date and issued at the same age, on payment of the

