UNITED STATES v. WEISSMAN.

377

Opinion of the Court.

373

of a tax upon exports, it is completely answered and
disposed of adversely by Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S.
165, and needs no further comment.
The difference in the legislation, we think, is constitutional and justified by the considerations which we have
submitted. The judgment is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WEISSMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 391.

Argued December 5, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.

The proviso of the Criminal Appeals Act "That no writ of error
shall be taken by or allowed the United States in any case where
there has been a verdict in favor of the defendant," applies to a
verdict directed by the court before opening statement or introduction of evidence upon the ground that the indictment failed to
charge an offense. P. 378.
Writ of error dismissed.
ERROR

to the District Court under the Criminal Appeals

Act.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Benjamin Slade, for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error taken by the United States under
the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564; 34
Stat. 1246. The indictment is for a conspiracy to conceal
assets in contemplation of the bankruptcy of Joseph
Weissman, alleged to have continued up to and including
19458° 25-28

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the day when a petition in bankruptcy was filed. There
is also a count for concealing and causing to be concealed
assets after the adjudication and the appointment of trustees. It is unnecessary to follow the vicissitudes and oscillations of the case before the time that the defendants
in error were finally before a jury for trial. At that time
the Court, after reciting to the jury some of the previous
steps, stated chat as it had concluded that the indictment
was invalid because no offence was properly charged and
therefore no valid conviction could be had, it would dispose of the case by directing a general verdict of not
guilty. A verdict of not guilty was rendered, subject to
exceptions, on which the Government seeks to come here.
Apart from other objections and without going further,
the Government is met by the proviso in the Criminal
Appeals Act: "That no writ of error shall be taken by or
allowed the United States in any case where there has
been a verdict in favor of the defendant." It is argued
that the verdict is a nullity because nothing had been
submitted to the jury, no evidence, not even an opening
statement, and that the judgment should be treated as in
substance sustaining a demurrer to the indictment or
quashing it. It is hard to see what good this would do
the Government, as even then, unless we go behind the
judgment and what was said at the trial, and possibly in
any event, the direction would seem to have been based
on a construction of the indictment and not upon a construction of the statutes of the United States.
But we are of opinion that no such narrowing construction can be put upon the Criminal Appeals Act for the
purpose of enlarging the Government's right of review.
The words taken literally refer simply to the matter of
fact that there "has been a verdict "-not qualified by
any consideration of whether it was right or wrong. In
like manner a writ of error from a judgment sustaining a
special plea in bar is given only "when the defendant has

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
377

379

Syllabus.

not been put in jeopardy." Furthermore if directing the
verdict was wrong it certainly was not beyond the jurisdiction of the Court. The jury were there and the prisoners before them, and so far as jurisdiction is concerned
it did not matter whether evidence had been put in or not.
We stop at the point of jurisdiction, the want of which
would be the only pretext that could be offered for going
behind the literal meaning of the statute. But we do not
mean to imply that an opening by counsel or the offer of
evidence is necessary in order to justify directing a verdict
of not guilty; there are other cases in which it is done.
It is suggested that the course adopted in this case
offers to the lower court a means of escaping the review
allowed by the act; and there is an innuendo that there
was a desire of that sort below. But such considerations
do not affect the construction of the act, and it is fair to
say that while the judge should not have directed a verdict when he did so, and if he thought the indictment bad
should have quashed it before the jury came in, and left
the question in form to be taken up, still we see no sufficient reason for supposing that the direction was given
with any notion of escaping the jurisdiction of this Court.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO.
3 OF SEVIER COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 33.

Argued May 1, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.

1. An act of a state legislature, consistent with the state constitution,
requiring that the cost of a public road improvement be distributed
over private lands according to the benefits they will respectively
receive from it, and determining what lands will be so benefited
and in what amounts, cannot be said to offend the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment unless the determina-

