UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
521

Syllabus.

are. to be kept in proper condition. Nor are such matters
to be left to the varying and "uncertain opinions and verdicts of juries. The interesta of the carriers will best be
served by having and keeping their -locomotive boilers
safe; and it may well be left to their officers and engineers
to decide the engineering questions involved in determining whether to use fusible plugs or other means to that
end. Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, supra, p. 194; Richards v. Rough, supra,p. 216. The presence or absence of
a fusible plug was a matter properly to be taken into consideration in connection with other facts bearing upon
the kind and condition of the boiler in determining the
essential and ultimate question, i. e. whether the boiler
was in the condition required by the act.
But we thihk the copirt erred in instructing the jury-that
defendant was bound to avail itself of "the best mechanical contrivances and inventions in known practical use
which are or would be effective in making safe a locomotive boiler as against explosions," and also erred in
authorizing the jury to decide that "the standard of
duty imposed by the law required a fusible safety plug
to be installed", and that "the absence of the fusible
safety plug would impose upon the defendant here an
absolute liability."
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 98.

Argued October 21, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. Although a proviso is sometimes used to introduce independent
legislation, the presumption is that, in accordance with its primary purpose, it applies only to the provision to which it is
attached. P. 534.
2. A proviso may be examined in the light of prior legislation, the
condition it was evidently intended to correct, and its legislative

history. P. 535.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

3. The provisos found in the Army Appropriation Acts of 1915, and
1916, which granted additional pay to clerks and messengers at
headquarters of territorial departments, etc., while serving in the
Philippine Islands, are confined to those positions for which specific salaries were appropriated by the preceding clauses to which
the provisos are attached, and are inapplicable to a chief clerk
of the depot quartermaster's office at Manila whose salary was
fixed by the War Department and paid out of lump sums appropriated elsewhere in these statutes. P. 534.
58 Ct. Clms. 20, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for additional pay.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
John G. Ewing were on the brief, ,for the Tnited States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the construction of a proviso in the
Army Appropriation Acts of 1915 and 1916, relating to
an increase in the pay of clerks and messengers at headquarters of territorial departments. 38 Stat. 351, 355, c.
72; 38 Stat. 1062, 1067, c. 143.
This proviso follows a special appropriation made-in
substantially identical language-in the two acts. In the
Act of 1915 this provision reads:
"Pay to Clerks, Messengers, and Laborers at Headquarters of the Several Territorial Departments, Territorial Districts, Tactical Divisions and Brigades, Service
Schools and Office of the Chief of Staff.
"One chief clerk at the office of the Chief of Staff, $2,000
per annum. Fifteen clerks, at $1,800 each per annum.
Fifteen clerks, at $1,600 each per annum. Thirty-eight

UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
531

Opinion of the Court.

clerks, at $1,400 each per annum. Seventy. clerks, at
$1,200 each per annum. Sixty-five clerks, at $1,000 each
per annum. . . . Two messengers, at $840 each per
annum. Fifty-nine messengers at $720 each per annum.
S.One laborer, at $660 per annum. Two laborers,
at $600 each per annum. One laborer, at $480 per
annum. . . . In all, $312,320.
Additional pay while on foreign service, $9,000.
"Provided, That on and after July first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, the pay of clerks and messengers at
headquarters of territorial departments, tactical divisions,
brigades, and service schools, who are citizens of the
United States, shall be increased $200 each per annum
while serving in the Philippine Islands, such service to
be computed from the date of departure from the continental limits of the United States to the date of
return
"And said clerks, messengers, and laborers shall be
employed and assigned by the Secretary of War to the
offices and positions in which they are to serve.
By a separate provision in the act a lump sum appropriation of $1,833,127 was made for incidental expenses
of the quartermaster corps, including the "hire of laborers" and "compensation of clerks and other employees to the officers" (p. 363).1
Morrow, a citizen of the United States, went to the
Philippine Islands in 1899. From May 15, 1914, to January 17, 1917, he served as chief clerk of the depot quartermaster's office, at the headquarters of the Philippine
Department of the Army, in Manila. He received a
salary of $2,000 a year, which was fixed by the War Department and paid out of the lump sum appropriations
for the quartermaster corps. Later he submitted to the
Auditor a claim for additional pay at the rate of $200 a
year for the period of his service after July 1, 1914, under
'-A like provision was contained in the Act of 1916 (p. 1074).

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the proviso in the acts increasing the pay of clerks and
messengers at headquarters of territorial departments
while serving in the Philippine Islands. This was allowed and paid; but was thereafter charged against him
as having been erroneously paid, and deducted from the
pay then accruing to him as a captain iu the quartermaster's corps. Thereupon he brought this action to
recover the amount claimed, and was awarded judgment.
58 Ct. Clis. 20.
It is conceded that Morrow was a clerk in the quar-2
termaster corps, and not one of the headquarters
clerks included within the first paragraph of the appropriation.
The contention of the United States" is that the proviso applied only to the headquarters clerks and messengers employed at the statutory salaries fixed by the appropriation, and did not include clerks in the quartermaster
corps employed at salaries fixed by the War Department;
that is, that it merely increased the statutory salaries of
the clerks and messengers provided for by the specific appropriation when they should serve in the Philippine
Islands.
This we think is its plain meaning. The general office
of a proviso is to except something from the enacting
clause, or to qualify and restrain its generality and prevent misinterpretation. Minis v. United States, 15 Pet.
423, 445; Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174,
181; White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551; Cox v.
Hart, 260 U. S. 427, 435. Its grammatical and logical
2 The term "headquarters" is used in this opinion as including the
various army stations mentioned in the special appropriations.
8 In the Court of Claims the United States contended that Mosrow did not come within the proviso because he was residing in
the Philippine Islands when aj pointed to the clerkship. This was
apparently the sole contention then made; but, although repeated
in the brief here, it was expressly abandoned by the United States

in the argument at bar.

UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
531

Opinion of the Court.

scope is confined to the subject-matter of the principal
clause. United States v. Whitridge, 197 U. S. 135, 143.
And although sometimes used to introduce independent
legislation, the presumption is that, in accordance with
its primary purpose, it refers only to the provision to
which it is attached. United States v. Falk,204 U. S. 143,
149. Here it clearly appears that the proviso was employed in its primary sense. The entire context shows
that it was intended to apply only to the headquarters
clerks and messengers employed at the statutory salaries
fixed by the special appropriation, and related to the
$9,000 provided for the additional pay of such employees
while on foreign service; and it plainly had no reference
to clerks and messengers in the quartermaster corps whose
salaries were fixed by the War Department under the
lump sum appropriation.
This is emphasized when the proviso is examined in the
light of prior legislation, the condition it was evidently
intended to correct, and its legislative history. Brushaber
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 12; Work v. Lynn,
ante, 161. In all of the Army Appropriation Acts from
1895 to 1914 special appropriations were made for a designated number of clerks and messengers at headquarters
and army stations, at specified rates of pay; but no provision for any increase in their pay while on foreign
service. Lump sum appropriations were also made for
staff corps and departments, including the quartermaster
corps, under which clerks and messengers were employed
at rates of pay fixed by the War Department. In 1904
the War Department issued an order under which clerks
in the staff corps and departments paid under the lump
sum appropriations were granted an increase of $200 in
their annual compensation when transferred to the Philippines. This, however, could not be applied to the headquarters clerks whose salaries were fixed by the specific
appropriations. In 1912 the Secretary of War wrote to

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the Speaker of the House of Representatives, stating that
the pay of the headquarters clerks who were serving in
the Philippines was not commensurate with their work
and less than that of any other similar government employees in the Islands, and that as there were "no means"
by which the War Department could remedy this condition, .he recommended that Congress insert in the next
appropriation for headquarters employees a proviso that
the pay of such clerks and messengers be increased 20
per centum while serving in the Philippines. This recommendation was renewed by the succeeding Secretary of
War, prior to the consideration of the Army Appropriation Bill for 1915.4 Thereafter Congress added to the
appropriation the $9,000 for additional pay while on foreign service, and the proviso relating to the increase of
pay while serving in the Philippines, in the form in which
they have been quoted; these additions being adopted
after the proposed increase had been changed, on a report
of the Conference Committee, from 20 per centum, the
amount recommended by the Secretaries, to $200 a year,
the increase given by the War Department to clerks in
the staff corps and departments."
In the light of this history there is no room to doubteven if it were not plain from the face of the act itselfthat the proviso was intended to apply merely to the headquarters clerks and messengers included within the specific
appropriation. It manifestly was not intended that
clerks in the staff corps and departments should receive,
in addition to the $200 increase given them by the War
Department, a second increase of like amount under the
terms of the proviso.
It is entirely clear that Morrow's service in the quartermaster's office in the Philippines was not within the scope
4 63rd Cong., 1st Sess., House Doc. No. 46.
5 51st Cong. Rec., pt. 6, p. 5592; 63d Cong., 2nd Sess., Sen. Doc.
No. 469.

KUNHARDT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
531

537

Counsel for Parties.

of the proviso. It is unnecessary to review in detail the
various contentions urged in his behalf. We do not find
them sufficient to sustain the judgment; and it must be
and is
Reversed.
KUNHARDT

& COMPANY,

INC.

v.

UNITED

STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 141.

Argued December 10, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. In order to comply with the demand of government officials that it
deliver goods at a port in this country, as required to do by its contracts of sale with the United States, claimant was obliged to forego
a profitable disposition of a vessel it owned and prepared her
for the transportation, before the contracts were canceled. Held,
that there was no taking of the vessel under eminent domain, and
that the United States was not liable for the depreciation of her
sale value. P. 540.
2. There can be no recovery on an agreement of the United States
to pay the amount by which the cost of equipment provided for
performance of a war contract exceeds its value at termination of
the contract, as determined by appraisers, where cost and appraisal
are not alleged and depreciation is not shown. Id.
3. A contract adjusting a claim under canceled war contracts, which
by its terms was not binding until approved by a board of contract
review, was of no force without such approval. P. 541.
58 Ct. Clms. 718, affirmed.
. APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismiss-

ing a petition on demurrer.
Mr. Raymond H. Hudson for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan appeared for
the United States. The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Lovett and Mr. Lisle A. Smith, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief.
194"58°--25--38

