ERIE R. R. v. KIRKENDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. KIRKENDALL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 51. Argued October 8, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. A petition for certiorari must give adequate information concerning the record and essential facts. P. 185.
2. When the case presented upon argument differs radically from
the one tendered by the petition upon which certiorari was granted,
the writ will be dismissed. P. 186.
Writ of certiorari dismissed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the State of Ohio affirming a judgment recovered by the
above-named respondent against the Railroad for goods
lost in transit.

Mr. Benjamin D. Holt and Mr. Edward A. Foote for
petitioner.
Mr. Dudley K. Henderson, with whom Mr. E. P.
Chamberlin was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondent sued for the value of a lost package described by the bill of lading as "1 box bedding," weighing
280 pounds, which actually contained "miscellaneous
household articles, together with two quilts and two pair
woolen blankets." In defense the railroad insisted that
he misrepresented the true character of the contents and
thereby prevented it from obtaining a released valuation
which, according to the rate paid and provisions of the

published tariffs, would not have exceeded twenty-eight
dollars.
The writ must be dismissed. The inducing petition
failed *togive adequate information concerning the record
19458°-25--16

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

and essential facts. Furness, Withy & Co. v. Yang-Tsze
Insurance Assn., 242 U. S. 430; Layne & Bowler Corp.
v. Western Well Works, 261 U. S. 387; Southern Power
Co. v. North CarolinaPublic Service Co., 263 U. S. 508.
The confused state of the record renders it difficult to
ascertain the facts; maybe impossible. The petition for
certiorari seemed to represent that at time of shipment
the consignor accepted a bill of lading misdescribing the
contents of the package and accepted a rate based upon
limited liability, as he must have known.
It appears, however, that the shipper correctly reported
the contents to the railroad, that he was not asked concerning value and made no representations relative thereto, that no rate was quoted, and that the undisclosed
charges were to be collected at destination. The bill of
lading contained no statement of value or rate and no
provision restricting the carrier's liability to less than
the actual worth. Section 8 provides--" The owner or
consignee shall pay the freight and all other lawful
charges accruing on said property, and, if required, shall
pay the same before delivery. If upon inspection it is
ascertained that the articles shipped are not those described in this bill of lading, the freight charges must be
paid upon the articles actually shipped." New York
Central R. R. Co. v. Goldberg, 250 U. S. 85, 87.
The case tendered by the petition is radically different
from the one presented upon the argument.
Writ of certioraridismissed.

