THE PANOIL.

433

Argument for the United States.
THE PANOIL.APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
"FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 139. Argued December 10, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

The District Court has not admiralty jurisdiction of a libel in rem
against a vessel for damages caused by its colliding with a spur
dike, a structure mainly of wood, driven into the bed and extending out from the bank of a navigable river, the purpose of which
is to improve the channel, in aid of navigation, by producing
shore deposits through a slackening of water flow. P. 434.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court in admiralty which dismissed a libel for want of jurisdiction.

Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
We read the opinions in The Raithmoor, 241 U. S.166,
and The Blackheath, 195 U. S.361, as- determining that,
as the dike was a government public work, built and
maintained as an aid to navigation, the court had jurisdiction.
Cleveland Terminal & Valley R. R. Co. v. Cleveland
S. S. Co., 208 U. S.316, and The Troy, 208 U. S.321, involved the questions whether admiralty had jurisdiction
over claims for damages caused by vessels to docks and
piers, or the abutments of bridges. This Court denied
jurisdiction, because "none of these structures were
aids to navigation in the maritime sense but extensions
of the shore and aids to commerce on land as such."
The Poughkeepsie, 212 U. S. 558, upon authority of
the bridge and dock cases, denied jurisdiction for damages
I The docket title of this case is United States v. Steamiship
"Panoil2"

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

by vessel to pipes in the bed of the river. These pipes
were being used for the purpose of locating a tunnel
aqueduct under its bed. There the structures had prospectively an immediate relation to land and an exclusive
anticipated connection with commerce on land.
In Martin v. West, 222 U. S. 191, this Court discussed
the question whether damage to a bridge injured by collision with a vessel was the subject of a maritime tort.
In Southern Lighterage Co. v. United States, 260 U.
S. 699, this Court affirmed, by an equally divided court,
without opinion, a decree of the District Court, which
held that the admiralty did not have jurisdiction over
a claim for injuries to a cluster of mooring pilings damaged by a vessel. The District Court (284 Fed. 978) determined that the piling, if it served any purpose, was
for mooring vessels or keeping them in deep water when
unloading, without regard to aiding navigation.
Mr. Walter Carroll, with whom Mr. George H. Terriberry, Mr. Joseph M. Rault and Mr. W. W. Young were
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUsTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The United States libeled the Steamship "Panoil"
and asked a decree for two thousand dollars because of
damage inflicted upon spur dike No. 5, a structure extending into the Mississippi River. Upon exception duly
taken the District Court correctly concluded that it
lacked jurisdiction of the matter and dismissed the libel.
In order to deflect the current and cause it to deepen
the channel at the mouth of the river the United States
built submerged dikes and sills, composed of willow mattresses weighted down with stone; also several spurs.
Spur dike No. 5, located near the "Head of the Passes,"
consists of a cribwork of round piles, hewn walings and

FULLERTON CO. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.
433

435

Syllabus.

sawn cross braces, all securely bolted together, with a
curtain of round piles bolted against the upstream face.
It is driven into the bed of the river and extends out
about seven hundred feet from the east bank, approximately at right angles to the channel. Its special purpose is to slacken the current, induce deposits of sediment and eventually build out the shore; and in this way
to improve the channel and aid navigation. Proceeding in a thick fog the "Panoil" struck this dike, shoved
thirty feet of the channel end upstream, and so damaged
it as to require rebuilding at an expense of two thousand
dollars.
Appellants maintain that as the dike is an aid to navi-

gation the court below had jurisdiction of the alleged tort,
within the doctrine of The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361,
and The Raithmoor, 241 U. S. 166. We think the principle of those cases does not go so far. The dike constitutes an extension of the shore, and must be regarded
as land. The mere fact that its presence may affect the
flow of the water and thereby ultimately facilitate navigation is not enough to bring the injury within the admiralty jurisdiction. Cleveland Terminal & Valley R. R.
Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 208 U. S. 316; The Troy,
id. 321.
Affirmed.
FULLERTON-KRUEGER LUMBER COMPAINY v.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 152 and 179.

Argued December 12, 1924.-Decided January
5, 1925.

1. A statute should not be construed retrospectively, unless express
language or necessary implication requires. P. 437.

