OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Order.

266 U. S.

ant that the Wool Administrator had written to its agent
stating that he would take 17,200 bales of wool-which
apparently had not then been imported-or the "scoured
product" thereof. It does not appear to be an exercise
by the Government of any options previously executed
by the claimant; it mentions no prices; and it states that
as to 14,200 bales of this wool which the claimant had
bought in the grease, the "scoured product" would be
taken, on the basis of a 35 per cent. shrinkage. The
petition does not allege that the claimant had given the
Government any options to purchase the wool on this
basis, or that the proposal of the Wool Administrator to
take it on this basis was ever accepted by the claimant.
In short, it does not appear that any agreement was ever
reached between the claimant and the Wool Administrator as to the terms and conditions on which the wool
should be taken by the Government.
It is unnecessary to review in detail various contentions
urged in behalf of the claimant. They show no error in
the judgment of the Court of Claims; and it is
Affirmed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN

No. 13, Original.

EQUITY.

Order entered January 5, 1925.

Order receiving report of Commissioners on the survey, location and
marking of a part of the Texas-Oklahoma boundary along Red

River, and limiting the time for objections or exceptions.

The commissioners heretofore designated to run, locate
and mark upon the ground portions of the boundary line
between the States of Texas and Oklahoma, where it
follows the course of the Red River, having this day

TOD v. WALDMAN.
546

Counsel for Parties.

presented a report, with accompanying maps, showing
that they have run, located and marked upon the ground
the portion of the boundary along the Fort Augur Area,
that is to say, from the westerly end of the Big Bend Area
to a southerly extension of the west line of range sixteen
west in Oklahoma;
And it appearing from such report that the said commissioners have transmitted copies of such report, with
the accompanying maps, by registered mail to the
Attorney General of the United States, the Attorney
General of the State of Texas and the Attorney General
of the State of Oklahoma, and have lodged with the clerk
fifty additional copies of such report and maps for the
use of such private interveners as may apply for them;
It is ordered that the said report, with the accompanying maps, be received and filed by the clerk.
And it is further ordered that all objections or exceptions to such. report, if there be any such objections or
exceptions, shall be presented to the court or filed with
the clerk within a period of four weeks from this date;
and the period heretofore fixed for presenting or filing
such objections or *exceptions is limited and modified
accordingly.

TOD,

COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION,
WALDMAN ET AL.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 95. Petition for rehearing. Decided January 12, 1925.
MEMORANDUM on petition for rehearing, adding to di-

rections heretofore given in this case.

See ante, p. 1.13.

Mr. Max J. Kohler,'on the petition for rehearing.

