UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R.

191

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 68. Argued October 13, 14, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. There is nothing in the Act to Regulate Commerce, as originally
enacted, or in the Transportation Act, 1920, or in any earlier
amendment, which indicates a purpose either tb allow a carrier to
create undue prejudice by the use of facilities possessed or to
narrow the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to prevent unjust discrimination. P. 199.
2. Two railroad companies by agreement extended, each to the
other, the use of their tracks to effect terminal receipt and delivery of carload freight within a zone, in a city, so that plants
within the zone having spur connections with either main line could
ship or receive shipment over the other without paying an additional transportation charge for the movement over the line.
connected with their spurs, whereas other industries, outside the
zone but in the same city and dependent on these railroads and
another, were denied the like advantage. The Interstate Commerce Commission, upon finding that the situations of the industries were "substantially similar" from the standpoint of carriage,
and that the practice subjected those without the zone to undue
prejudice and disadvantage, ordered the two railroads to remove
the discrimination. Held, that the discrimination was unlawful
and the order valid. P. 197.
295 Fed. 523, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining

enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrel for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

266 U.S.

Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl, with whom Mr. George Hay
Kan, Mr. F. W. Wheaton, Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
and Mr. FrancisI. Gowen were on the brief, for appellee.
The Commission has held that discrimination or undue
preference prohibited by the law results from the mere
existence or non-existence of trackage. facilities. This is
an error of law which appears on the face of the Commission's report and which requires that it be suspended
and set aside.
In § 1, par. 1, of the Commerce Act, there is a clear line
of demarcation between the common carrier and the
property or plant with which it performs its service.
Paragraph 3 of the same section declares what is intended
to be included in the term "railroad," viz, "a road in use
by any common carrier operating a railroad, whether
owned or operated under a contract, agreement or lease."
A road over which a common carrier has trackage rights is
clearly a "road in use . . . under a contract," and
hence must be regarded as part of the "railroad" of such
common carrier. Hence it follows that that portion of the
railroad belonging to the Western Maryland over which
the Pennsylvania has trackage rights under the agreement must be considered as part of the railroad of the
latter in the determination of all questions relating to the
extent of the obligation, if any, with respect to affording
service to shippers imposed upon the Pennsylvania Company by virtue of the use of the trackage rights thus acquired by it. Therefore, no support for the theory upon
which the Commission acted in the present case can be
found in the Commerce Act, for this theory is that failure
of the Pennsylvania to extend its trackage rights over the
Western Maryland Railway subjects to undue discrimination shippers who, if such an extension were made, would
be enabled to utilize directly the facilities of the Pennsylvania Company. But clearly it would seem that if a
failure to extend its trackage rights involves such a re-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R.
191

193

Argument for Appellee.

suit, the Pennsylvania Company would be chargeable
with like discrimination because of a failure to extend its
own railroad-reductioad absurdum.
The granting, withholding or possession of trackage
rights between carriers cannot be a basis for a finding of
discrimination or undue preference. Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Ellis v. Interstate
Commerce Comm., 237 U. S. 434; United States v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515. See also Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304;
United States v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208.
The provisions of the Commerce Act relating to the extension of railroad tracks or the abandonment of existing
trackage, are entirely separate and distinct from those
governing the carrier in the use of its existing plant, and
did not appear in the original act. It was almost twenty
years after its passage when Congress empowered the
Commission to require a carrier, under certain circumstances, to accord switching connections to shippers.
Hepburn Amendment, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, now par. 9
of § 1. Transportation Act, 1920, conferred additional
powers upon the Commission with respect to the control
of the carriers' line of railroad, § 1, pars. 18-20. By par.
21 the Commission's authority is further enlarged so as
to permit it to require the extension of the carriers' line;
and par. 22 provides that pars. 18-21 shall not extend to
the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team,
switching or side tracks, so that such tracks may be installed or discontinued without the approval of the Commission. See Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Ca., 258 U. S.
204; Railroad Commission v. Southern Pac. Co., 264
U. S. 331.
The insertion in the act of these provisions demonstrates that the other provisions of this legislation were
not intended to confer power upon the Commission to

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

266 U. S.

control the extent of the carrier's plant, but only to regulate the service rendered by the carrier with its existing
plant.
That the general provisions of the Commerce Act were
not intended to authorize the Commission to regulate the
extent of the carrier's plant is made especially clear by
§ 3-under which the Commission's order in this case has
been issued-and by the history of this section.
The decisions have recognized the distinction between
the authority to prevent discrimination and to require the
extension of the carrier's plant. The rule that there shall
be no discrimination by public service corporations is one
that has existed for many years, finding its roots in the
common law; but the authority of the Government to require such corporations to conform the boundaries of their
service to the wishes of a community is a very modern
development, and one which has been justified only under
specific statutory authority, only to a limited extent, and
only after the most careful scrutiny as to its constitutional
validity. New York & Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245
U. S. 345; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249
U. S. 416; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United
States, 242 U. S. 60. PennsylvaniaCo. v. United States,
236 U. S. 351; United States v. American Ry. Exp. Co.,
265 U. S. 425, distinguished.
The Commission has recognized that a trackage right is
the equivalent of an extension of the carrier's own tracks,
and that its exercise or non-exercise cannot afford a basis
for a finding of unjust discrimination. Its decision in the
present case ignores the principle which it has applied in
various other cases. Alford v. Railway Co., 2 I. C. C.
771; Commercial Club v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 24 I.
C. C. 96; Dixie Cotton Oil Co. v. St. Louis, etc., Ry. Co.,
27 I. C. C. 295; Penick & Ford v. Director General, 61
I. C. C. 137; Ridge Coal Min. Co. v. Missouri Pac. R. R.
Co., 62 I. C. C. 259; Dering Mines Co. v. Director Gen-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R.
191

195

Opinion of the Court.

eral, 62 1. C. C. 265; Hillsboro Coal Co. v. C' C. C. & St.
L. Ry. Co., 63 I. C. C. 401; s. c. 81 I. C. C. 216.
The views of a government commission or official
charged with the enforcement of a statute are entitled to
special weight with respect to its proper interpretation.
New Haven, N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613; National Lead Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140. This consideration is especially persuasive in this case because the
Commission's interpretation extended over a substantial
period, and, although the Commerce Act was amended in
the interval, it was not so amended as to change the provisions of the law in this regard. 2 Lewis's Sutherland on
Stat. Constr., 2d ed., § 403; Sessions v. Romadka, 145
U. S. 29; Logan v..United States, 144 U. S. 263.
The Commission's order cannot be justified on the
ground that it relates to a "practice" of the railroads.
United States v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208.
The Commission's order is invalid as arbitrary and as
violating the Fifth Amendment, which prohibits the taking of property without due process of law.
The order of the Commission is invalid in that it is not
limited to interstate commerce. United States v. Reese,
92 U. S. 214; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
Mr. C. R. Hillyer, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amicwus curae.
MR. JusTicE, BRANmus

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
York, Pennsylvania, is served by three railroads. About
100 manufacturing establishments are directly connected
with them by spurs or industry sidings-most of the plants
with only one of the three railroads. Where the plant is
thus directly connected with the railroad which has the
line-haul, it makes no extra charge for switching the car

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

between its road and the plant. Where the connection is
not direct-that is, where in order to reach the plant the
car must move for a short distance over the line of another carrier-all of the plants except 17 must pay an additional transportation charge. The more favored treatment accorded by the Pennsylvania Railroad and the
Western Maryland Railway to these 17 was held by the
Interstate Commerce Commission to constitute unjust
discrimination; I and the customary order to remove the
discrimination was made. Manufacturers Assn. of York
v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 73 I. C. C. 40. The Western
Maryland acquiesced in the order. The Pennsylvania
brought this suit against the United States to enjoin its
enforcement. The Commission intervened as defendant.
The case was heard before three judges on motions to
dismiss. The court, Judge Witmer dissenting, entered a
final decree granting the relief prayed for. 295 Fed. 523.
The case is here on direct appeal under the Act of October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
The 17 plants are located in a small section of the city in
which lines of the Pennsylvania and of the Western Maryland run substantially parallel. About half of these plants
have their spur connections with the Pennsylvania; the
remainder have theirs with the Western Maryland. By an
arrangement between these companies, each is permitted
to, and does, pass over the road of the other with its own
locomotives and attached cars in order to make deliveries
to and accept shipments from plants located on spurs
directly connected only with the road of the other carrier.
Industries within the zone thus get the same advantage
over those without it which would flow from an agreement for reciprocal free-switching or for absorption of the
'The fact that two of the 17 plants hereinafter referred to are
connected by spurs with both roads may be ignored in this discussion.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA .R. R.
191

197

Opinion of the Court.

switching charges which was limited to their traffic. The
Commission found that, "from the standpoint of carriage,
the situation of industries inside and outside the zone is
substantially similar"; and that the described practice
"sfibjects shippers . . . without the zone to undue
prejudice and disadvantage." 2 The only substantial question3 for decision is whether the advantage enjoyed by
these 17 plants, although found, as a fact, to result in
undue prejudice, must be held, as a matter of law, to be a
lawful preference, because of the means by which the
advantage is effected.
The argument most strongly urged is this: In the absence of an appropriate order carriers are not obliged to
extend or curtail their facilities; or to submit to enlarged
use of their terminals. The arrangement by which the
Pennsylvania and the Western Maryland extend, each to
the other, the use of their tracks to effect terminal receipt
and delivery of carload freight within the zone is a trackage agreement and is, in law, either a limited extension of
the line of each carrier or an agreement for the limited
common use by each carrier of terminal fa6ilities of the
2The order declared that the "Commission having found in said
report that the practice of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and
the Western Maryland Railway Company of extending the use of
their tracks to each other for the purpose of terminal receipt and
delivery of freight at industries in York within a zone described in
the report, while refusing to extend the use of their tracks for the
purpose of delivering or receiving freight at other industries similarly
located but without the zone, under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, is subjecting various shippers and industries
to undue prejudice: It is ordered, that said defendants be . . .

required to cease and desist
prejudice...

.

. . from practicing the undue

3There is a faint contention that the order is invalid, also, because
it is not in terms limited to interstate commerce. That it should be
construed as not applying to intrastate commerce is clear. Compare
Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

other. To accord to plants without the zone the same
service which, under the arrangement, is enjoyed by those
within the zone would involve either a further extension
of the tracks of each carrier or an enlargement of the common use of their terminal facilities. Under the Intersfate
Commerce Act, as amended by Transportation Act, c. 91,
41 Stat. 456, the Commission might, upon proper findings
and conditions, have ordered such extension of tracks,
under the powers conferred by § 1, par. 21, p. 478; or it
might have ordered an enlargement of the common use of
terminals under § 3., par. 4, p. 479; or it might have equalized rates and charges for plants within and without the
zone by exercise of the power, conferred by § 15, pars. 3
and 4 pp. 485, 486, to establish through routes and joint
rates. The grant of these specific powers indicates a purpose on the part of Congress to so restrict the Cammission's general power to prevent unjust discrimination, prohibited by § 3, that a preference granted certain shippers
served by a carrier by virtue of the ownership of tracks or
trackage rights over other shippers not reached by the
carrier, because it does not own tracks or trackage rights
which would enable it to reach them, cannot warrant a
finding of undue discrimination; and that similarly the
withholding or possession of trackage rights between carriers cannot, in law, constitute undue preference. In support of this argument, attention is called to the fact that,
as originally enacted, 4 § 3, after prohibiting discrimination
as between connecting carriers in respect to facilities for
interchange of traffic, rates and charges, provides: "but
this shall not be construed as requiring any such common
carrier to give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities to
another carrier engaged in like business."
4

The clause was stricken out by the amendment of the section

made in Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 479.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R.
191

199

Opinion of the Court.

The argument is, in our opinion, unsound. There is
nothing in the Act to Regulate Commerce, as originally
enacted, or in Transportation Act, 1920, or in any earlier
amendment, which indicates a purpose on the part of Congress either to allow a carrier to create undue prejudice by
the use of facilities possessed, or to narrow the Commis-,
sion's powers to prevent unjust discrimination.. The
clause quoted was doubtless inserted in §3 to make clear
that the mere grant to one carrier of the use of tracks or
terminal facilities for the purpose of interchanging traffic
and the refusal of such facilities to another; does not make
the preference given illegal. The clause had no other
effect. In this respect, it resembles the provision contained in § 22, concerning free service or reduced rates to
the federal, state and municipal governments. Nashville,
Chattanooga& St. Louis Ry. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318.
The Commission has found, not merely that the facilities in question were granted to some and refused to
others, but that the grant and refusal have, by reason of
the use made and intended to be made of the facilities,
resulted in undue prejudice. It is true that an extension
of trackage rights, an enlarged common use of terminals,
or the establishment of through routes and joint rates,
or the withdrawal of any of them, could not be ordered except upon the findings and conditions prescribed in the
act. But the order complained of does not require any
such thing. It requires only that the carriers shall desist
from a practice which involves such use as has resulted and
will result in the undue prejudice found. The order
leaves them free to remove the discrimination by any appropriate action. American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244
U. S. 617, 624; United States v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co.,
263 U. S. 515, 521. To accomplish this, it is not necessary
that the Pennsylvania should grant to the other carriers
the extensive use of the terminal facilities and tracks

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

which was sought,5 and which the Commission found was
not shown to be in the public interest. Compare Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 351 368; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1,
20. The situation in this case is unlike that which was
presented in Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United
States, 242 U. S. 60.
Reversed.
STATE OF MISSOURI EX REL. ST. LOUIS,
BROWNSVILLE & MEXICO RAILWAY COMPANY v. TAYLOR, JUDGE OF THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 89.

Argued October 17, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. A judgment of a state Supreme Court denying an application for
a writ of prohibition to prevent a lower court from entertaining
jurisdiction by garnishment over an action against a foreign railroad corporation for damage to an interstate shipment, held a final
judgment, and reviewable in this Court by certiorari, but not by
writ of error. P. 206.
2. A Delaware corporation, having a usual place of business in Missouri, brought an action in a Missouri court against a Texas corporation which operated a railroad in Texas only and had no
place of business, nor had consented to be sued, in Missouri, the
cause of action being damage, done possibly in Missouri, to freight
shipped to that State from Texas, over defendant's line, on a
through bill of lading, and the basis of jurisdiction in Missouri
5 The proceeding before the Commission, which was instituted by
the Manufacturers Association of York, sought an order requiring
the three railroads: (a) to interchange at York all traffic originating
in or destined to that city; (b) to permit common use by all the
carriers of all terminal facilities at York, including the main-line
tracks for a reasonable distance outside the terminals; and (c) to
establish reciprocal switching throughout the city.

