368

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

264 U. S. 375, 384. See also Butler v. Boston & Savannah
S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527. The Bankruptcy Act might provide a bar to recovery-homestead and other exemptions
might make collection of a judgment impossible-yet we
do not suppose that it would be argued that such laws
were overridden by § 33. The wholesale adoption of the
law for railroads above mentioned must be taken as an
adoption of principles not as a basis for meticulous discovery of conflict with an established system in matters
of detail. The choice of a jury trial is given when things
take their ordinary course, not to break in upon the settled mode of adjustment when the ship is given up.
We answer these questions as they are asked and assume that the State Court had jurisdiction to try the case
under the concluding words of the section: "Jurisdiction
in such actions shall be under the court of the district in
which the defendant employer resides or in which his
principal office is located." For assuming that it had
jurisdiction we have no doubt that the injunction may
issue and that the statute regarding limitation of liability
of ship owners has not been repealed so far as claims
like the present are concerned. We answer
Question (1): Yes.
Question (2): No.

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, TRANSFERRED FROM
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided December 8, 1924.

1. In an action brought in the District Court under Jud. Code, § 24,
(20) to recover compensation for property taken by the United
States, judgment is reviewable directly by this Court and not by
the Circuit Court of Appeals P. 369.

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
368

Opinion of the Court.

2. The just compensation assured by the Fifth Amendment to an
owner, part of whose land is taken for public use, does not include
compensation for diminution in value of the remainder caused by
the acquisition and use of adjoining lands of others for the same
undertaking. P. 370.
Affirmed.

EMOR to a judgment of the District Court awarding
part only of the amount claimed by the plaintiff in error
as compensation for land taken by the United States
and damage to his remaining land. See 291 Fed. 1015.
Mr. John V. Campbell, with whom Mr. A. Julius Freiberg was on the brief, pro se.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought by John V. Campbell to
recover compensation for 1.81 acres of land taken by the
United States to be part of a site for a plant for the production of nitrates. The district court found that the
value of the land was $750, and that, by the taking, the
remainder of his property was damaged $2,250. It also
found that, by reason of the uses to be made of lands acquired from others for the same project, plaintiff's lands
not taken were damaged $5,000. The court allowed the
first two items and disallowed the last. The judgment
was for $3,000 and interest. Plaintiff took the case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals on writ of error, but it should
have been brought to this court, (§ 24, par. 20, Judicial
Code; J. Homer Fritch, Inc., v. United States, 248 U. S.
458) and it was transferred under § 238a, Judicial Code.
Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837. The
question for decision is whether plaintiff was entitled to

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 I. S.

the damages to the remainder of his estate resulting from
the use to be made of the lands acquired from others.
In 1918, the United States, to aid in the prosecution
of the war, had determined to build a nitrate plant at
Ancor in the Little Miami Valley, near Cincinnati, Ohio.
In order to get a site, it had taken possession of many
parcels of land making up a large tract, adjoining plaintiff's estate of 69.73 acres. August 31, 1918, an officer of
the army, acting under the direction of the Secretary
of War, and without obtaining plaintiff's consent or instituting condemnation proceedings or making any compensation therefor, took possession of a part of plaintiff's
land, which was separated from the remainder by a public
road. It was a garden, lying at the foot of a hill on
which plaintiff's residence was situated. The entire tract,
including the land taken from plaintiff, comprised 1,300
acres. The United States constructed on the site buildings, roads, railroads, a sewerage system, and such other
things as are usually incidental to a large industrial plant.
After the armistice, the project was abandoned. Some
of the lands constituting the site were returned to the
former owners, and some were sold. And the United
States has determined to sell the rest of the land which
includes that taken from plaintiff and amounts in all te
320 acres. The court found that the damages to the remainder of plaintiff's estate from the use to be made of
lands acquired from others resulted chiefly from the
probability that the tract, improved as it has been by the
United States, will be sold and used for industrial purposes.
The taking was under the sovereign power, of eminent
domain. The President and Secretary of War were
authorized to purchase or condemn the lands. Act of
June 3, 1916, c. 134, § 124, 39 Stat. 215. Act of July 2,
1917, c. 35, 40 Stat. 241, as amended April 11, 1918, c. 51,
40 Stat. 518. And from the taking there arose an implied

CAMPBELL v. UNITED STATES.
368

Opinion of the Court.

promise by the United States to compensate plaintiff for
his loss. United States v. GreatFalls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.
645, 656; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 464;
United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 329; United States
v. North American Co., 253 U. S. 330, 333. Thereupon
he became entitled to have the just compensation safeguarded by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution;
that is, the value of the land taken and the damages
inflicted by the taking-such a sum as would put him
in as good a position pecuniarily as he would have been
if his property had not been taken. Seaboard Air Line
Ry. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299, 304. But he was
not entitled to have more than that.
The land taken from the plaintiff was not shown to be
indispensable to the construction of the nitrate plant or
to the proposed use of the other lands acquired by the
United States. The damages resulting to the remainder
from the taking of a part were separable from those
caused by the use to be made of the lands acquired from
others. The proposed use of the lands taken from others
did not constitute a taking of his property. Richards v.
Washington Terminal Co., 233 U. S. 546, 554. Plaintiff
had no right to prevent the taking and use of the lands
of others; and the exertion by the United States of the
power of eminent domain did not deprive him of any
right in respect of such lands. And, if the land taken
from plaintiff had belonged to another, or if it had not
been deemed part and parcel of his estate, he would not
have been entitled to anything on account of the diminution in value of his estate. It is only because of the
taking of a part of his land that he became entitled to
any damages resulting to the rest. In the absence of a
taking, the provision of the Fifth Amendment giving
just compensation does not apply; and there Is no statute
applicable in this case that enlarges the constitutional
right. If the former private owners had devoted their

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

lands to the identical uses for which they were acquired
by the United States or to which they probably will be
put, as found by the court, they would not have become
liable for the resulting diminution in value of plaintiff's
property. The liability of the United States is not
greater than would be that of the private users. Plaintiff
cites and relies upon Belsch v. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co., 43 Wis. 183; Chicago, K. & N. Ry. Co. v. Van
Cleave, 52 Kans. 665; and Haggardv. Independent School
District, 113 Iowa, 486, to support his contention that
he is entitled to have the damages found to have re-,
sulted to the remainder of his estate by the uses made
and to be made of the lands acquired from others. In
each of these cases, it was impossible separately to ascertain the damages caused to the remainder of the owner's
tract by the taking and proposed use of a part of it.
In this case, such damages were separately found, and
plaintiff does not complain in respect of the amount of
that element. We think that plaintiff's contention is not
sustained. The rule supported by better reason and the
weight of authority is that the just compensation assured
by the Fifth Amendment to an owner, a part of whose
land is taken for public use, does not include the diminution in value of the remainder caused by the acquisition
and use of adjoining lands of others for the same undertaking. See Walker v. Old Colony & Newport Ry. Co.,
103 Mass. 10, 15; Lincoln v. Commonwealth, 164 Mass.
368, 377; Adams v. Chicago, Burlington & Northern R.
R. Co., 39 Minn. 286; Keller v. Miller, 63 Colo. 304, 307;
Horton v. Colwyn Bay & Colwyn Urban Council, L. R.
[1908] 1 K. B. 327.
Judgment affirmed.

