BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. Co. v. GROEGER.
518

521

SyllabUs.

tiff have the nitrates at the prices offered. It follows that
the refusal of the Secretary to make the contract of sale
gave rise to no cause of action in favor of the plaintiff.
Moreover, § 3744, Revised Statutes, required the Secretary of War to cause every contract made by him, or by
officers under him appointed to make contracts, "to be
reduced to writing, and signed by thie contracting parties
with their names at the end thereof." The Act of July
11, 1919, authorizing the Secretary to sell surplus war
supplies, is not inconsistent with that section and does
not repeal or modify it. There is no reason why it should
not apply to contracts made in pursuance of the later
act. It must be held that, because of the failure to make
and sign a written contract as required by § 3744, the
United States was not bound. Clark v. United States, 95
U. S. 539, 541; South Boston Iron Co. v. United States,
118 U. S. 37, 42; St. Louis Hay & Grain Co. v. United
States, 191 U. S. 159, 163. And see Monroe v. United
States, 184 U. S. 524, 527; United States v. New York
& Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239 U. S. 88, 92; Ackerlind v.
United States, 240 U. S. 531, 534.
Judgment affirmed.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GROEGER, ADMINISTRATRIX OF GROEGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 113.

Argued October 24, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. Section 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act, in maldng it unlawful for
any common carrier "to use any locomotive engine propelled by
steam power... unless the boiler... and appurtenances
thereof are in proper condition and safe to operate in the service
to which the same is put, that the same may be employed in the
active service of such carrier in moving traffic without unnecessary
19458-25-----.-37

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

peril to life or limb,"--prescribes a sufficiently definite standard of
duty. P. 523.
2. Under this section the carrier's duty to have the boiler in safe
condition is absolute and continuing. P. 527.
3. Where a breach of this duty is a contributing cause of an explosion resulting in the death of an employee, the carrier is liable
under this Act, and the Employers' Liability Act, whether or not
it had notice, actual or'constructive, that the boiler was defective
or unsafe. Id.
4. Evidence considered and held sufficient to go to the jury on the
question whether a defective or dangerous condition of the crown
sheet was a contributing cause of the explosion of a locomotive
boiler. P. 524.
5. The carriers are left free to determine how their boilers shall be
kept in the prescribed condition of safety, and are not required to
furnish the best mechanical contrivances and inventions to that
end or to discard appliances upon discovery of later improvements.
P. 528.
6. A charge authorizing a jury to decide that the standard of duty
imposed by the Boiler Inspection Act required a fusible safety plug
to be installed, and instructing them that in such case its absence
would impose on the carrier an absolute liability,--held erroneous.
P. 531.
288 Fed. 321, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a recovery against the railroad in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability and Boiler Inspection Acts.

Mr. W. T. Kinder, with whom Mr. S. H. Tolles, Mr.
J. P. Wood and Mr. J. W. Reavis were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. E. C. Chapman for respondent.
MR. JusTice BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent, administratrix of the estate of her deceased husband, John C. Groeger, brought this action
against the petitioner in the district court for the northern

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. Co. v. GROEGER. 523
521

Opinion of the Court.

district of Ohio, to recover damages for his death. He was
a locomotive engineer employed by the defendant, and
at the time of his death, September 3, 1920, was operating a steam locomotive propelling an interstate train.
He was killed by the explosion of the boiler. The action
was brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, and the Federal Boiler Inspection Act of February 17, 1911, § 2, 36 Stat. 913,
amended March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1192.
The court submitted for decision of the jury two issues:
whether the explosion was caused in whole or in part by
an unsafe and insufficient condition permitted by defendant in and about the crown sheet of the boiler; and
whether defendant's failure to have a fusible plug in the
crown sheet violated § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act.
There was a verdict and judgment for plaintiff. Defendant took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where
the. judgment was affirmed. 288 Fed. 321.
1. Defendant asserts that § 2 of the Boiler Inspection
Act prescribes no definite or ascertainable standard of
duty. That section provides that it shall be unlawful
"for any common carrier .... to use any locomotive

engine propelled by steam power ...unless the boiler
...and appurtenances thereof are in proper condition
and safe to operate in the service to which the same is
put, that the same may be employed in the active service
of such carrier in moving traffic without unnecessary
peril to life or limb. . .

."

It imposes upon the carrier

a higher degree of duty than theretofore existed. The
requirement of the statute is substituted for the common
law rule which holds the employer to ordinary care to
provide his employees a reasonably safe place in which,
and reasonably safe appliances and machinery with
which, to work. It is as definite and certain as is the
common law rule; and to hold that the duty imposed
cannot be ascertained would be as unreasonable as it

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

would be to declare that the common law rule which is
ordinarily applied in personal injury actions brought by
employees against employers is too indefinite to be enforced or complied with. The contention is without
merit.
2. Defendant insists that there was no evidence to
support a finding that the explosion resulted from
any defective or dangerous condition of the crown
sheet.
The credibility of witnesses, the weight and probative
value of evidence are to be determined by the jury and
not by the judge. However, many decisions of this
court I establish that, in every case, it is the duty of the
judge to direct a verdict in favor of one of the parties
when the testimony and all the inferences which the jury
could justifiably draw therefrom would be insufficient to
support a different finding.
'Pawling v. United States, 4 Cr. 219, 221; United States v. Breitling, 20 How. 252, 254-255; Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359, 369;
Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, 637; Improvement Co.
v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 448; Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 121122; Herbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319, 320; Bowditch v. Boston, 101
U. S. 16, 18; Griggs v. Houston, 104 U. S. 553; Phoenix Ins. Co. v.
Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32; Russell v. Allen, 107 U. S. 163; Anderson
County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 241; People's Savings
Bank v. Bates, 120 U. S. 556, 561-562; North Penn. Railroad v.
Commercial Bank, 123 U. S. 727, 733; Kane v. Northern Central
Railway, 128 U. S. 91, 94; Dunlap v. Northeastern Railroad, 130
U. S. 649, 652; Delaware &c. Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469,
472; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 606; Elliott v.
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 150 U. S. 245; Gardner v.
Michigan Central Railroad, 150 U. S. 349, 360; Union Pacific Ry. Co.
v. McDonald, 152 U. S. 262, 283; Southern Pacific Co. v. Pool, 160
U. S. 438, 440; Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co., 179 U. S.
658; Marande v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 173, 191;
McGuire v. Blount, 199 U. S. 142, 148; Empire State Cattle Co. v.
Atchison Ry. Co., 210 U. S. 1, 10; Delk v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R., 220 U. S. 580, 587; Slocum v. New York Life Insurance
Co., 228 U. S. 364, 369.

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. Co. v. GROEGER.
521

525

Opinion of the Court.

The parts of the firebox and boiler involved may be described briefly. One side of the metal forming the top
and sides of the firebox is exposed to the fire, and the
other side forms a part of the boiler and, when the engine
is in use, is covered by water. In order to strengthen and
to hold in proper position the sides and top of the firebox
in relation to the opposite exterior walls of the boiler,
staybolts are used, extending from the inside of the firebox to the outside of the boiler. There were 1464 such
bolts on the engine under consideration. The top of the
firebox is called the crown sheet. It is kept covered with
water while the engine is in operation; and if allowed to
be without water thereon, it will become so overheated
that damage or explosion will be liable to result. Fusible
plugs are made of soft metal, which will melt at relatively low temperature. They may be, and sometimes
are, inserted into and used as part of the crown sheet;
and are so shaped and placed that the end of the plug
inside the boiler extends slightly above the surface of the
metal surrounding it. It is intended that, if the water
on the crown sheet shall be too low, the fire will melt
out the plug before greater damage or explosion results,
and allow the steam to escape from the boiler into the
firebox and so relieve the pressure and check or extinguish
the fire.
Rule 25, approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, is as follows: "No boiler shall be allowed to remain in- service when there are two adjacent staybolts
broken or plugged in any part of the firebox or combustion chamber, nor when three or more are broken or
plugged in a circle four feet in diameter, nor when five
or more are broken or plugged in the entire boiler." Rule
14 of the Commission is as follows: "If boilers are
equipped with fusible plugs, they shall be removed and
cleaned of scale at least once every month. Their removal
must be noted on the report of inspection." This does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

purport to require fusible plugs to be used. There was
none in the crown sheet in question. It was shown that
the boiler had seven broken staybolts, and that they had
been broken some time before the day the explosion occurred. Three were intermediate on one side within a
radius of sixteen inches; three, two of which were adjacent, were intermediate on the other side within a radius
of twelve inches, and one was at the front end of the
crown sheet. Use of the boiler in that condition violated
Rule 25. The evidence showed that overheating of the
crown sheet has a tendency to injure and fracture staybolts; but it was not shown what caused these to break.
All persons on the engine,--engineer, fireman and brakeman,-were killed. The train stopped at Foster's Tower,
about three miles from the place of the explosion, and
there water was taken into the tank. A brakeman employed on another train, then at that station, testified
that he went into the cab of Groeger's engine, and that,
while there, he observed that water and steam were escapifig from the boiler into the firebox; that he heard the
sizzling of the water upon the fire; that, when he opened
the firebox door, steam gushed out; that the fire was
dead; that the steam gauge showed 160 pounds pressure,
and that water was being put into the boiler by the two
injectors. There was no evidence that, prior to the day
of the explosion, there was any improper or unsafe condition or defect in the boiler, other than the broken staybolts. The testimony of the locomotive engineers, who
operated the engine several days immediately preceding
the explosion, was to the effect that 'the injectors, gauge
cocks, and water glass,-the means by which the supply
of water in the boiler was controlled and observed,-were
in good condition. The testimony of a number of witnesses, whose experience qualified them to give opinion
evidence on the basis of conditions existing after the explosion, supported the defendant's contention that the

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. Co. v. GROEGER. 527
521

Opinion of the Court.

broken staybolts did not cause or have any connection
with the explosion; and, as to that matter, there was no
substantial conflict in the evidence. The location of these
broken staybolts in relation to the place of the tear or
rupture was shown to be such that the explosion was not
caused by them. And we find no evidence in the record
to. support a finding that they caused or contributed to
cause the explosion. But we agree with the Circuit Court
of Appeals that, under § 2 of the statute, there was sufficient evidence to sustain the verdict, wholly apart from
the broken staybolts. Defendant's duty to have the boiler
in a safe condition to operate so that it could be used
without unnecessary peril to its employees was absolute
and continuing. No notice to the defendant, actual or
constructive, of the defects or unsafe condition of the
boiler was necessary to plaintiff's case. Defendant is
liable if its breach of duty contributed to cause the death.
We are bound to assume that the condition of the boiler
at Foster, a very short time before the explosion, was as
indicated by the testimony of the brakeman above referred
to. His credibility and the weight properly to be given
to his testimony were for the jury. And if the boiler was
in the condition he described, it would not be unreasonable
to conclude that a breach of duty of defendant caused or
contributed to cause the explosion. We think it did not
conclusively appear that the failure of deceased properly
to operate the engine was the sole cause of the explosion.
It follows that the evidence made a case for the jury.
3. The court, in harmony with the provisions of §2,
instructed the jury that the standard of defendant's duty
was to put and keep the locomotive in proper condition
and safe to operate, and that it would be a violation of
defendant's duty if the engine, as to the crown sheet, was
permitted to be in such a condition that it could not be
employed in the active service of the carrier moving the

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

traffic without unnecessary peril to life or limb. And
further instructed as follows: " If you shall say and find
that the standard of duty imposed by the law required
a fusible safety plug to be installed, then the absence of
the fusible safety plug would impose upon the defendant
here an absolute liability, and the plaintiff would be entitled to recover if the absence of it contributed in whole
or in part to cause the explosion and the resulting dea'th.
. . . An interstate carrier, as well as any railroad carrier, owes the duty, of course, of availing itself of the best
mechanical contrivances and inventions in known practical use which are or would be effective in making safe
a locomotive boiler as against explosions. It is not bound
to introduce a new appliance the moment somebody suggests it or discovers it, but is entitled to a reasonable time
and opportunity to test it out and make any changes.
. . . If you shall find . . . that a fusible safety plug
was required by that standard, and that it was a mechanical means and contrivance in known practical use and
effective more than was any other that had been installed
by the defendant on this engine, then its absence would
be a violation of the Boiler Inspection Act . .
That act was passed to promote the safety of employees
and is to be read and applied with the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. Under the latter, defendant is liable for
any negligence chargeable to it which caused or contributed to cause decedent's death (§ 1); and he will not be
held guilty of contributory negligence (§ 3) or to have
assumed the risks of his employment (§ 4) if a violation
of § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act contributed to cause
his death. See Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Donaldson,
246 U. S. 121, 124; St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 294; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Layton, 243 U. S. 617, 620.
By the last mentioned section, defendant was bound
absolutely to furnish what before, under the common law,

BALTIMORE & OHIO ft. 1t. Co. v. GROEGER.
521

529

Opinion of the Court.

it was its duty to exercise ordinary care to provide. The
carriers were left free to determine how their boilers
should be kept in proper condition for use without unnecessary danger. The things required for that purpose
were not prescribed or changed by the act; but use of
boilers unless safe to operate as specified was made unlawful, and liability for consequences follows violation of
the act. It is a well established rule that the master is
not bound to furnish the latest or best tools or appliances
for the use of his servants. That rule is applicable here,
and we hold that defendant was not liable for failure to
furnish the best mechanical contrivances and inventions
or to discard appliances upon discovery of later improvements, provided the boiler was in proper condition and
safe to operate, as required by the statute. Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Bower, 241 U. S. 470, 474; Patton v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658, 664; Washington,&c. R. R. Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570.
The jury was by the charge authorized to find that the
act required defendant to have a fusible plug in the crown
sheet of the boiler. There is nothing in the act or in any
rule, regulation or order authorized by it, which specifies
the use of fusible plugs. This, however, does not relieve
the defendant of the duty to have and keep its boilers
safe for use as required by the act. Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Donaldson, supra, 128. The use of fusible plugs
has been known for a long time. The record does not
contain a complete showing of the extent of their use;
but it appears that the Erie Railroad uses them, and that
for some years defendant used them; that defendant has
now about 2,700 locomotives, and does not have fusible
plugs in any of them; and it was shown that they are not
used by the New York Central, the Chicago,- Burlington
& Quincy, the Illinois Central, or the Nickel Plate. In
1899, the American Railway Master Mechanics Association, whose members represent nearly all the railroads in

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court

266 I. S.

the country, passed a resolution expressing the sense of
the Association to be "that the use of fusible plugs in
the crown sheets of locomotive fireboxes is not conducive
to the prevention of the overheating of the crown sheet."
It appears that, among practical men experienced in such
matters, there is a difference of opinion as to the usefulness of such plugs. If the question whether the standard
of duty fixed by the act required defendant to have a
fusible plug in the crown sheet of the boiler were one for
the determination of a jury, we think there was evidence
which would sustain a verdict in the affirmative or in
the negative. But we think the question was not for the
jury. Southern Pacific Co. v. Seley, 152 U. S. 145, 150;
Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, 122 U. S. 189, 194; Randall
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 478, 483; Kilpatrick v. Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co., 121 Fed. 11; Richards
v. Rough, 53 Mich. 212, 216. And see Southern Pacific
Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415, 417. The act required a
condition which would permit use of the locomotive without unnecessary danger. It left to the carrier the choice
of means to be employed to effect that result. While
the burden was on the plaintiff to prove a violation of the
act by defendant, she was not bound to show that any
particular contrivance or invention was suitable or necessary to have and keep the boiler in proper condition.
There is a multitude of mechanical questions involved in
determining the proper construction, maintenance and
use of the boilers, other parts of locomotives, their tenders
and appurtenances, all of which are covered by the Boiler
Inspection Act, as amended. Inventions are occurring
frequently, and there are many devices to accomplish the
same purpose. Comparative merits as to safety or utility
are most difficult to determine. It is not for the courts
to lay down rules which will operate to restrict the carriers in their choice of mechanical means by which their
locomotives, boilers, engine tenders and appurtenances

UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
521

Syllabus.

are. to be kept in proper condition. Nor are such matters
to be left to the varying and "uncertain opinions and verdicts of juries. The interesta of the carriers will best be
served by having and keeping their -locomotive boilers
safe; and it may well be left to their officers and engineers
to decide the engineering questions involved in determining whether to use fusible plugs or other means to that
end. Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, supra, p. 194; Richards v. Rough, supra,p. 216. The presence or absence of
a fusible plug was a matter properly to be taken into consideration in connection with other facts bearing upon
the kind and condition of the boiler in determining the
essential and ultimate question, i. e. whether the boiler
was in the condition required by the act.
But we thihk the copirt erred in instructing the jury-that
defendant was bound to avail itself of "the best mechanical contrivances and inventions in known practical use
which are or would be effective in making safe a locomotive boiler as against explosions," and also erred in
authorizing the jury to decide that "the standard of
duty imposed by the law required a fusible safety plug
to be installed", and that "the absence of the fusible
safety plug would impose upon the defendant here an
absolute liability."
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. MORROW.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 98.

Argued October 21, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. Although a proviso is sometimes used to introduce independent
legislation, the presumption is that, in accordance with its primary purpose, it applies only to the provision to which it is
attached. P. 534.
2. A proviso may be examined in the light of prior legislation, the
condition it was evidently intended to correct, and its legislative

history. P. 535.

