ROBINS DRY DOCK CO. v. DAHL.
438

Statement of the Case.

matters set up in the protest and repeated here. Pending further action by it the tentative valuation will not
become final and no proceedings thereon can be taken.
Under the circumstances disclosed appellants must pursue the remedy provided by the statute and give the
Commission opportunity to take final action before they
can properly ask interposition by the courts.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.

ROBINS DRY DOCK & REPAIR COMPANY v.
DAHL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 316. Argued December 4, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
1. An injury suffered by a workman while repairing a completed
vessel afloat in navigable waters, and due to the negligence of
his employer, is a maritime tort. P. 457.
2. In such cases the rights and liabilities of the parties arise out
of and depend upon the maritime law and cannot be enlarged or
impaired by state statute. Id.
3. In an action based upon such an alleged maritime tort in a state
court, an instruction that the jury in deciding whether the employer was negligent might consider the provisions of a local law
regulating the duty of employers to furnish safe scaffolds, etc.,
for their employees, was manifestly erroneous and material. Id.
197 N. Y. S. 463; 202 N. Y. 922, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York entered on mandate of affirmance from the Appellate Division, in favor of Dahl in his action for damages
resulting from personal injuries received by him in the
course of his employment by the Dry Dock Company

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

266 U. S.

and due, as he alleged, to the Company's negligent failure
to furnish him with a safe place in which to work. Review by the New York Court of Appeals was refused.
For the decision of the Appellate Division on an earlier
trial, see Dahl v. Robins Dry Dock Co., 203 App. Div.
795.
Mr. A. George Maul for plaintiff in error.
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of New York
in actions of this character is confirmed by cl. 3 of
§§ 24 and 256, Jud. Code, and is limiied to the enforcement by a common law remedy of a right given under
the admiralty law.
From the time of the earliest decisions of this Court
under these sections, attempts have been made to distinguish individual cases so as to apply state laws which
were repugnant to the admiralty law as it was generally
enforced throughout the United States. But in every
instance where the state statute affected or modified a
right given under the maritime law, the statute has been
held unconstitutional. Southern Pac. Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149; Industrial Comm. v. Nordenholt Co., 259 U. S. 263;
Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219; Schwede
v. Zenith S. S. Co., 244 U. S. 646; s. c. 216 Fed. 566;
Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; Knapp,
Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638; Workman v.
New York City, 179 U. S. 552; Steamboat Co. v. Chase,
16 Wall. 522.
The only apparent exceptions are those cases where
the admiralty law did not afford either a right or a
remedy as, for example, a right of action to recover damages for death on the high seas; or the right of a lien
where the admiralty law gave none. Western Fuel Co.
v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558;
The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1.

ROBINS DRY DOCK CO. v. DAHL.
449

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

It has frequently been suggested that particular classes
of persons ought not to be included within the rule or
ought to receive different treatment. An instance of this
is the recent amendment to cl. 3 of §§ 24 and 256 by Act
of June 10, 1922, declared by this Court to be unconstitutional. At the time of the passage of that amendment it
was stated to Congress by its proponents that the objectionable feature had been removed by confining its application to local workers; but the fallacy of such contention was clearly pointed out in Washington v. Dawson
& Co., supra, when this Court stated that any inequities
which may arise from the situation are within the power
of Congress to alter by enacting "statutes of general application embodying its will and judgment," as was done
in the matter of prescribing the liability of interstate
carriers, thereby abrogating local rules. New York Cent.
R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147.
The "saving clause" requires rights to be measured
by admiralty law. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat.
304, 337; 1 Corp. Jur. 1252; The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall.
411; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., supra; Southern
Pac. Co. v. Jansen, supra; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, supra.
This limitation on the power of the States to interfere
with the uniform federal maritime law applies equally
to judicial decisions. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
supra; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555.
Section 18 of the Labor Law of New York, when applied to an admiralty action, materially alters the characteristic features of the federal maritime law, and is,
when so applied, repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
Dahl v. Robins Dry Dock Co., 203 App. Div. 792, 796;
Wilkes v. United Marine Co., 199 App. Div. 788.
The trial court would have been compelled to dismiss
the complaint at the end of the plaintiff's case, and
again at the end of the whole ease, but for the application of § 18 of the Labor Law.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

266 U. S.

Mr. Ralph G. Barclay for defendant in error.
The charge of the trial court was in substance and
effect a submission of the case under principles of the
maritime law governing the situation, and the consideration given to the Labor Law of New York did not have
the effect of enlarging the duties of plaintiff in error
or curtailing its defenses.
There are in New York State conflicting decisions as
to the effect of a violation of a statute, or local ordinance,
in an action of tort (see Martin v. Herzog, 228 N. Y.
164). But the decision in the case at bar is expressly
confined to the proof of the statute as some evidence
that the acts complained of constituted negligence.
Indeed, upon the first appeal of this case, the plaintiff's
judgment was reversed and a new trial ordered upon the
ground that the trial court had submitted the case to
the jury upon the theory that the violation of the statute
was itself the tort and of itself was sufficient to support a
verdict, rather than that it was only evidence to be considered in determining the question of defendant's conduct measured by the rule of negligence. Dahl v. Robins
Dry Dock Co., 203 App. Div. 792, 796. See also Wilkes
v. United Marine Co., 199 App. Div. 788; Maleeny v.
Standard Shipbuilding Co., 237 N. Y. 250.
The statute prohibits the master from furnishing, in
this case, a plank (called a scaffold) which was "unsafe,
unsuitable or improper." If that is translated to positive form it is that he is required to furnish a plank
which is "safe, suitable and proper."
Is the duty of the master something less under the
maritime law? It may be said that he is only required
to use reasonable care to that end. But under the charge
in the case at bar the master has not been required to
perform, at all events, his statutory duty, but only to
exercise due care in that respect,-that is, not to fail
through his negligence and carelessness.

ROBINS DRY DOCK CO. v. DAHL.
449

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Moreover, the charge required the jury to determine
the negligence of the defendant in the matter of furnishing a proper plank, by the usual common law tests.
Maleeny v. Standard Shipbuilding Co., supra; Butler v.
Townsend, 126 N. Y. 105.
The statute in question was provable in this action.
The City of Norwalk, 55 Fed. 98; Southern Pac. Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
253 U. S. 149; Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S.
219; Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S.
469; Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,257 U. S. 233.
The statute does nothing more than to classify a completed scaffold as a place of work for the safety of which
the master would be responsible at common law, whereas
certain common law decisions in the State assumed to
regard the scaffold as divided into component parts of
materials and appliances, and to hold that the master
could perform his entire duty in the furnishing of such
materials and appliances. Butler v. Townsend, supra.
This view permitted the master to interpose the defense that a completed scaffold was unsafe, not because
he had failed to furnish proper materials, but because
of negligence in construction for which he was not responsible.
This principle then is not the fundamental principle
of a master's liability for his own negligence, or his nonliability for the negligence of fellow servants. It is
a rule for the application of these principles to particular
situations. Imbrovek v. Atlantic Transport Co., 190
Fed. 229; s. c. 234 U. S. 52.
It would seem that a law of this character, working
a gradual modification of the common law, and alleviating what was considered a harsh rule of judicial decision, would, almost automatically, modify the maritime
law to be applied by the state court. If by gradual
change in judicial decisions this same change had been

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

worked in the common law, its adoption by the maritime
law would follow without comment. We cannot see that
this change interferes with the proper harmony and uniformity of the maritime law in its international and
interstate relations. The relations in this action are
simply those of a purely domestic employment, and not
affecting shipping in any direct way. There is nothing
in the record to show that the ship being repaired even
was not in her home port.
This action was for tort, for a wrong; but whether a
given act is wrong usually depends upon the local viewpoint. It depends upon local custom and conditions and
local law to a large extent. It may be assumed that
there are good reasons for such local laws. This is especially true in determining whether an act is a tort measured by the rule of negligence. Frese v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 1. Schwede v. Zenith S. S. Co.,
244 U. S. 646, distinguished. See Maleeny v. Standard
Shipbuilding Co., 237 N. Y. 250.
MR. JusTIcE McRzYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Defendant in error Dahl brought an action against the
Robins Company-plaintiff in error-a New York corporation, in the Supreme Court, Kings County, New
York, to recover damages for personal injuries. He alleged: That on February 2, 1920, while employed by the
Robins Company and doing repair work on the steamer
"El Occident," then lying in navigable waters at Brooklyn, a plank scaffold on which he was walking or standing
broke and caused him to fall into the hold. That he sustained serious injuries caused solely by and through negligence in that the company did not furnish a safe place
to work and failed to provide a safe scaffold as required
by the Labor Laws of the State of New York, but negligently and carelessly furnished an unsafe, inadequate and
unsuitable scaffold and plank.

ROBINS DRY DOCK CO. v. DAHL.
449

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court instructed the jury"This is what we call a maritime tort, an action in
negligence that is governed by the maritime laws, the
admiralty laws, the laws that pertain to navigable waters
in this country... The law permits even a maritime
case, such as should ordinarily be brought in the United
States court, to be tried in a State court. But the maritime law is applied, and those maritime laws are known
by lawyers as the common law....
"Under the common law the same rule applies in this
ease as the rules that I have laid down to you, that the
burden is upon the plaintiff to prove that the defendant
was negligent, and that he himself was free from any contributory negligence. In this case, however, comes a provision known as Section 18 of the Labor Law, and Section
18 of the Labor Law reads as follows: 'A person employing or directing another to perform labor of any kind, in
the erection, repairing, altering or painting of a house,
building or structure, shall not furnish, or erect, or cause
to be furnished or erected, for the performance of such
labor, scaffolding, hoists, stays, ladders, or other mechanical contrivances, which are unsafe, unsuitable, or improper, and which are not so constructed, placed and operated as to give proper protection to the life and limb of
a person so employed or engaged.'
"The decisions hold that Section 18 of the Labor Law
does not make an employer, as we term him, the 'master,'
in this case the defendant, an insurer of the scaffoldand this plank within the meaning of the law is a scaffold-it does not make the master an insurer of the safety
of the scaffold under all conditions; it requires the scaffold
to be so safe as to give proper protection to the workmen
engaged in their duty. However careful the master, he
is responsible unless the scaffold is in fact a proper one,
proper to protect the workman in the performance of his
work. No law of the State can modify or affect the rights

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

of workmen who are operating under the maritime law.
And it has been held that this Section 18 of the Labor
Law does not modify or affect the law, but may be read
in conjunction with the law.
"And as I understand the law to be, in determining in
this case whether the defendant was negligent-for the
plaintiff must still prove that the defendant was negligent-you must have in mind that there was in existence
in the State a law which imposed upon the defendant the
burden and the necessity of providing a scaffold that was
proper for the workman to work upon. And in this case,
in the light of that law, you must determine whether the
defendant knowing the law, as it was called upon to know
it, acted negligently, and whether or not the plaintiff has
proved, by a fair preponderance of evidence, that it acted
negligently.
"If you find that in view of Section 18 of the Labor
Law the defendant did act negligently, then you go to
the next proposition. If you find that it did not act negligently, that ends this case, and you must render a verdict
in favor of the defendant. Assuming, for the purpose of
bringing to your attention all of the law in the case, that
you find under these circumstances the defendant was
negligent, then you come to the next proposition, was the
plaintiff free from negligence that contributed to the injury. If he was free, then he is entitled to a verdict. If
he did something that contributed to the injury, then
he is not entitled to a verdict."
Proper exceptions were noted. Judgment went for
plaintiff Dahl and this was approved upon appeal. The
plaintiff in error maintains that the trial court committed
material error by instructing the jury as above stated.
On the other side the claim is that the challenged instruction only permitted the jury to consider violation
of the state law as evidence of negligence and did not
therefore materially affect the question of responsibility.

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
449

457

Syllabus.

The alleged tort was maritime, suffered by one doing
repair work on board a completed vessel.

The matter

was not of mere local concern, as in Grant Smith-Porter
Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 476, but had direct relation to navigation and commerce, as in Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479. The
rights and liabilities of the parties arose out of and depended upon the general maritime law and could not be
enlarged or impaired by the state statute. Chelentis v.
Luchenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 382; Union Fish Co.
v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. -255, 259. They would not have been
different if the accident had occurred at San Francisco.
The jury were distinctly told that they might consider
the privisions of the local law in deciding whether or not

the employer was negligent. No such instruction would
have been permissible in an admiralty court, and it was
no less objectionable when given by the state court.
The error is manifest and material. See Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 288 U. S. 507, 511; New Orleans & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Harris, 247 U. S. 367, 371;
American Railway Express Co. v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19,
21.
The judgment must be
Reversed.
BEHN, MEYER & COMPANY, LIMITED, v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN OF
THE UNITED STATES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 343. Argued November 24, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. A corporation organized in a British colony, which had never
been a resident of, nor done business within, any nation at war
with the United States since Apil 6, 1917, or ally of sdch nation,
19458*-25--3a

