310

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

alty, clearly intended to compensate the delay in payment of the tax-the detriment of its non-payment, to
be continued during the time of its non-payment-compensation, not punishment.
Judgment reversed.
WHITE, TRUSTEE OF THE ESTATE OF PETE
STUMP, BANKRUPT, v. VETA STUMP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 20. Submitted February 18, 1924.-Decided November 24, 1924.
1. Under the law of Idaho, land does not become exempt as a homestead from levy and sale under judicial process until the prescribed
declaration has been filed for record in the office of the county recorder. P. 311.
2. The exemptions under state law which are allowed by the Bankruptcy Act are only such as exist as present rights when the petition in bankruptcy is filed. P. 312.
284 Fed. 199, reversed.
CERTIORARI to an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming an order of the District Court wvhich sustained
a claim of homestead exemption made by the wife of a
bankrupt in the joint behalf of herself and her husband.

Mr. James E. Babb for petitioner. Mr. Samuel 0. Tannahill and Mr. Robert D. Leeper were also on the brief.
Mr. Harve H. Phippsfor respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Peter Stump was adjudged a bankrupt on his voluntary
petition, which was accompanied by the usual schedules.
Among the assets listed was a quarter section of land on
which he and his family had been and were residing; but

WHITE v. STUMP.
310

Opinion of the Court.

nothing was said at the time about a homestead exemption. Two months later the bankrupt's wife, with his
assent, asked that the land be set apart as an exempt
homestead for their joint benefit. The trustee' objected
and on a hearing the exemption was disallowed by the
referee. On review that ruling was reversed by the District Court, and on petition for revision the reversal was
sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 284 Fed.. 199.
The case is here on certiorari.
The laws of the State of Idaho, where the land is'situate,
provide for a homestead exemption, but only where a
declaration that the land is both occupied and claimed as
a homestead is made and filed for record as therein prescribed. If the family consist of husband and wife,
whether with or without children, either may make the
declaration. It "must" be bxecuted and acknowledged
like a conveyance of real property and "must" be filed
for record in the office of the county recorder. The exemption arises when the declaration is filed, and not
before. Up to that time the land is subject to execution
and attachment like other land; and where a levy is
effected while the land is in that condition the subsequent
making and filing of a declaration neither avoids the levy
nor prevents a sale under it. Idaho Comp. Stat. 1919, §§
5441, 5462-5465; Smith v. Richards, 2 Idaho, 498; Wright
v. Westheimer, 3 Idaho, 232; Law v. Spence, 5 Idaho, 244;
Burbank v. Kirby, 6 Idaho, 210.
Here no declaration was made and filed for record until
a month after Stump's petition in bankruptcy was filed
and he was adjudged a bankrupt. A declaration was then
made and filed by his wife for their joint benefit. Whether
in these circumstances there was such a right to a homestead exemption as could be recognized and allowed in
the bankruptcy proceeding is the question for decision.
The District Court gave an affirmative answer in deference to the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

that circuit in Brandt v. Mayhew, 218 Fed. 422, a case
arising in California, in which it was held, one judge dissenting, that a bankrupt is not precluded from claiming a
homestead as exempt merely because, when the petition
in bankruptcy is filed, he has not done all that is required
by the state law to entitle him to the exemption, but may
rightfully demand that the exemption be allowed where
he has met the requirements of the state law within a
reasonable time after the filing of the petition. The Circuit Court of Appeals adhered to that decision, and therefore sustained the action of the District Court. Other
courts in which the question has arisen have regarded the
bankruptcy law as meaning that the right to such an exemption must be tested by the situation existing when the
petition in bankruptcy is filed, and have held that where
the land is not then exempt under the state law it passes
to the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. In re
Youngstrom, 153 Fed. 98; Edgington v. Taylor, 270 Fed.
48; In re Lehfeldt, 225 Fed. 681.
The bankruptcy law does not directly grant or define
any exemptions, but directs, in § 6, that the bankrupt be
allowed the exemptions "prescribed by the State laws in
force at the time of the filing of the petition ";-in other
words, it makes the state laws existing when the petition
is filed the measure of the right to exemptions. It further provides that a voluntary bankrupt shall claim the
exemptions to which he is entitled in a schedule filed
"with the petition," and an involuntary bankrupt shall
claim his in a schedule filed within ten days after the adjudication, unless further time be granted, § 7, cl. 8; that
the trustee shall set apart the exempt property and report the same to the court as soon as practicable after his
appointment, § 47a, cl. 11; that the trustee shall be vested
by operation of law with the title of the bankrupt to all
property, in so far as it is not exempt, which "prior to the
filing of the petition" he could by any means have trans-

WHITE v. STUMP.
310

Opinion of the Court.

ferred or which 'might have been levied upon and sold
under judicial process, § 70a; and that the bankrupt shall
be given a discharge releasing him from debts owing "at
the time of the filing of the petition," §§ 17 and 63.
These and other provisions of the bankruptcy law show
that the point of time which is to separate the old situation from the new in the bankrupt's affairs is the date
when the petition is filed. This has been recognized in our
decisions. Thus we have said that the law discloses a purpose "to fix the line of cleavage" with special regard to
the conditions existing when the petition is filed, Everett
v. Judson, 228 U. S. 474, 479, and that---" It is then that
the bankruptcy proceeding is initiated, that the hands of
the bankrupt and of his creditors are stayed and that his
estate passes actually or potentially into the control of
the bankruptcy court." Barley v. Baker Ice Machine Co.,
239 U. S.268,275; Acme HarvesterCo. v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S.300, 307. When the law speaks of property which is exempt and of rights to exemptions it of
course refers to some point of time. In our opinion this
point of time is the one as of which the general estate
passes out of the bankrupt's control, and with respect to
which the status and rights of the bankrupt, the creditors
and the trustee in other particulars are fixed. The provisions before cited show-some expressly and others impliedly-that one common point of time is intended and
that it is the date of the filing of the petition. The bankrupt's right to control and dispose of the estate terminates as of that time, save only as to "property which is
exempt," §70a. The exception, as its words and the
context show, is not of property which would or might be
exempt if some condition not performed were performed,
but of property to which there is under the state law a
present right of exemption-one which withdraws the
property from levy and sale under judicial process.
19458*-25----24

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

The land in question here was not ih that situation
when the petition was filed. It was not then exempt under the state law, but was subject to levy and sale. One
of the conditions on which it might have been rendered
exempt had not been performed. Under the state law
the fact that the other conditions were present did not
suffice. The concurring presence of all was necessary to
create a homestead exemption.
Decree reversed.

DAVIS, AGENT OF THE PRESIDENT UNDER SECTION 206 OF THE TRANSPORTATION ACT, 1920,
v. O'HARA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE STATE OF

NEBRASKA.
No. 63. Argued October 10, 13, 1924.-Decided November 24, 1924.
1. General orders of the Director General of Railroads providing
that suits against him must be brought in the county or district
where the plaintiff resided at the time of accrual of the cause of
action, or in the county or district where it arose, are in legal
effect orders of the President and are valid. Federal Control Act,
§ 10, 40 Stat. 456. P. 317.
2. An action by an employee of the Director General for personal
injuries sustained in the operation of a railroad under federal control is an action against the United States; and only to the extent
clearly indicated by the Federal Control Act and orders of the
Director General was the sovere-gn immunity from suit waived.
Id.
3. Decision of a state supreme court that the Director General, by
not sufficiently asserting and insisting upon it, waived immunity
under the federal act and orders from being sued in the particular
venue, does not bind this court on review. P. 318.
4. A special appearance for the declared purpose of objecting to
jurisdiction over the subject matter, as well as to jurisdiction over
defendant's person,-construed as confined to the latter point by
the grounds set up in the motion to quash the summons. P. 318.

