DAVIS v. MANRY.
Argument for Respondent.

DAVIS, AS DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS
AND AGENT UNDER SECTION 206, TRANSPORTATION ACT, 1920, v. MANRY.
CERTIORARI TO TM]E COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 147. Submitted December 9, 1924.--Decided January 5, 1925.
The command of the Safety Appliance Act, (April 14, 1910, § 2,
36 Stat. 298) that "All cars

.

.

.

having ladders shall also

be equipped with secure hand holds or grab irons on their roofs
at the tops of such ladders," is inapplicable to the tender of a

locomotive. P. 404.
30 Ga. App. 213, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Georgia affirming a judgment recovered by Manry in an
action for personal injuries.

Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., and Mr. I. J. Hofmayer
for petitioner.
Mr. Robert Douglas Feagin for respondent. Mr. Walter Defore, Mr. James C. Estes and Mr. W. G. Martin
were also on the brief.
The term "all cars," as used in the Safety Appliance
Acts, includes a locomotive and tender taken as an entity. Johnson v. Southern, Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1.
The top of the tender is the "roof" within the meaning of § 2.
The requirements of the Safety Appliance Acts are
not satisfied by equivalents or by anything less than literal compliance with what it prescribed. St. Joseph, etc.
Ry. Co. v. Moore, 243 U. S. 311.
The acts are to be construed and applied for practical
railroad purposes. Pennell v. Phila. & Read. Ry. Co.,
231 U. S. 675; Boehmer v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 252
U. S. 496.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

When the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered
ladders on all locomotive tenders more than forty-eight
inches in height, § 2 of the Safety Appliance Act, requiring grab irons at or near the top of the ladder, became mandatory, although the order of the Commission
did not prescribe a grab iron at the top of the ladder.
Illinois Cent. R. R. Co. v. Williams, 242 U. S. 462.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action by Manry for $50,000 against the Director General of Railroads for injuries sustained while engaged in
assisting the train crew of the Central of Georgia Railroad. There was a verdict and judgment for $7,500. The
judgment was affirmed on appeal by the Court of Appeals
of the State. The Supreme Court of the State denied an
application by the Director General for a certiorari. A
petition for certiorari was granted by this Court to review
the judgment of the State Court of Appeals.
The action was brought against Walker D. Hines, who
at the time of the injury to Manry was Director General.
He was subsequently succeeded by John B. Payne, and
the latter by James C. Davis, the petitioner.
Manry alleges as a ground of action that he was employed as baggageman on a train of the railroad running
between Macon, Georgia, and Montgomery, Alabama,
that it became his duty to assist the crew of the engine
in coaling it, that he had stepped down from the coal
chute on to the tender of the locomotive and was going
back to the rear of the tender to climb down the ladder
there situated so that he would be in a position at the
proper time and place to adjust the couplers between the
tender and the train, and to see that the coupling was
duly and properly made. He alleges that just as he was
in the act of climbing over the rear of the tender, the engi-

DAVIS v. MANRY.
401

403

Opinion of the Court.

neer put the locomotive in motion, and before he
(Manry) could turn on the ladder and securely brace and
hold himself thereon, and before he could reach his final
destination, which was the ladder on the side of the tank,
he was, by a sudden, unusual and unnecessary jerk,
thrown to the ground and the locomotive backed over
him; that while he was being dragged under the engine
his legs came in contact with the wheels under the tender
and both of them were mashed off at, or just below, the
knee.
Negligence in operating the train is charged. Omission
to equip the locomotive with the appliances required by
law is also charged. To sustain the latter, it is alleged
that at the rear of the tender there is a sheet-iron flange
that extends up above the top thereof at an angle of
about sixty degrees; the ladder on the rear of the tender
does not come up and over the top of the flange, so that a
person going from the top of the tender over the flange
and down on the ladder has no hand-hold or other thing
to securely hold himself except to clamp his hands on the
sheet-iron flange.
It is contended there was a violation of § 2 of the Safety
Appliance Act of April 14, 1910, 36 Stat. 298, which provides that:
"All cars requiring secure, ladders and secure running
boards shall be equipped with such ladders and running
boards, and all cars having ladders shall also be equipped
with secure hand holds or grab irons on their roofs at the
tops of such ladders."
This, it is said on behalf of respondents, could easily be
complied with because "The grab iron could easily be
riveted on the top of the tender or on the sheet iron flange
at or near the top of the ladder, and this would insure the
safety of employees when using the ladder while the train
is in motion, or when being put in motion, as was being
done in the case at bar, and would for all practical rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 TU. S.

road purposes be a compliance with the Safety Appliance
Act."
The trial court charged the jury that the federal statute required that all cars having ladders should be
equipped with grab irons, that this applied to a tender of
a locomotive though it had no roof, and that if plaintiff's
injury was due to the absence of a grab iron, he was entitled to a verdict. This was duly excepted to on the
ground that the statute did not apply to ladders on a
tender. The issue then was as to the effect of the statute.
The word "roofs" is the determining one. The occurring supposition is that it was used with intelligence and
to accomplish its definition, its definition being the expression of its purpose, and that gets aid from the associates of
the word in the section. We repeat the provision-" All
cars . . . having ladders shall also be equipped with
secure hand holds or grab irons on their roofs at the tops
[italics ours] of such ladders." It is cars therefore which
must have hand holds or grab irons on their roofs at the
tops of such ladders. The section distinguishes between
roofs and tops, they do not designate the same thing,
and the distinction is natural. This reasoning is not
giving exaggeration to verbal differences-defeating purpose. It is made necessary to accomplish the legislative
purpose.
The Interstate Commerce Commission by § 3 of the
act is empowered to designate the number, dimensions,
location, and manner of application of the appliances provided for by § 2. The Commission's regulation as to
ladders on tenders is as follows: "A suitable metal end
or side-ladder shall be applied to all tanks more than 48
inches in height, measured from the top of end-sill, and
securely fastened with bolts or rivets." The omission to
require a grab iron is a practical construction by the
Commission-the tribunal to which the application of
§ 2 was entrusted and which would be solicitous to enforce

SANITARY DISTRICT v. UNITED STATES.
401

405

Syllabus.

it-that it applies to cars with roofs and not to tenders,
they having no roofs. While the view of the Commission
is not conclusive with us, it is properly persuasive. We
agree with it. The trial court therefore erred in its charge
on the effect of the statute and as the verdict was general
with no special finding upon which the verdict could
stand without response to the statute, the case must go
back for a new trial.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SANITARY DISTRICT OF CHICAGO v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 161.

Argued December 8, 9, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. A suit to enjoin an agency of the State of Illinois from continuing diversions of water from Lake Michigan which lower that lake
and threaten the like effect upon other lakes and connecting waters
of the Great Lake System, including the St. Lawrence, is maintainable by the United States not only to remove obstruction to
interstate and foreign commerce, but also to carry out treaty
obligations to a foreign power. (Treaty of January 11, 1909, with
Great Britain, 36 Stat. 2448.) P. 425.
2. Semble that such a suit might also stand upon an ultimate sovereign interest in the Lakes. Id.
3. The suit may be brought by the Attorney General, in virtue of
his office, and it need not be authorized by a statute. P. 426.
4. The power of the United States to remove obstructions to interstate and foreign commerce is superior to that of the States to
provide for the welfare or necessities of their inhabitants. Id.
5. Touching interstate and foreign commerce, in so far as the
States may act Congress can override what they have done; but,
in matters of imminent and direct national importance, they may
not act at all, even where Congress has -been silent. Id.

