152

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502,
which was thought to give some color to the decision
below, has no bearing upon the present question. There
the Government made a requisition of th6 entire product
of a Steel Company for a year. On the assumption that
the Government thereby made it impossible for the Steel
Company to perform a contract to sell a large quantity
of steel plate to the claimant, the decision was that
nevertheless the contract was not taken. The contract
was no part of the res taken and whatever might be the
collateral consequences of the appropriation liability for
them was not an incident of the Government's act. 261
U. S. 510. Here the claimant's possession under its lease
was a part of the res, and therefore was within the implied
promise to pay. Whatever the effect of the taking there
was a contract implied in fact by the President's order
and there is no doubt concerning the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims. United States v. North American
Transportation& Trading Co., 253 U. S. 330.
Judgment reversed with directions to award proper
compensation to the appellant.
COMMONWEALTH TRUST COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH v. SMITH ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 7. Argued February 29, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. On appeal from a decree dismissing a bill because of refusal to
bring in additional parties, the merits are not open but only the
question whether such parties were necessary. P. 159.
2. Parties are necessary who have such an interest in the matter in
controversy that it can not be determined -without affecting that
interest or leaving the interests of those who are before the court
in a situation that might be embarrassing or inconsistent with
equity. Id.

COMMONWEALTH TRUST CO. v. SMITH. 153
Statement of the Case.

152

3. After a State had agreed with the Secretary of the Interior for
the reclamation of certain public lands under the Carey Act, a
company contracted with it to construct works and supply water
to irrigate those and other lands, and to sell to each settler a
perpetual right to a stated quantity of water for each acre of
his tract, with a proportionate interest in the works and water
appropriation, at a stated price per acre, no water-rights to be
sold in excess of the capacity of the works or available water
supply, all to be of equal priority, and the company to have a.
lien on each water-right to secure payment of the price. 'Afterwards the company made contracts, all alike in tenor, with many
individual settlers, each reciting that it was made in virtue of,
and to be governed by, the contract between the company and
the State, each granting the settler water-rights and proportionate
interests in the works, etc., in terms. accordant with those provided
by that contract, with a right to pay the price in instalments
during a period of years, and entitling the company to a lien on
the settler's water-right and land to secure payment. Thereafter,
a controversy arising as to the sufficiency of the available water
supply to reclaim the acreage for which water-right contracts were
outstanding, and the settlers for this reason defaulting in payments, the trustee for the company's bondholders sued to foreclose
the lien on the land and water-rights of two of them only, setting
up the controversy and claiming, in disregard of the express
stipulations, that the total amount of lien intended by the Carey
Act must be determined by distributing the total actual outlay
for the irrigation works, with reasonable interest, over all of the
reclaimed lands, on an acreage basis. Held, that the suit could
not be maintained in the absence of the other contract-holders
(settlers) as parties. P. 159.
4. Under the Carey Act, where the water supply is adequate for
part only of the acreage for which water-right contracts are outstanding, some of the contracts must be eliminated before any of
the lands can be deemed reclaimed or be adjudged subject to a
lien for the cost of water-rights. P. 160.
273 Fed. 1, affirmed.

APPF L from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
a bill for want of necessary parties.
1958°-25-

14

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Mr. Oliver 0. Haga,with whom Mr. James H. Richards,
Mr. McKeen F. Morrow and Mr. J. L. Eberle were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Turner K. Hackman, for appellees, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE VAw DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit is an incident of the partial failure of an irrigation project in the State of Idaho, called the Salmon
River Project, which was undertaken in accordance with
the Carey Act, c. 301, § 4, 28 Stat. 422; c. 420, 29 Stat.
434; and c. 853, § 3, 31 Stat. 1188, and the legislation of
the State accepting the conditions of that act and providing for their performance, § 2996, et seq., Idaho Comp.
Stat. 1919. A statement of the situation leading to the
suit will be helpful in understanding its nature and purpose.
The project comprehended (a) the donation by the
United States to the State of 127,000 acres of arid public
lands, (b) the reclamation of the lands through an agency
of the State by means of extensive irrigation works drawing a supply of water from the Salmon River, and the disposal of the lands, with suitable water rights, to settlers
in tracts of not more than 160 acres to any one person.
Other lands, lying among the 127,000 acres, were included
in the project, making a total of 150,000 acres.
In 1907 George F. Sprague and others, who had devised
the project, submitted to the State Land Board a proposal to construct the necessary irrigation works and to
provide the requisite supply of water. In the proposal
they represented that, if it was accepted, they would
organize a corporation with capital sufficient to complete
the works and to put the same in operation so as to reach
and reclaim all of the 150,000 acres; that the water supply
intended to be utilized was ample for the purpose, and

COMMONWEALTH TRUST CO. v. SMITH. 155
152

Opinion of the Court.

that water rights would be sold to settlers at forty dollars
per acre. The representation respecting the water supply
was set forth with much detail in an accompanying statement by their consulting engineer.
The board, after referring the proposal to the State
Engineer and receiving from him a favorable report, provisionally accepted the proposal and forwarded it to the
Secretary of the Interior with a request that the 127,000
acres of public. lands be segregated from other public
lands and that a contract be made between the United
States and the State binding the United States to donate,
grant and patent the lands to the State, if and when the
latter caused them to be reclaimed.
The segregation was made, and on April 10, 1908, the
United States and the State entered into such a contract.
It provided, among other things, that the United States
should patent to the State, or to its assigns, any particular
tract or tracts whenever an ample supply of water to
reclaim the same was actually furnished in a substantial
ditch or canal; that all persons acquiring rights to such
lands from the State prior to the issue of patent by the
United States should take and hold the same subject to
the requirements of the Carey Act and the terms of the
contract; that full compliance therewith should be a condition to obtaining a right to a patent from the United
States; and that the work of reclamation should be completed within ten years.
The State and the Twin Falls Salmon River Land and
Water Company, to which Sprague and his associates had
transferred their interests in the project, then entered into
a contract by which that company bound itself to construct and complete the irrigation works within five years,
to provide the requisite supply of water, and to sell to
each settler a perpetual water right of one-hundredth of
a cubic foot of water per second of time for each acre in
his tractr-the price of the water right to be not more

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

than forty dollars an acre, and the water right to include
a proportionate interest in the irrigation works and in
the water appropriation and franchises pertaining to
them. Other provisions in the contract were to the effect
that no water rights should be sold in excess of the capacity
of the works or of the available water supply; that the
company should have a lien on each water right to secure payment of the purchase price; and that there
should be no preference or priority among the holders of
water rights, but all should be on the same plane regardless of the order in which the rights were purchased.
In still other provisions the State agreed to dispose of
the lands to settlers at fifty cents an acre, and not to
recognize any right in a settler unless and until he contracted with the company for a water right sufficient for
the irrigation of the tract he was seeking. After completing the works and putting them in operation the
company was to transfer their ownership and control
to a corporate agency of the settlers, who were to hold
its shares in the same proportions that they held the
water rights. The moneys accruing from the sale of water
rights were to belong to the construction company, and
it was not to be otherwise compensated for its outlay
and efforts.
The contracts by which the water rights were sold to
settlers were all of the same tenor. Besides declaring
that they were made in virtue of the contract between
the State and the company and that the rights of the parties were to be governed thereby, these contracts showed
that the settler was to have a right to receive during each
irrigation season one-hundredth of a cubic foot of water
per second of time for each acre in the tract which he
was seeking to acquire from the State, and also a proportionate interest in the irrigation works, etc.,-such
interest to conform to the proportional relation between
the number of acres covered by his water right and the

COMMONWEALTH TRUST CO. v. SMITH. 157
152

Opinion of the Court.

total acreage covered by all water rights sold "in accordance with" the contract between the company and the
State. The price to the settler was a definite sum calculated at the rate of forty dollars per acre and payable
in stated installments spread over a period of eleven
years. To secure payment the company was to have a
lien on the water right and the land, and, if it so requested, was to be given a mortgage on the land when
the settler received the legal title. If default was made
in the payment of any installment the company was to
be at liberty to declare the entire amount then unpaid
immediately due and payable and to proceed to collect
the same and to enforce such lien as it might have on the
water right and land.
The contracts between the United States and the State,
between the State and the company and between the
company and the several settlers all expressly recognized
the laws under which they were made as parts of them*
After the irrigation works had been partly constructed
and the lands opened to entry and many water-right contracts made, it was found that the available water supply
was not only - short of what was required to irrigate
150,000 acres but short of what was required to satisfy
the water-right contracts already made, which aggregated
73,000 acres. In 1915 some of the settlers obtained, in
a suit against the company, an interlocutory decree declaring that the outstanding water-right contracts were
in excess of the available water supply and prohibiting
the sale of further rights, 225 Fed. 584; 242 Fed. 177;
272 Fed. 356. In 1916 the State Land Board dealt with
the shortage by cancelling the settlers' entries amounting
to 13,000 acres and declining to allow further entries or
to approve further sales of water rights, thereby in effect
requiring that the water supply be applied to not exceeding 60,000 acres. In 1918 the board, on further con-

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court-

266 U. S.

sideration, concluded that the available supply was not
sufficient to irrigate more than 35,000 acres and made
an order that it be distributed over and made appurtenant to that number of irrigable acres and no more,
and that the outstanding contracts for water rights in
excess of that acreage be cancelled.
The shortage of water and the proceedings resulting
therefrom led to many controversies between the construction company and the settlers and to a general
failure on the part of the latter to pay the deferred installments of the purchase price for the water rights.
The settlers insisted, and some of them satisfied a court
to which they resorted, that the available water was not
sufficient to irrigate more than 25,000 acres.
Such was the situation when this suit was brought.
The plaintiff is a trustee in a deed of trust given by the
construction company to secure payment of a large issue
of its bonds, and under that deed holds as collateral the
company's rights under the contracts with the settlers
and all liens to which it may be entitled under them and
the legislation on which they are based. The defendants
are two settlers holding contracts for water rights on
which the deferred installments of the purchase price
have not been paid. The plaintiff has elected to declare
the full amount remaining unpaid due at once and to
enforce payment accordingly. By its bill it asserts a lien
on the water rights and the lands for which they were
purchased, seeks a foreclosure of the lien and asks a judgment for any deficiency. Other features of the bill will
be noticed later on. In their answer the defendants admit
some of the plaintiff's allegations, deny others and assert
a right to counter relief.
On the defendants' motion the District Court ruled that
the other holders of water-right contracts were necessary
parties and ordered that the plaintiff bring them in. The
plaintiff refused, and the bill was dismissed. The Circuit

COMMONWEALTH TRUST CO. v. SMITH. 159
152

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals affirmed the decree, 273 Fed. 1, and the
plaintiff appealed to this Court under § 241 of the Judicial
Code.
In the briefs there is much discussion of questions
which might arise if the case were here on the merits.
But, as the bill was dismissed because of the refusal to
bring in additional parties, the only question open here is
whether the parties indicated were necessary parties. Of
course they were, if they had such an interest in the
matter in controversy that it could not be determined
without either affecting that interest or leaving the interests of those who were before the court in a situation
that might be embarrassing and inconsistent with equity.
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 139.
The plaintiff takes the position that the suit is simply
one to foreclose a distinct lien on particular water rights
and lands, in which the other holders of water-right contracts have no interest, and that a final decree determining the issues in the plaintiff's favor and granting the relief sought can neither affect the other holders of such
contracts nor work any embarrassment or inequity to the
defendants. In our opinion that position is not tenable.
The suit is much more than one for a simple foreclosure.
The bill sets forth the controversy respecting the water
supply and does so for the purpose of having it determined. The controversy is not peculiar to the contracts
sued on but reaches and affects all that are outstanding.
The contracts, while several in form, are interdependent
in substance and operation. All are effectively tied together by the contract between the State and the company, in virtue of which they were made, and by what
they purport to do, which is to entitle their holders to
participate on equal terms in the use of a common supply
of water and to invest them with proportionate interests
in the works by which the water is collected and conducted to the places of use. -As was well said by the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

trict Judge, "In a very substantial sense all the settlers
are parties to one general contract, in the subject matter
of which all are interested and by virtue of which all
have rights so interdependent, whether they be regarded
as joint or several, that the interest of one cannot be defined and adjudicated without affecting the interests of
all others."
Other considerations leading to the same result will be
briefly stated.
According to the Carey Act a tract is not reclaimed
until "an ample supply of water is actually furnished"
for its irrigation and cultivation; and only when it is reclaimed can it be charged with a lien for the cost of water
rights. If, therefore, the supply of water is not adequate
for the reclamation of the acreage for which water-right
contracts are outstanding, and yet is adequate for the
reclamation of a smaller acreage, as is asserted on one
side, it is evident that some of the contracts must be eliminated before any of the lands can be said to be reclaimed,
or be adjudged subject to such a lien. Of course, an ascertainment or designation of the contracts which must fall
and those which are to stand cannot be had in a suit to
which their holders are not parties.
The same thing is true as respects the elimination of
contracts made in contravention of the provision in the
contract between the State and the company that water
rights should not be sold in excess of the available water
supply.
The bill practically disregards the stipulations fixing
the price of water rights at forty dollars an acre and proceeds on the theory that the amount of the lien intended by the Carey Act is to be determined by distributing
the total actual outlay for irrigation works, etc., with
reasonable interest thereon, over all of the reclaimed
lands on an acreage basis. Applying that theory, the bill
alleges that. if the supply of water is found to be ade-

WORK v.* LYNN.
152

Syllabus.

quate for 60,000 acres and no more the amount due is
to be computed at sixty dollars an acre, and if the supply
is found to be adequate only for a smaller acreage a correspondingly higher rate is to be used in the computation.
This theory involves a determination of the total outlay
and of the total area reclaimed. In view of what is comprehended in these questions they should be determined
once for all. Every contract holder has an interest in
them and will be affected by their determination, however made. It is of concern to him, not merely whether
his tract is held to have been reclaimed and to be chargeable with part of the general outlay, but also whether
and to what extent other lands are in the same situation.
In this and other respects what is determined in respect
of other*holders is of direct concern to him. In short,
the interests of the contract holders are so related that
an effective and just determination of the questions can
only be had in a proceeding to which all are parties.
What we have said requires that the decree be
Affirmed.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. LYNN, GUARDIAN
OF LASLEY, AN INCOMPETENT OSAGE INDIAN
ALLOTTEE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 17. Argued January 16, 17, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Under § 4 of the Act of March 3, 1921, c. 120, 41 Stat. 1249,
regulating quarterly payments by the Secretary of the Interior
to the members of the Osage Tribe of their income from interest
on trust funds, bonuses, and royalties, the income of an adult
member who has not received a certificate of competency and
who has been placed under guardianship, as an incompetent person, by an Oklahoma county court, must be paid to such legal
guardian, not to exceed the amount of $1,000 quarterly. P. 168.

