108

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
266 U. S.

Syllabus.

claims on the ground that the agreements under which
recovery was sought had not been executed in the manner prescribed by law. In this way it put itself outside
the field covered by par. 20 of § 24 of the Judicial Code,
and by its own admission limited itself to the remedy
possible under the Dent Act. It is unnecessary for us to
consider, therefore, whether, but for the Dent Act, it
might have brought suit under the general language contained in par. 20 of § 24. The effect of the Dent Act
was to limit it to the Court of Claims. The District
Court, therefore, was right in holding that it had no jurisdiction of the counterclaims and in giving judgment on
the pleadings for the Government.

Affirmed.

JAMES SHEWAN & SONS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 42. Argued October 7, 8, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
The Suits in Admiralty Act of 1920, c. 95, 41 Stat. 525, which was
intended to substitute an equivalent remedy against the United
States in personam for the right in rem against its merchant
vessels permitted by the Shipping Board Act of 1916, c. 451, 39
Stat. 728, provides, (§ 2) "That in cases where if such vessel
were privately owned or operated .

.

. a proceeding in admiralty

could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the
action herein provided for, a libel in personam may be brought
against the United States . .. , provided that such vessel is

employed as a merchant vessel. .. "
Held, construing the two acts together, that the proviso does not
mean that the vessel, being a merchant vessel, must be actively
employed as such when the action is commenced; and that where
a vessel was at all times previously engaged in the mercantile
trade, and so engaged when the cause of action arose, the mere
fact that she was laid up and out of use when the action in
personam began and thereafter, did not prevent its maintenance.
P. 110.

Reversed.

SHEWAN & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
108

109

Opinion of the Court.

APPFAL under Jud. Code, § 238, from a decree of the
District Court dismissing a libel in personam for want of
jurisdiction. See 267 U. S. 86.
Mr. George V. A. McCloskey, with whom Mr. C. C.
Calhoun was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Ottinger were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
James Shewan & Sons, a corporation of New York, on
the 12th day of May, 1922, filed a libel in admiralty
against the United States in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York, to recover the value of
repairs made during the month -of May, 1920, on the
steamship Biran. The libel averred that the Biran was
owned by the United States and at all the times mentioned was engaged in the mercantile trade, that the lien
upon the vessel was one which ordinarily could be
enforced in admiralty by proceeding in rem against the
vessel.
The jurisdiction to sue the United States was questioned by exceptive allegations. It was agreed at the
hearing that on the 11th day of June, 1921, the steamship
Biran, which had theretofore been in the merchant service
of the United States, was laid up in the care and custody
of caretakers employed by the United States Shipping
Board, in the out-of-use and laid-up fleet of that Board
anchored in the Hudson River within the District, and
so remained at and after the time when the libel was filed
herein, and that since June 11, 1921, it had carried neither
crew nor cargo, nor been the subject of any operating

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

agreement for use in the merchant or other service, nor
had it been transferred by the Shipping Board to any
other department or agency of the Government. The
libelant relied for its right to sue the United States
upon the Suits in Admiralty Act (c. 95, 41 Stat. 525,
March 9, 1920). That act provides in its first section,
with an exception not important here, that no vessel
owned by the United States or by any corporation in
which the United States owns the capital stock or in the
possession of the United States or of such corporation or
operated by or for the United States or such corporation,
shall hereafter, in view of the provision made elsewhere
in the act for a libel in personam, be subject to arrest or
seizure by judicial process in the United States.
The second section is in part:
"That in cases where if such vessel were privately
owned or operated, or if such cargo were privately owned
and possessed, a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the action
herein provided for, a libel in personam may be brought
against the United States or against such corporation, as
the case may be, provided that such vessel is employed
as a merchant vessel or is a tug boat operated by such
corporation."
The section further provides that such suit shall be
brought in the district where the party suing resides or
has its principal place of business, or in which the vessel
or cargo charged with liability is found.
The District Court, following Mack Engineering &
Supply Co. v. United States, 291 Fed. 713, dismissed the
case solely for lack of jurisdiction, because the vessel
whose repairs are the subject of this suit was laid up
and was not, when the action commenced, employed as
a merchant vessel, and the judge has so certified in this
proceeding in error under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
We think this view is based on too narrow a construction of the section. It leads to the result that one who

SHEWAN & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
108

111

Opinion of the Court.

repairs a merchant vessel owned by the United States is
excluded from the benefit of the act if, immediately after
the repairs are made, the United States shall lay her up,
although still a merchant vessel in character and without
change of her to any other service. If a vessel engaged
in the service as a merchant vessel negligently collides
with and injures another vessel, and then at once is laid
up before suit is brought under this act, the owner of the
vessel injured under such construction will have no cause
of action against the United States for the injury. This
act was enacted chiefly for the purpose of relieving the
United States from obstruction to its commercial traffic
by the seizure of merchant vessels owned by it or under
its control, and was intended to substitute an equivalent
remedy against the United States in personam for the
right in rem against the vessel, which the Act of September 7, 1916, § 9, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, had permitted.
Blamberg Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452, 458, 459.
We .do not find anything in the Act of 1916 which would
prevent its liberal construction to enable one who had
repaired a vessel engaged solely as a merchant vessel for
the United States from proceeding against that vessel in
rem under the Act of 1916, even though, after the repairs
had been made upon her as a commercial vessel, she was
subsequently laid up, if she had not then acquired character as a public vessel. So we do not think that the
decision in The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S. 246, would have
been different had she thus been laid up after she had
injured the libelant's vessel in that case. Obviously,
under the Act of 1916, liability to suit of a vessel owned
or controlled by the United States as a merchant vessel
depended primarily, not upon the time when the suit was
to be brought and the vessel was to be seized, but upon
her character as one solely engaged in merchant service
when the transaction occurred out of which the liability
grew.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

In view of the purpose of Congress, in the Act of 1920,
merely, to substitute for an action in rem an action in
personam, the natural construction would be one which,
ceteris paribus, would measure the extent of the right to
sue the United States in personam by that which had
been granted in the Act of 1916 to sue in rem its offending or responsible vessel. The date of natural importance
in fixing the liability in rem would seem to be that of
the event out of which the liability grew. The date of
the suit would be important only in the application of a
statute of limitation or a change in character of the
vessel from that of a merchant vessel to public vessel,
or possibly some kind of a change in ownership or the
happening of some other circumstance after the event
which would exempt the offending vessel if privately
owned from seizure under the rules of admiralty law.
It is in respect of such changes in the situation before
suit that the phrase "in cases where if such vessel were
privately owned . . . a proceeding in admiralty could
be maintained at the time -of the commencement of the
action herein provided for," is used; and it does not
qualify or in any way add to the force of the subsequent
and final proviso "that such vessel is employed as a
merchant vessel or is a tug boat operated by such corporation."
What then does the proviso mean? Are the words to
be construed as if they read "is being actively employed
as a merchant vessel"? Such a construction is a narrow
one and not in accord with the equitable purpose of
Congress. The. important line between immunity from
judicial seizure of government vessels under the Act of
1916 was between public vessels and those engaged in
merchant service. The mere laying up of a vessel engaged in the latter service would not change its character,
unless the Government did something affirmative to make
it a public vessel. It would have been an unjust result

TOD v. WALDMAN.
108

Syllabus.

to hold that under that act a mere suspension of the
vessel's activity in merchant trade destroyed its quasi
personal responsibility for its wrongs done or its liabilities

incurred in that trade. In view of the relation of the
Act of 1920 to the'Act of 1916, unless the words of the
proviso of § 2 of the Act of 1920 make any other construction unreasonable, the mere laying up of the vessel
before suit brought under the act should not prevent a
libel in personam against the United States for a claim
which under the Act of 1916 might be enforced against
the vessel itself, The words of the proviso may reasonably and more liberally be interpreted as a limitation that
the vessel is a merchant vessel and shall not have lost its
character as such. Thus construed, § 2 gives the District
Court jurisdiction in such a case as this.
Decree reversed.
TOD, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION, v.
WALDMAN ET AL.
CERTIORAR" TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 95.

Argued October 20, 21, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. When it is found, in habeas 'corpus, that aliens, refused admission
to the country and held for deportation, were denied a right of
appeal to the Secretary of Labor, accorded by the Immigration

Law and regulations, they should not therefore be discharged from
custody and their bail be released, but the order should secure
them the appeal and remand them to custody of the immigration
authorities pending decision by the Secretary. P. 118.
2. In such cases, questions such as educational qualification of an
immigrant in a foreign language, or the probable effect of a physical
defect on future ability to earn a living, which determine the right
of admission, should be remitted to the Department rather than
be decided by the court in the habeas corpus proceeding. P. 119.
3. In determining upon the admissibility of an alien, the immigration

