BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
449

457

Syllabus.

The alleged tort was maritime, suffered by one doing
repair work on board a completed vessel.

The matter

was not of mere local concern, as in Grant Smith-Porter
Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 476, but had direct relation to navigation and commerce, as in Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479. The
rights and liabilities of the parties arose out of and depended upon the general maritime law and could not be
enlarged or impaired by the state statute. Chelentis v.
Luchenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 382; Union Fish Co.
v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. -255, 259. They would not have been
different if the accident had occurred at San Francisco.
The jury were distinctly told that they might consider
the privisions of the local law in deciding whether or not

the employer was negligent. No such instruction would
have been permissible in an admiralty court, and it was
no less objectionable when given by the state court.
The error is manifest and material. See Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 288 U. S. 507, 511; New Orleans & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Harris, 247 U. S. 367, 371;
American Railway Express Co. v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19,
21.
The judgment must be
Reversed.
BEHN, MEYER & COMPANY, LIMITED, v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN OF
THE UNITED STATES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 343. Argued November 24, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. A corporation organized in a British colony, which had never
been a resident of, nor done business within, any nation at war
with the United States since Apil 6, 1917, or ally of sdch nation,
19458*-25--3a

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

was neither an enemy nor ally of an enemy within the meaning
of the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40
Stat. 411; and was entitled under § 9 of the act to recover by suit
the proceeds of its property, unlawfully seized by the Alien Property Custodian. P. 471.
2. Amendments added to the Trading with the Enemy Act since the
Armistice by Acts of 1920 and 1923-§ 9 (b) pars. 6 and 11;
§ 9 (c),--authorized restoration or suit for recovery of property
seized by the Alien Property Cusodian where the President shall
determine that the owner was at time of seizure a corporation incorporated within any country other than the United States and
was and remains entirely owned by subjects or citizens of nations, states, etc., other than Germany, Austria, Hungary or Austria-Hungary, or a corporation organized or incorporated within
any country other than these last enumerated, the control of
which, or more than 50% of the interest or voting power in
which, was, at the time of such seizure, and remains, vested in
citizens or subjects of other nations, states, etc.-Construed as not
intended to withdraw the right of a corporation, never "enemy or
ally of enemy," to recover property unlawfully seized during the
war when a majority of its shareholders were Germans. Id.
3. Section 7 (c) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, in authorizing
seizure of property held "on account of, or on behalf of, or for
the benefit of an enemy or ally of enemy," was not intended to
empower the President to seize the property of a non-enemy
corporation merely because of enemy stockholding interests therein.
P. 472.
54 App. D. C. 225; 296 Fed. 1002, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Supreme

Court of the District -which dismissed on motion the
appellant's bill against the Alien Property Custodian
and the Treasurer of the United States, to recover the
proceeds held by the latter, of property unlawfully seized
by the former.'
'On November 24. 1924, Mr. Marion Butler, Mr. John W. Clifton
and Mr. Henry D. Green, on behalf of Lazarus G. Joseph, as Receiver of Behn, Meyer & Company, Limited, in the Philippine
Islands, applied for leave to intervene. The application was denied,
on the same day, before the oral argument of the case was begun.

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. Isidor J.
Kresel and Mr. Bernard Hershkopf were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellees.
The effect of amended § 9 (b), par. 6, is to prohibit
the return of the property of such corporations as are not
therein described, if any portion of their stock was enemyowned.
The application of the section is not restricted to
"enemy" corporations. The words are "a corporation
incorporated within any country." Moreover, the application of subsec. (b) is not only to such property of
enemies or allies of enemies as has been seized, but "in
respect of all money or other property conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property
Custodian or seized by him hereunder."
Section 9 is a whole. It was enacted as a whole at
the time of each of the amendments, that of 1920 and
that of 1923. It should be construed as a whole, each
part in the light of and as modified by other parts so
as to achieve an harmonious interpretation of the several parts. United States v. Landram, 118 U. S. 81;
Bryant Co. v. New York Steam Fitting Co., 235 U. S.
327; Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112; Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612. No principle of statutory construction
can justify the contention that subsec. (a) of § 9 is to be
considered altogether apart from what follows it and with
no effect given to the limitations imposed upon subsec. (a)
by the remaining language of § 9.
If the contention is sound to the effect that subsec. (a)
and § 9 must be taken without regard to the rest of the
section, then subsec. (e) becomes of no effect whatsoever.
The appellant was an" enemy" within the meaning of
the Trading with the Enemy Act.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

266 U. S.

We must concede, of course, that appellant was not
such a corporation as subdiv. (a) of § 2 expressly describes, since it was neither incorporated within an enemy
country nor was it doing business within such territory.
But a majority of its stockholders were enemies. It is
possible that every share of stock save one was enemy
owned.
Section 2 defines as an "enemy" "any individual,
partnership, or other body of individuals, of any nationality, resident within the territory . . . of any nation . . .
with which the United States is at war." It will scarcely
be contended that this language (and all other language
in the Act) is not to be liberally construed in favor of
upholding the power of the Government to do everything regarded by the executive as necessary in the prosecution of a war. But in a very real sense, if not in a
strictly technical sense, a corporation is but a "body of
individuals." Will the Court say, keeping in view the
character of this act as a war measure, that by reason of
somewhat attenuated technical distinctions the executive
branch of the Government engaged in the prosecution of
a war could not, through the thin corporation covering,
strike at the "enemies" underneath-the "body of individuals" who were within even the letter of the definition
the " enemies " of the nation?
This Court has often looked through the corporation
to the individuals composing it. Bank of the United
States v. Deveaux, 5 Cr. 61; McKinley v. Wheeler, 130
U. S. 630; tUnited States v. Northwestern Express Co.,
164 U. S. 686.
That Congress intended that the corporation shell
should be pierced is apparent from the amendment of
June 5, 1920, § 9 (b), par. 6, and from that of March 4,
1923, § 9 (b), par. 11.
Further light is to be had from the Joint Resolution terminating the war, July 2, 1921, c. 40, § 5; 42 Stat. 105,

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

461

Argument for Appellees.

which contemplated the retention of such property as
belonged when seized to German and other enemy nationals whether in their individual or corporate capacities. Property which has come under the control of the
United States "from any source . . . whatsoever " is
to be retained. When this resolution was passed the
property of this appellant and others in the same situation had been taken and was under the control of the
United States and was therefore a part of the property
contemplated by the act.
The war powers of the Executive, having their origin
in the Constitution, embraced the right of temporary
seizure. No duty was incumbent on the Executive to
inquire of Congress who were enemies, or whether those
who in their individual capacities were concededly enemies were also enemies in a corporate capacity. See
Steamship St. Tudno, 5 Lloyds Prize Cas. 198, (1916
Probate, 291); The Michigan, 5 Lloyds Prize Cas. 42;
Daimler Co. v. Continental Tyre & Rubber Co., 2 A. C.
[1916] 307.
The only provision in the entire act for the taking over
of enemy property by the Alien Property Custodian (except as to enemy-owned shares of stock in American
corporations) was § 7, subdiv. (c). This provision authorized the taking over of the property of a corporation
of a country other than the United States if, as here,
a majority of its stock was enemy owned. Certainly, in
a very real sense the property of a corporation may be
said to be held "on account of, or on behalf of, or for
the benefit of" its stockholders. The executive department construed this provision as authorizing the seizure
of the property of a corporation a majority of whose
stock was enemy owned. Moreover, throughout the act
is indicated the intent of Congress that the Government
should look beneath the corporate covering and consider whether the stockholders were enemies. See, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

examples, the first part of § 7, as to enemy stockholders
in American corporations, and, also, pars. 6 and 11 of
subsec. (b) of § 9, as amended.
MR. JusncE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Since December, 1905, the appellant, Behn, Meyer &
Company, Limited, has been a corporation organized
under the laws of The Straits Settlements, a crown
colony of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It has never been a resident of nor has it done
business within the territory of any nation at war with
the United States since April 6, 1917, or an ally of such
nation. Prior to February, 1918, under the supervision
of Menzi, a stockholder and citizen of Switzerland, it
carried on business in the Philippine Islands. During
that month, and while subjects of Germany held most of
its stock, the Alien Property Custodian, claiming authority under the Trading with the Enemy Act, seized
and converted into cash the corporation's assets found
in those Islands. The proceeds are held by him or by
the Treasurer of the United States.
Alleging that its property had been improperly seized
and the proceeds were being unjustly withheld, the
Company brought suit to recover them in the Supreme
Court, District of Columbia, July 28, 1922. Upon motion the trial court dismissed the petition, and the Court
of Appeals affirmed the decree.
Following much consideration Congress passed the
original Trading with the Enemy Act, approved October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411. It is long (nineteen sections), rather complicated, and evinces the purpose to
clothe the President with definitely restricted powers in
respect of seizing property of those designated as enemies. It has been amended several times but has always
contained the original provisions (§ 9) allowing recovery

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

Opinion of the Court.

of seized property which did not in fact belong to an
enemy. "By § 9, as twice amended, any one, 'not an
enemy or ally of enemy,' claiming any interest, right or
title in any money or other property so sequestered and
held may give notice of his claim and institute a suit in
[The act] distinctly reserves to any
equity. . .
claimant who is neither an enemy nor an ally of an
enemy a right to assert and establish his claim by a suit
in equity unembarrassed by the precedent executive determination. Not only so, but pending the suit, which
the claimant may bring as promptly after the seizure
as he chooses, the property is to be retained by the Custodian to abide the result and, if the claimant prevails,
is to be forthwith returned to him. Thus there is provision for the return of property mistakenly sequestered;
and we have no hesitation in pronouncing, it adequate,
for it enables the claimant, as of right, to obtain a full
hearing on his claim in a court having power to enforce
it if found meritorious." Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S.
239, 243, 246; Central Union Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254
U. S.554; Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, 262 U. S. 51.
Section 2, which has remained unchanged, declares that
"person" shall include corporation or body 'politic and
the word "enemy" shall be deemed to mean"(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of
individuals, of any nationality, resident within the territory (including that occupied by the military and naval
forces) of any nation with which the United States is at
war, or resident outside the United States and doing
business within such territory, and any corporation incorporated within such territory of any nation with which
the United States is at war or incorporated within any
country other than the United States and doing business
within such territory.
"(b) The government of any nation with which the
United States is at war, or any political or municipal sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

division thereof, or any officer, official, agent, or agency
thereof.
"(c) Such other individuals, or body or class of individuals, as may be natives, citizens, or subjects of any
nation with which the United States is at war, other than
citizens of the United States, wherever resident or wherever doing business, as the President, if he shall find the
safety of the United States or the successful prosecution
of the war shall so require, may, by proclamation, include
within the term 'enemy.'"
Also, the words " ally of enemy" shall be deemed to
mean"(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of
individuals, of any nationality, resident within the territory (including that occupied by the military and naval
forces) of any nation which is an ally of a nation with
which the United States is at war, or resident outside the
United States and doing business within such territory,
and any corporation incorporated within such territory
of such ally nation, or incorporated within any country
other than the United States and doing business within
such territory.
"(b) The government of any nation which is an ally of
a nation with which the United States is at war, or any
political or municipal subdivision of such ally nation, or
any officer, official, agent, or agency thereof.
"(c) Such other individuals, or body or class of individuals, as may be natives, citizens, or subjects of any
nation which is an ally of a nation with which the United
States is at war, other than citizens of the United States,
wherever resident or wherever doing business, as the
President, if he shall find the safety of the United States
or the successful prosecution of the war shall so require,
may, by proclamation, include within the term 'ally of
enemy.'"
After prohibiting trade with, for or on account of any
enemy or ally of enemy, and making sundry provisions

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

465

Opinion of the Court.

for licenses, appointment of an Alien Property Custodian,
reports to him, etc., etc., the original act provided:
"Sec. 7(c). If the President shall so require, any money
or other property owing or belonging to or held for, by,
on account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of an
enemy or ally of enemy not holding a license granted by
the President hereunder, which the President after investigation shall determine is so owing or so belongs or
is so held, shall be conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to the Alien Property Custodian." I
"Sec. 9. That any person, not an enemy, or ally of
enemy, claiming any interest, right, or title in any money
or other property which may have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property
Custodian hereunder, and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States . . . may file with the said
custodian a notice of his claim under oath and in such
form and containing such particulars as the said custodian
shall require; and the President, if application is made
.therefor by the claimant, may, with the assent of the
owner of said property and of all persons claiming any
right, title, or interest therein, order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment or delivery to said claimant
of the money or other property so held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United States
"Whether the objection would be good if it turned entirely on
the words of § 7c, on which the plaintiff relies, we need not consider;
for they obviously are qualified and explained by § 5, which very
plainly enables the President to exercise his power under § 7c ' through
such officer or officers as he shall direct.' By the orders already
noticed the President directed that this power be exercised through
the Alien Property Custodian. It therefore is as if the words relied
on had been 'which the President, acting through the Alien Property Custodian, shall determine after investigation' is enemy-owned,
etc. In short, a personal determination by the President is not
required; he may act through the Custodian, and a determination by
the latter is in effect the act of the President." Stoehr v. Wallace,
255 U. S. 239, 244, 245.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

or of the interest therein to which the President shall
determine said claimant is entitled. .
If the President shall not so order within sixty days after the filing
of such application, or if the claimant shall have filed the
notice as above required and shall have made no application to the President, said claimant may, at any time
before the expiration of six months [enlarged to eighteen
months by the Act of December 21, 1921, c. 13, 42 Stat.
351] after the end of the war, institute a suit in equity
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia [Act
June 11, 1919, c. 6, 41 Stat. 35] or in the district court of
the United States for the district in which such claimant
resides, or, if a corporation, where it has its principal
place of business (to which suit the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States, as the case
may be, shall be made a party defendant), to establish
the interest, right, title, or debt so claimed."
Section 9 was materially amended by the Act of June
5, 1920, c. 241, 41 Stat. 977. The original section, quoted
above, was reenacted as subsection (a). It provides for
recovery when the seized property belonged to one not
an "enemy or ally of enemy "-where the taking was in
fact without warrant of law. Six subsections-(b), (c),
(d), (e), (f) and (g)-were added. Subsection (b) permits recovery by some within the definition of " enemy"
whose property had been lawfully seized. Each of its
eight numbered paragraphs includes such persons. Subsection (c) and those parts of subsection (b) here specially important follow. All of subsection (b) is printed
below.
2 Subsec.

(b) In respect of all money or other property conveyed,
transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States, if the President shall determine that the
owner thereof at the time such money or other property was required
to be so conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the
Alien Property Custodian or at the time when it was voluntarily
delivered to him or was seized by him was-

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

Opinion of the Court.

"See. 9, Subsec. (b) In respect of all money or other
property conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or
paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him
hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the
United States, if the President shall determine that the
owner thereof at the time such money or other property
was required to be so conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or at the
time when it was voluntarily delivered to him or was
seized by him was--.
"Par. (6) A partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of individuals outside the United States,
(1) A citizen or subject of any nation or State or free city other
than Germany or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary, and
is at the time of the return of such money or other property
hereunder a citizen or subject of any such nation or State or free
city; or
(2) A woman who at the time of her marriage was a subject or
citizen of a nation which has remained neutral in the war, or of a
nation which was associated with the United States in the prosecution of said war, and who prior to April 6, 1917, intermarried with
a subject or citizen of Germany or Austria-Hungary and that the
money or other property concerned was not acquired by such woman
either directly or indirectly from any subject or citizen of Germany
or Austria-Hungary; or
(3) A woman who at the time of her marriage was a citizen of
the United States (said citizenship having been acquired by birth
in the United States), and who prior to April 6, 1917, intermarried
with a subject or citizen of Germany or Austria-Hungary, and that
the money or other property concerned was not acquired by such
woman either directly or indirectly from any subject or citizen of
Germany or Austria-Hungary; or
(4) A citizen or subject of Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary and was, at the time of the severance of diplomatic relations between the United States and such nations, respectively, accredited to the United States as a diplomatic or consular officer of any such nation, or the wife or minor child of
such officer, and that the money or other property concerned was
within the territory of the United States by reason of the service
of such officer in such capacity; or

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

or a corporation incorporated within any country *other
than the United States, and was entirely owned at such
time by subjects or citizens of nations, States, or free
cities other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary and is so owned at the time of the return of its money or other property hereunder; . . ."
"Then the President, without any application being
made therefor, may order the payment, conveyance,
transfer, assignment, or delivery of such money or other
property held by the Alien Property Custodian or by
the Treasurer of the United States, or of the interest
therein to which the President shall determine such per(5) A citizen or subject of Germany or Austria-Hungary, who
by virtue of the provisions of sections 4067, 4068, 4069, and 4070
of the Revised Statutes, and of the proclamations and regulations
thereunder, was transferred, after arrest, into the custody of the
War Department of the United States for detention during the war
and is at the time of the return of his money or other property
hereunder living within the United States; or
(6) A partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of
individuals outside the United States, or a corporation incorporated
within any country other than the United States, and was entirely
owned at such time by subjects or citizens of nations, States, or
free cities other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or AustriaHungary and is so owned at the time of the return of its money
or other property hereunder; or
(7) The Government of Bulgaria or Turkey, or any political or
municipal subdivision thereof; or
(8) The Government of Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary, and that the money or other property concerned
was the diplomatic or consular property of such Government; or
(9) [Added by Act March 4, 1923.] An individual who was
at such time a citizen or subject of Germany, Austria, Hungary, or
Austria-Hungary, or who is not a citizen or subject of any nation,
State, or free city, and that such money or other property, or the
proceeds thereof, if the same has been converted, does not exceed
in value the sum of $10,000, or although exceeding in value the
sum of $10,000 is nevertheless susceptible of division, and the part
thereof to be returned hereunder does not exceed in value the sum
of $10,000: Provided, That an individual shall not be entitled, under

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

Opinion of the Court.

son entitled, either to the said owner or to the person
by whom said property was conveyed, transferred,
assigned, delivered, or paid over to the Alien Property
Custodian. . ....
Any person whose property the
"Subsec. (c)
President is authorized to return under the provisions of subsection (b) hereof may file notice of claim
for the return of such property, as provided in subsection (a) hereof, and thereafter may make application to
the President for allowance of such claim and/or may institute suit in equity to recover such property, as provided in said subsection, and with like effect. The Presithis paragraph, to the return of any money or other property owned
by a partnership, association, unincorporated body of individuals,
or corporation at the time it was conveyed, transferred, assigned,
delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian, or seized by
him hereunder; or
(10) [Added by Act March 4, 1923.] A partnership, association,
other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation, and that
it is not otherwise entitled to the return of its money or other property, or any part thereof, under this section, and that such money
or other property, or the proceeds thereof, if the same has been
converted, does not exceed in value the sum of $10,000, or although
exceeding in value the sum of $10,000, is nevertheless susceptible
of division, and the part thereof to be returned hereunder does
not exceed in value the sum of $10,000: Provided, That no insurance partnership, association, or corporation, against which any
claim or claims may be filed by any citizen of the United States
with the Alien Property Custodian within sixty days after the
time this paragraph takes effect, whether such claim appears to
be barred by the statute of limitations or not, shall be entitled
to avail itself of the provisions of this paragraph until such claim
or claims are satisfied; or
(11) [Added by Act March 4, 1923.] A partnership, association,
or other unincorporated body of individuals, having its principal
place of business within any country other than Germany, Austria,
Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, or a corporation, organized or incorporated within any country other than Germany, Austria, Hungary,
or Austria-Hungary, and that the control of, or more than 50 per
centum of the interests or voting power in, any such partnership,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

dent or the court, as the case may be, may make the same
determinations with respect to citizenship and other relevant facts that the President is authorized to make under
the provisions of subsection (b) hereof."
Section 9 was further amended by the Act of March
4, 1923, c. 285, 42 Stat. 1511, 1512, 1513, by adding to
subsection (b) three new paragraphs-9, 10 and 11.
Each of these empowers certain persons to recover property or funds held by the Alien Property Custodian
and is broad enough to include some always within
the general definition of "enemy."
Paragraph 11
follows"Subsec. b, par. (11) A partnership, association, or
other unincorporated body of individuals, having its principal place of business within any country other than
Germany, Austria, Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, or a
corporation, organized or incorporated within any country other than Germany, Austria, Hungary, or AustriaHungary, and that the control of, or more than 50 per
association, other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation,
was at such time, and is at the time of the return of any money
or other property, vested in citizens or subjects of nations, State4
or free cities other than Germany, Austria, Hungary, or AustriaHungary: Provided, however, That this subsection shall not affect
any rights which any citizen or subject may have under paragraph
(1) of this subsection;-Then the President, without any application being made therefor,
may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery of such money or other property held by the Alien Property
Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United States, or of the interest therein to which- the President shall determine such person
entitled, either to the said owner or to the person by whom said property was conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to
the Alien Property Custodian: . . . Provided further, however,
That except as herein provided no such action by the President
shall bar any person from the prosecution of any suit at law or in
equity to establish any right, title, or interest which he may have
therein.

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. MILLER.
457

Opinion of the Court.

centum of the interests or voting power in, any such
partnership, association, other unincorporated body of
individuals, or corporation, was at such time, and is at
the time of the return of any money or other property,
vested in citizens or subjects of nations, States, or free
cities other than Germany, Austria, Hungary, or AustriaHungary: Provided, however, That this subsection shall
not affect any rights which any citizen or subject may
have under paragraph (1) of this subsection."
Appellant maintains that it was never an enemy or
ally of enemy within the statutory definitions; that only
property of persons so described was properly subject to
seizure; and, as it was neither enemy nor ally of enemy,
the provisions of § 9, subsection (a) (always part of the
act) in plain terms permit it to recover unlawfully seized
property or the proceeds.
On the other side the insistence is that subsection (c)
of § 7 permitted seizure of appellant's property because
held "on account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit
of" stockholders, the majority of whom were enemy subjects of Germany. Further, that although appellant's
property may have been taken originally without authority, return of it is now impliedly prohibited by subsection (b) of § 9, as amended (Acts of 1920 aid 1923),
since this subsection applies. in terms to "all money or
other property conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered,
or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by
him hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of
the United States," whether taken lawfully or no. Paragraphs 6 and 11 are specially relied upon, and it is said
that they specify the only classes of corporations now
permitted to recover and do not include appellant.
We think subsection (a) of § 9 gives now, as the same
words gave from the first, the right of recovery to any
person never "an enemy or ally of enemy," within the
.statutory definitions. Stoehr v. Wallace, supra. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

contrary view, urged by appellees, would greatly qualify,
perhaps delete, this subsection, and would place the
United States in the unenviable position of positively refusing, after hostilities had ended, to give up property
which had been taken contrary to their own laws. It
would require very clear words to convince us that Congress intended any such thing.
Subsection (b) adds to those allowed to recover from
the first a considerable number always within the definition of "enemy" and affords to them the measure of
relief which Congress deemed proper long after peace
had been actually restored. And this accords with the
spirit of the provision in § 12--"After the end of the
war any claim of any enemy or of an ally of enemy to
any money or other property received and held by the
Alien Property Custodian or deposited in the United
States Treasury, shall be settled as Congress shall
direct."
Before its passage the original Trading with the Enemy
Act was considered in the light of difficulties certain to
follow disregard of corporate identity and efforts to fix
the status of corporations as enemy or not according to
the nationality of stockholders. These had been plainly
indicated by the diverse opinions in Daimler Co. v. Continental Tyre & Rubber Co., 2 A. C. [1916] 307, decided
June 30, 1916.
Section 7, subsection (c), was never intended, we think,
to empower the President to seize corporate property
merely because of enemy stockholders' interests therein.
Corporations are brought within the carefully framed
definitions (§ 2) of "enemy" and "ally of enemy" by
the words-"Any corporation incorporated within such
territory of any nation with which the United States is
at war [or any nation which is an ally of such nation]
or incorporated within any country other than the United
States and doing business within such territory." And

COMPAGNIE INTERNATIONALE v. MILLER.

473

Statement of the Case.

457

we find no adequate support for the suggestion that Congress authorized the taking of property of other corporations because one or more stockholders were enemis.
Logically carried out this view would have permitted the
seizure of all property of companies incorporated by any
associated power, e. g., Great Britain, solely because some
German held one share of the*many thousand. The
result indicates that the premise is bad. What the President might do was plainly set down in well considered
words.
The challenged decree must be reversed and the cause
will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
COMPAGNIE INTERNATIONALE DE PRODUITS
ALIMENTAIRES S. A. v. MILLER, AS ALIEN
PROPERTY CUSTODIAN OF THE UNITED
STATES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 412. Argued November 25, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
Decided upon the authority of Behn, Meyer & Co. v. Miller, ante,
p. 457.
54 App. D. C. 255, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District which dismissed, on motion, appellant's bill against the Alien Property Custodian and
the Treasurer of the United States, to recover the proceeds of certain stock belonging to the appellant, a neutral corporation, and which was seized by the Custodian
under color of the Trading with the Enemy Act.
19458*--25----34

