OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

to assume the liabilities of a supersedeas bond, but if the
defendant .took no steps to protect itself it might have
done so. The plaintiff was not bound to pursue the assignees of the stock before looking to the corporation.
St. Romes v. Levee Steam Cotton Press Co., 127 U. S.
614, 620. It is immaterial what were the' limits of the
plaintiff's original interest; he comes before this Court as
absolutely entitled to the stock and the preliminaries to
his acquiring the title have no bearing on the case. He
got it at a better bargain than he would have done had
his adversaries taken a different course, but he got it and
his right is not to be impugned. See Miller v. Doran,245
Ill. 200.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD dissent.

B. FERNANDEZ & BROS., SUCCESSORS, ET AL. v.
AYLLON Y OJEDA, IN HER OWN RIGHT AND
AS GUARDIAN AD LITEM, ETC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 82.

Argued October 16, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Special deference is to be paid to decisions of the Supreme Court
of Porto Rico which turn upon the local statutes and traditions
of the Island. P. 146.
2. A sale of land belonging to minors in Porto Rico made by their
testamentary tutor without recording his appointment in the
registry of tutorships, or giving the bond or taking the oath
required by law, but made under order of the local District Courthaving jurisdiction over the minors and the tutot, held a "just"
or "proper" title within the ten-year prescription law, as the
order was valid on its face and the purchasers were not obliged
to inquire behind it and had no actual notice of any defect. Id.
288 Fed. 28, reversed.

FERNANDEZ & BROS. v. OJEDA.
144

Opinion of the Court.

CERTiORARi to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a decree of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico
which upheld a title by prescription in a suit to set aside
a sale of land.
Mr. Philip N. Jones for B. Fernandez & Bros., petitioners.
Mr. Reeves T. Strickland, with whom Mr. Felix
Cordova-Davila,Mr. Paul J. Christian and Mr. Charles
T. Tittmann were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Frederick S. Tyler and Mr. Frank'Antonsanti, for
Hubadron, petitioner, submitted.
MR. JUSTIcE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to set aside a sale of land in Porto Rico
formerly belonging to the respondents, on the ground that
it purported to be made. by their testamentary tutor or
guardian, and that the sale was void because his appointment had not been recorded in the registry of tutorships,
and no bond had been given nor oath taken by him as
required by law. The defendants, the petitioners here,
relied upon a title by the ordinary prescription of ten
years possession under a just title and in good faith, the
sale to them having been made more than ten years before
this suit was begun. The sale took place under an order
of the local District Court having jurisdiction over the
minors and over the tutor, but the Circuit Court of Appeals overruling the Supreme Court of Porto Rico heldI
that this was not sufficient to constitute just title, seemingly being of opinion that the purchasers were chargeable
with notice that the record would have disclosed the failure of the guardian to satisfy what it regarded as conditions precedent to the exercise of his power. 288 Fed.
28, sub nom. Ayllon v. Gonzalez. A writ of certiorari was

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

granted by this Court. [263 U. S. 691.] Of course there
is no doubt of our jurisdiction upon certiorari although the
respondent seems to have been misled by some decisions
upon writs of error. Judicial Code, ยง 240. We shall assume without argument that the Circuit Court of Appeals
also was right in taking jurisdiction on the ground that
the value of the land exceeded five thousand dollars and
that the title to the land was in issue in this suit. Act of
January 28, 1915, c. 22, ยง 2; 38 Stat. 803, 804.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico turned
upon local statutes and local traditions. The caution to
be used before overruling such decisions was emphasized
in a recent case where the action of the Supreme Court
was open to greater doubt than here. Diaz v. Gonzalez,
261 U. S.102, 106. For here apart from the respect due
to the local judgment its reasoning commands our assent.
The question is whether the defendants held their possessions under a "just" or "proper " title as it is called
indifferently, within the meaning of the law that allows a
ten-year prescription in that case in place of the thirty
years for which a just title is not required. As remarked
by the Porto Rican Court a just title does not mean a
perfect title, as otherwise prescription would not be
needed. See United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Water
Power Co., 209 U. S.447, 450. If the title is good on its
face and the possessor under it has no notice of any extrinsic defect, it will found a good title in ten years. The
order of sale disclosed no defect, and the Supreme Court
held that as it issued from a Court having jurdiction over
'the minors and over the tutor, as we have said, the purchasers were not bound to look further. They had no
actual notice of the omissions of the tutor, and for the
purposes of a possession in good faith that would satisfy
the law. They were entitled to assume that all necessary
conditions had been fulfilled. We need not consider the
further intimation of the Court, also to be respected, that

DAVIS v. KENNEDY.
144

147

Statement of the Case.

the failure to register and to give bond did not make the
sale void.
Longpre v. Diaz, 237 U. S. 512, has no bearing on the
present case. There the conveyance assailed was made
with no semblance of authority, as the parties knew, and
it was held that persons holding under a conveyance that
was void upon the facts known to them could not be possessors in good faith, and that a judge of first instance had
no jurisdiction to validate the sale at a later date. Here
the judge had the jurisdiction that we have stated and an
order that on its face was a valid exercise of that jurisdiction furnished a proper title to one who believed the facts
to be as the order implied.
Judgment reversed.

DAVIS, AGENT, v. KENNEDY, ADMINISTRATRIX
OF KENNEDY, DECEASED.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.

No. 85. Argued October 17, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
Where a railway collision, killing an engineer, was directly due to
neglect of his personal duty not to move his train forward
without positively ascertaining that another train had passed,
the possibility that the accident might have been prevented but
for contributory negligence of other members of the crew in not
performing the look-oui duty devolving also upon them, will not
sustain an action by his representative against the carrier under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 148.

Reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Tennessee affirming a judgment for death by personal
injuries, recovered under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.

