342

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC & MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. FORMICA INSULATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102. Argued October 22, 23, 1924.-Decided December 8, 1924.
1. An assignment of a patent, or of the invention upon which a
patent is subsequently granted to the assignee, though not required to be under seal, works an estoppel as by deed, preventing
the assignor from denying the novelty and utility of the patented
invention when sued by the assignee for infringement. P. 348.
2. This estoppel, however,--distinct from any that might arise in
pais from special representation,--while it estops the assignor
from denying the validity of the claims, does not prevent him
from narrowing or qualifying their construction by showing the
state of the art. Pp. 350, 352.
3. The estoppel is applicable to claims added by an assignee and
allowed by the Patent Office after the assignment, which were
foreshadowed by the specifications sworn to by the assignor and
accompanying his application. P. 353.
4. But it will not be enlarged by a claim originally made by the
assignor but so manifestly invalid that it was promptly rejected
by the Patent Office as embracing the prior art. P. 354.
5. Patent No. 1,284,432, issued to the plaintiff as assignee of O'Conor,
covering a process of making composite electric insulation materials by coating sheets of fibrous material, such as cardboard,
with adhesive binders and subjecting them to heat and pressure,
applies, as between assignor and assignee, to nonplaniform articles (claims 11 and 12, added after assignment) but only where
the "two-step" procedure,--viz., application of heat and high
pressure to the superposed sheets and cooling them, and then
the baking of them under lower pressure,-is employed in the
manufacture. P. 353.
288 Fed 330, affirmed.

THIS is a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in a patent suit. The
Westinghouse Electric Company sued the Formica Coin-

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.
342

343

Statement of the Case.

pany charging it with infringement'of Claims 11 and 12
of Patent No. 1,284,432, issued November 12, 1918, to
the complainant as assignee, on an application of O'Conor
filed February 1, 1913. The patent covered a process
for making composite electric insulation materials using
paper, muslin, or other fibrous material. The fabric was
to be coated on one side with an adhesive liquid, such as
bakelite, a condensation product of phenol and formaldehyde. It was then dried by passing it over a series of
rollers in a steam-heated oven. The thickness of the
coating retained by the paper was regulated by varying
the distance between the two rollers and by altering the
viscosity of the liquid. The prepared paper was cut into
sheets of any desired size, and a plate built up to the required thickness by placing the sheets together, with the
untreated side of each sheet next to the treated side of
the adjacent sheet. The built-up plate was then placed
between thin sheet steel plates on which had been rubbed
a small amount of machine oil. Any desired number
of the steel plates carrying the sheets of paper were
placed between the platens .of a hydraulic press which
had been previously heated by steam. The press was
closed and pressure applied to as much as 800 pounds per
square inch. Steam heat was first applied and then a
cooling period followed. The period of pressure and
heat was varied in proportion to the thickness of the
plate according to a table set forth. The effect was firmly
to cement together the sheets of paper and further to
impregnate the paper with the bakelite. Thus the-plate
was transformed into a hard and compact mass. After
cooling, the plates of insulation were removed from the
press and clamped between steel plates to prevent warping during the baking. The plates were then placed in
ovens, with an air pressure of 140 pounds per square
inch, and the temperature regulated between 100 and
140 degrees centigrade. These conditions were main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

tained for approximately eight hours, when the plates
were removed from the oven and the finished product
allowed to cool. The specifications further said that,
while the process was used for plates, the material could
be similarly produced in the form of channel pieces or
tubes that were cylindrical or rectangular in cross section
or of other shape, as desired, by pressing in forms of
the proper shape. The resultant material had a specific
gravity of approximately 1.25, was practically nonabsorbent, even when soaked in hot water, and was insoluble.
The first ten claims subsequently allowed in the patent
referred to the so-called "two-step" process, namely,
first, the application of heat and pressure to the superposed sheets and cooling them, and second, the baking
of them under a lower pressure.
The 11th and 12th claims, however, were as follows:
"11. The process of manufacturing a non-planiform
article which consists in superposing a plurality of layers
of fibrous material associated with an adhesive substance
that is adapted to harden under the influence of heat and
pressure into a substantially infusible and insoluble condition, and molding the superposed layers by means of
a form of the proper shape while applying pressure and
heat to compact and harden the materials.
"12. The process of manufacturing a non-planiform
article which consists in superposing a plurality of layers
of fibrous material associated with a phenolic condensation product and molding the superposed layers by means
of a form of the proper shape while applying pressure
and heat to compact and harden the materials."
It will be observed that there is no express provision
or requirement in the 11th and 12th claims for the "twostep" process as an element. The defendant does not
use the two-step process but does make non-planiform
articles.
The defenses were that the two claims were invalid
for want of novelty, or if valid must be limited to the

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.

345

Statement of the Case.

342

two-step process. A second defense was that complainant had been guilty of laches estopping it from prosecuting the action, in that -it had known of the defendant's
manufacture of its composition and its large investment in
the business without objection for four years before the
claims Nos. 11 and 12 were secured by the defendant as
assignee from the Patent Office and did not sue for three
years thereafter.
In reply, the plaintiff urged that the defendant, being
in privity with O'Conor in the assignment and the infringement, was estopped to dispute the validity of the
11th and 12th claims construed according to the ordinary
meaning of their language, which, as it contended, did
not require the two-step process.
The District Court sustained the defense based on complainant's laches and dismissed the bill..
On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
defense of laches could not be sustained. Coming to consider the defense of estoppel, the Court held that on the
facts no estoppel arose as to the claims sued on, and,
proceeding then to the merits, found that claims 11 and
12 were invalid for lack of invention.
O'Conor was a mechanical engineer, and after graduation from college entered the employ of the Westinghouse Company at a small salary, with the understanding
that he was to be allowed to work in association with
experienced engineers and gain experience in the line of
his profession, and that inventions made by him when in
the company's employ were to become the property of
the company and to be assigned by him to it. O'Conor
made this invention and disclosed it by written description to the company, which thr'ough its legal department
prepared his application for a patent and an assignment,
both of which he executed, receiving the nominal consideration of one dollar. Thereafter, pending the appli19458°--25----26

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

cation for the patent, O'Conor left the company's employ
and associated himself in business with two others in the
manufacture of electric insulating material, in a partnership, which was thereafter organized into a corporation
known as the Formica Company, and its stock divided between the partners. From 1913 the partnership and succeeding company have been engaged in the manufacture
and sale of laminated products having a phenolic condensation binder. They have made non-planiform articles, as well as flat plates, openly and with the knowledge and acquiescence of the Westinghouse Company
from the beginning in 1913 down to the time this suit
was brought July 6, 1920.
When the application for the patent here in suit was
filed and was assigned to the company, there were no
claims based on a distinction between flat plates and nonplaniform articles. But the specifications signed by
O'Conor contained the following: "While the process
above described is that used for making plates, the insulating material may be produced in the form of channel
pieces or tubes that are cylindrical or rectangular in cross
section or of other shape, as desired, by pressing in forms
of the proper shape."
The art of making insulating material was well advanced when O'Conor entered it. A Haefely patent
owned by the Westinghouse Company, when O'Conor
began his experiments, was for a process for making a
hard material offering resistance to the electric current
out of paper covered with varnish, wound around a
mandrel and subjected to pressure and heat. The art
also showed a forming press by Haefely for pressure of
flat articles for such a purpose. There was a process
patent to Thomson for making insulating material by
applying to paper sheets an earthy or mineral substance
with binding material, piling such sheets together and
drying and heating the resulting mass. Baekeland had

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.
342

347

Counsel for Parties.

invented much in this art and all before O'Conor. One
of his discoveries was that of the "bakelite" Which
O'Conor suggests using in his process-a combination of
phenol and formaldehyde, a viscous fluid resisting the
electric current and attaining great hardness under heat
and pressure for use as a binder. Another patent of
Baekeland was for "a composite cardboard consisting of
superposed layers of paper or the like combined with
intermediate layers of an insoluble, infusible condensation
product of phenols and formaldehyde," in which he described his process as follows:
"I apply to the surface of any of the ordinary grades
of paper, or to asbestos paper or the like, a coating of a
liquid condensation product of phenols and formaldehyde
of such character that it is capable of transformation
under the action of heat into an insoluble and infusible
body. For this purpose I may use either a liquid condensation product of the character described, or a solution of the same in alcohol or other appropriate solvent.
This layer is permitted to dry somewhat, when a second
sheet of paper is superposed upon the first and similarly
treated; or the several layers may be coated and preferably dried before being superposed. The condensation
product may be applied to one or both sides of the
sheets. The desired number of sheets having been assembled, the composite article is compacted by pressure,
with or without the aid of heat. Heat is now applied
in order to effect the transformation of the condensation
product into an insoluble and infusible body."
Mr. John C. Kerr and Mr. Drury W. Cooper for petitioner.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney and Mr. John H. Lee, with
whom Mr. Win. H. Dyrenforth was on the brief, for
respondent.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. C mF JUSTICE TAFT

266 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The important qvestion in this case is the operation of
the principle of- stoppel on the character of defense to
which the assignor of a patented invention is limited in
a suit for infringement by the assignee. We may first
usefully consider the rule that should obtain where the
assignment is made after the issue of the patent, and
then the difference in the rule, if any, where the assignment was made before the granting of the patent.
Congress under its power to secure for limited times
to inventors the exclusive right to their discoveries, has
enacted laws conferring such an exclusive right by patent after an application with specification of the invention and claims therefor and a favorable decision by the
Commissioner of Patents. The patent of the exclusive
right against the public carries with it a presumption
of its validity. Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wall. 583;
Blanchard v. Putnam, 8 Wall. 420; Miller v. Eagle Mfg.
Co., 151 U. S. 186; Boyd v. Janesville Hay Tool Co., 158
U. S. 260. It is not conclusive but the presumption gives
the grant substance and value. By § 4898, Rev. Stats.,
every such patent or any interest therein shall be assignable in law by an instrument in writing, and the patentee
or his assigns or legal representatives may, in like manner, grant and convey an exclusive right under his patent to the whole or any specified part of the United
States. The section further provides that an assignment,
grant or conveyance shall be void as against any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee for a valuable consideration, without notice, unless it is recorded in the Patent
Office within three months from the date thereof. While
a seal is not required to make an assignment legal, Gottfried v. Miller, 104 U. S. 521, there seems to be no reason
why the principles of estoppel by deed should not apply
to assignment of a patent right in accordance with the

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.
342

349

Opinioft of the Court.

statute. Its purpose is to furnish written and recorded
evidence of title and to protect the purchaser of the title
as recorded for value without notice. It was manifestly
intended by Congress to surround the conveyance of patent property with safeguards resembling those usually attaching to that of land. This Court has recognized the
analogy between estates in land by estoppel and the right
to enjoy a patent right in the use of an article conveyed
by one without authority but who acquires it by subsequent conveyance. Gottfried v. Miller, 104 U. S. 521;
Littlefieldv. Perry, 21 Wall. 205.
There are no cases in this Court in which the application of the principle of estoppel as by deed to the conveyance or assignment of patent property has been fully
considered. But there are many in the reports of the
Circuit and District Court decisions and in those of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. They began as early as 1880
in Faulks v. Kamp, 3 Fed. 898, and were followed by
a myriad. The rule supported by them is that an assignor
of a patent right is estopped to attack the utility, novelty
or validity of a patented invention which he has assigned
or granted as against any one claiming the right under
his ,assignment or grant. As to the rest of the world, the
patent may have no efficacy and create no right of
monopoly; but the assignor can not be heard to question
the right of his assignee to exclude him from its use.
Curranv. Burdsall, 20 Fed. 835; Ball & Socket Fastener
Co. v. Ball Glove Fastening Co., 58 Fed. 818; Woodward
v. Boston Lasting Machine Co., 60 Fed. 283, 284; Babcock v. Clarkson, 63 Fed. 607; Noonan v. Chester Park
Athletic Co., 99 Fed. 90, 91. There are later cases in
nearly all the Circuit Courts of Appeal to the same point.
In view of the usual finality of patent decisions in the
Circuit Courts of Appeal, this Court will not now lightly
disturb a rule well settled by forty-five years of judicial
consideration and conclusion in those courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The analogy between estoppel in conveyances of land
and estoppel in assignments of a patent right is clear.
If one lawfully conveys to another a patented right to
exclude the public from the making, using and vending
of an invention, fair dealing should prevent him from
derogating from the title he has assigned, just as it estops
a grantor of a deed of land from impeaching the effect
of his solemn act as against his grantee. The grantor

purports to convey the right to exclude others, in
the one instance, from a defined tract of land, and
in the other, from a described and limited field of
the useful arts. The difference between the two cases
is only the practical one of fixing exactly what is the
subject matter conveyed. A tract of land is easily determined by survey. Not so the scope of a patent right
for an invention.
As between the owner of a patent and the public, the
scope of the right of exclusion granted is to be determined
in the light of the state of the art at the time of the
invention. Can the state of the art be shown in a suit
by the assignee of a patent against the assignor for infringement to narrow or qualify the construction of the
claims and relieve the assignor from the charge? The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
Siemens-Halske Electric Co. v. Duncan Electric Co., 142
Fed. 157, seems to exclude any consideration of evidence
of this kind for such a purpose. The same view is indicated in subsequent decisions of that court. Chicago &
Alton Ry. Co. v. PressedSteel Car Co., 243 Fed. 883, 887;
Foltz Smokeless Furnace Co. v. Eureka Smokeless Furnace Co., 256 Fed. 847. We think, however, that the
better rule, in view of the peculiar character of patent
property, is that the state of the art may be considered.
Otherwise the most satisfactory means of measuring the
extent of the grant the Government intended and which
the assignor assigned would be denied to the court in

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.
342

351

Opinion of the Court.

reaching a just conclusion. Of course, the state of the
art can not be used to destroy the patent and defeat the
grant, because the assignor is estopped to do this. But
the state of the art may be used to construe and narrow
the claims of the patent, conceding their validity. The
distinction may be a nice one but seems to be workable.
Such evidence might not be permissible in a case in which
the assignor made specific representations as to the scope
of the claims and their construction, inconsistent with
the state of the art, on the faith of which the assignee
purchased; but that would be a special instance of
estoppel by conduct. We are dealing only with the
estoppel of an assignment based on the specifications and
claims without special matter in pais.
Mr. Justice Lurton, when Circuit Judge, speaking for
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, in
Noonan v. Chester Park Athletic Co., 99 Fed. 90, 91,
used this language:
"It seems to be well settled that the assignor of a
patent is estopped from saying his patent is void for want
of novelty or utility, or because anticipated by prior inventions. But this estoppel, for manifest reasons, does
not prevent him from denying infringment. To determine such an issue, it. is admissible to show the state of
the art involved, that the court may see what the thing
was which was assigned, and thus determine the primary
or secondary character of the patent assigned, and the
extent to which the doctrine of equivalents may be invoked against an infringer. The court will not assume
against an assignor, and in favor of his assignee, anything more than that the invention presented a sufficient
degree of utility and novelty to justify the issuance of
the patent assigned, and will apply to the patent the
same rule of construction, with this limitation, which
would be applicable between the patentee and a
stranger."

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

And he cites the following cases as sustaining this
view:
Circuit Court of Appeals, First Circuit. Ball & Socket
Fastener Co. v. Ball Glove Fastening Co., 58 Fed. 818;
Babcock v. Clarkson, 63 Fed. 607; Martin Hill CashCarrier Co. v. Martin, 67 Fed. 786, 787. Since the
Noonan Case, the view thus announced has been approved in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second
Circuit in Standard Plunger Elevator Co. v. Stokes, 212
Fed. 941, 943; of the Third Circuit in Roessing-Ernst Co.
v. Coal & Coke By-Products Co., 219 Fed. 898, 899;
Piano Motors Corporationv. Motor Player Corporation,
282 Fed. 435, 437; of the Fourth Circuit in Leader Plow
Co. v. Bridgewater Plow Co., 237 Fed. 376, 377; of the
Sixth Circuit in Smith v. Ridgely, 103 Fed. 875; Babcock
& Wilcox Co. v. Toledo Boiler Works Co., 170 Fed. 81, 85;
United States Frumentum Co. v. Lauhoff, 216 Fed. 610;
Schiebel Toy & Novelty Co. v. Clark, 217 Fed. 760, 763;
of the Eighth Circuit in Moon-Hopkins Co. v. Dalton Co.,
236 Fed. 936, 937; and of the Ninth Circuit in Leather
Grille & Drapery Co. v. Christopherson,182 Fed. 817.
We have been speaking of the application of estoppel
in the assignment of patents after they have been granted
and their specifications and claims have been fixed. The
case before us, however, concerns assignment of an invention and an inchoate right to a patent therefor before
the granting of it which, after the assignment at the instance of the assignee, ripened into a patent. Section
4895 of the Revised Statutes authorizes the granting of
a patent to the assignee of the inventor. The assignment
must be first entered of record in the Patent Office, and in
all such cases the application must be made and the
specification sworn to by the inventor. It is apparent
that the scope of the right conveyed in such an assignment is much less certainly defined than that of a granted
patent, and the question of the extent of the estoppel

WESTINGHOUSE CO. v. FORMICA CO.
342

353

Opinion of the Court.

against the assignor of such an inchoate right is more
difficult to determine than in the case of a patent assigned after its granting. When the assignment is made
before patent, the claims are subject to change by curtailient or enlargement by the Patent Office with the
acquiescence or at the instance of the assignee, and the
extent of the claims to be allowed may ultimately include more than the assignor intended to claim. This
difference might justify the view that the range of relevant and competent evidence in fixing the limits of the
subsequent estoppel should be more liberal than in the
case of an assignment of a granted patent. How this
may be, we do not find it necessary to decide. We can
well be clear, however, that if it is proper to limit the
estoppel available for an assignee after patent as against
his assignor by reference to the state of the art, a fortiori
is such reference relevant where the estoppel is sought
by the assignee before patent. In the light of this conclusion, we must now turn to the facts to which it should
be applied.
The art which O'Conor entered was that of a composition of materials for insulating purposes, of leaves of
fibrous material like paper superposed one on another and
united by an adhesive binder coating the leaves, subjected
to heat and pressure and hardened into a compact mass
and rendered capable of high resistance to- the electric
current. In the specification of his patent he disclosed his
idea of the defect of the then art, which he proposed to
remedy by his process, as follows:
"Heretofore insulation material such as cardboard,
composed of layers of paper glued together, has proved
more or less unsatisfactory because of various defects,
such as absorption of moisture from the atmosphere, inability to resist heat and chemical action, and lack of
physical strength. Insulating material . . . must be
free from these defects, and, in addition, must possess
high dielectric strength."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

He proposed to achieve his purpose by use of paper or
cardboard, which was old for such purpose, by a binder
of bakelite or phenol and formaldehyde, also well known
for such use, by hydraulic pressure of 800 lbs. and steam
heat, followed by cooling and then by baking in an oven
at high heat and low pressure. There was indeed nothing new in O'Conor's invention but the two-step of pressure and heat, cooling and baking. If this two-step process was new, and the estoppel requires us to hold as
against O'Conor that it was, his assignee had a right to
claim the application of it as new, not only to flat articles
of composition but also to non-planiform articles as in
the 11th and 12th claims; for though O'Conor had not
made such a claim, his original specification foreshadowed
it as reasonable. In view of the art, however, it is very
clear that the 11th and 12th claims must be read to include as an essential element of the combination therein
claimed, the two-step process. Without this, there was
nothing new in them in the field to which they applied.
The 11th and 12th claims were made by the company
as assignee after O'Conor had left the company's employ
and were riot allowed until four years after O'Conor had
participated in the making of the composition herein
complained of, and for three years thereafter the company made no objection to his continuing the manufacture. But it is said, the assignee was entitled on
O'Conor's original specifications to base claims which
did not contain as an element the two-step process, because the 6th of his original claims was even broader than
the 11th and 12th claims as subsequently made and allowed. It was as follows: "The process of manufacturing insulating material which consists in superposing
layers of coated paper and applying heat and pressure
thereto." This was promptly rejected by the Patent
Office as it must have been in the then state of the art.
It was so absurdly broad and all-inclusive as almost to

IN RE EAST RIVER CO.
342

Syllabus.

indicate that it was made to be rejected. O'Conor's signature to such a claim under the circumstances of course
does not estop him when in fact it was not allowed; and
certainly should not be used to bolster up a broad construction of the 11th and 12th claims when, as we have
said, the state of the art must limit them.
We are clear then that the estoppel of the 11th and
12th claims against O'Conor does not extend to a single
step process such as he has participated in as partner,
stockholder or officer; and if it does not affect him, a
fortiori does it not affect the respondent company.
This result makes it unnecessary for us to consider the
objections that the .Formica Company is not affected by
an estoppel which would operate against O'Conor, or that
the alleged nominal character of the consideration moving
to O'Conor can not support an estoppel.
Decree affirmed.
IN THE MATTER OF PETITION OF EAST RIVER
TOWING CO., INC., FOR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF THE STEAMTUG EDWARD, HER
ENGINES, ETC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 81.

Argued November 25, 1924.--Decided December 8, 1924.

1. An action at law brought under § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act of June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988, to recover damages
for the death of a seaman from personal injuries suffered in the
course of his employment, is subject to the injunction provided
by Admiralty Rule 51 in aid of limitation of liability proceedings.
P. 366
2. The Merchant Marine Act, § 33, did not impliedly repeal the
statute regarding limitation of liability of shipowners (Rev. Stats.,
§§ 4283, et seq.,) so far as claims or suits based on personal injuries to, or death of, seamen are concerned. Id.

