298

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

them from being separately prosecuted, it must likewise
be deemed to tie together such several claims as one claim
for jurisdictional purposes, making their aggregate amount
the value of the matter in controversy. We conclude,
therefore, that, on the face of the bill, the District Court
had jurisdiction of the suit by reason of the diversity of
citizenship and the amount in controversy.
2. The jurisdiction thus acquired was not taken away
by ยง 265 of the Judicial Code, providing that, except in
bankruptcy cases, "the writ of injunction shall not be
granted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State." This section does not
deprive a district court of the jurisdiction otherwise conferred by the federal statutes, but merely goes to the question of equity in the particular bill; making it the duty of
the court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, to determine
whether the specific case presented is one in which relief
by injunction is prohibited by this section or may nevertheless be granted. Smith v. Apple, supra, p. 278.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INERENEIR.
IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Argued November 17, 1924-Decided November
18, 1924

1. A receiver appointed by this Court to conserve and operate private
oil wells as an incident to an interstate boundary suit, is not subject to a state occupation tax, laid on those who engage in producing oil, based on the market value of the oil produced. P. 301.
2. But where the net proceeds of such operations by the receiver
are in his hands ready to be paid over to the persons for whose

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
298

Opinion of the Court.

ultimate benefit the wells were operated, and many of these have
left the State or become insolvent during the receivership, so that
collection by other means would be attended by embarrassment
and loss, a timely petition of the State for payment of .such taxes
as taxes upon the several beneficiaries, from the respective funds so
derived and held by the receiver, may equitably be granted.
P. 302.
3. Texas held entitled to payment of unpaid taxes laid under Art.
7383, Rev. Civ. Stats. of Texas, as amended, out of net funds
derived by the receiver herein from his operation of private oil
wells in Texas, each well to be treated as a separate unit in computing the taxes and making the payments, the tax as to each
well to be computed on its full production during the receivership,
payment in each case to be limited to the net balance on hand. Id.
4. As between owners of wells and lessees, the amounts so paid for
taxes shall be charged against lessees. Id.
5. The petition of Texas for payment of additional taxes, under Laws
of 1917, c. 30, ยง 11, comes so late that it cannot equitably be
allowed, since to grant it would require readjustment of many of
the receiver's accounts, delay distribution of large funds in his
hands and be distinctly prejudicial to many claimants. Id.

PETiTI6N of the State of Texas that the receiver herein
be directed to pay the gross production tax due under Art.
7383, Rev. Civ. Stats. of Texas, as amended, upon the oil
produced in Texas during the receivership from wells in
the hands of the receiver; and also a like tax under Laws
of Texas, 1917, c. 30. See also, 265 U. S. 513, par. 4.
Mr. Thomas Watt Gregory and Mr. W. A. Keeling,
Attorney General of the State of Texas, with whom Mr.
G. Carroll Todd was on the brief, for Texas.
Mr. John Spalding Flannery for Frederic A. Delano,
receiver.
MR. JusTicE VAw DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
At the last term the State of Texas presented a petition
for an order requiring the receiver to pay, out of the pro-

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

ceeds from receivership wells found to be south of the interstate boundary, the gross-production tax which the
state law exacts of those who engage in producing crude
oil from wells within the State. On consideration of the
petition the Court issued to the receiver the instructions
which are set forth in paragraph 4 of the order of June 9,
last, 265 U. S. 513. The receiver collected the requisite
data and otherwise prepared to make payments of the
tax computed on so much of the oil produced from each
well as was represented by the proceeds actually impounded in his hands. But the State questioned that
mode of computation and insisted that the total production be taken as the basis of the computation; so the receiver withheld payment until the question could be
brought to the attention of the Court.
In other paragraphs of the order of June 9 the receiver
was instructed to make necessary preparations for closing
up the receivership, to have his books and accounts examined and audited by designated public acountants, to
surrender the oil wells to the rightful claimants, and to pay
the net proceeds remaining in his hands to the owners,
lessees, etc., entitled to them. There were pressing reasons why this work should go ahead and not be deferred
until the tax question was settled. The receiver accordingly set aside from the impounded proceeds from each
well, in so far as they were sufficient, the amount which
would be required to pay the tax in respect of that well in
the event the computation should be based on the full
production; and he then proceeded with the work. That
work is now far advanced, some of it being completed.
The receiver's books and accounts have been audited;
statements of the receipts and expenses pertaining to each
well, certified by the public acountants, have been transmitted to the several owners, lessees, etc.; the time
allotted for presenting objections has expired, and the
checks for the balances shown to be awaiting disburse-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
298

301

Opinion of the Court.

ment, after deducting the amount set aside for the grossproduction tax and a further sum to cover remaining receivership expenses, have been drawn and are ready, for
transmission, save in exceptional instances where conflicting claims need to be adjusted or determined.
The State now presents a supplemental petition asking
that the instructions given on the original petition be so
modified as to require that payments of the gross-production tax be computed on the full production, and also to
require payment of another tax not mentioned before.
The gross-production tax is prescribed by Article 7383
of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas and an amendment
adopted in 1923, c. 45, 2d Called Sess. It is denominated
an " occupation tax" and is laid on all who engage in producing crude oil from wells within the State. Up to
April 1, 1923, the tax was one and one-half per cent. of the
market value of the oil and since that date it has been two
per cent. The other tax is prescribed by ยง 11 of an act
passed in 1917 to regulate common-carrier pipe lines engaged in transporting crude oil, c. 30, Laws 1917. It is
laid on the same persons and in the same manner as the
gross-production tax and is to be used in paying salaries
and expenses incident to the enforcement of the pipe-line
regulations. The tax is one-twentieth of one per cent. of
the market value of the oil produced.
This is an interstate-boundary suit and has been entertained in virtue of the original jurisdiction which the Constitution confers on this Court in respect of controversies
between States. The appointment of the receiver and the
conduct of the receivership, like the other proceedings,
have been in virtue of that jurisdiction. In all that the receiver has done he has been the Court's agent and representative. In operating the oil wells in the area in dispute
he was not engaged in a business or pursuing an occupation in the ordinary acceptation of those terms, but as an
officer of the Court was conserving the property within

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

that area for the benefit of those to whom it ultimately
might prove to belong. The State recognizes that all this
is true, and so does not seek to subject the receiver to the
taxes described but only to have them paid out of the proceeds of the oil production which are in his hands and
ready to be paid over to those for whose ultimate benefit
the wells have been operated. In other words, the State
seeks, through the equitable aid of the Court, to have the
taxes paid out of these proceeds before they are turned
over to the beneficiaries on whom the taxes otherwise
would fall This aid is invoked on the ground that during the receivership many of the beneficiaries have become insolvent or left the State, so that the collection of
the taxes by other means would be attended with embarrassment, and in some instances be impossible.
As to the gross-production tax, we think the State is
equitably entitled to the relief sought, and that the
amounts to be paid should be computed on the full production. Sufficient money has been set aside, and the
payments can be made without material inconvenience or
appreciable interruption of other work. In a few instances the tax already has been paid by parties in interest; and of course it should not be paid again. There
are also instances where a part only of the proceeds was
impounded and the net balance in the receiver's hands is
not sufficient to pay the full tax. In such cases the payment necessarily will be limited to the net balance in
hand. Because of the difference in ownership each well
should be treated as a separate unit in computing the tax
and making the payments. As between owners and
lessees the amounts paid should be charged against the
lessees, on whom as between the two the tax would fall.
As to the other tax, we think the State's request should
be denied. It comes so late that the weight of equitable
considerations is against its allowance. To grant it would
require a readjustment of many of the receiver's accounts;

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
298

Order.

would delay the distribution of the proceeds, which in the
aggregate reach large figures, and would be distinctly
prejudicial to many claimants. Other objections to it
have been suggested, but they need not be considered.
An order will be entered in accordance with this opinion.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.

UNITED STATES,

INTERVENER.

IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Order entered November 18, 1924.

Order amending an earlier order (265 U. S. 513, par. 4) for payment
of a gross-production tax to Texas out of funds held by the receiver and denying the State's supplemental petition for payment
of another like tax.

On consideration of the supplemental petition of the
State of Texas for a modification of paragraph 4 of the
order of June 9, last, it is ordered that the petition be
denied in'so far as it relates to the tax prescribed in ยง 11
of the Texas statute of February 20, 1917, regulating pipe
lines,--the denial to be without prejudice to such right as
the State may have to collect this tax from persons other
than the receiver,-and that paragraph 4 of the said order
of June 9, last, relating to the payment of the gross-production tax prescribed by Article 7383 of the Revised
Civil Statutes of Texas, as amended by an Act of June 2,
1923, be so modified as to require (a) that the amounts to
be paid by the receiver be computed on the full production of each well, (b) that the payment in respect of any
well be not in excess of the net proceeds from that well
remaining in the receiver's hands, (c) that the payments
be only of such part of the tax as has not been paid by
parties in interest, and (d) -that as between owners and

