SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

217

berg, 205 Mass. 319, 326; Collyer & Co. v. Moulton, 9
R. I. 90, 92; McCreery v. Day, 119 N. Y. 1, 7; Dreifus,
Block & Co. v. Salvage Co., 194 Pa. St. 475, 486.
It is true that, after receiving the revised notice, appellant assumed to reserve its right "to recover all the profits
which it would have made had it been permitted to complete said contract." The recission of the contract in so
far as it was executory,-that is, in respect of the
142,000 magazines-however, had been consummated by
the government's acceptance of appellant's proposal. The
attempted reservation came too late. Either it was a
mere afterthought or there was a concealment of purpose,
on the part of appellant during the negotiations, amounting to bad faith. Whether the agreement was made reluctantly, or appellant got the worst of the bargain, are
matters unnecessary to be considered. It is enough that,
without fraud or coercion, it did agree.
Affirmed.
SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 66. Argued October 13, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The War Risk Insurance Act, as amended, commits to the Director
of the Veterans' Bureau the duty and authority of administering
its provisions and of deciding all questions arising under it. P. 225.
2. The decision of the Director upon a right to compensation claimed
under the act, is final and conclusive and not subject to judicial
review, at least unless the decision be wholly unsupported by
evidence, wholly dependent upon a question of law, or clearly
arbitrary or capricious. Id.
3. The act authorizes the Director to discontinue compensation which
he finds to have been erroneously awarded. P. 224.
4. Disability, to be compensable under the statute, must have resulted from injury or disease caused or aggravated in the line of

duty. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

5. Evidence tending to prove the unsoundness of the Director's determination of a matter properly submitted to his judgment, held
to fall far short of proving the determination arbitrary. P. 224.
285 Fed. 397, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing
an action brought against the United States under subdivision 20 of Jud. Code § 24, on a claim for compensation
under the War Risk Insurance Act, upon the ground that
the determination of the matter by the Director of the
Veterans' Bureau was final and not reviewable by the
courts.
Mr. Rowland W. Fixel for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for the United States.

MR. JUSTICE SuTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This writ of error brings here for determination the
question whether the United States may be sued under
subd. 20, § 24 of the Judicial Code, upon a claim for compensation arising under § 300 of the War Risk Insurance
Act, as amended by § 10, c. 104, 40 Stat. 609, 611, and
subsequent acts; and, if so, under what circumstances
such suit may be maintained. That section, so far as
necessary to be stated, provides that compensation shall
be paid to any enlisted man for a disability resulting from
personal injury suffered or disease contracted in the line
of duty when employed in active military service. The
statute fixes a scale of monthly payments, dependent upon
the extent of the disability. See § 11, c. 16, 41 Stat. 371,
373. The administration of the original act was committed to the Director of the War Insurance Bureau, § 13,
c. 105, 40 Stat. 399, and so remained until the creation
of the Veterans' Bureau by the Act of August 9, 1921, c.
57, 42 Stat. 147, when the authority was devolved upon

SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
221

Opinion of the Court.

the Director of that Bureau. The official, in each instance, was directed to administer, execute and enforce the
provisions of the act, with authority to make rules and
regulations not inconsistent therewith necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes and "decide all ques-

tions arising under this Act," except as otherwise provided
therein. See § 2 of the 1921 Act, 42 Stat. 148.

An examination of the original act and the various
amendatory acts fails to disclose, so far as this question
is concerned, any exception to or limitation upon the authority of the Director. There is no provision therein expressly granting the right to maintain any suit against the
United States in respect of claims for such compensation.
The original Act of 1917 and subsequent amendatory
acts conferred upon the Bureau the authority to revise an
award at any time, in accordance with the facts found,
and to end, diminish or increase compensation previously
awarded. § 305, c. 105, 40 Stat. 398, 407; § 19, c. 57, 42
Stat. 154.
The court below, after a very full review, dismissed the
petition, holding that it was the evident intention of Congress to confer upon the Director full and exclusive authority to decide all questions arising under the act, in
so far as they involved the exercise of executive duties and
required the determination of disputed questions of fact,
and to the extent indicated, to make his decision final and
not reviewable by the courts. 285 Fed. 397; 280 Fed. 917.
Plaintiff in error was in the military service as an enlisted man from December 9, 1917, until February 8, 1918,
when he was discharged on account of physical disability.
He was, at first, awarded compensation as for a total temporary disability, which was subsequently reduced to
twenty per cent. as for a temporary partial disability, § 11,
c. 16, 41 Stat. 371, 373, and finally taken away altogether
on and after March 18, 1921, on the ground that the disability had ceased to be compensable.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The petition alleged that the decision of the Director
was arbitrary, unjust and unlawful, constituted a usurpation of power, was "contrary to the proofs, if any," and
"contrary to the weight of evidence on file in petitioner's
case." The action of the Director was alleged to be arbitrary:
(1) Because after allowing compensation he discontinued it, although petitioner's physical condition had not
improved but had become worse, being.the same and resulting from the same causes for which compensation was
originally allowed. But this is to say only that the Director had changed his mind; and, for aught that appears,
that may have been based upon another and better view
of the facts. Ample authority for his action is found in
the provision already referred to, conferring power upon
the Bureau to revise an award at any time and to end,
diminish or increase the compensation.
(2) Because he allowed for temporary partialdisability
when the undisputed evidence as found showed that petitioner was temporarily totally disabled. But, as the
court below pointed out, it is not alleged that such evidence showed that such disability resulted from injury
or disease caused or aggravated "in the line of duty," as
provided by the statute.
(3) Because petitioner was suffering from disabilities
shown by entries in the Adjutant General's Office not to
exist at the time of his entering into the service, and
there was no cause therefor other than petitioner's military service; that it was admitted by the Veterans' Bureau
hospital authorities that since his discharge petitioner had
been suffering from disabilities incurred in the military
service, as evidenced by communications and letters attached to petition. These are all matters bearing, at most,
upon the soundness of the Director's determination upon
a matter properly submitted to his judgment, and fall far
short of establishing its arbitrary character.

SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
221

Opinion of the Court.

The general allegations of the petition that the Director's decision was arbitrary, unjust and unlawful, and a
usurpation of power, are merely legal conclusions.
Clearly, the petition does not present a case where the
facts are undisputed and the only conclusion properly to
be drawn is one favorable to petitioner, or where the law
was misconstrued, or where the action of the executive
officer was arbitrary or capricious.
We pass, without deciding, the question raised by the
contention of the Government that the claim is in fact for
a pension and, hence, expressly excluded from judicial
review by the terms of subd. 20, § 24, of the Judicial Code,
and that, in any event, it is for a mere gratuity for which
no suit can be maintained, even if the United States were
otherwise suable; since, in any view of the matter, we
conclude that no case is made for judicial intervention.
The statute which creates the asserted right, commits
to the Director of the Bureau the duty and authority of
administering its provisions and deciding all questions
arising under it; and in the light of the prior decisions of
this Court, we must hold that his decision of such questions is final and conclusive and not subject to judicial
review, at least unless .the decision is wholly unsupported
by the evidence, or is wholly dependent upon a question
of law or is seen to be clearly arbitrary or capricious.
Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108-110;
Medbury v. United States, 173 U. S. 492, 497-498; Ness
v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683, 691-692; Degge v. Hitchcock,
229 U. S. 162, 171; Int. Com. .Comm. v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; Int. Com. C.nnm. v. Louis.
& Nash. R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91.
Since it is not made to appear from the allegations of
the petition that any of these exceptional conditions exist,
the judgment of the District Court must be and it is
Affirmed.

