NASSAU SMELTING WORKS v. U. S.
94

101

Syllabus.

question of fact and an exercise of sound judicial discretion as to the just balance of convenience in granting or
withholding a temporary suspension of the operation of
a state law in the collection of taxes. This Court must
respect in the fullest degree the sensitiveness of Congress
in hedging about the sovereign power of taxation by the
States and precluding temporiry federal judicial interference with it save in clear cases. The present cases are
not of that character.
Affirmed.

NASSAU SMELTING & REFINING WORKS, LTD.
v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 37. Argued October 7, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The question whether- the District Court, having jurisdiction
under Jud. Code, § 24, of an action brought by the United States,
has statutory power to entertain counterclaims by the defendant
against the Government, involves the jurisdiction of the court as
a federal court. P. 105.
2. A decision, rejecting the counterclaims as not within jurisdiction
conferred by federal statute, is tflerefore reviewable here directly
under Jud. Code, § 238. Id.
3. The objection to a suit against the United States is fundamental,
whether it be in the form of original action, set-off or counterclaim,
and jurisdiction in either case does not exist without specific
congressional authority for it. P. 106.
4. Under the Dent Act, c. 94, §§ 1 and 2, 40 Stat. 1272, allowing
suits against the United States on certain kinds of agreements not
executed in the manner prescribed by law, jurisdiction of such
petitions was confined to the Court of Claims exclusively. Id.
5. A party in the District Court who unsuccessfully sought adjudication under the Dent Act on agreements alleged not to have been
executed in the manner required by law, was thereby precluded
on writ of error here, from the position that they should have been
adjudicated as contracts under Jud. Code, § 24, par. 20. P. 108.
Affirmed.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

266 U.S.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in an action

brought by the United States to recover sums due for
merchandise sold and delivered by it to the defendant.
The amended answer admitted the allegations of the
complaint and pleaded three separate and distinct set-offs
or counterclaims each in an amount less than $10,000,
for balances alleged to be due under agreements made
during the late war and before November 12, 1918, under
authority of the Secretary of War, for supplies used in
the prosecution of the war. It was alleged that the
Secretary had refused satisfactory- adjustment, and an
award by the District Court was prayed, to be set off
against the amount demanded by the United States, and,
in case of an excess in favor of the defendant, judgment
was prayed therefor. The trial court, on motion of the
Government, dismissed the set-offs or counterclaims and
granted judgment for the United States on the pleadings,
for the full amount of-its claim. Direct writ of error was
prosecuted under Jud. Code, § 238.
Mr. A. S. Gilbert, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Paragraph 20 of § 24, Jud. Code, comes from the socalled Tucker Act,-March 3, 1887, c. 359, § 2, 24 Stat.
505. The purpose of that act was to give to persons
having claims against the United States for comparatively small amounts the right to bring suits in the courts
of the United States in the districts where they and their
witnesses reside without subjecting them to the expense
and annoyance of litigating in a court located at Washington. New York S. S. Co. v. United States, 202 Fed.
311.
Unless jurisdiction be found in the Court of Claims, no
action can be maintained under the Tucker Act (par. 20,
§ 24, Jud. Code,) except in those cases where Congress
has expressly conferred jurisdiction on the District
Courts, as under the Lever Act.

NASSAU SMELTING WORKS v. U. S.
101

103

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Tho construction which we urge for § 2 of the Dent
Act in no way modifies the provisions of that section.
Where the claim is in excess of $10,000, it must be prosecuted in the Court of Claims. Where it is under $10,000,
it may be prosecuted either in the Court of Claims or in
the District Court.
All of the legislation referred to in the opinion in
United States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 547, created a right
to sue the United States where no right had theretofore
existed. In all of those instances it was the primary
purpose of Congress to permit a claim to be asserted.
Accepting, as we must, the decision of this Court in the
Pfitsch Case as finally settling the law that in cases involving claims under the Lever Act, the claims must be
asserted in the District Court and appeal must be from
the District Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, it
does not necessarily follow that that case is authority for
the contention that, when Congress permitted the assertion of a claim against the United States, which could not
theretofore have been asserted, and conferred jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims, to make an award, it thereupon
repealed, to that extent, par. 20, § 24, Jud. Code, a general
act conferring jurisdiction on the District Court concurrently with the Court of Claims in cases where the claim
asserted is less than $10,000.
The claims asserted by this plaintiff in error could not
have been asserted at all prior to the enactment of the
Dent Act. The contracts sued on by the plaintiff in error
had not been formally executed in accordance with the
statutes applicable to the execution of contracts by the
United States. If the Dent Act had never been enacted
and this plaintiff in error had asserted a claim either in
the Court of Claims or in the District Court, it would
have been met with the defense that the contracts had
not been executed pursuant to the authority conferred on
officers of the United States, and in the manner provided
by law.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

All that this legislation sought to do was to validate
these contracts, hedging this validation about, however,
by safeguards protecting the Government against improper claims. It in substance permitted the assertion
of claims against the United States on contracts informally executed which otherwise could not -have been
asserted.
The mere fact that in some instances the framers of
legislation had in mind claims of less than $10,000 as
well as claims of over $10,000 and have made specific
mention of the fact that claims under $10,000 might be
prosecuted in the District Courts under par. 20, § 24,
Jud. Code, does not necessarily indicate a purpose or
intent to compel all claimants under the Dent Act,
whether their claims be more or less than $10,000, to
have their claims adjudicated solely and exclusively in
the Court of Claims. There is no more reason for imposing a hardship on claimants against the United States
under the Dent Act than there is in the case of any other
claim against the United States.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the United States against the
Nassau Smelting & Refining Works in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York, to
recover $15,000, with interest at 6 per cent., for copper
bands and pig lead sold and delivered. By its amended
answer the defendant did not deny its obligation as
claimed, but set up, as counterclaims, balances due from
the United States to it of $6,023.81 for one delivery of
copper bands, another of $5,836.42, and a third of

NASSAU SMELTING WORKS v. U. S.
101

Opinion of the Court.

$2,576.09. The averment in the answer is, as to each of
these claims, that the agreement upon which the bands
were furnished was not executed in the manner prescribed
by law and so was embraced within the saving provisions
of § 1 of the Act approved March 2, 1919, entitled "An
Act To provide relief in cases of contracts connected with
the prosecution of the war, and for other purposes," and
known as the Dent Act (c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272). The
defendant's contention was that as each counterclaim
was for less than $10,000, subdivision 20 of § 24 of the
Judicial Code of the United States gave the District
Court jurisdiction to find and award, by way of counterclaims herein, a fair and just compensation to the defendant from the United States. The United States
moved for judgment on the pleadings for the full amount
claimed in the petition, without deduction of the counterclaims, and this motion was granted, the court holding it
had no jurisdiction of suits against the United States
under the Dent Act like those presented as counterclaims
herein, either as original actions or as set-offs or counterclaims. Judgment was accordingly entered on the complaint for the United States in the sum of $15,286.72.
Proceedings in error were prosecuted, and the circuit
judge, acting as a district judge, certified, conformably to
the Judicial Code, § 238, that the jurisdiction of the court
was in issue and that the order dismissing the set-offs or
counterclaims was based solely upon the ground that the
court had no jurisdiction to determine them.
It was suggested at the hearing in this Court that, as
there was unquestioned jurisdiction of the suit by the
United States, under the first paragraph of § 24 of the
Judicial Code, the case could not be brought directly from
the District Court to this Court on a certificate under
§ 238 of the Code as to the jurisdiction of the counterclaim. But we think that unquestioned jurisdiction over
the complaint does not prevent a certificate as to jurisdic19458o-25--.-i1

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tion of the new suit attempted in the form of a counterclaim. The question is not one as to the introduction of
counterclaims as a mere matter of procedure. The objection to a suit against the United States is fundamental,
whether it be in the form of an.original action or a set-off
or- a counterclaim. Jurisdiction in either case does not
exist unless there is specific congressional authority for it.
Nor is there doubt that the question is one which involves
the jurisdiction of the District Court as a federal court
under the statutes of the United States, for the jurisdiction of the District Court in this regard is wholly dependent on such statutes.
The second question is whether such counterclaims as
are averred in the answer are authorized by par. 20 of
§ 24 of the Judicial Code. That paragraph provides that
the District Court of the United States shall have jurisdiction, concurrent with the Court of Claims, of all claims
not exceeding ten thousand dollars founded upon the
Constitution of the United States or any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an Executive Department, or
upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated or
unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect to
which claims the party would be entitled to redress
against the United States, either in a court of law, equity,
or admiralty, if the United States were suable. It is
argued that these counterclaims are each less than
$10,000 in amount and are founded on a law of Congress
and upon a contract, express or implied, with the United
States and do not sound in tort, and therefore are within
the power of the District Court to enforce them. The
fatal objection to this argument is that these claims are
based exclusively on the Dent Act (March 2, 1919, c. 94,
40 Stat. 1272, 1273). This act was passed to allow the
Secretary of War to adjust and discharge any agreement
entered into by any officer or agent acting under his

NASSAU SMELTING WORKS v. U. S.
101

Opinion of the Court.

authority or that of the President, during the emergency
of the war, and prior to November 12, 1918, with any
person, firm or corporation for the production, manufacture or sale of equipment, materials, or supplies, or for
services connected with the prosecution of the war, when
the agreement had been performed in whole or in part,
or expenditures had been made or obligations incurred
upon the faith of the same by such person, firm or corporation prior to November 12th, and such agreement
had not been executed in the manner prescribed by law.
By § 2 of the act the Court of Claims is given jurisdiction,
on the petition of the claimant described in § 1 of the
act, to find and award fair and just compensation in such
cases, if the claimant is not willing to accept the compensation offered by the Secretary of War. There is no
other provision in the act for judicial action than this.
This must be held to be an exclusive jurisdiction conferred upon the Court of Claims. This was the view of
this Court as shown in United States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S.
547, 553. In that case all the statutes which had been
passed during the war, giving jurisdiction to various
courts of the United States for judicial settlement of
controversies with the Government, were considered and
commented on, and among the four instances in which
jurisdiction was said to be conferred only on the Court
of Claims was the Dent Act. It is true that the question
as to the operation of the Dent Act was not involved in
the case. But the opinion in throwing light upon the
effect of § 10 of the Lever Act (August 10, 1917, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276, 279), providing for suits in the District
Courts in controversies arising thereunder, made a careful
comparison of all the acts of the kind and a classification
of them. We see no reason to change our opinion as to
the construction of the Dent Act in this regard. The
defendant below placed itself squarely within the requirements of the Dent Act and sought adjudication of its

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
266 U. S.

Syllabus.

claims on the ground that the agreements under which
recovery was sought had not been executed in the manner prescribed by law. In this way it put itself outside
the field covered by par. 20 of § 24 of the Judicial Code,
and by its own admission limited itself to the remedy
possible under the Dent Act. It is unnecessary for us to
consider, therefore, whether, but for the Dent Act, it
might have brought suit under the general language contained in par. 20 of § 24. The effect of the Dent Act
was to limit it to the Court of Claims. The District
Court, therefore, was right in holding that it had no jurisdiction of the counterclaims and in giving judgment on
the pleadings for the Government.

Affirmed.

JAMES SHEWAN & SONS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 42. Argued October 7, 8, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
The Suits in Admiralty Act of 1920, c. 95, 41 Stat. 525, which was
intended to substitute an equivalent remedy against the United
States in personam for the right in rem against its merchant
vessels permitted by the Shipping Board Act of 1916, c. 451, 39
Stat. 728, provides, (§ 2) "That in cases where if such vessel
were privately owned or operated .

.

. a proceeding in admiralty

could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the
action herein provided for, a libel in personam may be brought
against the United States . .. , provided that such vessel is

employed as a merchant vessel. .. "
Held, construing the two acts together, that the proviso does not
mean that the vessel, being a merchant vessel, must be actively
employed as such when the action is commenced; and that where
a vessel was at all times previously engaged in the mercantile
trade, and so engaged when the cause of action arose, the mere
fact that she was laid up and out of use when the action in
personam began and thereafter, did not prevent its maintenance.
P. 110.

Reversed.

