TOD v. WALDMAN.
546

Counsel for Parties.

presented a report, with accompanying maps, showing
that they have run, located and marked upon the ground
the portion of the boundary along the Fort Augur Area,
that is to say, from the westerly end of the Big Bend Area
to a southerly extension of the west line of range sixteen
west in Oklahoma;
And it appearing from such report that the said commissioners have transmitted copies of such report, with
the accompanying maps, by registered mail to the
Attorney General of the United States, the Attorney
General of the State of Texas and the Attorney General
of the State of Oklahoma, and have lodged with the clerk
fifty additional copies of such report and maps for the
use of such private interveners as may apply for them;
It is ordered that the said report, with the accompanying maps, be received and filed by the clerk.
And it is further ordered that all objections or exceptions to such. report, if there be any such objections or
exceptions, shall be presented to the court or filed with
the clerk within a period of four weeks from this date;
and the period heretofore fixed for presenting or filing
such objections or *exceptions is limited and modified
accordingly.

TOD,

COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION,
WALDMAN ET AL.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 95. Petition for rehearing. Decided January 12, 1925.
MEMORANDUM on petition for rehearing, adding to di-

rections heretofore given in this case.

See ante, p. 1.13.

Mr. Max J. Kohler,'on the petition for rehearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By opinion handed down November 17, 1924, ante, 113,
this Court sustained the contention of the Commissioner
of Immigration that the respondents should not have been
discharged under the writ of habeas corpus as directed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, but agreed with that court
in its criticism of the action of the immigration authorities
in dealing with the respondents here, and made modifications and additions to the order of that court. Counsel
for the respondents in a petition for rehearing now ask
additional modifications. Of these, the Court deems it
proper to grant two.
1st. Nothing in the order of this Court shall prejudice
an application on behalf of Zenia Waldman to the discretion of the Secretary of Labor under ยง 21 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874, 891,
to accept satisfactory security against her becoming a
public charge and on its being furnished to admit her to
this country.
2nd. Nothing in the order of this Court shall prejudice
an application for release on bail of the respondents pending compliance with the mandate of this Court.

EBERT ET AL. v. POSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN.

No. 153.

Argued December 12, 1924-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. Subsections 2 and 3 of ยง 302 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil
Relief Act of March 8, 1918, as amended September 3, 1919,
which provide for stays of proceedings to foreclose mortgages
whether in court or in pais under powers of sale, are to be construed with ยง 101 (2), defining "period of military service," and

