SAVAGE ARMS CORP. v. UNITED STATES.

217

Opinion of the Court.

SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 13. Argued October 6, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
Claimant, having been requested to suspend operations as to a large

number of articles it was manufacturing under contract with the
Government, sought to confine the suspension to a smaller number, promising if this were done, to abandon and settle all claims
and disputes growing out of the contract; and, when the suspension
request was revised accordingly, accepted it, but with an attempted

reservation of its right to perform the contract and especially its
right to recover all th6 profits it would have made "if it had been
permitted to complete the contract."

Held, that, upon accept-

ance by the Government of the claimant's proposal, the contract
was rescinded. as proposed, the release by one party being sufficient consideration for relase by the other; and that the attempted
reservation of a right to recover anticipated profits on the articles
so eliminated came too late. P. 220.
57 Ct. Chms. 71, affirmed.

ApPAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for anticipated profits under a contract
to .supply magazines for machine guns to the United
States, which was in part suspended.
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, with whom Mr. John H. Iselin
and Mr.Frank F. Nesbit were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On April 30, 1918, appellant entered into a contract with
the United States by which, among other things, it agreed
to make and deliver 440,000 magazines for Lewis machine
19458°-25-----18

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

guns, for which the United States agreed to pay $4.24
each. After 24,347 of the magazines had been delivered,
the Chief of Ordnance requested appellant in the public
interest immediately to suspend operations under the contract to the extent of 298,000 magazines. Written notice
containing this request was sent to the Rochester District
Claims Board for delivery to appellant, to whom its purport was communicated by the Board. Thereupon, appellant entered into verbal negotiations with an official
of the Board with the result that an understanding was
arrived at between them to the effect that the requested
suspension should operate to the extent of 142,000 magazines instead of 298,000 as stated in the notice. The negotiations were exclusively with the Claims Board. No
reply was made by appellant to the Chief of Ordnance
and it does not appear that the Ordnance Office was informed of the arrangement until long afterwards. Appellant, following this arrangement, continued to deliver
magazines until May, 1919, at which time there had been
delivered 298,000, leaving undelivered 142,000, under the
terms of the original contract. Appellant thereafter
neither requested to be allowed to furnish nor attempted
to furnish this remaining number.
In addition to the contract for the magazines, appellant
had a large number of other. contracts with the government for furnishing various sorts of munitions and supplies and had numerous accounts relating thereto. It
was, therefore, anxious to close this contract on its books,
and, especially so, because there was some discussion going
on among the Ordnance officials in respect of the suspension request and a possibility that the change agreed
upon between the Board (which was without authority)
and the appellant might be challenged, and the magazines
in excess of 142,000 charged against appellant as having
been improvidently accepted and paid for. Appellant, accordingly, wrote to the Secretary of the Claims Board,

SAVAGE ARMS CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
217

219

Opinion of the Court.

asking him to immediately arrange with the proper officer
at Washington for a revised suspension request to terminate the contract in respect of the 142,000 undelivered
magazines only, and expressly promiing that, upon receipt of such request, appellant would "immediately accept it without making claim for any portion of the 142,000 magazines so suspended."
Appellant thereafter persistently and repeatedly urged
that the officials of the Ordnance Office revise the suspension request by an order authorizing the delivery of
the 298,000 magazines. Finally, on August 20, 1919, appellant again wrote, and, after referring to the fact that
142,000 magazines remained undelivered under the contract, said:
"As we have received and accepted no suspension request for this number, it will be appreciated if you will
have forthcoming suspension request for our acceptance in
termination of this contract.
"Some time ago we received verbal instruction of the
Rochester district office to discontinue the manufacture of
these magazines, as they were not wanted. So that there
will be no misunderstanding, we are anxious to receive and
accept suspension request, otherwise the contract will remain open on our books."
Following this letter, a verbal understanding was
reached between appellant and an officer representing the
government by which appellant agreed to abandon and
settle all claims, controversies and disputed points growing out of contract 48-A if the officer would secure a revision of the suspension request so as to allow the delivery of 298,000 magazines instead of 142,000. Thereupon,
a new suspension request was issued by direction of the
Chief of Ordnance, in consummation of this last agreement. Subsequently, appellant acknowledged receipt of
the revised request, saying that it had suspended work
in accordance therewith, "reserving, however, all its rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

against the United States Government. .
.
for
failure .
.
to perform all the provisions of the
contract known as No. C.M.G. 48-A and especially its
right to recover all the profits which it would have made
had it been permitted to complete said contract."
Thereafter, appellant several times inquired of the Chief
of Ordnance as to the intention of the government respecting the delivery of the remaining 142,000 magazines or the
payment of prospective profits on account of its refusal
to receive them, to which that officer replied that the
government would not accept delivery and that he was
not authorized to pay anticipated profits. Thereupon,
appellant brought this suit to recover its anticipated
profits.
The Court of Claims rendered judgment in favor of the
United States and dismissed the petition.
The bare recital of the facts practically disposes of the
case. From them, it appears that appellant not only
acceded to the elimination of 142,000 magazines from
the obligations of the contract but made persistent and
repeated efforts to secure from the Ordnance Office a
change in the original notice so as to include that number instead of 298,000, expressly agreeing that if this were
done it would abandon and settle all claims, controversies
and disputed points growing out of the contract. The
government, through its authorized officials, accepted this
proposal and the arrangement became fixed and binding.
A good deal is said by appellant to the effect that this
agreement was without consideration; but we need not
stop to review the contention. It is enough to say that
the parties to a contract may release themselves, in whole
or in part, from its obligations so far as they remain executory, by mutual agreement without fresh consideration.
The release of one is sufficient consideration for the release
of the other. If authority for a rule so elementary be
required, see, for example: Hanson & Parker v. Witten-

SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

217

berg, 205 Mass. 319, 326; Collyer & Co. v. Moulton, 9
R. I. 90, 92; McCreery v. Day, 119 N. Y. 1, 7; Dreifus,
Block & Co. v. Salvage Co., 194 Pa. St. 475, 486.
It is true that, after receiving the revised notice, appellant assumed to reserve its right "to recover all the profits
which it would have made had it been permitted to complete said contract." The recission of the contract in so
far as it was executory,-that is, in respect of the
142,000 magazines-however, had been consummated by
the government's acceptance of appellant's proposal. The
attempted reservation came too late. Either it was a
mere afterthought or there was a concealment of purpose,
on the part of appellant during the negotiations, amounting to bad faith. Whether the agreement was made reluctantly, or appellant got the worst of the bargain, are
matters unnecessary to be considered. It is enough that,
without fraud or coercion, it did agree.
Affirmed.
SILBERSCHEIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 66. Argued October 13, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The War Risk Insurance Act, as amended, commits to the Director
of the Veterans' Bureau the duty and authority of administering
its provisions and of deciding all questions arising under it. P. 225.
2. The decision of the Director upon a right to compensation claimed
under the act, is final and conclusive and not subject to judicial
review, at least unless the decision be wholly unsupported by
evidence, wholly dependent upon a question of law, or clearly
arbitrary or capricious. Id.
3. The act authorizes the Director to discontinue compensation which
he finds to have been erroneously awarded. P. 224.
4. Disability, to be compensable under the statute, must have resulted from injury or disease caused or aggravated in the line of

duty. Id.

