438

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

266 U. S.

THE DELAWARE AND HUDSON COMPANY ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 212. Argued November 19, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
1. A "tentative valuation" of a carrier's property made by the
Interstate Commerce Commission under § 19a of the Interstate
Commerce Act, as amended, is no more than an ex parte appraisement without probative effect. P. 448.
2. By the authorized "protest ," a carrier may offer objections to
anything done or omitted in respect of such tentative valuation
and secure the Commission's rulings before the valuation becomes
final. Id.
3. Where there is nothing to indicate that, in making such tentative
valuation, the Commission has wilfully disregarded the law, as
honestly interpreted, or failed to proceed in an orderly manner,
or that it will not consider and pass upon all matters set up in
a protest filed by the carrier before arriving at its final valuation,
a suit to annul the tentative valuation will not lie. Id.
295 Fed. 558, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
on motion, for want of equity, a suit to set aside a tentative valuation of the plaintiffs' railroad properties.
Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. Walter C. Noyes
was on the briefs, for appellants.
The order of March 28, 1923, does not comply with
the valuation Act.
Appellants' petition alleges, not merely omissions and
neglect to comply with the law, but numerous specific
refusals to do and to report the things which the law
specifies. These well-pleaded facts are admitted by the
motions to dismiss, filed by the United States and the
Commission. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 262,

DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. v. U. S.
438

Argument for Appellants.

263; Detroit United Ry. v. Detroit, 248 U. S. 429; Okla.
home Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290.
The Commission has, by its own admission, attempted
to exercise the "general power which the Act of Congress gave," i. e., the power to make a "tentative valuation," but, in the very act of doing so, has again committed the error of "disregarding the essential conditions imposed by Congress upon its exercise." Kansas
City So. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 252
U. S. 178.
Appellants are entitled to a lawful "tentative valuation" as the statutory foundation for further proceedings. in the statutory process.
More fully stated, the foregoing proposition amounts
to this: That (a) the term "tentative valuation " is
defined by § 19a; (b) the Commission cannot make anything a "tentative valuation" that departs substantially
from the statutory definition; (c) if the law is obeyed in
matters of form and substance, the preparation of the
"tentative valuation" is otherwise entirely controlled
by the Commission; (d) a lawful "tentative valuation"
marks the completion of an ex parte proceeding and
opens the door for an inter-party proceeding; (e) this
inter-party proceeding is, or may be, begun by a protest
and in it the "tentative valuation" imposes upon the
protestant the burden of proof to show that it ought to
be altered; (f) Congress intended that all protestants
(the public as well as the carrier may protest), should
have all the matters set forth in the statutory definition
of a "tentative valuation" for their protection in this
inter-party proceeding; and (g) appellants, having been
denied a lawful "tentative valuation," will be greatly
at disadvantage if the inter-party proceeding is allowed
to go forward before a lawful "tentative valuation has
been made, and they have had the full statutory opportunity to base a protest thereon. They have no means

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

266 U. S.

of enforcing their right to a lawful" tentative valuation"
save this proceeding.
Appellants consider that Congress intended to make
the "tentative valuation" prima facie evidence in the
subsequent proceedings leading to a "final valuation."
It is recognized that the term is not so applied in the
statute and the District Court concluded otherwise, holding that it is "without any probative effect per se."
Such, however, is clearly not the view of the Commission. Durham & South CarolinaR. R., 84 I. C. C. 313.
By the Valuation Act, the initiative in valuation was
placed-with the Commission, an initiative that ordinarily
carries with it the burden of affirmative proof. The
right to require this proof according to the ordinary
forms and rules of evidence was taken from the carriers,
and Congress sought to set up an equivalent in a meticulously defined "tentative valuation." The right to
have the other side prove its case is always a substantial
right, although the legislature may, when it does not
act unreasonably or arbitrarily, modify the rules of evidence, shift the burden of proof, make one fact prima
facie evidence of another and establish presumptions.
In the determination of "final valuations," in proceedings upon protests to "tentative valuations," the Commission consistently treats the latter as having evidentiary force beyond that ordinarily attributed to mere
prima facie evidence. [Numerous citations to reports
of the Commission.]
In fixing railway rates and other matters within its
authority, the Commission consistently treats its "tentative valuations," and even the inquiries of its Bureau
of Valuation that are preliminary to "tentative valuations," as having evidentiary weight. [Numerous citations to reports of the Commission.]
This is a suitable proceeding in which appellants are
entitled to relief against the order. 36 Stat. 539; 38 Stat.

DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. v. U. S.
438

Argument for Appellants.

219; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 254
U. S. 57; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union Pac.
R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541.
Power to make the order, power which must be found
within a statutory grant, is the question the courts must
determine. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Illinois Cent.
R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452:
The statute will be searched in vain in the effort to
find a grant of power to make a "tentative valuation"
departing so widely and in such fundamentally important particulars from the statutory definition. The authority granted is to comply with the statute, not to
deny and evade its basic principle, namely, that the
"tentative valuation" must comprehensively, and in the
lawful detail, inform all parties in interest, public and
corporate, of what they have to meet and overcome if
they are dissatisfied with its conclusions. Interstate
Commerce Comm. v.. Union Pac. R. R. Co., 222 U. S.
541; Southern Pac. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm.,
219 U. S. 433; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago,
etc. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88; United States v. New River
Co., 265 U. S. 533.
In several cases orders of the Commission have been
set aside because it has misconstrued the meaning of
such terms as "lateral branch line" and "reasonable and
satisfactory through route."
Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Delaware, etc. R. R. Co., 216 U. S. 531; United
States v. Baltimore, etc. R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 14; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 216
U. S. 538; Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211
U. S. 407.
Orders of the Commission may be set aside, when not
in accordance with the statutory grant of power, even
though those seeking relief were not parties to the proceedings before the Commission. Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Difenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Skinner & Eddy
19458°-25---32

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

266 U. S.

Co. v. United States, 249 U. S. 557; Hines Trustees v.
United States, 263. U. S. 143; Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 194 Fed. 449; Louisiana& Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 209 Fed. 244.
Appellants recognize that there are some orders of the
Commission which are exempt from judicial review.
United States v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 82;
Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282;
Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457.
Determination of value, under statutes of this character, is a function legislative in character. Keller v.
Potomac Electric Co., 261 U. S. 428; Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S. 258.
The real test, upon an application to enjoin or set aside
an order of the Commission, is whether granting the relief
sought would constitute an exercise by the court of any
administrative function that has been properly delegated
to the Commission.
The order now before this Court is a final order in
the sense that it establishes the only "tentative valuation" which the appellants can obtain from the Commission if it is treated as a "tentative valuation" and is
not set aside in this proceeding. And a "tentative valuation" is as final, as a "tentative valuation," and for
the purposes for which it is made, as any order of the
Commission can be. Prendergastv. New York Tel. Co.,
262 U. S. 43.
The order is affirmative. Intermountain Rate Cases,
234 U. S. 476. It constrains appellants either to let a
"tentative valuation," which in scarcely any particular
complies with the law, ripen into a final valuation, or to
proceed, in difficulty and darkness, to attack, a "valuation" as to essential elements of which they are not
advised.
It may be argued that appellants began this proceeding prematurely and that it was their duty to proceed

DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. v. U. S.
438

Argument for the United States.

upon the order, as though it were a lawful "tentative
valuation," thereby somewhat indefinitely postponing
their need of relief. The delay might be long and it
would certainly be injurious. Moreover, the opportunity
for a lawful "tentative valuation" would have been
allowed to pass and the proceedings subsequent to the
"tentative. valuation," which the law prescribes, would
have gone forward upon an injurious, irregular, and unlawful foundation. Parties are not required to submit to
such damage or to such delays. Oklahoma Gas Co. v.
Russell, 261 U. S. 290; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia,
262 U. S. 553.
Such a postponement might have forced appellants into
many successive situations in which they would have
been obliged repeatedly to seek relief in the courts.
Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm.,
252 U. S.178.
The extraordinary provisions of par. j of § 19a, limiting the method and scope of judicial review of any determination of "final value" under that section, suggest,
at least, that unless the "tentative valuation" can afford
the requisite opportunity for correcting errors of law
and abuses of discretion or power on the part of the Commission, the whole of § 19a may be unconstitutional and
void. Courts will construe acts of legislation in such a
way as to avoid constitutional defects and grave doubts
as to constitutionality. Keller v. Potomac Electric Co.,
261 U. S. 428; Bluefield Co. v. Public Service Comm.,
262 U. S.679.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
The tentative valuation is not justiciable.
If the petitioners may maintain the petition to strike
down the tentative valuation, other carriers may do likewise, ad infinitum, until all of the tentative valuations

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

have become the subject of equity proceedings in the
District Courts.
Also, if the equity proceedings are allowed as against
the tentative valuation, they would, if unsuccessful, undoubtedly be recommenced after the final valuation.
If the petition of appellants may be maintained, there
are (a.) the hearing on the petition in the court to enjoin
the tentative valuation; (b) the hearing on the protest
before the Commission; (c) the hearing on the second
petition in the court to enjoin the final valuation; (d)
the hearing on the evidence offered before the court in
judicial proceedings in which the final valuation shall
be prima facie evidence of value. Add to all of these
the right to file the petition for writ of mandamus,
Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm.,
252 U. S. 178, and we shall have at least five separate
proceedings, through which the carriers may contest the
work of the Commission under the Valuation Act which
does not meet with their approval. Obviously with such
unlimited judicial review the attempt at physical valuation by the Congress and the Commission will result in
utter failure.
The prima facie effect of the tentative and final valuations was deliberately adopted by the Congress after
full debate.
The tentative valuation deprives no carrier of a constitutional right.
It is enough that the carrier shall have the right to
protest the tentative valuation and to introduce new evidence as against a final valuation when the latter becomes relevant in court proceedings. If limited to that
right the carrier is not without due process of law.
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412; Mills
v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238 U. S. 473.
If the "tentative valuation" declared by the Commission is justiciable within the meaning of the Commerce

DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. v. U. S.
438

Opinion of the Court.

Court'Act, then the jurisdiction of the District Court is
exclusive. The provisions of the Commerce Court Act
and those of the Valuation Act for judicial review may
not stand together; one or the other must fall. Congress
did not intend any such conflict.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The facts pleaded are not sufficient to entitle petitioners to relief in equity.
The order of March 28, 1923, is simply an interlocutory order of the Commission, with which the Court
will not interfere under the circumstances disclosed by
the record in this case. Lane v. Mickadiet, 241 U. S. 201;
Interstate Cornmerce Comm. v. Humboldt S. S. Co., 224
U. S. 474.
The questions presented for determination by the petition are not covered by the general equity jurisdiction
of the court, because they are involved in and depend
upon the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282.
The petition does not show that appellants will suffer
legal injury or be harmed in any way if the relief asked
for by the petition is not granted.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNoLDs .delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants are proprietors of the railroads which make
up the system now operated by The Delaware and Hudson Company. Purporting to -proceed as required by
§ 19a, Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, (Acts of
March 1, 1913, c. 92, 37 Stat. 701; February 28, 1920,
c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 493; June 7, 1922, c. 210, 42 Stat. 624)
the Interstate Commerce Commission, on March 28, 1923,
declared tentative valuations of the properties which the
several companies owned June 30, 1916, and allowed
thirty days from April twelfth for protests.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Elaborate protests were duly presented. Befoe they
were acted upon appellants began this proceeding-June
13, 1923-wherein they claim that defects in the valuation order prevented them from adequately protecting
their rights by protests, and pray that it be annulled. The
petition states that the commission refused to investigate, ascertain and report many facts relative to values
as required by the statute; refused to investigate, ascertain and report concerning properties used by The Delaware and Hudson Company for purposes of a common
carrier; refused to apply to inventories prices existing and
current on June 30, 1916; omitted to report analyses of
the methods employed for ascertaining values, costs, etc.;
also omitted to investigate and report the amount of
working capital actually used for purposes of common
carriers.
Upon motion the petition was dismissed for want of
equity, and the matter is here by direct appeal.
Section 19a of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended, provides"(a) That the commission shall, as hereinafter provided, investigate, ascertain, and report the value of all
the property owned or used by every common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act ...
"(b) First. In such investigation said commission shall
ascertain and report in detail as to each piece of property, other than land, owned or used by said common
carrier for its purposes as a common carrier, the original
cost to date, the cost of reproduction new, the cost of reproduction less depreciation, and an analysis of the methods by which these several costs are obtained, and the
reason for their differences, if any. The commission shall
in like manner ascertain and report separately other values, and elements of value, if any, of the property of such
common carrier, and an analysis of the methods of valuation employed, and of the reasons for any differences

DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. v. U. S.
438

447

Opinion of the Court.

between any such value and each of the foregoing cost
values.
"Second. Such investigation and report shall state in
detail and separately from improvements the original
cost of all lands, rights of way, and terminals owned or
used for the purposes of a common carrier, and ascertained
as of the time of dedication to public use, and the present

value of the same..
"Third. Such investigation and report shall show separately the property held for purposes other than those of
a common carrier, and the original cost and present value
of the same, together with an analysis of the methods of
valuation employed ...
"(f) Upon the completion of the valuation herein provided for the commission shall thereafter in like manner
keep itself informed of all extensions and improvements
or other changes in the. condition and value of the property of all common carriers, and shall ascertain the value
thereof, and shall from time to time revise and correct
its valuations, showing such revision and correction classified and as a whole and separately in each of the several
States and Territories and the District of Columbia, which
valuations, both original and corrected, shall be tentative
valuations and shall be reported to Congress at the beginning of each regular session.
"(h) Whenever the commission shall have completed
the tentative valuation of the property of any common
carrier, as herein directed, and before such valuation shall
become final, the commission shall give notice by registered letter to the said carrier, the Attorney General of
the United States, the governor of any State in which
the property so valued is located, and to such additional
parties as the commission may prescribe, stating the
valuation placed upon the several classes of property of
said carrier, and shall allow thirty days in which to file

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

a protest of the same with the commission. If no protest
is filed within thirty days, said valuation shall become
final as of the date thereof.
"(i) If notice of protest is filed the commission shall
fix a time for hearing the same, and shall proceed as
promptly as may be to hear and consider any matter relative and material thereto which may be presented in
support of any such protest so filed as aforesaid. If after
hearing any protest of such tentative valuation under
the provisions of this Act the commission shall be of the
opinion that its valuation should not become final, it shall
make such changes as may be necessary, and shall issue
an order making such corrected tentative valuation final
as of the date thereof. All final valuations by the commission and the classification thereof shall be published
and shall be prima facie evidence of the value of the
property in all proceedings under the Act to regulate
commerce as of the date of the fixing thereof, and in all
judicial proceedings for the enforcement of the Act approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eightyseven, commonly known as 'the Act to regulate commerce,' and the various Acts amendatory thereof, and
in all judicial proceedings brought to enjoin, set aside,
annul, or suspend, in whole or in part, any order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission."
The "tentative valuation" of the statute is no more
than an ex parte appraisement without probative effect.
By the authorized "protest" the carrier may offer objections to anything done or omitted in respect thereof
and secure the commission's rulings before the valuation
becomes final. Prior to the present proceeding protests,
raising the very issues now tendered, had been made and
were awaiting action. There is nothing to indicate that
the commission wilfully disregarded the law as honestly interpreted or failed to proceed in an orderly manner, or that it will not consider and pass upon all the

ROBINS DRY DOCK CO. v. DAHL.
438

Statement of the Case.

matters set up in the protest and repeated here. Pending further action by it the tentative valuation will not
become final and no proceedings thereon can be taken.
Under the circumstances disclosed appellants must pursue the remedy provided by the statute and give the
Commission opportunity to take final action before they
can properly ask interposition by the courts.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.

ROBINS DRY DOCK & REPAIR COMPANY v.
DAHL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 316. Argued December 4, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
1. An injury suffered by a workman while repairing a completed
vessel afloat in navigable waters, and due to the negligence of
his employer, is a maritime tort. P. 457.
2. In such cases the rights and liabilities of the parties arise out
of and depend upon the maritime law and cannot be enlarged or
impaired by state statute. Id.
3. In an action based upon such an alleged maritime tort in a state
court, an instruction that the jury in deciding whether the employer was negligent might consider the provisions of a local law
regulating the duty of employers to furnish safe scaffolds, etc.,
for their employees, was manifestly erroneous and material. Id.
197 N. Y. S. 463; 202 N. Y. 922, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York entered on mandate of affirmance from the Appellate Division, in favor of Dahl in his action for damages
resulting from personal injuries received by him in the
course of his employment by the Dry Dock Company

