OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

280 U. S.

NEW JERSEY BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY v.
STATE BOARD OF TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS
OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 254. Argued November '25, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.
1. Whatever the terms used by the state legislature to impose a
tax or by the state courts in reference to it, the law cannot be
sustained if it operates to burden or regulate interstate business.
P. 346.
2. A New Jersey telephone company, all of whose line and other
property were within that State but part of whose business was
in interstate and foreign commerce, was not only taxed ad valorem
on its real and personal property, but was also subjected to a
"franchise tax" of 5% of that part of the gross receipts from all
of its business during the year, which bore the same proportion to
the whole as the length of its line in the public streets bore to
the length of its whole line.
Held that this exaction was not a charge or rental for use of
public property; nor was it a property tax on the company's
right to use the streets or on the value of its power of eminent
domain and possession of going concern and of a regulated monopoly; that it was neither a tax on property nor in lieu of a property
tax, but was a direct tax on gross receipts derived from interstate
and foreign commerce and as to that part at least was void under
the commerce clause. Pp. 347-349.
105 N. J. L. 641, reversed.

from a judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey which affirmed a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State, 105 N. J. L. 94, sustaining
on certiorari a tax assessment against the appellant.
'APPEAL

Mr. Thomias G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Charles M.
Bracelen, Frankland Briggs, Alfred E. Holcomb, and
Leonard A. Sweney were on the brief, for appellant.
It is well settled that this Court will determine for itself the nature of a tax which it is claimed conflicts with

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO. v. TAX BOARD.
338

339

Argument for Appellant.

the Federal Constitution. Galveston R. Co. v. Texas,
210 U. S. 217; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S.
292; Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,277 U. S. 389;
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts,279 U. S. 620.
The tax in question is not a substituted or commuted
property tax imposed in lieu of other property taxes,
but is a license tax, at a fixed rate of 5%, levied directly
on appellant's gross receipts derived from interstate as
well as intrastate business, and is in addition to the ordinary ad valorem taxes on appellant's real and personal
property. It is therefore a direct tax on gross receipts
derived from interstate commerce, and to that extent, an
invalid regulation of or burden upon such commerce.
Philadelphia& S. M. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.
326; Galveston R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Lyng v.
Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; LeLoup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.
640; McCall v. California,136 U. S. 104; Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Williams v.
Talladega, 226 U. S. 404; Hyman v. Hayes, 236 U. S.
178; Barret v. New York, 232 U. S. 14; Crew Levick Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 245 U; S. 292; Bowman v. Continental
Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Ozark Pipe Line v. Monier, 266
U. S. 555; Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.
203; Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688; Pullman
Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330; Sprout v. South Bend,
277 U. S. 163; Meyer v. Wells Fargo& Co., 223 U. S. 298.
Distinguishing U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.
335; Cudahy Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450.
Even if the tax can be deemed a property tax, it violates the commerce clause. The State may lay a property tax upon property used in interstate commerce
measured by a percentage of gross receipts from the use
of the property. But, if the receipts from interstate commerce are included, the tax will be sustained only upon
the theory and in the event that the earnings taken may
fairly be regarded as an index or measure of the value

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellee.

280 U. S.

of the property taxed, and that the tax imposed is in
lieu of and not greater than the ordinary property tax.
And if the tax measured by gross receipts is one in addition to the ordinary property tax, it is manifestly void.
Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330; Maine v.
Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217; U. S. Express Co. v.
Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335'; Cudahy Co. v. Minnesota, 246
U. S. 450; Northwestern Mut. Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247
U. S. 132; Galveston R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217;
Meyer v. Wells Fargo Co., 223 U. S. 298.
Mr. Duane E. Minard, Assistant Attorney General of
New Jersey, with whom Messrs. Win. A. Stevens, Attorney General, and John Solan were on the brief, for
appellee.
The tax imposes no burden upon interstate commerce
in violation of the commerce clause.
By the Act in question, the property of appellant is divided into two classes: (a) real and personal (tangible
property); (b) franchises (intangible property).
The real and personal, or tangible property, whether
located in the public streets or on private property, is
assessed locally in each municipality in the same manner
and at the same rates as all private property, and the tax
is paid to the municipality.
The real and personal property so assessed consists of
physical objects, and the amount of the assessment represents the true or intrinsic value of these naked elements
existing within the municipality.
The stipulated record expressly states that no intangible property was assessed locally and that all intangible
property is included in the tax in dispute.
Thus the Act substituted for previously existing forms
of taxation, two forms, as follows"
1. A tax on tangible property, both real and personal,
within the municipalities or taxing districts assessed
locally at the local rate fbp all private property.

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO. v. TAX BOARD.
338

341

Argument for Appellee.

2. A tax, measured by 5% of the gross receipts, to
cover all franchises or intangible property, such as:
(a) the franchise or privilege of being a corporation;
(b) the special franchise or privilege of occupying
streets and public places.
The Act expressly declares this tax to be in lieu of
all other franchise taxes, and that all payments to municipalities under previous special franchise agreements for
the use of streets shall be credited on the amount of the
tax assessed under this Act. It therefore clearly appears
that the Legislature expressly intended that the special
franchise to occupy and use the public streets, which is
a property right, should be taxed under this Act and
that the measure of the tax therein prescribed should include the tax thereon. It is clearly not an occupation
tax, since it is not measured by all of the gross receipts
of appellant.
This intangible property includes:
1. The right of eminent domain, which is not enjoyed
by the corporations which pay only a franchise tax' for
the privilege of being a corporation.
2. The right to tear up and occupy the public streets
by digging trenches to lay and repair conduits, or for the
erection and maintenance of poles and wires. These
structures become fixtures in and under the streets and
occupy a portion of the street to the exclusion of other
public use.
3. The benefit of the public policy of the-State of New
Jersey to have a regulated monopoly of its business
within the territory served.
4. The additional value of the naked, physical elements,
assembled and co-ordinated into a functioning institution
ready for and actually engaged in business, known as
"going concern value," which, though intangible, is neve.'theless substantial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellee.

280 U. S.

None of these four rights or benefits belongs to corporations organized under the general corporation act, which
pay a license tax solely for the privilege of existing in
.unity and perpetuity as a corporation. All of them are
bestowed by the State upon appellant solely in consideration of the taxes sought to be imposed by this Act.
It is true that the Act calls this a "franchise" tax, but
it is obviously not merely a " license" tax. It is more
than that. It is a tax on the property value of a special
franchise of privilege to enjoy all these benefits which
other corporations who pay only a "license" tax for the
mere privilege of being corporations do not enjoy. The
generic name given to the tax on intangible property is
to distinguish it from a tax on tangible property, rather
than an attempt to classify it for judicial purposes.
In Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, this Court
held that the tax there involved was a property tax, even
though the Act expressly called it a privilege tax. This
is not a tax upon the gross receipts. It is a tax, in lieu
of a direct property tax, upon substantial and valuable
property rights which may be sold or assigned for value.
In substance, there is no difference between a tax
measured by 5% of the gross receipts, on the intangible
property of appellant in the 8,403 miles of its line in the
streets and the tax at local rates on the 6,800 miles on
private right of way. Both carry interstate messages. If
interest on the cost of 8,403 miles of private right of
way, in place of the 8,403 miles now in the streets, was
included, the mileage in the streets would show a distinct pecuniary advantage over that on private right
of way.
The result is that instead of the method of taxation in
question being a burden upon interstate commerce (to
the extent, if any, that it may be indirectly affected
thereby,) it confers a benefit, or bounty, in actual dollars and cents, upon such commerce.

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO.'v. TAX BOARD.
338

343

Opinion of the Court.

Gross receipts in this case, as in many others which
this Court has considered, is the measure and not the
subject of the tax.
MR. JUSTICE

BUTLER delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
In 1928 appellee made an assessment against the appellant under a law of New Jersey known as the Voorhees
Franchise Tax Act. Appellant caused the assessment by
writ of certiorari to be brought to the supreme court of
the State and there insisted that as construed the statute
is repugnant to the Commerce Clause. That court held
the law valid, sustained the tax and dismissed the writ.
105 N. J. L. 94. And its judgment was affirmed in the
court of errors and appeals. 105 N. J. L. 641.
As stated in its title, the Act is one "for the taxation
of all the property and franchises of persons, copartnerships, associations or corporations [hereinafter referred to
as taxpayers] using or occupying public streets, highways,
" (hereinafter referred
roads or other public places
to as streets). 1 Section 1 provides that "all the property, real and personal, and franchises, of" taxpayers who
have the right to use or occupy streets shall be valued,
assessed and taxed as Provided in the Act. Section 2 directs that the respective assessors "shall each year ascertain the value df such property located in, upon or under
in each taxing district, and
any public street
the value of the property not so located; when so ascertained, all such property shall be assessed and taxed at
" And ยง 3
local rates, as now provided by law
requires the valuation-of all property located in streets
to be reported by districts to county boards and by them
to appellee.
1 p.L. 1900, p. 502, as amfiended by P. L. 1902, p. 476, P. L. 1917,
p. 42, P. L. 1918, p. 907, and P. L. 1927, p. 567.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Section 4 provides that all such taxpayers shall return
each year to appellee a statement showing the gross receipts of their business in the State for the calendar year
next preceding, and that " the franchise tax of such person, copartnership, association or corporation for business
so done in this State " shall be upon such proportion of
gross receipts as the length of the line or mains in the
streets bears to the length of the whole line or mains.
Section 5 prescribes the rate. It was 2 per cent. prior
to the amendment of 1917, but that Act increased it to
3 per cent. for 1918, to 4 per cent. for 1919 and to
5 per cent. for 1920 and each year thereafter.
Section 6 requires appellee to apportion the franchise
tax among the taxing districts on the basis of the locally
assessed value of the taxpayer's property in the streets
in each district to the total value of all its property so
located. The amounts so apportioned are collected as are
other taxes. Section 7 enacts that money paid to a tax
district pursuant to contract shall be considered a payment on account of the franchise tax imposed by the Act,
and ยง 8 declares that the franchise tax shall be in lieu of
all other franchise taxes assessed against such taxpayers
and their property.
Appellant is a corporation organized under the laws of
New Jersey and has long carried on a telephone business
there. All its lines and property are within that State.
October 1, 1927, it succeeded to the property and business in that State of the New York Telephone Company.
A supplementary Act approved March 27, 1928, required that company's gross receipts in New Jersey in
1927 to be included for the calculation of the franchise
tax assessed against appellant. P. L. 1928, p. 223. Each
company furnished intrastate telephone service in New
Jersey, and also had large receipts for transmission of
messages, passing over its lines in that State and other
companies' connecting lines,. between places in New Jer-

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO. v. TAX BOARD.
338-

345

Opinion of the Court.

sey and places in other States and countries. The service
so rendered in New Jersey- in respect of such interstate
and foreign commerce is for brevity called interstate business. Appellant's telephone plant in New Jersey included large amounts of real and personal property which
was assessed and taxed locally. The average of the local
rates in 1918 was 3.877 per cent.2 The record does not
disclose the assessed value of appellant's property.
The-gross receipts of both companies from business in.
New Jersey in 1927 was $40,280,332.95. Each received
from its interstate business in that State between 23 and
24 per cent. of its total. The New York Telephone Company had 10,829 miles of line in New Jersey of which
5,516 were in streets. And the appellant, after the acquisition of the property of the other company, had
15,203 miles, of which 8,403 were 'in streets. The franchise tax assessed in 1928, calculated as required by the
Act, amounted to $1,058,997.85. Appellant paid so much
of the tax as was based on its intrastate earnings. The
controversy in this case concerns only the 5 per cent. of
gross receipts derived from interstate commerce.
The court of errors and appeals rested its decision on the
reasons given by the supreme court. The latter declared
itself bound to follow a former decision (PhillipsburgR.
Co. v. Board of.Assessors, 82 N. J. L. 49) which, construing
a like statute taxing street railways, held that the tax
was not levied on gross receipts or business but was
"merely an excise tax," measured in. part by gross earnings, on its franchise to exist as a corporation and its
franchise to occupy the streets and that it was not repug-.
nant to the Commerce Clause. Dealing with the tax
here involved, the court held it is a tax on property,
"earnings being taken merely as a measure of.the value
of the franchise of the prosecutor."
2-Fitzgerald's

Legislative Manual, N. J. 1929,p. 293.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court

280 U. S.

Appellant contends that the exaction is a license tax
levied directly on gross receipts from interstate as well
as intrastate commerce in addition to ad valorem taxes
upon its real and personal property and that therefore the
Act is repugnant to the Commerce Clause.
Appellee insists that the franchise is intangible property which includes power of eminent domain, right to
occupy the streets, going concern value and the benefit
of the state policy to have a regulated monopoly. It
-alludes to Art. IV, ยง VII, par. 12, of the state constitution: " Property shall be assessed for taxes under general laws and by uniform rules according to its true
value"; and argues that, by using gross receipts as a
measure of value of the property right, a uniform system
of taxation at a true value is attained; that the franchise
tax is not upon business, commerce or gross receipts as
such.
It is elementary that a State may tax property used
to carry on interstate commerce. But, as the Constitution vests exclusively in the Congress power to regulate
interstate and foreign commerce, a State may not tax,
burden or interfere with such commerce or tax as such
gross earnings derived therefrom or impose a license fee
or other burden, upon the occupation or the privilege of
carrying on such commerce, whatever may be the instrumentalities or means employed to that end. Pullman
Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330, 3S, and cases cited.
Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 171. This tax cannot be sustained if it is not upon the property but is in
fact a tax upon appellant's gross receipts from interstate
and foreign commerce or a license fee to be computed
thereon.
The language of the Act and the decisions of the courts
of the State are to be given consideration in determining
the actual operation and effect of the tax. But neither
is necessarily decisive, for, whatever the terms used by

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO. v. TAX BOARD.
338

347

Opinion of the Court.

the legislature to impose the tax or by the courts in reference to it, the law cannot be sustained if it operates
to burden or regulate interstate business. Galveston,
H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227. Quaker
City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389, 401. Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 625.
The franchise tax upon gross earnings does not purport to be and is not claimed as a charge or rental for the
use of property belonging to the State or any of its subdivisions. Indeed the appellee insists, and rightly so,
that the right to construct,'maintain and use mains and
lines in streets is property owned by appellant; and it
argues that the percentage of gross earnings exacted is a
tax on that property right. Clearly the State, when passing the Act making the assessment, acted, not as a proprietor demanding compensation for the use of its property, but as sovereign imposing a tax for the support of
government. Cf. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 148 U. S. 92, 97.
In the title and throughout the Act the distinction is
made between the tax on property and the franchise tax
on gross receipts. The levying provision (ยง 5) defines the
exaction as a "franchise tax upon the annual gross
receipts" and elsewhere in the Act it is referred to briefly
as " franchise tax." All real and personal property is
required to be taxed by districts at local rates according to value; the franchise tax is a percentage of gross
receipts; and it is declared to be in lieu, not of any
property tax, but of all other franchise taxes.
And, as under the state constitution property is required to be assessed by uniform rules according to its
true value, the legislature may not reasonably be deemed
to have intended direct valuation and assessment of some
of the property at local rates and the measurement of the
value of other elements of the plant by percentage of
gross earnings increasing on a sliding scale from 2 per cent.
in 1917 to 5 per cent. in 1920 and thereafter. North

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Jersey Street R. Co. v. Jersey City (Supreme Court)
73 N. J. L. 481; (Court of Errors and Appeals) 74
N. J. L. 761.
,-While the ground on which the supreme court put its
decision in this case does not clearly appear, it is certain
that in a number of earlier decisions, the first of which
was in 1906, the franchise tax upon gross earnings was
held by the courts of the State to be a license fee tax qnd
not a property tax. North Jersey Street R. Co. v. Jersey
City, supra. Bergen Aqueduct Co. v. State Board, 95
N. J. L. 486. Eastern Penna. Power Co. v. State Board,
103 N. J. L, 281. And see Phillipsburg R. Co. v. Board
of Assessors, supra. There is no decision to the contrary unless it is this case. Moreover, the preservation
of the distinction between the tax on property and the
franchise tax on gross receipts in amendatory Acts passed
after the highest court of the' State held the latter to be
a license fee strongly suggests that the legislature intended the meaning of the Act to be as construed.
And the prescribed basis of apportionment of gross
earnings is clearly inconsistent with the taxation according to its true value of appellant's right to use the street
for its lines. The telephone property used to render the
service from which the earnings are derived includes the
lands, buildings, equipment, etc., as well as its lines; and
material and labor for operation and maintenance are also
required. The assumption underlying the prescribed
rule is that, in respect of service and earnings per mile,
inains and lines in streets are the same as, or fairly comparable with, the other mains and lines. But it is well
known that one stretch of line may consist of only a pair
of wires while another stretch may carry many. The
property in the streets was directly taxed by districts at
$41,189,804.00. Assuming, as appellee contends, . that
these assessments did not include the value of appellant's
right to use streets, it would be without rational basis and

NEW JERSEY TEL. CO. v. TAX BOARD.
338

HOLAIES,

349

J., dissenting.

arbitrary to use a, mileage proportion of gross earnings to
measure the value of the privilege or easement in question. And the amount of the franchise tax upon gross
earnings was the equivalent of a tax at the average rate
on property of value in excess of $27,000,000. That
would assign to the naked right to use streets for telephone mains and lines more than $3200 per mile. There
has been called to our attention no precedent for the use
of gross earnings as a measure of the value of a single
element of such a plant. The elements of value resulting
from appellant's power of eminent domain and possession
of going concern and of a regulated monopoly cannot reasonably be deemed to be the sole or even a distinct source
of the gross earnings by which the tax is measured. We
think it very plain that the exaction is not a tax on property nor in substitution for or in lieu of a property tax.
Within the rule heretofore applied in this Court the
exaction is a direct tax on gross receipts derived from
appellant's interstate commerce and, as to that part at
least, is void. Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 336, 345. Galveston, H. & S. A. R.
Co. v. Texas, supra, 227. Meyer v. Vells, Fargo & Co.,
223 U. S. 298. U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.
335. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania., 245 U. S. 292,
295, 297. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S.
450. U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 329.
Pullman Co. v. Richardson, supra.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.JUSTICE HOLXIES, dissenting.

The appellant, a New Jersey corporation, has a part of
its lines in and over New Jersey roads and other public
places, and transmits over them messages to places both

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

within the State and outside. For allowing this privilege
the State charges a price in the form of a tax of five per
cent. on such proportion of the gross receipts from all the
work done in the State as the lines in the public places
bear to the total lines in the State. There are no lines
outside. The lines in public places are more than half
the total lines. The interstate business is less than a third
of the intrastate. I think the tax constitutional. I call
it the price for a privilege, because that is what the Courts
of the State pronounce it to be, North Jersey Street R. Co.
v. Jersey City, 73 N. J. L. 481, 484; 74 N. J. L. 761, 763,
765, because on the statutes I think it plainly to be such,
and because a statute must be assumed to rest on any..and
every ground that will support it, except so far as excluded
by specific facts.
What then is to hinder New Jersey from charging a
reasonable price for something that the appellant cannot
have without her consent? It is said that the hindrance
lies in the fact that a part of the burden falls on interstate
commerce. I am content to assume that if the State were
attempting to discriminate against such commerce and
using its right as a disguise, the attempt would fail. A
right specifically protected by the Constitution may become a wrong when used to carry out an unlawful scheme.
But there is nothing of that sort here. The tax is in lieu of
all other taxes on intangible property, which the privilege
is held to be in New Jersey. The reference to gross earnings to ascertain the value i3 legitimate. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450. The proportion is
prima facie reasonable, especially in view of the proportions between the lengths of the lines and between state
and interstate business. It fairly may be supposed that
the lines over the streets do their full share of the work.
Furthermore, the only objections to the tax raised in the
record by the appellants are objections to the tax as a
whole in so far as it may touch receipts from interstate

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
338

Syllabus.

business, not to the proportion adopted. And so I think
that the incidence of a part of the tax on interstate commerce, if any such there be, "does not constitute a direct
and material burden " upon it. Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610, 622; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335.
I do not think names of any importance in this case, and
do not discuss whether the tax is to be called a property
tax upon an easement, a, franchise tax upon an incorporeal hereditament as it is called in New Jersey, a license
tax, or by some other title. If the statute fixes a price
for what the appellant needs the State's permission to use,
I think it within New Jersey's constitutional power.
"Even interstate commerce must pay its way." Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S.252, 259.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS agrees with this opinion..

GRANT, RECEIVER OF THE STRUTHERS FURNACE COMPANY, v. A. B. LEACH & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 9.

Argued Apiil11, 12, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. An allegation in a bill in a federal court, by a receiver, that the
suit was brought by authority of the state court which appointed
him, is put in issue uhder the 30th Equity Rule by an allegation
in the answer that the defendant has no knowledge or information
as to the authority granted the plaintiff in that regard and therefore neither admits nor denies the allegation, but requires the
plaintiff to make strict proof thereof. P. 357.
2. The Court of Common Pleas of Ohio appointed a receiver of all
the property of a local corporation; in two suits, (1) a suit by a
mortgage trustee seeking to satisfy the company's defaulted bonds
by foreclosure of the mortgage, and praying for a receiver to take

