OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Comm. 492; 2 Kent, Comm. 233. In buying and
paying for this stock, and having it placed on the
books of the bank, the defendant acted'for himself;
in having it 'placed, there in the names of his children, as
with their assent, he assumed toact for them. As they
could not themselves so assent as to be bound to the liabilities of a shareholder, they could not so authorize him
to assent for them as to bind them. To the extent that
'they could not be bound he acted without legal authority,
and bound only himself. Story, Ag. § 280."
There is nomerit in the point, made in argument, that
Richardson 'was a trustee for the minors, even if that
would enable him to avoid personal liability, Johnson v.
Laflin; 5 Dillo0 :65, 82; and there is nothing certified by
the court below. which furnishes a basis for the suggestion.
Richardson, having bought with his own money, became
the owner of the stock. And although the purchase was
made with the intent of giving the stock to his children,
non constat that he would not change his mind, as he was
perfectly free to do. The new certificates simply were
issued and registered in the names of the children, and
this,5 if effective, would have, resulted only in consummating an ordinary gift. It no more created a trust
than if the donees had been persons sui ju-is. The question'must be answered in the affirmative.
It is so ordered.

WHITE

1T AL.

v: SPARKILL REALTY CORPORATION ET AL.'

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 336; Argued January 7, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. A suit in equity for an injunction to eject state officials from.land,
of which they have taken exclusive possession under claim of
right pursuant to a state expropriation statute, will not lie in 4

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
500

Argument for Appellants.

federal district court, even though the validity of the statute under
the federal -Constitution be challenged by the bill. The remedy
at law is adequate. P. 510.
2. Section 274a of the Judicial Code (U.S.C., Title 28, § 397) and
Equity Rule 22, providing for transfer to the law side of the court
of actions at law erroneously begun as suits in equity, refer only
to cases of which The court would have jurisdiction if they were
brought on the law side; and if the case be one which, if brought
as an action at law, would not be within the jurisdiction of the
federal court, then the bill must be dismissed, but without prejudice
to an action in a court of competent jurisdiction. P. 512.
3. in the absence of diversity of citizenship, the- federal district
court has no jurisdiction of an action in ejectment, if the complaint, confined to an orderly statement of the cause, of action,
without anticipating possible defences, does not present a case
arising under the Constitution, or a treaty or law, of the United
States. P. 512.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges
granting an interlocutory injunction against the appellants to restrain them from continuing in possession of
certain real property.

Mr. Walter H. Pollak, with whom James Gibson, Second Assistant Attorney General of New York, Carl S.
Stern and Ruth I. Wilson were on the brief, for appellants.
I. -That the pledge of the general credit of the Stage
assures just compensation and satisfies the constitutional
requirement of due process has been decided so often by
this Court that -a contention to the contrary does not raise
a substantial federal question..
II. Every provision of the New York constitution and
statutes that the court below took as a reason for rejecting the principle settled by this Court, is in reality but
an additional reason for applying that principle.
III. Appellees' objections to being compensated out
of moneys authorized by the people in 1924, appropriated
by the Legislature in 1926 and reappropriated in 1928,

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants..

280 U. S

are without color of merit. It cannot be assumed that
the New York Courts would sustain them and they cannot be made to serve as a basis for the jurisdiction of the
federal courts.
IV. Appellees are not injured by having their compensation paid out of funds derived from the bond issue of
1924. They are therefore without standing to raise the
questions of New York law on which they predicate their
so-called federal question.
V. The bill of complaint does not even allege the facts
necessary to present the unsubstantial question of due
process upon which jurisdiction was invoked. It fails
to show that the funds available for appellees' compensation at the time of the entry and appropriation were even
upon appellees' own theory inadequate. Nor does it show
any obstacle to the use of moneys derived from the bond
issue of 1924 other than appellees' own objections.
The jurisdiction of the federal courts cannot be based
upon a question purely hypothetical.
VI. The only prospective relief appellees asked was
that appellants be enjoined " from continuing in possession of plaintiffs' said property,"-in other words
that appellees themselves be restored to possession by
injunction.
The relief asked under the guise of an equity bill and
prayer for injunction is thus nothing more or less than the
relief a judgment in ejectment would give. The equity
jurisdiction of the federal courts does not extend to such a
case. United States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86; Whitehead
v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146; Lacassagne v. Chapuis, 144
U. S. 119; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349, 361, 363; Boston & Montana Mining Co. v. Montana Ore P. Co., 18-8
U. S. 632; Denison v. Keck, 13 Fed. (2d) 384; Johnston
v. Corson Gold Mining Co., 157 Fed. 145.

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
500

Argument for Appellants.

Nothing is pleaded to take the case out of the rule.
Inadequacy of legal remedy is the test of equity jurisdiction,-" the only test of jurisdiction " in the federal courts
(Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425, 430; McConihay v. Wright,
121 U. S. 201, 206; Indiana Mfg. Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S.
681, 690) and the test applied in this class of cases (Lancaster v. Kathleen Oil Co., 241 U. S. 551, 555)-and there
is nothing in the bill to show that the legal remedy of
ejectment is inadequate. The only "irreparable " damage alleged is said to be caused by appellants' " continued
unlawful occupation" and by "impossibility of operation." There is nothing. alleged that even suggests that
the officials of the State of New York, who are the defendants, would dispute title and right to possession in
the face of a judgment against them in ejectment.
That the bill shows no ground of equity jurisdiction
is fatal to the jurisdiction of the statutory court,-to the
jurisdiction of any federal court of equity. That the suit
in reality is in ejectment defeats the jurisdiction of the
federal court even on the law side. For an ejectment action is not one arising "under the Constitution or the
laws of the United States," and in the absence of diversity of citizenship an ejectment action will not lie in the
federal courts. Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74; Deere
v. New York, 22 Fed. (2d) 851; Florida Central & P; R.
Co. y. Bell, 176 U. S. 321, 325; Joy v. St. Louis, 201 U. S.
332, 340.,
It is not only in. the plaintiff's statement of his own
case, it is in his statement of the facts essential to his case,
that the federal question which will support jurisdiction
must be found. And since in an ejectment action it is
not incumbent upon the plaintiff to state the source of
his title, he cannot, even by pleading that the Federal
Government was the source, give jurisdiction to the fed

. 04

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellees.

280 U. S.

eral courts, as this Court flatly decided in the last two
cases cited.
Mr. Jackson A. Dykman, with whom Mr. William H.
Dykman was on the brief, for appellees.
I. No power exists to, pledge the credit of New York.
IL A taking of property in eminent domain is a violation of due process unless there is provided a sure, efficient and convenient remedy by which the owner can
coerce payment of just compensation.
III. No enforceable means of obtaining compensation
has been provided.
IV. Being without the means of enforcing payment of
compensation appellees are injured and may raise the
questions presented.
V All facts essential to the presentation of the federal
question appear by allegations of the bill.
VI. Public bodies will be enjoined from illegal acts
done under color of right which cause irreparable. injury
to the property rights of individuals.
The bill rests upon an absence of lawful power to enforce a statute and an abuse of authority, and its merits
must be determined accordingly; it is concededly not a
suit against the State.
It is established by the decisions of the Court of Appeals
of New York that a peculiar jurisdiction exists in equity
to prevent illegal acts of public officers under color of
right which injuriously affect the property rights of individuals. The same rule will be applied in this Court.
Smith v. Reeves; 178 U. S. 436, 444; Litchfield v. Bond,
186 N. Y. 66, 85; Flood v. Van Wormser, 147 N. Y.
284, 289.
Plaintiff's title being already established, an action at
law for that purpose is unnecessary, and equity will grant
injunctive relief to prevent an injury which is not a mere

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
500

Argument for Appellees.

fugitive trespass. Baron v. Korn, 127 N. Y. 224, 228;
Bloomquist v. Farson,222 N. Y. 375.
This recent decision of the highest court establishes
that in New York adequacy of legal remedy is an affirmative defense which must be pleaded and cannot be raised
upon a motion to dismiss the complaint. No answer is
in the record and we assume appellants will concede that
in the answer filed after the submission below the only
plea of this nature is an allegation that appellees may
obtain a judgment in the Court of Claims.
The same jurisdiction to restrain public officers acting
under color of right is recognized in the federal courts.
Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738.
Concededly appellees were about to commence operations. They find themselves deprived of their property
"daily suffering great loss from the continued unlawful
occupation of their property, deterioration of buildings
and machinery and impossibility of operation." The
Commission "may at any time enter upon the destruction and demolition of the plant" which it took one year
to erect at a cost of one million dollars and which it
would take as much time and probably more money to
replace. Meanwhile appellee Standard Trap Rock Corporation has earned no return on its capital and paid no
dividends. If the property is destroyed it is not at all
likely new capital will be forthcoming to replace the
plant; so that success without injunctive relief will not
stay execution of the death warrant.
The land taken for a park will meanwhile be overrun
by some of the millions whose "recreational needs" will
be satisfied only when every last vestige of moveable
property has disappeared from the lands. A multiplicity
of suits would result.
Under such circumstances the federal courts grant mandatory injunctions restoring possession. Pokegama S. P.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Lumber Co. v. Klamath River Lumber & Imp. Co., 86
Fed. 528; on final hearing 9.6 Fed. 34; Slaughter v. Mallet Land & Cattle Co., 141 Fed. 282, 288; Love v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 185 Fed. 321, 333; Percy Summer
Club v. Astle, 145 Fed. 53, s. c. 163 Fed. 1.
In many varieties of action it is established in this
Court that violation of the federal constitution by state
officers may be enjoined. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Big Six Development Co. v. Mitchell, 138 Fed. 279; Twist v. PrairieOil Co., 274 U. S. 684,
691; United States Freehold Land & Emigration Co. v.
Gallegos, 89 Fed. 769, 773.
VII. The interlocutory decree is proper and grants
proper relief.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This in form is a suit in equity against the members
of the Board of Commissioners of the Palisades Ifterstate
Park, appointed pursuant to a statute of the State of
New York, the Attorney General and the Commissioner
of the Conservation Department of the state. The bill
was filed March 19, 1929, and alleges that the Sparkill
Realty Corporation is the owner in fee of lands lying
within the southern district of New York, of which the
Standard Trap Rock Corporation is lessee. The lands
contain valuable deposits of "trap rock "; and the Standard Trap Rock Corporation, in preparing to develop the
deposits, contracted for the erection and equipment of
a plant, not' adapted for use elsewhere, thereby subjecting
itself to liabilities exceeding $1,000,000.
While this work was in progress, estimates and maps,
as required by state law, for the acquisition of these and
other lands for a state park, were approved by the board
and certain state officers.. Notice was served on appellees

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
500

507

Opinion of the Court.

that a description of the lands, certified as correct, had.
been filed with the Secretary of State; and that the lands
had been appropriated b-. the people of the state for public
and state park purposes, pursuant to the state statutes.
Thereupon, the bill alleges, the Board of Commissioners,
on October 11, 1928, " wrongfully entered upon the said
real property of plaintiffs [appellees] and converted the
personal property thereon to their own use and have since
remained in possession of said real and personal prcperty
and prevented its use, enjoyment, occupation and operation by plaintiffs for any purpose to plaintiffs' great and
continuing damage."
It is further averred that the sum of $500,000 was
allocated to the acquisition of the property, but that the
value of the property exceeds $3,000,000; that appellees
are suffering daily loss from the " continued unlawful
occupation of their property," the aggregate sum of which
will be such that the damage will be irreparable and destructive of appellees' property; and that, therefore, they
are without adequate remedy at law.
The prayer is, that the acts of the board and state
officers, and the statutes of the state purporting to authorize them, be declared invalid as violating the Fourteenth Amendment and other provisions of the federal
Constitution, as well as a provision of the state Constitution; and that appellants be enjoined from attempting to
enforce the provisions of the statute, notice, description
or certificate, or proceeding against appellees at law or in
equity to compel compliance with, or inflicting or recovering any.penalty, forfeiture or damage for noncompliance
by appellees with the statute, notice, description or certificate, or " from continuing in possession of plaintiffs' said
property."
The statutory provisions assailed as unconstitutional
are found in §§ 59 and 761 of the New York Conservation

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Law, L., 1928, chap. 242. Section 761 confers upon the
Commissioners of the Palisades Interstate Park power to
acquire lands by entry and appropriation in the manner
provided for in § 59. Section 59 authorizes the Conservation Department to enter upon and take possession of
lands, etc., which, in the judgment of the department,
shall be necessary for public park purposes, or for the protection and conservation of the lands, forests and waters
within the state. A description of the property to be
entered upon must be made and certified, which, together
with a notice endorsed thereon that the property described is appropriated by the people of the state, shall
be filed in the office of the Secretary of State. A duplicate must be served on the owner or owners of the lands,
etc., and " thereupon such property shall become, and be,
the property of the people of the state." Provision is
made for an adjustment of compensation for the property
and legal damages, and the issue of a certificate stating
the amount due; which amount shall be paid out of the
state treasury upon the audit and warrant of the Comptroller. It is further provided that any owner may present to the state Court of Claims a claim for the value of
the lind and damages; and the court is authorized to hear
and determine such claim and render judgment thereon.
The Comptroller is directed to issue his warrant for the
payment of the amount, with interest from the date of the
judgment until the thirtieth day after the entry of final
judgment; and such amount shall be paid out of the state
treasury.
Upon filing the bill it was ordered that appellants show
cause before a court of three judges, constituted under
§ 266 of the Judicial Code (U. S. C. Title 28, § 380), why
an interlocutory injunction should not issue. A hearing
was had upon affidavits submitted by both parties. The
affidavit of James G. Shaw, on behalf of appellees, con-

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
500

Opinion of the Court.

tains the statement that. acting under the statutory provisions above set forth, the property in question was
" appropriated by the people of the state of New York for
public and state park purposes with the approval of the
Governor"; and that the commissioners " thereafter entered upon and took possession of said property, of which
they have since retained possession to the exclusion of the
plaintiffs." The affidavit of J. Du Pratt White, President
of the Board of Commissioners of thePalisades Interstate
Park, sets forth that, after the appropriation papers were
served, appellees ceased doing any work on the property;
that the contractors and other persons engaged in doing
work left, taking their machinery and tools with them,
and certain movable property and equipment used or for
use in connection therewith was likewise removed from
the premises; and that the state, through the commission,
had, since October 11, 1928, been in exclusive possession
of the property as a state park. These excerpts from the
affidavits are not controverted.
Appellant submitted a motion to dismiss the bill on the
ground, among others, that it did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a valid cause of action in equity against the
defendants. The court below denied the motion to dismiss and granted an interlocutory injunction in accordance
with the prayer of the bill. The state statute was held
invalid for the reason that it authorized the taking of private property for public use without just compensation,
or making adequate provision for payment thereof. In respect of its denial of the motion to dismiss, the court simply said that the action was not one for ejectment, and
cited Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636; United
States Freehold Land & Emigration Co. v. Gallegos, 89
Fed. 769.
We do'not consider the question of the constitutionality
of the state legislation, because it is apparent from the

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of tile
Court.

280 U. S.

bill and affidavits that the bill should have been dismissed
on the ground that appellees had an adequate remedy
at law.
The Board of Commissioners, acting for the state, entered upon the lands and had been in the exclusive possession thereof for several months before the filing of the
bill, effectively preventing appellees from using, enjoying
or occupying the property. The relief sought was to enjoin appellants "from continuing in possession," that is
to say, to oust appellants so as to restore the lands to
the possession of appellees. It is plain that this is not
the office of an injunction. Entry and possession ofthe
lands by appellants and all alleged wrongful acts and proceedings preliminary thereto and in aid thereof had been
consummated long before suit was brought and preventive relief by injunction, consequently, had ceased to be
appropriate.
Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146, was a suit in
equity to quiet title to real property. Plaintiff was the
owner in fee, holding title as trustee. Defendants claimed
title and were in possession, openly and adversely. Plaintiff averred that defendants' claim of title was made in
fraud of his rights; that the patent under which they
claimed was fraudulently made, the land not being subject
to entry and patent. Upon these facts, this Court held
that plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law, and that a
suit in equity could not be sustained, saying (page 151):
c .
where an action is simply for the recovery and
possession of specific real or personal property, or for the
recovery of a money judgment, the action is one at law.
An action for the recovery of real property, including
damages for withholding it, has always been of that class.
The right which in this case the plaintiff wishes to assert
is his title to certain real property; the remedy which he
wishes to obtain is its possession and enjoyment; and in a

WHITE v. SPARKILL REALTY CO.
"500

Opinion of the Court.

contest over the title both parties have a constitutional
right to call for a jury."
In Lacassagne v. Chopuis, 144 U. S. 119, 124, this court
said:
"'The plaintiff was out of possession when he instituted
this suit; and by the prayer of this bill he attempts to
regain possession by means of the injunction asked for.
In other words, the effort is to restore the plaintiff, by
injunction, to rights of which he had been deprived. The
function of an injunction is to afford preventive relief,
not to redress alleged wrongs which have been committed
already. An injunction will not be used to take property
out of the possession of one party and put it into that of
another. 1 High on Injunctions, 2d ed. § 355."
To the same effect is United States v. Wilson, 118 U. S.
86, 89; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349, 361. In the ratter
case the rule was applied, notwithstanding the financial
inability of the defendant to respond in damages.
The two cases cited by the court below are not in point.
In Hopkins v. Clemson College, supra, plaintiff sued for
damages caused by erection of a dike on one side of a river,
which had the effect of submerging his lands lying wholly
upon the other side. The injury, was " continuous from
day to day and year to year." The prayer was for damages, and abatement and removal of the dike. The injury
was in the nature of a continuing trespass; possession was
neither involved nor sought.
In United States Freehold Land & Emigration Co. v.
Gallegos, supra, the bill was to enjoin: the diversion of
water to the injury of complainant's lands, constituting
a continuing trespass. The ownership or possession of
the lands was not in controversy.
•The, present case is entirely different. Here the purpose of the suit is to eject appellants from lands which
for five months had been and still were in their exclusive

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

possession, under claim of right and in pursuance of a
statute which gives color of title notwithstanding the challenge to its costitutionality. See Doe on dem. of Trustees, etc. v. Newbern Academy, 9 N. Car. 233. That
challenge does not require resort to a suit in equity. It
will be open for determination in an action at law which
is the appropriate remedy.
The decree below must be reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill, but without
prejudice to an action at law in a court of competent
jurisdiction.,
Section 274a of the Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title, 28,
§ 397, and Rule 22 of the Equity Rules, 226 U. S., appendix, 6, contemplate that where what is really ari action at law is erroneously begun as a suit in equity, the
same may be transferred to the law side of the court and
after appropriate amendments may be prosecuted to a
judgment as if originally begun on the law side. See
Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon National Bank, 260 U. S. 235;
Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis,273 U. S. 70, 76; Twist
v. PrairieOil Co., 274 U. S. 684, 689, 692. But both the
statute and the equity rule refer, and can only refer, to
cases of which the court would have jurisdiction if they
were brought on its law side. This is not such a case.
The parties are citizens, not of different States, bfit of the
same State. And if the plaintiffs were suing at law in
ejectment their complaint, if confined to an orderly statement of such a cause of action, without anticipating possible defenses, would not present a case arising under the
Constitution, or a treaty or law of the United States.
Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74. Thus the case, if
brought as an action at law, would be one of which a
federal district court would not have jurisdiction. In this
situation no other course is open than to direct that the
bill be dismissed and leave the plaintiffs free to sue in a
state court, if they be so advised.
Decree reversed.

