400

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

280 U. S.

MINERALS SEPARATION NORTH AMERICAN
CORPORATION v. MAGMA COPPER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued January 9, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. The effect of a patent as a disclosure depends on what is made
known by the specification and is not limited to the precise scope
of the claims. P. 402.
2. Patent No. 835,120, of the Minerals Separation, Ltd., (sustained
by this Court, 242 U. S. 261; 250 U. S. 336), disclosed the general
fact that oils and other substances having' a preferential affinity
for the metalliferous particles in ores, can be used to separate
them, in a froth, from the gangue by mixing such substances
with the pulverized ore in water and agitating the "mixture, the
particular substance most effective with the particular ore and
the limit of the quantity of it to be used being determined by preliminary tests. P. 401.
3. This disclosure anticipated Patent No. 962,678, here in suit, which
claims a similar process but relies on "mineral frothing agents"
that dissolve in the water. The later patent cannot be sustained
upon the ground that the selective substances referred to in the
earlier one are oils and upon the assumption that oils function by
coating the metalliferous particles and ..that the other substances
function'*'y "modifying the water." P. 403.
4. The rule attributing weight to the commercial success of a patent
as evidence of invention, held inapplicable here on the special facts
of the case. P. 404.
30 F. (2d) 67, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. 8. 832, to review a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the
District Court, 23 F. (2d) 931, in favor of the abovenamed petitioner in a suit for alleged infringement of its
patent.

Messrs. Henry :D. Williams and William Houston Kenyon, with whom Messrs. Lindley M. Garrison, Frederic
D. McKenney, and Sidney St. F. Thaxter were on the
brief, for petitioner.

MINERALS SEPARATION v. MAGMA CO. 401
Opinion of the Court.

400

Mr. William H. Davis, with whom Mr. Merton W.
Sage was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit for the infringement of Letters Patent, No.
962678, Claims 1 and 2, brought by the petitioner in the
District Court of Maine, where the petitioner prevailed,
23 F. (2d) 931, the Court acting partly in deference to
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit in Miami Copper Co. v. Minerals Separation,Ltd.,
244 Fed. 752. The decision of the District Court was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, 30 F. (2d) 67, and because of the conflict with the
Third Circuit, a writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court.
The claims are (1) for a "process of concentrating ores
which consists in mixing the powdered ore with water
containing in solution a small quantity of a mineral frothing agent, agitating the mixture to form a froth and
separating the froth," and (2) the same as (1) except that
it inserts the word 'organic' before 'mineral frothing
agent.' The only defence that it is necessary to consider is
that the disclosure is anticipated by the earlier patent, No.
835120, which has been before this Court in Minerals
Separation, Ltd., v. Hyde, 242 U. S. 261, and Minerals
Separation, Ltd., v. Butte & Superior Mining Co., 250
U. S. 336. It is enough to refer to those cases without
repeating them. The process described in 835120 "consists in mixing the powdered ore with water, adding a
small proportion of an oily liquid having a preferential
affinity for metalliferous matter, (amounting to a fraction
of one per cent. on the ore), agitating the mixture until
the oil coated mineral matter forms into a froth, and separating the froth from the remainder by flotation." The
specification describes the object as being to separate
metalliferous matter, &c., from gangue by means of oils,
81325°-3O-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, "1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

fatty acids, "or other substances which have a preferential
affinity for metalliferous matter over gangue." It refers
to a previous patent.to Cattermole by which a considerable amount of oil is used to form granules, and announces
the discovery, that if the proportion of oily substance is
reduced to, say, -a fraction of one per cent. on the ores,
granulation ceases to take place, and on vigorous agitation
the ore instead of sinking forms a froth on the surface that
can be removed. The process is helped by the addition
of a little acid, by warming and the fine pulverization of
the pulp.
The petitioner, admitting that both patents are for
processes, says that they are fundamentally different in
their respective principles of action; that in the present
patent, 962678, the mineral frothing agent is dissolved
in the water and produces the metal-bearing bubbles, no
one knows exactly how, by modifying the water; whereas
in the earlier, 835120, oil is used which does not dissolve
in the water but coats the particles of metal with a thin
coating of oil, which it could not do if it were soluble,
and thus shows its preferential affinity when shaken up
with the metal pulp.
The question is not what is the precise scope of the
claims in 835120, but what is disclosed in the specification and made known to the world. Alexander Milburn
Co. v. Davis-Bournonville Co., 270 U. S. 390. Therefore we are relieved of the inquiry whether the words
'oily liquid' in Claim (1) can be read as a shorthand expression for the previously mentioned oils' and other substances which have a preferential affinity for metalliferous
matter over gangue,' as 'oil' was expressly interpreted
in earlier patents, including one to Cattermole referred
to at some length in 835120, and as there is evidence that
it thus was understood by men skilled in the art. It is
disclosed that it was well known there were other substances besides oil that had the preferential affinity and

MINERALS SEPARATION v. MAGMA CO. 403
400

Opinion of the Court.

that could be used. The nature of the affinity is not
specified and it cannot be confined to the kind of action
shown by oil. It is neither said nor implied that the
added element must be insoluble or that it must coat the
metal, although it is assumed in accordance with the prevailing theory that the metal will be coated when the
oil mentioned in the claims is used. All that is required
is that in some effective way the other substance should
pick the metal out. It is said that oil does it by coating
the metal particles and that of course a substance in solution could .not do that. There is no 'of course' as to
what nature can do except as proved by observation and
experiment. A substance in solution can combine chemically with another and become a solid. Whether a given
thing will unite mechanically or whether by its presence
it will promote an activity in which it does not share, is to
be found out by trial, not by reasoning, and the petitioner
agrees that in this case we do not know. It is a matter
of reasoning rather than of observation that the oil coats
the mineral particles. The experts differ whether the
same thing does not take place when a soluble substance
is used. But we agree with the defendant's argument
that no one concerned in this business would care a straw
as to the intimate nature of the action if it produced the
result, and that No. 835120 was not describing the work
of insolubles alone. It was not attempting to anticipate
a theory of the invisible, but to tell how the practical
end could be achieved with any of the different things
named.
The discovery was that a very minute portion of the oil
worked in an unexpectedly different way from that familiar with larger quantities-not in the matter of coating
the particles, but in helping to produce a froth that
floated instead of granules that sank, and thus in preserving the slime made by the smaller particles with the
water, and so saving a large proportion of metal that

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

otherwise would have been lost. The fact was a general
one' No particular oil was mentioned and the fact was
not confined to oils. The public was directed to make
a 'simple preliminary test to determine which oily substance yields the proportion of froth or scum desired.'
The patent having been held good as to the oils although
experiment was necessai'y to find out what oil would
work best with a given ore, the disclosure was an anticipation although experiment might be necessary to choose
among the substances having the required affinity the one
that would produce the best result.
The petitioner adverts to the success that has attended
the later patent and to the fact that the world waited
until it appeared. But interlopers naturally would be
slow to venture into the field occupied by a powerful company armed with patent No. 835120 and supported by a
subtle ingenuity that we cannot doubt would have been
exerci d with even more effect to show that a process
like that in No. 962678 was an infringement than it now
is to prove that the later patent was a revelation that
transformed the art.
Decree affirmed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BRYANT, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 113.

Argued January 16, 17, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. An action for wrongful death will not lie under the Federal Employers' Liability Act where the injury from which death resulted

was inflicted two days after the employment of the decedent by
the railway company had been terminated. P. 405.
2. The writ of certiorari should not issue to review a case in a state
court as one governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
if judgment against the carrier was rested upon the state law,
pursuant to a finding that the injured person's employment by

