OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S

the statute of limitations has run at home. But such decisions when defencible stand on the ground that. the
limitation is only procedural and does 'not extinguish the
duty. If the statute extinguishes the debt by lapse of
time no foreign jurisdiction that intelligently understood
its function would attempt to make the debtor pay.
I will not 'repeat what I said the other day in Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, ante, p. 83, concerning
the attempt to draw conclusions from the supposed situs
of a debt. The right to tax exists in this case because the
party needs the help of Minnesota to acquire a right, and
-that State can demand a quid pro quo in return. Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 68.. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 206.
I do not dwell on the practical necessity of resorting
to the State in order to secure payment of state or municipal bonds. Even if the creditor had a complete and adequate remedy elsewhere, I still should think that a correct decision of the case must rest on whether I am right
or not about the theoretical dependence of the continued
existence of the bonds upon Minnesota law.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, supports my conclusions and I.do not think that it should be overruled.
A 0od deal has to be read into the Fourteenth Amendment to give it any bearing upon this case. The Amendment does not condemn everything that we may think
undesirable on economic or social grounds.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS agrees with' this opinion.
THE CORN EXCHANGE BANK v. COLER, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC WELFARE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 36.

Argued November 27, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

In view of its ancient origin, the New York procedure (Code, Cr.
Pro., §§ 921-925) whereby the property of an absconding husband

CORN EXCH. BANK v. COMMISSIONER.
218

219

Argument for Appellant.

may be taken over and applied to the maintenance of his wife or
children through judicial proceedings, can not be held repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, with
respect to the husband or to a bank in which his money was deposited, although no notice to the husband, either actual or contructive, is provided by the statute. Oumbey v. Morgan,. 256
U. S. 94. P. 222.
250 N. Y. 136, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment'of the Court of Appeals of
New York which affirmed the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court in sustaining a proceeding by Coler, as
Commissioner of Public Welfare of the City of New
York, to reduce to his possession a deposit held by the
bank, for the purpose of applying it to the maintenance
of the wife and child of the depositor, who had absconded.
See also, 132 Misc. Rep. 449.
Mr. Spotswood D. Bowers, with whoin Messrs. Henry
M. Carpenter and Stewart W. Bowers were on the brief,
for appellant..
A statute which takes a person's property and turns
it over to another, no matter under what guise it may be
done, is, in the absence of a provision requiring notice to
the owner of the property, unconstitutional. Security
Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S.323; Stuart v. Palmer,
74 N. Y. 183; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 273; Twining,
v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.78; Roller v. Holly, 1.76 U. S. 398;
Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139; Wuchtcr v. Pizzutti,
276 U. S. 13; McDonald v. Mabec, 243 U. S. 90; Kaukauna TV. P. Co. v. Green Bay Co., 142 U. S. 254.
There is no similarity between the statute in question
and warrants of attachment or sequestration proceedings
in matrimonial actions, where notice following the seizure
is provided for. Matthews v. Matthews, 240 N. Y. 2S.
The mere so-called seizure of the debt due the alleged
absconder was not sufficient notice to satisfy the constitutional reqluirement of due notice. Millcr v. Lautenbcrrl,

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellee.

280 U. S.

239 N. Y. 142; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Faling v.
Multnomah County, 46 Ore. 460; Ackerman v. Ackerman,
55 N. J. L. 422.
The antiquity of the statute is of no importance except
in cases of ambiguity, when it may be considered in determining the proper construction of the statute. Where
the language of the statute is clear and precise and the
meaning evident, the statute will be declared unconstitutional no matter how long it has been in existence. Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; United States v.
Graham, 110 U. S. 219; United States v. Tanner, 147
U. S. 661.
Mr. J. Joseph Lilly, with whom Messrs. Arthur J. W.
Hilly and Martin H. Murphy were on the brief, for
appellee.
The appellant's depositor was not deprived of his property without due process of law. Windsor v. McVeigh,
93 U. S.274; The Mary, 9 Cr. 126; Miller v. Lautenberg,
239 N. Y. 132; Zimmerman Coal Co. v. Coal Trading
Ass'n, 30 F. (2d) 933; The Ann, 8 Fed. 923.
The statutes did not deny or attempt to deny th6 depositor a hearing (see Zimmerman Coal Co. v. Coal Trading Ass'n, 30 F. (2d) 933), or refuse him the right to
appear (Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274). They did
not even place a limit of time (See Code of Criminal Procedure 9 924) upon his constitutionally protected right to
appear and defend in person and with counsel, and upon
proper proof or assurance, to receive back the property
which was seized for the purpose of applying it to the
maintenance of the child and wife he had abandoned.
The. seized property did little more than stand as bail
(In re Mitchell, 278 Fed. 707; Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181
U. S. 188) for satisfaction of the continuing duty to support and maintain the wife and child and keep them from
becoming charges upon the public revenues.

CORN EXCH. BANK v. COMMISSIONER.
218

221

Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in the Constitution to prevent the
States from defending their revenues in situations like
this.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Commissioner of Public Welfare complained to the
Domestic Relations Court that, while residing with them
in New York City, Raffaele De Stefano abandoned his
wife and infant child and absconded from the State, leaving them without means and likely, unless relieved, to
become public charges. Upon the wife's supporting affidavit two magistrates of the court issued a warrant authorizing seizure of all the absconding husband's right,
title and interest in his deposit with appellant Bank and
directing return to the County Court. After service and
demand the Bank refused to pay. Thereupon, the Commissioner by complaint in the City Court sought to reduce the fund to his possession. The Bank moved for
judgment upon the ground that the statute-basis of the
warrant-failed to provide for notice, either actual or constructive, to the absconder, and could not be enforced
without denying the due process of law guaranteed by
both State and Federal constitutions. It prevailed in
the City Court. The Appellate Term reversed that action
and directed judgment for the Commissioner, and this
was approved by the Court of Appeals.
Sections 921, 922, 923, 924, 925, New York Code of
Criminal Procedure, under which the original warrant
issued, provide in substance :-That the Commissioner of
Public Welfare may apply to two magistrates for a warrant to seize the property of an absconding husband or
father leaving wife or child likely to become charges on
the public; that upon due proof of the facts, the warrant
may be issued; that the .officer receiving it may seize the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

property wherever found within his county; and shall be
vested with all the rights and title thereto which the
person absconding then had; that return of all proceedings under the warrant shall be made to the next term of
the County Court; that thereupon that court, upon inquiring into the circumstances of the case, may confirm
or discharge the warrant and seizure; that in the event.
of confirmation the court shall from time to time direct
what part of the property shall be sold, and how the proceeds shall be applied to the maintenance of spouse or
children; and on the other hand that if the party against
whom the warrant has issued shall return and support
the spouse or children so abandoned, or give satisfactory
security for such support, then the warrant shall b discharged, and the property restored.
The Court of Appeals ruled that jurisdiction of the
magistrates to issue the warrant and of the County Court
to enter a confirmatory judgment depend upon existence
of the relation -sought to be regulated; that "the victim
of the seizure may nullify the whole proceeding, including
any adjudication attempted in his absence, if there is
lacking the jurisdictional relation which is the basis of
his duty." Thus limited, it upheld the enactment as a
proper regulation of family relation and affirmed the
judgment in the Commissioner's favor for the amount
claimed in his complaint.
The. challenged procedure is an ancient one. In 1718
the Parliament of England enacted a statute reciting a
like ill and prescribing like remedy. The New York
Colonial Legislature passed a substantially similar law
in 1773; the State Legislature in 1784, and again in 1788.
This passed into the Revised Laws of 1813; afterwards,
broadened to subject choses in action- to seizure, into the
Revised Statutes of 1829. Without material change it has
continued in effect, and has been enforced unquestioned
until the present action.

CORN EXCH. BANK v. COMMISSIONER.
218

223

Opinion of the Court.

In Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U. S. 94, 112, we upheld
certain rather harsh legislation of the State of Delaware
modeled on the custom of London and dating back to
Colonial days. Its validity, challenged because of alleged
conflict with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, was sustained because of the origin and
antiquity of the provisions.
"However desirable it is that the old forms of procedure
be improved with the progress of time, it cannot rightly
be said that the Fourteenth Amendment furnishes a universal and self-executing remedy. Its function is negative, not affirmative, and it carries no mandate for particular measures of reform. For instance, it does not constrain the States to accept particular modern doctrines
of equity, or adopt a combined system of law and equity
,procedure, or dispense with all necessity for form and
method in pleading, or give untrammelled liberty to make
amendments. Neither does it, as we think, require a State
to relieve the hardship of an ancient and familiar method
of procedure by dispensing with the exaction of special
security from an appearing defendant in foreign attachment."
Following the reasoning of that cause we think the
statute here under consideration cannot be said to offend
the Federal Constitution.
That the appellant Bank under some remote possibility
may be called upon to pay a second time is true; but
when voluntarily contracting with the depositor it knew
this and accepted the consequent responsibility. Under
the approved practice there was abundant opportunity
to make defense-to' require proof of all essential facts.
At all events, its position is not materially worse than
that of a debtor who must pay one who holds letters
testamentary issued upon proof of death, though in truth
the creditor may be alive with power to repudiate the
appointment. See Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34.
Judgment qffirmed.

