124

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

legislation aimed at it, even though some abuses may not
be hit. Carrollv. Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411;
Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S. 63, 73. It is enough
that the present statute strikes at the evil where it is
felt and reaches the class of cases where it most frequently
occurs.
Afflrmed.
BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 27. Argued October 3.1, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.
1. The tax imposed by Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 319-324, as amended
by Revenue Act of 1926, § 324, upon transfers of property by
gift, is not a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitutiqn,
but an excise on the exercise of one of the powers incident to
ownership, and need not be-apportioned. Coast., Art. I, §§ 2, 8, 9.
P. 135.

2. The uniformity of taxation throughout the United States enjoined
by Art. I, § 8, is geographic, not intrinsic. P. 138.
3. The graduations of the tax, and the exemption of gifts aggregating
$50,000, gifts to any one person that do not exceed 8500, and
certain -gifts for religious, charitable, educational, scientific and
like purposes, are consistent with the uniformity clause, and
with the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Id.
4. The schemes of graduation and exemption in the statute, by
which the tax levied upon donors of the same total amounts may
be affected by the size of the gifts to individual donecs, are not
so arbitrary and unreasonable as to deprive the taxpayer of
property without due process. P. 139.
ANSWERS to questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals tipon review of a judgment for the Collector
in a suit by Bromley, a resident of the United States, to
recover a tax alleged to have been illegally levied upon
gifts made by him.

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Argument for Bromley.

Mr. Ira Jewell Williams, with whom Messrs. Ira Jewell
Williams, Jr., and Francis Shunk Brown were on the brief,
for Bromley.
I. The gift tax is a direct tax, and hence void because
unapportioned.
It should be noted that the words " or other direct"
(in Art. I, § 9, cl. 4,) did not appear in the first draft
of the Constitut;on, but were inserted so as to make it
clear that Congress had no power to lay-direct taxes without apportionment.
A tax upon income is a direct tax (Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601) permitted
only because the Sixteenth Amendment removed the prohibition against the levying of that particular tax.
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189.
That the gift tax is not an income tax (it is payable by
the donor), and is not apportioned, is so obvious as not to
require argument.
Making a gift is a. right, not a privilege. Whether one
regards " property" as the sum of the legal rights of the
owner in respect of the object; or whether one regards the
rights incident to ownership of property as necessarily
flowing from the nature of the legal concept of " property"-in either case the faculty of making a.gift is one
of the rights of the owner of property. 1 Wend. Blackstone's Commentaries, c.1, p. 138; Todd v. IVickc Bros., 36
Oh. St. 370; Chicago & TV. I. R. Co. v. Englewood Connecting R. Co., 115 Ill. 375; Jajnes v. Omaha Street R.
Co., 53 Neb. 631; Smith v. Campbell, 10 N. C. 595; Eaton
v. B. C. & AT. R. Co., 51 N. H. 504; Buchanan v. Warley,
245 U. S. 60.
Of course the whole is the sum of all its parts; and if
the Constitution protects property, it protects each of the
incidents thereof. The gift tax, since it is a tax upon an
essential right inherent in property, is a tax upon prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Bromley.

280 U. S.

erty, and is therefore. direct. A tax upon property, as
slaves, is a direct tax. Springer v. United States, 102
U. S. 586.
Even if the tax be only upon the income from property,
still it is a tax upon property. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., supra.
So, a tax upon liquor is a tax upon property, even
though the tax be disguised as an excise tax upon the
"business"
of withdrawing liquor froni warehouses.
Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries, 255 U. S. 288. See
Thompson v. Kreutzer, 112 Miss. 165; Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60; People v. Otis, 90 N. Y. 48.
The right to use and to enjoy one's property
comprehends the right of gift. The right of gift is part and-Varcel
of all the other elements of property, and is one of the
most deeply rooted.
The argument that unless all the incidents of property
are taxed, the tax is not direct, is unsound. It is opposed
to the principle of the. Pollock case and the Dawson case,
that a tax upon any one of the essential incidents of
property is a tax upon property.
If a tax may be laid on one essential attribute of property because that attribute is not the only one, then there
is no limit worthy the name to the power to tax property.
Idle property ,may be taxed because it is idle. One's own
home-may be taxed because one is living in it. Lands
planted to certain crops may be taxed-because there are
"other useful purposes" to which the land could be put.
To receive income from property is not the sole use to
.which property can be put. Yet a tax on income from
property is a tax on property itself.
If the remunerative business use of property-putting
money out at interest-owning and receiving the interest
on securities; receiving the rental from property-could
not be taxed except for the Sixteenth Amendment, be-

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Argument for Bromley.

cause that would be to tax the property itself, a fortiori a
non-business, non-remunerative, purely social use of property, that is, the exercise of the primitive right to give it
away, may not be taxed, for that would be to tax the
property itself. Analyzing and refuting Anderson v.
McNeir, 16 F. (2d) 970.
The theory that there cannot be a taking of property
unless the property is taken in toto-that a tax on an
ordinary user of an indispensable attribute of property is
not a tax on property unless it excludes every other useris wholly untenable. Any serious diminution of the enjoyment of property is a " taking." Portsmouth Co. v.
United States, 260 U. S. 327; Peabody v. United States,
231 U. S. 531.
Likewise, there can be a taxing of property without a
taxing of all'the attributes of property, or excluding
every other possible user. A tax on the use of land for
agricultural products would not preclude all other uses
of the property, yet it would be a tax on property. Is
not "keeping" a use-the right to decide not to spend,
or invest, or give away? One may spend, trade, hoard
or give. All these may be regarded as " uses." One
may keep' or part with by spending, or by investing
or giving. The owner of whiskey has a right to hoard it.
That might be one use; but he may not be taxed by a
State on the "business" of withdrawing it. Dawson v.
Kentucky Distilleries,supra.
Investing is a use. Could there be a graduated excise
tax on spending? Land lying fallow may be said to be
" used." Could there be a valid "excise" tax on unused
land?
Courts have rarely attempted to define direct or indirect
taxes, but have preferred to decide in each case as it
arose. The true rule is that the nature of the tax depends upon the nature of the thing taxed. If the tax

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Bromley.

280 U. S.

is a tax upon a person or upon property, it is a direct tax;
if on a privilege, it is an excise and is indirect.
Indirect taxes can be divided into threc classes: (a) inheritance taxes; New York Trust Co. v. Eisner,.256 U. S.
345;, (b) business taxes; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall.
433; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 523; Nicol v. Ames,
173 U. S. 509; Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264; Patton v.
Brady, 184 U. S. 608; Thomas v. United States, 192
U. S. 363; Spreckels Sugar Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
395; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; (c) luxury taxes; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608; McCray v. United States,
195 U. S. 27; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261;
Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171.
Business taxes seem to have been held to be indirect
for three reasons: (1) because most of them were technically taxes on some activity which the Government
might well have had the power to regulate under some
conferred power other than the power to tax; (2) because technically the tax need not be assumed, sincc
doing the act taxed was a matter of volition of the person concerned; and (3) on the ground that the tax could
be shifted to the ultimate consumer, who thus paid the
tax indirectly in the form of an increased price for some
article of consumption.
It is impossible too strongly to emphasize that indirect
taxes are essentially business taxes. Except for inheritance taxes and an isolated instance or two of luxury taxes,
every kind of indirect tax is connected in some way with
some matter of business, as that word is commonly understood, from the simple transaction of a sale of real
estate to the most complicated form of occupation tax.
The business element is ever present. It is obvious that
the gift tax is not in any sense a business tax.
This Court intimated in Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509,
that a general tax on all sales would be direct.

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Argument for Bromley.

Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171, was fully analyzed
and considered in the majority opinions in the Pollock
cases. If a tax on property is not a direct tax, then a
tax on the income from property could not be a direct
tax. The carriage tax was sustained by Mr. Justice Chase
(p. 175) as a tax on "expense . . . on . . . a
consumable commodity." The tax here is not in any
sense a tax on an expense.
II. The tax is arbitrary and unreasonable because
graduated and otherwise lacking in uniformity. Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230.
As applied to gifts, a graduated excise is a plain abomination. Graduation is not uniformity; uniformity here
means sameness. If a man who owned 100 acres were
placed in a different class and taxed at a rate twice as
high as his neighbor owning fifty acres, would he have
the equal protection of the laws? Myles Salt Co. v.
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478; Gast Realty Co. v.
Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; Cope's Estate, 191
Pa. 1; Smith v. Loughman, 245 N. Y. 486.
If a general sales tax were passed taxing only sales
over $500, and graduated so as to hit"hardest the largest
concerns, would such a tax, state or federal, be valid as
"due process" or "equal protection "?
The gift tax taxes part of the remaining capital of
the giver in a ratio graduated according to his generosity.
Moreover, the act discriminates between residents and
non-residents. A resident citizen is allowed a general
exemption of $50,000. No such exemption is allowed to
a non-resident. On the other hand, there is a discrimination against the resident citizen. He is taxed on all
transfers of "property wherever situated," while the nonresident citizen is taxed only on transfers of "property
situated within the United States."
In addition the tax makes an arbitrary discrimination
based upon the amount of individual gifts. " Gifts the
81325 o---30---9

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the Collector.

280 U. S.

aggregate amount of which to any one person does not
exceed $500" per annum are exempt. $51,000 may be
equally divided among 102 people without tax. If divided amongst 101 persons, the donor is taxable. The
foregoing would seen to be not only unreasonable, but
reasonless.
The same rule as to equality as inherent in the nature
of a tax must apply alike to state legislatures and to
Congress. Unreasonable, arbitrary classification violates
"(due process" quite as much as it violates the equal
protection clause. Cf. the Pollock case. 157 U. S. at p.
504, and pp. 595-6.
This salutary rule applies with equal force to an attempt to graduate so-called "taxes" according to the size
of the subject matter irrespective of any difference in
nature or quality. Frost v. Corp'n Commn'n, 278 U. S. 515.
Solicitor General Hughes, with whom .Messrs. Sewall
Key and J. Louis Monarch, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for McCaughn.
I. The tax upon transfers of property by gift is not a
direct tax but an excise.
The decisions of this Court afford no precise definition
of a direct tax, but it was early settled that the term
includes a capitationf tax and a tax upon land. Prior to
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158
U. S. 601, it was thought that those were the sole instances
of the direct tax referred to in the Constitution. Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1. It has now
become established that the constitutional rule of apportionment had its origin in the purpose to require that
taxes on persons solely because of their general ownership of property should be levied upon the States in
proportion to their population, and that there is no sound
distinction between a tax levi&l on a person solely by

reason of his general ownership of real property and the
same tax imposed solely beeqause of his general ownership

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Argument for the Collector.

of personal property. It is also settled that a tax on the
income derived from either real or personal property is
the legal equivalent of a direct tax on the property from
which the income is derived. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., supra; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.
But the tax in this case is not a direct tax growing out
of the general ownership of property, but is a tax upon a
particular use of that property. It is not a tax directly
upon the existence of the right to use the property, but a
tax upon the exercise of that right. Knowlton v. Moore,
supra.
That there is a substantial difference between the passive right and the active exercise of that right is shown by
Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261; Pierce v. United
States, 232 U. S. 290.
The following have been sustained as indirect taxes:
Taxes off particular types of sales: Nicol v. Ames, 173
U. S. 509;_ Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363; upon
the use of carriages for the conveyance of perisons: Hylton
v. United States, 3 Dall. 171; upon the amount of notes
paid out by any state bank: Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533; upon manufactured tobacco, having reference
to its origin and intended 4se: Pattonv. Brady, 184 U. S.
608; upon the manufacture arid sale of colored oleomargarine: McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; a succession tax upon the devolution of title to real estate:
Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; a tax on legacies: Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; taxes on doing business by particular methods: Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107;
Spreckels Sugar Co. v. McClain, 192U. S.397-; Stratton's
Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399; Doyle v.
Mitchell Bros. Co., 247 U; S. 179; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103.
See Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, and Nichols
v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the Collector.

280 U. S.

Nor can it be doubted since Knowlton v. Moore, supra,
and New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345, that
a tax may be indirect even though inevitable. Ability to
shift the tax from the person upon whom it first falls is
not a necessary element. No decision of this Court classifies as direct a tax imposed on a particular use of
property. Distinguishing Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries, 255 U. S. 288.
A tax upon the transfer of property by gift is not equivalent to a tax upon property because of its ownership.
It does not interfere with " the only uses of which it is
capable." There are many useful things which one may
do wth his property besides giving it away.
From the above-cited cases it appears that the nse of
property is distinguishable from the ownership of property and that in~irect taxes may properly be based upon
the use. Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Billings v. United
States, 232 U. S. 261; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co.,
256 U. S. 642.
After full consideration of the above cases, the gift tax
has been sustained in Blodgett v. Holden, 11 F. (2d)
180; Anderson v' McNeir, 16 F. (2d) 970. Since this
Court held the statute invalid as it was retroactively applied in Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, i was found
unnecessary to answer the certified question dealing with
the classification of the tax as direct or indirect. After
the decision in that case, Anderson v. McNeir, supra, was
reversed in this Court on confession of error, 275 U. S.
577, with the result that the classification of the tax has
not yet been considered by this Court. O'Connor v.
Anderson, 28 F. (2d) 873.
The only distinction between a gift and a devise is that
the latter is a statutory, not a common-law privilege. It
is difficult to formulate a, reason why a, tax upon the exercise of the right to make a sale of property differs in principle from a tax upon the exercise of the right to make a

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Argument for the Collector.

.gift of property. Cf. dissenting opinion in Untermyer v.
Anderson, 276 U. S. 440.
The estate tax and the gift tax are in pari materia
and progressively in execution of the power to raise
revenue. This is not to use the power of taxation for
an ulterior purpose, as in the Child Labor Tax Case, 259
U. S. 20. There can be no doubt that the gift tax was
enacted by Congress as a means of making the estate tax
effective.. By splitting up large fortunes and making
absolute gifts inter vivos, the estate tax was being avoided
(65 Cong. Rec., Pt. 3, pp. 3119, 3120; Pt. 4, pp. 3170,
3172; Pt. 8,-pp. 8094, 8097). Adequate provision was
made for crediting the gift tax against the estate tax
where the amount of the gift was later required to be
included in a decedent's gross estate. (Rev. Act of 1924,
§ 322; and Rev. Act of 1928, § 404.)
The presumption in this case, of course, is in favor of
the validity of the statute. And this presumption, repeatedly indulged, is particularly strong when considering a Revenue Act. Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509. This
statute is an integral part of an entire taxing scheme
considered necessary by Congress for satisfying the needs
of the Government for revenue. A measure may be valid
as a necessary adjunct to something which clearly lies
within the legislative power, even though, standing alone,
its constitutionality might have been subject to doubt.
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Ruppert v.
Cafley, 251 U. S. 264; Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265
U. S.545; Taft v. Bowers, 278 U. S.470.
II. Progressive rates of taxatlon and proper exemp-,
tions violate no constitutional provisions applicable to
federal taxation. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41;
Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1; Treat v.
-White, 181 U. S. 264; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608;
Flintv. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S: 107; Billings v. United
States, 232 U. S.261; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

U. S. 103; Tyee Realty Co. v. Anderson, 240 U. S. 115;
High v. Coyne, 178 U.-S. 111; Keeney v. New York, 222
U. S. 525; Barclay & Co. v. Edwards, 267 U. S. 442;
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230; LaBelle Iron
Works v. United States, 256 U. S. 377; Magoun v. Illinois
Trust Co., 170 U. S. 299; Burk-Waggoner Oil Ass'n v.
Hopkins, 269 U. S. i10.
The gift tax was imposed largely to prevent avoidance
of the estate tax by gifts inter iivos and, accordingly,
it was necessary to adjust the rates upon gifts to equalize
the rates upon estates. This Congress has done. Compare §§ 301 and 319 of the Revenue Act of 1924. Avoidance of the estate tax could not be adequately prevented
unless the gift tax provisions contained the same graduated rates.
The decision of this Court in United States v. Goelet,
232 U. S. 293, makes it clear that there is a difference in
fact between resident and non-resident citizens; and the
difference is so substantial that this Court held a tax
levied upon "any citizen " can not be treated, without
the expression of a more definite intent, as embracing the
exceptional exertion of the power to tax one permanently
residing abroad.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case, pending in the Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, that court has certified to this questions of
law coficerning which it asks instructions for the proper
disposition of the cause. Judicial Code, § 239, as amended
by Act of February 13, 1925.
Bromley, a resident of the United States, brought the
present suit in the District Court for Eastern Pennsylvania, to recover a tax alleged to have been illegally exacted, upon gifts 'nade by him after the effective date
of § 319 of the Revenue Act of 1924 (43 Stat. 253, 313,

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Opinion of the Court.

as amended by § 324 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44
Stat. 9, 86). This section imposes a graduated tax " upon
the transfer by a resident by gift" during the calendar
year " of any property wherever situated . . ." In computing the amount of the gift subject to the tax, § 321,
in the case of a resident, exempts gifts aggregating $50.000,
gifts to any one person which do not exceed $500, and
certain gifts for religious, charitable, educational, scientific and like purposes. The questions certified are:
. 1. Are the provisions of Sections 319-324 of the Revenue Act of 1924, as amended by Section 324 of the
Revenue Act of 1926, when applied to transfers of property by gift inter viv6s, made after the effective dates of
the cited Revenue Acts and not made in contemplation of
death, invalid, because they violate (a) the third'clause
of Section 2 and (b) the fourth clause of Section 9 of
Article 1 of the Constitution in that the tax they impose
is a direct tax and has not been apportioned?
2. Are the cited provisions, when applied to transfers
of property made in. like circumstances, invalid because
they vlolate (a) the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution
and (b) the first clause of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution in that they impose a tax which is graduated and subject to exemptions and therefore lacks uniformity, and also deprive a person of his property without
due process of law?
1. The first question was mooted by counsel, but not
decided, in Blodg&t v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, and Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440. The general power to
"lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises" conferred by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, and required
by that section to be uniform throughout the United
States, is limited by § 2 of the same article, which requires
" direct" taxes to be apportioned, and § 9, which provides
that "no capitation or otber direct tax shall be laid unless
in proportion to the census" directed by the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the .Court.

280 U. S.

to be taken. As the present tax is not apportioned, it is
forbidden if direct.
The meaning of the phrase " direct taxes" and the historical background of the constitutional requirement for
their apportionment have been so often and exhaustively
considered by this Court, Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall.
171; Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Company, 157
U. S. 429, 158 U. S. 601; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.509, 515, that no useful purpose would be served by renewing the discussion here.
Whatever may be the precise line which sets off direct
taxes from others, we need not now determine. While
taxes levied upon or collected from persons because of
their general ownership of property may be taken to be
direct, Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Company, 157
U. S. 429, 158 U. S. 601, this Court has consistently held,
almost from the foundation of the government, that a tax
imposed upon a particular use of property or the exercise
of a single power over property incidental to ownership,
is an excise which need not be apportioned, and it is
enough for present purposes that this tax is of the latter
class. Hylton v. United States, supra, cf. Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S.
363, 370; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261; Nicol v.
Ames, supra; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S.608; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27; Scholhy v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331;
Knowlton. v. Moore, supra; see also Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v.
McClain, 192 U. S.397; Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399; Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co., 247
U. S. 179, 183; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S.
103, 114.
It is a tax laid only upon the exercise of a single one of
those powers incident to ownership, the power to give the
property owned to another. Under this statute all the
other rights and powers which collectively constitute

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

Opinion of the Court.

property or ownership may be fully enjoyed free of the
tax. So far as the constitutional power to tax is concerned, it would be difficult to state any intelligible distinction, founded either in reason or upon practical considerations of weight, between a tax upon the exercise of
the power to give property inter vivos and the disposition
.of it by legacy, upheld in Knowlton v. Moore, supra, the
succession tax in Scholey v. Rew, supra, the tax upon the
manufacture and sale of colored oleomargarine in McCray
v. United States, supra, the tax upon sales of grain upon
an exchange in Nicol v. Ames, supra, the tax upon sales
of shares of stock in Thomas v. United States, supra, the
tax upon the use of foreign built yachts in Billings v.
United States, supra, the tax upon the use of carriages in
Hylton v. United States, supra; compare Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, supra, 545, Thomas v. United States, supra,370.
It is true that in each of these cases the tax was imposed upon the exercise of one of the numerous rights of
property, but each is clearly distinguishable from a tax
which falls upon the owner merely because he is owner,
regardless of the use or disposition made of his property.
See Billings v. United States, supra; cf. Pierce v. United
States, 232 U. S. 290. The persistence of this distinction
and the justification for it rest upon the historic fact that
taxes of this type were not understood to be direct taxes
when the Constitution was adopted and, as well, upon the
reluctance of this Court to enlarge by construction, limitations upon the sovereign power of 'taxation by Article I,
§ 8, so vital to the maintenance of the National Government. Nicol v. Ames, supra, 514, 515.
It is said that since property is the sum of all the rights
and powers incident to ownership, if an unapportioned tax
on the exercise of any of them is upheld, the distinction
between direct and other classes of taxes may be wiped
out, since the property itself may likewise be taxed by
resort to the expedient of levying numerous taxes upon its

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

uses; that one of the uses of property is to keep it, and
that a tax upon the possession or keeping of property is no
different from a tax on the property irself. Even if we
assume that a tax levied upon all the uses to which property may be put, or upon the exercise of a single power
indispensable to the enjoyment of all others over it, would
be in effect a tax upon property, see Dawson v. Kentucky
Distillerics & Warehouse Co., 255 U. S. 288, and hence a
direct tax requiring apportionment, that is not the case
before us.
The power to give cannot be said to be a more important incident of property than the power to use, the exercise of which was taxed in Billings v. United States, and
even though differences in degree may be carried to a
point where they produce distinctions in kind, the present
levy falls so far short of taxing generally the uses of property that it cannot be likened to the taxes on property
itself which have been recognized as direct. •It falls,
rather, into that category of imposts or excises which,
since they apply only to a limited exercise of property
rights, have been deemed to be indirect and so valid although not apportioned.
2. The uniformity of taxation throughout the United
States enjoined by Article I, § 8, is geographic, not intrinsic. A graduated tax, on legacies, granting exemptions,
Knowlton v. Moore, supra, or on incomes, Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, does not violate this
clause of the Constitution, nor are such taxes infringements on the Fifth Amendment. Knowlton v. Moore,
supra, p. 109; Brushaber v. Union, Pacific R., Co., supra,
.pp. 24, 25. Graduated taxes on inheritances or successions, with provisions for exemptions, have so often been
upheld as not violating either the due process or the equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, as to leave little ground for
supposing that taxation by Congress embracing these

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

features, and otherwise valid, could be deemed a denial of
the due process clause of the Fifth. See Van Oster v.
Kansas, 272 U. S. 465, 468.
It is suggested that the schemes of graduation and exemption in the present statute, by which the tax levied
upon donors of the same total amounts may be affected by
the size of the gifts to individual donees, are so arbitrary
and unreasonable as to deprive the taxpayer of property
without due process. But similar features of state death
taxes have been held not to infringe the Fourteenth
Amendment since they bear such a relation to the subject
of the tax as not "to preclude the assumption that the
legislature, in enacting the statute, did not act arbitrarily
or without the exercise of judgment and discretion which
rightfully belong to it." Stebbins v. Riley, supra, p. 145.
No more can they be a basis for holding that the graduation and exemption features of the present statute violate
the Fifth Amendment.
The answer to both questions is, No.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting, delivered by MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.
In the convention which framed the Constitution, Mr.
King on one occasion asked what was the precise meaning of "direct taxation," and Mr. Madison informs us
that no one answered. That Mr. Madison took the
pains to record the incident indicates that it challenged
attention but that no one was able to formulate a definition. And though we understand generally what is a
direct thx and what taxes have been declared to be direct,
we are still as incapable of formulating an exact definition as were those who wrote the taxation clauses into
the Constitution. Since the Pollock case, however, we
know that a tax on property, whether real or personal,
or upon the income derived therefrom, is direct; and that
to levy a tax by reason of ownership of property is to

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

tax the property. Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries Co.,
255 U. S. 298, 294.
The right to give away one's property is as fundamental as the right to sell it or, indeed, to possess it.
To give away property is not to exercise a separate element or incident of ownership, like the use of a carriage,
but completely to sever the donor's relation .to the property and leave in him no element or incident of ownership whatsoever. Reasonably it cannot be doubted that
the power to dispose of property according to the will of
the owner is a-property right. If a, tax upon the sale of
property, irrespective of special circumstances, is a, direct
tax, it is clear that a tax upon the gift of property, irrespective of special circumstances, is, likewise, direct.
In my opinion, both are direct because they are in substance and effect not excise taxes but taxes upon property. By repeated decisions of this Court it has become
axiomatic that it is the substance and not the form that
controls in such matters.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, involved the validity of a state statute which exacted a license fee of $50
of importers of foreign goods and other persons selling
the same by wholesale, bale 6r package, etc. The act
was held void as imposing a duty on imports. It was
argued that the tax was not upon the article but upon
the person; that the state had the power to tax occupations, and this was nothing more. To this Chief Justice
Marshall replied (p. 444) in words that have been repeatedly approved in subsequent decisions of this Court:
" It is impossible to conceal from ourselves, that this
is varying the form, without varying the substance. It
is treating a prohibition, which is general, as if it were
confined to a particular mode of doing the forbidden
thing. All must perceive, that a tax on the sale of an
article, imported only for sale, is a tax on the article
itself."

BROMLEY v. McCAUGHN.
124

SUTHERLAND,

J.,. dissenting.

In Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, it was held that
a tax on the amount of sales made by an auctioneer w~s a
tax upon the goods sold, and where these goods were imported in the original package and sold for the importer
the law authorizing the tax was void.
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, is not to the contrary of
these cases, but in complete accord with them. There it
was held that a tax levied upon a sale of property effected
at a board of trade or exchange was an excise laid upon
the privilege, opportunity or facility afforded by boards
of trade or exchanges for the transaction of the business
and not upon the property or the sale thereof, which, it
was conceded, would be a direct tax and void without apportionment. Brief quotations from the opinion will
make the distinction clear. Referring to the cases which
had been cited against the tax, including Brown v. Maryland, supra, and the Pollock case, it was said that all these
cases involved the question whether the taxes assailed
were in effect taxes upon pr6perty and (p. 519): "If this
tax is not on the property or on the sale thereof, then
these cases do not alply." At p. 520, answering the contention that the tax was one on the property sold, it was
said: "It ig not laid upon the property at all, nor upon
the profits of the sale thereof, nor upon the sale itself
considered separate and apart from the place and the
circumstances of the sale." And finally at p. 521, the
Court said in words that admit of no mistake.: "A tax
upon the privilege of selling property at the exchange
and of thus using the facilities there offered in accomplishing the sale differs radically from a tax upon every
sale made in any place. The latter tax is really and.practically upon property. It takes no notice of any kind of
privilege or facility, and the fact of a sale is alone regarded."
To me it seems plain that a tax imposed upon an ordinary gift, to be measured by the value of the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

given and without regard to any qualifying circumstances, is a tax by indirection upon the property, as
much, for example, as a tax upon the mere possession
by the owner of a farm, measured by the value of the
land possessed, would be a tax on the land. To call either
of them an excise is to sacrifice substance to a mere form
of words. I think, therefore, the first question certified,
without stopping to consider the second, should be
answered in the affirmative.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in this opinion.
EX PARTE NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

COMPANY

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 2i, Original.

Return to rule presented November 25, 1929.Decided December 2, 1929.

In a suit in the District Court to restrain state officers, by interlocutory and permanent injunctions, from enforcing an order
affecting railway rates upon the ground that the order conflicts
with the Federal Constitution and laws, when the plaintiffs apply
for an interlocutory injunction on that ground and the district
judge grants a temporary restraining order to be effective until
,such application shall be determined, it is his duty under Jud.
Code, § 266, U. S. C. Title 28, § 380, immediately to call two other
judges, one of whom shall be a circuit justice or a circuit judge,
to assist him in hearing and determining such application, and
neither he, nor another district judge, in the presence of such
application and when it is being pressed, has jurisdiction, sitting
alone, to entertain a motion by the defense to dissolve the temporary restraining order or a motion by the defense to dismiss the
bill, or jurisdiction to dismiss the bill on the merits. P. 144.
PETITIONS for a rule directing the Honorable George
M. Bourquin and the Honorable Charles N. Pray, judges
of the District Court for the District of Montana, and the

