30

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

2S0 U. S

institution of a proceeding will be in the public interest,
while not strictly within the scope of that provision, will
ordinarily be accepted by the courts. But the Commission's action in authorizing the filing of a complaint, like
its action in making an order thereon, is subject to judicial
review. The specific facts established may show, as a
matter of law, that the proceeding which it authorized is
not in the public interest, within the meaning of the Act.
If this appears at any time during the course of the proceeding before it, the Commission should dismiss the complaint. If, instead, the Commission enters an order, and
later brings suit to enforce it, the court should, without
enquiry into the merits, dismiss the suit.
The undisputed facts, established before the Cotnmission, at the hearings on the complaint showed affirmatively the private character of the controversy. It then
became clear (if it was not so earlier) that the proceeding
was not one in the interest of the public; and that the
resolution authorizing the complaint had been improvidently entered. Compare Gerard C. Henderson, The
Federal Trade Commission, pp. 52-54, 174, 228-229, 337.
It is on this ground that the judgment dismissing the
suit is
Affirmed.
SANITARY REFRIGERATOR COMPANY v. WIN-

TERS
WINTERS

ET AL.

ET AL.

v. DENT HARDWARE COMPANY.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH AND THIRD CIRCUITS, RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 4 and 14.

Argued .pril

19, 22, 1929.-Decided October 14, 1929.

1. On writs of certiorari to review contrary decisions of two Circuit
Courts of Appeals on whether a patent, was infringed by a particular device, the plaintiff bcing the samc in both cases and the

SANITARY REFRIG'R CO. v. WINTERS.
,30

31

Syllabus.

defendant in one assuming defense of the other, this Court has
no occasion to determine the validity of the patent claims involved,
where, in the courts below, the defense conceded their validity
if limited to the specific structure disclosed, and where their
validity was upheld iii one case, not denied in the other, and not
questioned by the defense in its petition for certiorari. P. 34.
2. A decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals affirming an interlocutory
order of the District Court adJudging the infringemen{ of a patent
and ordering an accounting, will not avail the patentee by way of
res judicata or estoppel in a like suit pending before the Circuit
Court of Appeals of another Circuit if not set up in the record of
that case, but merely brought to the court's attention on argument.
P. 35.
3. In such case, the effect of the decree is, at most, that which it
may have under the doctrine of comity; refusal to follow it is not
in itself a ground for reversal. Id.
4. Where there are concurrent findings of the two federal courts in
one circuit that a patent has been infringed, and concurrent findings of those courts in another circuit, in a like case, that it has
not, this Court, upon a review of both cases because of the conflict,
will consider independently which of thq decisions is correct,
P. 35.
5. Upon the undisputed evidence in these cases the 'question of infringement resolves itself into a question of law, depending upon
a comparison between the structure disclosed on the face of the
plaintiff's patent and the device complained of, and the correct
application thereto of the law of equivalency. P. 36.
6. Patent N6. 1,385,102 (Claims 1-4, inclusive, and 7), issued to
Winters and Crampton for an improved latch of the swinging lever
type particularly adapted for use on doors of refrigerators, etc., is
infringed by the defendants' latches, manufactured under Patent
No 1,575,647, issued to Schrader. P. 41.
7. A close copy which seeks to use the substance of the invention,
and, although showing some changes in form and position, uses
substantially the same devices, performing precisely the same offices
with no change in principle, constitutes an infringement. P. 42.
8. Even where, in view of the state of the art, the invention must be
restricted to the form shown and described by the patentee and
cannot be extended to embrace a new form which is a substantial
departure therefrom, it is nevertheless infringed by a device in
which there is no substantial departure from the description in the
patent, but a mere colorable departure therefrom. P. 42.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

32

Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

9. Undisputed. facts clearly showing infringement by a device made
under a later patent, held not to be overcome by any presurhption
of the validity of that patent. P. 43.
24 F. (2d) 15, affirmed.
28 F. (2d) 5S3, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 27S U. S. 587, to review two decrees of
different Circuit Courts of Appeals in suits for infringements of a patent. In No. 4 the court below sustained a
District Court decree of injunction and for an accounting.
In No. 14 the court below affirmed a District Court decree
dismissing the bill because of non-infringement. See
20 F. (2d) 671.

Mr. E. ,jHayward Fairbanks for Sanitary Refrigerator
Company and Dent Hardware Company.
Mcssrs. Frank E, Liverance, ,Jr., and John Boyle, Jr.,
for Winters and Crampton,
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are two suits in equity relating to letters patent
No. 1,3S5,102 for improvements in latches, issued to
Winters and Crampton July 19, 1921. They were heard
together here. The invalidity of the two general claims
of the patent, 5 and 6, has been conceded, and the issues
here are limited to the five specific claims, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7.
In No. 4-hereinafter referred to as the Sanitary caseWinters and Crampton brought suit in the Eastern District of Wisconsin against the Sanitary Refrigerator Co.
for infringement of the patent by the latch which it used
in the manufacture of refrigerators. The Dent Hard
ware Co., which had manufactured and sold the latches
to the Refrigerator Co., although not itself a party to
the suit, employed counsel and conducted the defense of
the suit at its own expense. The District Court, after a

SANITARY REFRIG'R CO. v. WINTERS.
:30

33

Opinion of the Court.

hearing on pleadings and proof, held that the patent was
valid and infringed, enjoined further infringement and
ordered an accounting. On appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the defendant admitted
the validity of the five specific claims, " accompanied by
the statement -hat validity was recognized only in view
of an asserted construction which gave to each so narrow
a field that infringement was not disclosed.
The court,
finding that the sole issue remaining was one of the infringement of these claims, held that, while they were
extremely narrow and were restricted to the particular
structure disclosed, they had some range of equivalency
and were infringed by the defendant's latch; and affirmed
the decree of the District Court in respect to them. 24
F. (2d), 15.
In No. 14--hereinafter referred to as the Dent caseWinters and Crampton, after the decree of the District
Court in the Sanitary case but before that of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, brought a suit for infringement in the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Dent Hardware Co., the manufacturer of the refrigerator latches.
The District Court, on final hearing, held that as to the
five specific claims the question was not as to their validity
but as to their scope, there being in effect no denial of
the plaintiff's right to the specific construction described,
and that these claims should be so read as to restrict
their right, to the specific construction and were not infringed by the defendant's latches; and dismisse.d the bill
of complaint. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, the defendant again conceded that
the five claims " were valid if limited to the specific structure disclosed," but claimed that, when so limited, it did
not infrii ige. The court, while it had grave doubt as to
the validity of these claims, finding that, if valid, their
scope was clearly confined to the structural design disS132.5 °

-

---

:1

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

closed and had only a narrow range of equivalency-and
not agreeing with the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the Sanitary case, which meanwhile had been
handed down-held that they were not infringed by the
Dent latch; and affirmed " the decree of the District
Court, dismissing the bill because of noninfringement."
28 F. (2d) 583.
There being a conflict of opinion between the two Circuit Courts of Appeals on the question of infringement,
writs of certiorari were thereafter granted in both cases.'
1. Since both courts in the Sanitary case held the five
specific claims to be valid, and neither court in the Dent
case held them to be invalid, and the Hardware Co. in
defending for the Refrigerator Co. in the Sanitary case
and for itself in the Dent case, admitted in both Circuit
Courts of Appeals that these claims were valid if limited
to the specific structure disclosed, we have no occasion
here to determine the question as to the validity of these
claims when thus limited; especially as the petition
for certiorari in the Sanitary case did not question the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in respect to the validity of these claims, but assigned
as error merely its holding in reference to the question
of infringement and was based solely on the conflict between the two circuits in respect to that question.'
In th' Sanitary ca~e the petition for the writ of certiorari was filed
before the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in the Dent case had been handed down; and was then denied.
278 U. S. 599. But after the handing down of that opinion, showing
the conflict as to the question of infringement, was brought to our
attention by a petition for rehearing, the certiorari was granted. 278
U. S., 587. However, the Refrigerator Co. did not challenge the correctness of the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit that the five specific claims were valid; and the petition
was based entirely on the conflict of opinion as to the question of
infringement.
2 See Note 1, supra.

SANITARY REFRIG'R CO. v. WINTERS.
30

35

Opinion of the Court.

2. Nor have we occasion here to consider at length
whether, as urged by Winters and Crampton, the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
affirming the interlocutory order of the District Court
adjudging the infringement and ordering an accounting,
finally and conclusively determined the question of infringement so as to become binding upon the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The bill in the
Dent case was filed before the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit had been rendered. This judgment was not set up by Winters and
Crampton in the Dent case by any amendment to the
pleadings; nor was it even introduced in evidence in that
case. In short, there is nothing in the record in that case
to raise the defense of res judicata or estoppel by judgment; and the only effect of the decree in the Seventh
Circuit when called to the attention of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit in argument was, at
most, that which it had under the doctrine of comity,
constituting a, rule, not of law, but of practice, convenience and expediency; and if we thought the action of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit "correct
upon the merits, we should not reverse its action" though
we were of opinion it liad not given sufficient weight to
that doctrine. See Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg. Co.,
177 U. S. 485, 488.
3. This brings us to the question brought up for review
by the writs of certiorari, as to whether the five specific
claims of the Winters and Crampton patent were infringed by the refrigerator latches manufactured by the
Dent Hardware Co. and used by the Refrigerator Co.
So far as this question is concerned there is no substan-tial difference in the evidence in the two cases. As there
was a concurrent finding in the two lower courts in the
Sanitary case that they were infringed, and a concurrent
finding in the two lower courts in the Dent case that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

were not infringed, and the cases have been brought here
because of the conflict of decision in the two Circuit
Courts of Appeals, it is clear that under these circumstances, neither properly calls for the strict application
of the general rule as to the acceptance by this Court of
the concurrent findings of the lower courts on questions
of fact, and we consider independently the question as to
which of the decisions on this question is based upon the
sounder reasoning and is correct. Compare Thomson
Co. v. Ford Motor Co., 265 U. S. 445, 447; Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S. 177, 180. Furthermore
upon the undisputed evidence the question of infringement resolves itself in each case into one of law, depexding upon a eomparison between the structure discloaed on
the face of the patent and the- device shown in the Dent
latch, and the correct application thereto of the rule of
equivalency. Compare Singer Company v. Cramr&, 192
U. S. 265, 275.
4. In the application for their patent Winters and
Crampton said: " This invention relates to a latch of the
swinging lever type, particularly adapted for use on refrigerators though applicable, in mhany other relations
where a door is to be.closed and held in closed position.
The sNxinging lever latch . . . is pivotally connected at
one end to the door. jamb or casing, allowing the door to
be opened when the latch is thrown to an upper vertical
position, and coming down across the meeting edges of
the casing and door when swung to horizontal position,
engaging with a cam member on the door to wedge the
door tightly shut. This latch is a very serviceable latch
but . . . is liable to drop tohorizontal position in whiclh
case the door cannot be closed without first raising the
lever to upper vertical position while, many times, the
door is inadvertently swung toward closed position and
against the lever in its horizontal position with injury
either to the lever or door or both. In the present invent:

SANITARY REFIIIC'R CO. v. WINTERS.
30

37

()pinion of the Court.

tion, it is a primary object and purpose to provide a latch
which may be pivotally connected to the door and which
is automatically operated to engage with a retaining member or keeper fixed on the door casing when the door is
closed irrespective of the vertical or horizontal position
of the latch lever, working as well in the one case as the
other. A further object of the invention is to construct a
latch of few parts, whereby it may be economically made
and which will be durable and efficient in service ...
The ability to close the door and latch it automatically,
irrespective of the position of the latch lever insures
against injury to the latch or door and also insures that
the door will be latched when it is swung shut."
Claims 1 and 7, which are typical, read as follows:
"1. In combination, a door and a, casing therefor, a
keeper attached to the casing comprising a, base, an outstanding post and a head at the outer portion of the post,
said head depending below the post and formed with
upper and lower curved outer sides coming substantially
to a point and with an inner upwardly and inwardly inclined side, a member attached to the door comprising a
base, an integral outstanding post projecting from the
base and a laterally extending arm at the upper end of
the post paralleling the base, and a latch lever pivotally
mounted between its ends between the said arm and base
of said member, said lever having one arm formed with.
an under cam side extending from the pivot and adapted
to be engaged under the depending portion of the keeper,
a handle portion extending in the opposite direction from
the pivot and another arm projecting from the handle
portion a distance from the pivot and lying substantially
at right angles to the first arm of the lever and likewise
being formed with an inner cam side, substantially as and
for the purposes described.
"7. In combination', a door and a casing therefor, a
keeper attached to the casing, a latch lever pivotally

3•
qOCTOBER

TERM, 1929.
Opiuion of the Court.

280 U. S.

mounted on the door between its ends, one end of the lever
being formed into an operating handle and the other into
a keeper engaging arm, a, second arm projecting from the
handle portion of the lever a short distance from its pivot
and at an angle to the first arm, said keeper being formed'
at. its outer sides for engagement with the respective arms
when the lever is in horizontal and vertical positions, respectively, as the door is closed, to automatically operate
the lever so that it will engage under the keeper when the
door is entirely closed, substantially as described."
We insert here reproductions (on a reduced scale) of
Figure 4 of the drawings which is a front elevation showing the door approaching closed position with the swinging lever in vertical relation to the door; Figure 5, a side
elevation thereof; Figure 6, a. front elevation showing the
action on the swinging lever as the door approaches closed
position after. the lever has been in horizontal position;
and Figure 1, a, front elevation showing the latch in closed
position and holding a door Closed. These show the
patented device in detail.
The operation of closing and latching the door is thus
described in the specification:
"When the door is moved toward closing position with
the lever vertically located, the cam side 13 of arm 12
strikes against the curved upper side 18 of head 17, causing
the lever to be automatically swung toward the horizontal,
and' bringing the arm 9 into place so as to pass under the
lower point of the keeper head so that it may engage at
its outer side against the wedging cam side 20 of the head.
It is apparent that by giving the end of handle. 11 a. downward movement, the door will be wedged tightly shut as
the arm 9 moves upwardly and against the incline 20.
. . . If the lever has dropped to horizontal position while

the door is open, the closure of the door and engagement
of the lever with the keeper is accomplished by merely
swinging the door shut, in which case, as shown, in Figs. 6

SANITARY REFRIG'R CO. v. WINTERS.

39

Opinion cf lhc Court.

and 7, the arm 9 strikes with its inclined cam side 10
against the lower curved side 19 of the head 17 of the
keeper, causing the handle to be automatically turned
toward vertical position. This movement continues until
the arm 9 passes by the lower point of the keeper head 17
or, as usually occurs, the arm 12 comes into contact with
the head at the upper side 18, whereupon the lever is actu-

A.

I *
"Jrr
hJs

A18

ated so as to bring the arm 9 under the depending portion
of the keeper, the same as before described when closing
the door with the lever in vertical position. In any case,
the latch lever engages with the latch keeper when the
door is closed irrespective of the position of -the lever."
While this patent came into a prior art crowded with
various latch devices for holding a door in closed position

O("TOBEH TRI:M. 1929.
Opinion of Ih( Col .

2S0 U. S.

when it was shut and was not a pioneer patent entitled
to a broad range of equivalents, the structure which it
disclosed was meritorious and soon attained a large
measure of commercial success.
5. The Dent latch is manufactured under letters patent
No. 1,575,647 for lock devices for ref rigcrator doors issued
March 9, 1926 to T. 0. Schrader, assignor of the Hardware Co. In his application for this patent Schrader said:
"I am aware of [W\inters and Crainpton] patent No.
1,3S5,107 dated] July 19, 1921. and I disclaim the structure

therein disclosed, as my invention is differentiated therefrom, since whereas.the structure disclosed in said patent
utilizes a pin 12 carried by the latch arm 11, which coacts
with an upper cam edge 18 of the keeper member ,7; in
my novel construction the upper edge of my keeper plate
.b' has no function, but the pivotal.latch c'; carries a cam c
inclined to the pivot of said latch and adapted to coact.
with a pin b carried by and laterally projecting from, the
inner wall of the keeper plate V thereby to swing the terminal tongue of the latch into the'horizontal locking position; and to none of the constructions of the prior art do
I herein make claim."
The latch manufactured by the Hardware Co. which is
involved in both these cases, differs only slightly in form
from that shown in the Schrader patent. It. is in the
main an exact reproduction of the structure disclosed in
the Winters and Crampton patent. It has like it a keeper
attached to the door casing, with a triangular head, and a
lever latch with a, handle and two arms whose functions
are to trip or give a, kick to the latch lever by their coaction with the keeper head, and wedge the lower arm under
it, regardless of the position of the latch lever when the
closing operation begins. The only differences are that in
the Dent latch the keeper has on the inner or door side of
the triangular head a lug projecting inwardly towards the
latch lever; and the upper arm of the latch lever is a short

SANITARY REFRIG'R CO. v. WINTERS.
30

41

Opinion of the Court.

inclined cam placed at the pivot of the latch lever, and so
constructed and at such an angle that it rides.upon and
contacts with the lug on the side of the keeper head, instead of with its upper curved side as in the Winters and
Crampton structure. The coaction of this shortened arm
with the lug operates, however, on the cam principle, just
as the coaction of the longer upper arm with the curved
upper surface of the keeper head in the Winters and
Crampton structure, to trip or kick the lower arm of the
latch lever into the -wedged. position under the keeper
head.
6. Despite the changes in the Dent latch from the Winters and Crampton structure we find that the two devices
are substantially identical, operating upon the same principle, and accomplishing the same result in substantially
the same way, and that the slight change in the form of
the Dent latch is merely a colorable departure from the
Winters and Crampton structure.
In. the Dent latch, as stated by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the lug on the inner side
of the triangular head of the keeper is a. part of the side of
the head. And at the place where the shortened upper
arm of the latch lever comes in contact with it, the surface
of this lug forms in effect the upper side of the keeper
head as a. substitute for the upper side in the Winters and
Crampton structure, which, while left in place, performs
no function whatever, just as if it were cut away.
Although the claims of the Winters and Crampton patent are limited to the structure therein disclosed, we find
that they are infringed by the device of the Dent latch.
Both Circuit Courts of Appeals recognized that the Winters and Crampton patent, although thus limited had
some range of equivalents; and we think that, though it
be a narrow one, it is sufficient.
There is a substantial identity, constituting infringement, where a device is a copy of the thing described

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

by the patentee, "either without variation, or with
such variations as are consistent with its being in
substance the same thing." Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall.
531, 573. Except where form is of the essence of the
invention, it has little weight in the decision of such
an issue; and, generally speaking, one device is an infringement of another "if it performs substantially the
same function in substantially the same way to obtain
the same result.

. .. . Authorities concur that the sub-

stantial equivalent of a thing, in the sense of the patent
law, is the same as the thing itself; so that if two devices
do the same work in substantially the same way, and accomplish substantially the same result, they are the same,
even though they differ in name, form, or shape." Machine Co. v. Murphy, 97 U. S. 120, 125. And see Elizabeth v.. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 137. That mere
colorable departures from the patented device do not
avoid infringement, see McCormick v. Talcott, 20 How.
402, 405. A close copy which seeks to use the substance
of the invention, and, although showing some change in
form and position, uses substantially the same devices,
performing precisely the same offices with no change in
principle, constitutes an infringement. Ives v. Hamilton,
92 U. S. 426, 430. And even where, in view of the state
of the art, the invention must be restricted to the form
shown and described by the patentee and cannot be extended to embrace a new form which is a substantial departure therefrom, it is nevertheless infringed by a device
in which there is no substantial departure from the description in the patent, but a mere colorable departure
therefrom. Compare Duff v. Sterling Pump Co., 107 U. S.
636, 639.
The fact that, as the Dent device makes two reciprocal
changes in the form of the Winters and Crampton structure, one by the insertion of the lug on the keeper head,
and the other in the shortened upper arm of the latch

COLGATE v. UNITED STATES.
30

Stalement of the Case.

lever, and one alone of these changes cannot be substituted in the Winters and Crampton structure without the
other, so as to make it operative, is plainly insufficient to
avoid the infringement.
Nor is the infringement avoided, under the controlling
weight of the undisputed facts, by any presumptive validity that may attach to the Schrader patent by reason
of its issuance after the Winters and Crampton patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit in the Sanitary case is affirmed; and the
decree of the Circuit Cout of Appeals for the Third Circuit in the Dent case is reversed.
No. 4 Affirmed.
No. 14 Reversed.

COLGATE, ADMINISTRATOR, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRQM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 74.

Jurisdictional Statement Submitted October 14, 1929.Decided November 4, 1929.

Under a Special Jurisdictional Act aproved March 3, 1927, (44 Stat.
1807,) which referred back to the Court of Claims for rendition of
a judgment certain findings of fact theretofore made by it and
reported to Congress, and provided for an " appeal" to this Court
by either party " upon or from any conclusion of law or judgment,
from which appeals now lie in other cases," the r~view intended was
the usual method of review at the date of the Special Act, which
was and is by application for a writ of certiorari, and not a technical appeal. P. 45.

under a Special Jurisdictional Act from a judgment for the Government rendered by the Coui't of Claims
on a claim against the United States for alleged patent
infringement. A petition for certiorari had been denied.
See post, p. 553.
APPEAL

