LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

173

Argument for Petitioner.

LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 49.

Argued December 4, 5, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. Ports in the Canal Zone are to be regarded as foreign ports within
the meaning of Rev. Stats. § 4009, U. S. Code, Title 39, § 654,
dealing with the compensation allowable for transportation of mail,
by United States ships, between the United States and "any
foreign port." P. 177.
So held because of a long continued legislative and administrative
construction of the section in its application to the Canal Zone,
and without regard to whether under the treaty of cession titular
sovereignty over the Zone remains in the Republic of Panama.
2. in case of ambiguity, a construction of a statute by the department charged with its execution should be favored by the courts,
and where such construction has been acted on for a number of
years they Will look with disfavor upon any sudden change whereby
parties who have contracted with the Government on the faith
of it may be prejudiced.' P. 182.
66 Ct. Cls. 679, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 831, to review a judgment dismissing a claim for a balance due the Steamship Company for transporting mails.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Messrs. William B.

King and George R. Shields were on the brief, for petitioner.
The ports of the Canal Zone are " foreign" within the
meaning and for the purposes of the mail transportation
statute, Rev. Stats. §4009.
Article II of the Panama Treaty grants " in perpetuity the use, occupation and control" of the Canal Zone for

designated purposes and Article III grants all the rights,
power and authority within the Zone, "which the United
States would possess and exercise if it were the sovereign

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

280 U. S.

of the territory." Article XIV provides an annual payment, quasi rent. This is obviously very different in legal
theory and in ultimate possibility, however it may be in
present practice, from transferring all sovereign power to
the United States. It leaves the Canal Zone in a different
category from Hawaii, Porto Rico, and the Philippines,
where sovereignty was ceded. Joint Resolution of July
7, 1898, 30 Stat. 750; treaty proclaimed April 11, 1899,
30 Stat. 1755, 1756.
This difference is strongly accentuated in the series of
statutes enumerated in the opinion below, where special
words were repeatedly used to include the Canal Zone
within their provisions or within the term "United
States" or "Territory of the United States" or "Territory."
Three departments-Justice, Labor, and Treasurybesides the Post Office Department and the General Accounting Office, treat the Canal Zone when despribed
in United States statutes as coming under the head of
"foreign " territory. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S.
760; United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S. 236; Schell's
Executors v. Fauchg, 138 U. S. 562; Alabama G. S. R.
Co. v. United States, 142 U. S. 615; United States v.
Minnesota, 270 U. S. 181.
Assistant Attorney General Sisson, with whom Solicitor
General Hughes and Messrs. George C. Butte, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, and Louis R. Mehlinger were on the brief, for the United States.
Under the provisions of the treaty between the Republic of Panama and the United States, the cities of Cristobal and Balboa in the Canal Zone are ports of the United
States and 'the waters of the Panama Canal are waters
of the United States.
The executive and judicial branches of the Government
of the United States have always exercised, and are now

LUCKEN BACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
173

175

Argument for the United States.

exercising, the powers and rights of sovereignty within the
Canal Zone.
Ever since it was acquired, the Canal Zone has been
considered and treated by the legislative branch of the
Government as a possession of the United States and not
as a foreign country.
The contention that the Canal Zone ports are not ports
of the United States, but are " foreign ports" within the
meaning of § 4009 of the Revised Statutes, is not supported by the provisions of Articles II and III of the
treaty or by the course of legislation in Congress since the
Canal Zone was.acquired by the United States.
The fact that certain officials of the United States have
dealt with the Canal Zone on a basis which does not
recognize it as a possession of the United States is not
conclusive of its status as a territorial possession of the
United States.
There can be no question that the Canal Zone was
acquired and is held by the United States under a perpetual grant which, for all practical purposes, conferred
upon and vested in the United States all the rights, power,
and authority of a sovereign, and that the United States
has exercised full sovereign rights over the Canal Zone
ever since the strip of land was acquired.
All doubt as to the character of the title of the United
States in and to the Canal Zone has been conclusively
removed by the decision of this Court in the case of
Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24.
An unauthorized and illegal practice prevailing among
officers of the Government, no matter how long continued,
can never ripen into a binding usage. Peirce v. United
States, 1 Ct. Cls. 270; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall.
666; Houghton v. Payne, 194 U.. S. 88.
The Act of July 3, 1926, 44 Stat. 900, amending § 4009
Rev. Stats., contains no provision which even impliedly
makes it retroactive. White v. United States, 191 U. S.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

545; United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546; U. S. Fidelity
Co. v. Struthers Wells Co., 209 U. S. 306; Cox v. Hart,
260 U. S. 427.
In the absence of a contract specifying the rates to be
paid for the services, the petitioner is entitled to no more
than what they are reasonably worth. United States v.
Moore, 95 U. S. 760; United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S.
236; Alabama G. S. R. Co. v. United States, 25 Ct. Cls.
30; McCann v. United States, 18 Ct. Cls. 445; United
States v. Jones, 18 How. 92.

Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
nounced by MR. JUsTICE VAN DEVANTER.

TAFr,

an-

This was a suit in the Court of Claims by the Luckenbach Steamship Company, petitioner, against the United
States to recover $30,370.94 claimed by the petitioner as
a balance due for transporting mails of the United States,
in steamships of United States registry, between ports of
the United States and ports in the Canal Zone, from December 1, 1925, to June 30, 1926. Judgment went against
the petitioner, 66 C. Cls. 679, and a petition to this Court
for a review on certiorari was granted.
That the petitioner rendered the service stated and did
so at the request of the Postmaster General is not questioned. The only matter in dispute is the true measure
of compensation. The Postmaster General allowed the
sum of $82,851.62 and transmitted approved vouchers
therefor to'the General Accounting Office-for direct settlement; but that office reduced the allowance to $52,480.68
and caused this reduced sum to be paid to the petitioner.
Thereupon suit was brought for the balance.
The. Postmaster General in making his allowance proceeded on the theor* that the compensation was to be
determined according to § 4009 of the Revised Statutes;
but the General Accounting Office regarded that section
as inapplicable. If the section Was applicable, the Post-

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

177

Opinion of the Court.

173

master General's allowance was right and should have
been given effect by the Court of Claims.
Section 4009, which originally was part of the Act of
June 8, 1872, c. 335, § 269, 17 Stat. 316, consolidating and
amending the statutes relating to the Post Office Department, reads as follows:
"See. 4009. For transporting the mail between the
United States and any foreign port, or between ports of
the United States touching at a foreign port, the
Postmaster-General may allow as compensation, if by a
United States steamship, any sum not exceeding the sea
and United States inland postage; and if by a foreign
steamship or by a sailing-vessel, any sum not exceeding
the sea-postage, on the mail so transported."
The specific point of difference between the Postmaster
General and the General Accounting Office was that the
former treated the ports in the Canal Zone as foreign
ports within the meaning of that section, while the latter
regarded them as domestic ports.
The rights possessed by the United States within the
Canal Zone were acquired from the Republic of Panama
under the treaty of November 18, 1903, 33 Stat. 2234.
The Zone has a width of ten miles and extends across the
Isthmus of Panama and into the sea at either end for a
distance of three marine miles from mean low water mark;
but the cities of Panama and Colon and the harbors adjacent to them, although within the outer boundaries of
the Zone, are expressly excepted therefrom by the second
article of the treaty.
Whether the grant in the treaty amounts to a complete
cession of territory and dominion to the United States or is
so limited that it leaves at least titular sovereignty in the
Republic of Panama, is a question which has been the subject of 'diverging opinions 1 and is much discussed in the
1 20 Am. Journal International Law, pp. 120-122; Isthmian Highway, Miller, p. 221; Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24, 32-33.
81325 °-30-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1929,
Opinioi of the Court.

280 U. S.

briefs. But for the purposes of this case the construction
of the treaty in that regard need not be examined as an
original question;-and this because a long continued
course of legislative and administrative action has operated to require that the ports in the Canal Zone be reghrded as foreign ports within the meaning of § 4009.
By the Act of March 2, .1905, c. 1311, 33 Stat. 843; which
came within less than two years after the treaty, Congress
declared that the laws regulating the importation of merchandise and the entry of persons into the United States
from foreign countries should apply to and control the
importation of merchandise and the entry of persons from
the Canal Zone into any State or Territory of the United
States or the District of Columbia; and on September 8,
1909, 27 Op. Atty. Gen. 594, the Attorney General, in an
opinion given to the Secretary of War, held that the Canal
Zone was not a possession of the United States within the
meaning of the Tariff Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat.
11, imposing specified rates of duty upon various articles
when imported from a foreign country into the United
States or " into any of its possessions."
In 1911 the Postmaster General, being authorized by
an Act of March 3, 1891, c. 519, 26 Stat. 830, to arrange
for the transportation of mails in American steamships
between ports in the United States and foreign ports, submitted to the Attorney General the question whether, as
respects mails largely intended for the cities of Colon and
Panama, it would be within the letter and spirit of that
Act to arrange for the carrying of such mails from the
ports of New York and San Francisco to the government
docks at Cristobal and Balboa in the Canal Zone. The
Attorney General responded in the affirmative, saying,
29 Op. Atty. Gen. 194, 196:
"It appears from the papers transmitted by you that
it will be more convenient for the vessels contracting for

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
173

179

Opinion of the Court.

this mail service to use principally the Government docks,
which are being constructed at Cristobal on the Atlantic
side and Balboa on the Pacific side; and the question
arises whether by using these docks, which are in close
proximity to but outside the limits of the cities of Colon
and Panama and within the Canal Zone, the vessels would
be carrying mails to foreign ports. It is stated in this
connection that docking the large vessels at the cities of
Colon and Panama would result in serious loss of time,
and that the actual call at these places could be obviated
by the use of a tender to meet the vessels upon entering
the 'harbor adjacent to these ports' to receive and deliver
the mail in Colon and Panama, the vessels then proceeding to the Government docks at Cristobal and Balboa.
"It has been held that the purpose of the act of March
3, 1891, is ' td promote the carriage of the ocean mails in
ships of American register, and thereby to promote ocean
commerce in American bottoms,' and that this statute,
' designed to promote foreign commerce, is entitled to a
liberal construction, with a'vew of carrying out the purposeof its enactment.' (20 Op. 98, 101.)
"In my opinion, the service proposed is in substantial
compliance with the letter and spirit of the statute, as
being between 'ports of the United States' and 'ports of
foreign countries.' The word 'port' is not limited in its
application to the city which bears the same name, but
has been defined as including the entire harbor, within its
inclosures and projections of land, where ships take refuge
and seek shelter. [Citing authorities.] Construing the
word '.port' as synonymous with 'harbor' the vessels unquestionably would be carrying the mails to a foreign port
if they entered the harbor, since the treaty reserves to
Panama not only the cities of Panama and Colon, but also
'the harbors adjacent to said cities.' In any event, I
think that carrying the mails upon such vessels within

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

such close proximity to said cities that they might safely
be landed in a small boat would be a substantial compliance with the terms of the act."
By § 12 of an Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, 37 Stat.
569, Congress, while extending to the Canal Zone the laws
of the United States relating to extradition and the rendition of fugitives from justice, declared that for such purposes, "and such purposes only," the Zone should be
treated as an organized Territory of the United States,
and by § 9 of an Act of August 21, 1916, c.-371, 39 Stat.
529, Congress provided that the laws of the United States
relating to seamen of vessels of the United States when
"on foreign voyages" should apply to the seamen of all
vessels of the United States when in the Canal Zone.
In 1925, the Department of Labor, construing a provision in the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29,
39 Stat. 874, relating to seamen on board vessels arriving
in the United States from "any foreign port or place,"
ruled that the ports in the Canal Zone should be deemed
foreign ports in the sense of that Act, Par. 4, Rule 6,
Immigration Laws and Rules of 1925; and in 1926 the
Comptroller General held that, as ports in the Canal Zone
are considered foreign ports in the absence of special provision to the contrary, an alien seaman shipping on an
American vessel from a port in the Canal Zone is limited
in the matter of relief to such as may be extended to an
alien seaman shipping on an American vessel from a
foreign port. 5 Dec. Comp. Gen. 647.
True, there have been instances in which Congress specially provided that for particular purposes the Canal
Zone should be treated as a Territory or possession of the
United States. This is illustrated in the provision already
cited relating to extradition and the rendition of fugitives
from justice, and in the acts relating to the liability of
carriers by railroad for injuries suffered by their employes,

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
173

181

Opinion of the Court.

c. 149, 35 Stat. 5, to espionage, c. 30, title 13, 40 Stat. 231,
and to sabotage, c. 59, 40 Stat. 533. But the purposes for
which these special provisions were made were such that
nothing was subtracted thereby from the force of the provisions before mentioned wherein, for purposes connected
with importation, immigration and ocean transportation
between the United States and the Canal Zone, Congress
required that ports in the latter be regarded as foreign
ports.
For a period of years and continuously to December 1,
1925, the Postmaster General tendered to the petitioner
and the latter accepted for transportation in American
steamships, and so transported for the United States,
large quantities of mail between the United States and
ports in 'he Canal Zone; and for this service the petitioner
was paid the compensation intended by § 4009,-the Postmaster General and the accounting officers treating the
ports in the Canal Zone as foreign ports in the sense of
that section.
The service just described was continued without break
into and through the period here in controversy-December 1, 1925, to June 30, 1926-and the Postmaster General, still treating the Canal Zone ports as foreign ports,
allowed the same compensation as before. For this period,
and this alone, the accounting officers declined to regard
those ports as foreign ports. The service was continued
after the period in question and for this latel service the
Postmaster General and the accounting officers concurred
in allowing the compensation intended by § 4009, the
accounting officers resting their assent upon an Act of
Congress of July 3, 1926, c. 793, 44 Stat., Part 2, 900.
It thus appears, as was said by the Postmaster General
in a letter of July 23, .1926, to the petitioner, that the
Post Office Department from the outset and continuously
up to and through the period in question " considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

the service to the Canal Zone as being in the same
category as that to a foreign country" and approved compensation vouchers .on that basis.
This recitation of pertinent legislative and administrative action demonstrates that this case is one in which
we should apply the rule announced in United States v.
Alabama Southern R. Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621, where it was
said:
"We think the contemporaneous construction thus
given by the executive department of the government,
and continued for nine years through six different administrations of that department-a construction which,
though inconsistent with the literalism of the act, certainly consorts with the equities of the case-should be
considered as decisive in this suit. It is a settled doctrine
of this court that, in case of ambiguity, the judicial department will lean in favor of a construction given to a
statute by the department charged with the execution
of such statute, and, if such construction be acted upon
for a number of years, will look with disfavor upon any
sudden change, whereby parties who have contracted
with the government upon the faith of such construction
may be prejudiced."
Our conclusion also has obvious support in the Act of
July 3, 1926, supra, whereby § 4009 was reenacted in a
form which undoubtedly puts ports in the Canal Zone
on the same plane as foreign ports for the purposes of
that section. The committee reports relating to that
enactment show that it was particularly designed to meet
and avoid the adverse ruling of the General Accounting
Office, and to continue the prior course of' action respecting the measure of compensation to be paid for carrying
mails between the United States and the Canal Zone;
that it was intended to recognize, as the prior practice
did, that for "all practical purposes" such mails "are
foreign mails "; and that the purpose of the act was not to

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
173

Syllabus.

alter the rates paid to American ships, "but to clarify
the law." House Report No. 1305, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.;
Senate Report No. 1096, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; House
Report No. 1788, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.; Annual Report
Postmaster General, 1927, p. 46.
We hold, therefore, that on the findings of the Court
of Claims set forth in the record, judgment should have
been given the petitioner for the balance of $30,370.94.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. JACKSON

ET AL.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

Argued December 5, 1929.

Decided January 6, 1930.

1. An Indian who, being a ward of the United States, has entered land

under the Homestead Law, as permitted by the Act of July 4,
1884, c. 180, 23 Stat. 96, and, pursuant to the latter enactment, has
received a "trust patent" under which the title is to be held in
trust for him by the United States for twenty-five years and at
the expiration of that period is to be conveyed to him discharged of
the trust, has no vested right which would be unconstitutionally
impaired by an enlargement of the period of restriction. P. 189.
2. The United States, in virtue of its guardianship over the Indians,
may during the period of restriction provide for its extension. Id.
3. The Act of June 21, 1906, 34 Stat. 326, which provides "That prior
to the expiration of the trust period of any Indian allottee to whom
a trust or other patent containing restrictions upon alienation has
been or shall be issued under any law or treaty the President may
in his discretion continue such restrictions on alienation for such
period as he may deem best .

.

."

applies to Indians who, under

the Act of July 4, 1884, supra, have entered public lands as homesteaders. P. 191.
4. Nothing herein contained must be taken as intimating that the
Act of June 21, 1906, has any application to the acquisition of
homestead rights under the general homestead laws by persons
of the Indian race who have acquired or seek to acquire such
rights as citizens rather than as Indian wards of the United
States. P. 197.

