320

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

JOHNSON v. U. S. SHIPPING BOARD EMERGENCY
FLEET CORPORATION.'
U. S. SHIPPING BOARD EMERGENCY FLEET
CORPORATION ET AL. v. LUSTGARTEN.
FEDERAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD., ET AL. V. U. S.
SHIPPING BOARD MERCHANT FLEET CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 5, 32, 56, and 123.

Argued November 26, 27, 1929.-Decided
January 6, 1930.

1. The Suits in Admiralty Act provides the exclusive remedy against
the United States or the Fleet Corporation for maritime causes
of action arising out of the possession and operation of merchant
vessels and precludes suits against the United States under the
Tucker Act and actions at law in state or federal courts against
the Fleet Corporation or other agents, for the enforcement of
such causes of action. P. 325.
2. The following-described proceedings were therefore without
jurisdiction:
(1) An action at law begun in a state court by an individual
against the Fleet Corporation to recover for injuries received by
the plaintiff when, in returning to the shore from a vessel on
which he was seeking employment as a seaman and which was
owned by the United States and operated for it by the defendant,
he fell from the gangplank and was injured. P. 322.
'Act of February 11, 1927, § 1, c. 104, 44 Stat. 10S3, U. S. C.
Title 46, § 810a, changed the name of the United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation to United States Shipping Board
Merchant Fleet Corporation.

JOHNSON v. FLEET CORPORATION.
320

Counsel for Parties.

(2) An action in the District Court against the Fleet Corporation and an operating agent, by a seaman, to recover damages for
injuries sustained by him while serving on a merchant vessel owned
by the United States, the complaint alleging (a) negligent failure
to provide a safe place in which to work, and (b) wrongful refusal after the injury to provide medical treatment and rest. Id.
(3) A suit in the District Court against the United States, under
the Tucker Act, for breach of contracts evidenced by bills of
lading issued by the master of a vessel owned by the United
States and operated through the Shipping Board and an agentthe breach consisting in failure to deliver goods, which were lost
or damaged on the voyage. P. 323.
(4) Actions against the Fleet Corporation, begun in a state
court, one by underwriters, the other by cargo-owners, to recover
for loss and damage of cargo caused by negligence of the defendant,
the cargo having been shipped on a merchant vessel owned by the
United States and operated by the defendant. P. 324.
24 F. (2d) 963; 28 id. 1014; 30 id. 254, reversed.
30 F. (2d) 946, affirmed.
THESE

cases are separately and succinctly stated in

the opinion.
Messrs. Silas B. Axtell and Myron Scott, the latter pro
hac vice by special leave of Court, with whom Messrs.
Charles A. Ellis, Challen B.

Ellis, and

C. Alexander

Capron were on the briefs, for Johnson and Lustgarten.
Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. F. Herbert
Prem was on the brief, for the Federal Sugar Refining

Company.
Mr. John C. Crawley for the Royal Insurance Company

et al.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Hughes, Assistant
Attorney General Farnum, and Messrs. J. Frank Staley

and Chauncey G. Parker,General Counsel, U. S. Shipping
Board, were on the briefs, for the United States and the

Fleet Corporation.

81325"--30-21.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.

No. 5.
August 1, 1920, petitioner was an unemployed seaman.
The steamship Jacksonville, then lying in the port of
Jacksonville, Florida, was a merchant vessel owned by
the United States and operated for it by the Fleet Corporation. On that day, petitioner went aboard to seek
employment and, when returning to the shore, fell from
the gangplank and suffered serious injuries. This is an
action at law brought by him in April, 1923, against
the Fleet Corporation in the Supreme Court of New
York to recover damages for such injuries. The 'complaint alleges that, due to the negligence of the defendant's officers and employees, the gangplank was insecure
and that plaintiff's injuries were caused thereby. The
defendant removed the case to the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York. Its answer
denies the negligence charged in the complaint and alleges that plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence;
that, whatever his rights, plaintiff's remedy is provided
exclusively by the Suits in Admiralty Act, approved
March 9, 1920, 41 Stat. 525, 46 U. S. C., § 741 et seq.,
and that his claim is barred because, as appears by the
complaint, the action was not commenced within the two
years prescribed by that Act. The District Court submitted the case to a jury and charged that, if guilty of
contributory negligence, plaintiff could not recover.
There was a verdict for defendant and the judgment
thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
24 F. (2d) 963.
No. 32.
March 6, 1926, the steamship Coelleda was a merchant
vessel owned by the United States and operated for it

by the Navigation Company as agent pursuant to an

JOHNSON v. FLEET CORPORATION.
320

323

Opinion of the Court.

agreement made by the United States acting through
the Shipping Board represented by the Fleet Corporation. Merchant Marine Act, 1920, §§ 12, 35, 41 Stat.
993, 1007, 46 U. S. C., §§ 871, 886. Respondent was a
seaman employed thereon. This is an action at law
brought by hin in the United States District Court,
Southern District of New York, against the Fleet Corporation and the Navigation Company to recover damages for injuries alleged to have been sustained by him
while in that service. The complaint alleges two causes
of action: (1) that, due to the negligent failure of defendants to furnish him a safe place in which to work,
plaintiff was severely injured; and (2) that, being injured and in need of medical treatment and rest, he was
refused such treatment by the master and officers of the
ship and was compelled to continue to work. The answer
of each defendant denies the negligence and wrongful
acts charged in the complaint and alleges that, whatever
his rights, plaintiff's remedy is provided exclusively by
the Suits in Admiralty Act, and that therefore this action cannot be maintained. The trial court dismissed the
first cause of action; and, after denying defendants' motion that a verdict in their favor be directed, submitted
the second to a jury. There was a verdict for plaintiff,
and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
No. 56.
The United States owned and, through the Shipping
Board and West India Steamship Company as agent,
operated the merchant vessel Cerosco. In February, 1920,
at Sagua La Grande, Cuba, sugar was delivered to the
vessel for transportation to New York and delivery there
in accordance with bills of lading issued by the master.
The vessel arrived in New York in the month following
but, because some of the sugar was lost and some was

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

damaged on the voyage, she failed to make delivery as
agreed. January 5, 1924, this action was brought by
petitioner in the District Court for the Southern District
of New York against the United States under the Tucker
Act, Judicial Code, § 24(20), 28 U. S. C., § 41(20), to
recover damages-less than ten thousand dollars-for
failure to perform the contracts evidenced by the bills
of lading. The trial court gave judgment for the defendant. The Circuit Court of Appeals, being of opinion that
the limitations prescribed by the Suits in Admiralty Act
governed, held that the action was too late and affirmed
the judgment.. 30 F. (2d) 254.
No. 123.
The steamship Eastern Glade was a merchant vessel
owned by the United States and operated by the Fleet
Corporation. Merchandise was delivered to the vessel
at New York for transportation to various destinations
and delivery upon the orders of the consignees. Two
actions, one by underwriters and the other by owners,
were brought against the Fleet Corporation in the Supreme Court of New York to recover for loss and damage of cargo alleged to have been caused by the negligence
of the defendant. The causes of action accrued in December, 1922. The suits were not commenced until September 7, 1928, long after the expiration of the period
of limitations fixed by the Suits in Admiralty Act but
within the six years allowed by the New York statute.
Civil Practice Act, § 48. Defendant removed the suits
to the District Court for the Southern District of New
York where they were consolidated. The case was tried
by the court without a jury upon the complaints and a
stipulation which provided that defendant should be
deemed by appropriate pleadings to have raised the ob.
jection that the Suits in Admiralty Act affords an exclusive remedy for all causes of action for which a libel

JOHNSON v. FLEET CORPORATION.
320

325

Opinion of the Court.

in admiralty may be filed thereunder. The court held
that the remedy provided by the Act is exclusive and dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction. '30 F. (2d) 946.
Plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit. We granted this writ before the determination of the case in that court.
In each of these cases there is involved the question
whether the Suits in Admiralty Act excludes the remedy
invoked by plaintiff.
Section 1, in view of the provision made for libel in
personam, prevents the arrest or seizure by judicial
process of any vessel owned by, in the possession of or
operated by or for the United States or any corporation
in which the United States or its representatives own the
entire'outstanding capital stock. Section 2 declares that,
in cases where if such vessel were privately owned or
operated a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained
"at the time of the commencement of the action herein
provided for;" a libelin personam may be brought against
the United States or against such corporation, provided
that such vessel is employed as a merchant vessel. The
pertinent provisions of the Act are printed in the margin
of our opinion in Fleet Corporationv. Rosenberg Bros.,
276 U. S. 202, 209, et seq.
Prior to the passage of the Act, merchant vessels of
the United States were subject to seizure. § 9, Shipping
Act, September 7, 1916, 39 Stat. 730. The Lake Monroe,
250 U. S. 246. And the Fleet Corporation was liable to
be sued in state or federal courts on causes of action arising out of the operation of such ships. Cf. Sloan Shipyards v. U. S. Fleet Corp., 258 U. S. 549. The Act relieved the United States of the inconvenience resulting
from such seizures and gave remedy by libel in personam
against the United States and such corporations. Blamberg Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452, 458. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S

that is not its only purpose. It authorizes libel in personam where there is nothing on which recovery in ren
could be had. Eastern Transp. Co. v. United States, 272
U. S. 675. And it furnishes the exclusive remedy in adiiralty against the United States and such corporations
on maritime causes of action arising out of the possession and operation of merchant vessels. In Fleet Corporation v. Rosenberg Bros., supra, we said (p. 213):
"It provides a remedy, in admiralty for adjudicating
and satisfying all maritime claims arising out of the possession or operation of merchant vessels of the United
States and the corporations, in which the obligation of
the United States is substituted for that of the corporations. To that end it furnishes a complete system of administration, applying to the United States and the corporations alike, by which uniformity is established as to
venue, service of process, rules of decision and procedure,
rate ofinterest, and periods of limitation; and not only
provides that the judgments against the corporations, as
well as those against the United States, shall be paid out
of money in the Treasury, but repeals the inconsistent
provisions of all other Acts. In view of these provisions
of the Act we cannot doubt that it was intended -to furnish the exclusive remedy in admiralty against the United
States and the corporations on all maritime causes of
action arising out of the possession or operation of merchant vessels. And nothing in its legislative history indicates a different purpose. It follows that after the
passage of the Act no libel in admiralty could be maintained against the United States or the corporations on
such causes of action except in accordance with its
"
provisions
On the facts above stated it is clear that each of !he
causes of action arose out of the possession or operation
of a merchant Vessel by or for the United States. Directly or mediately, the money required to pay a judg-

BREWSTER v. GAGE.
320

Syllabus.

ment against any of the defendants in these cases would
come out of the United States. It is the real party affected in all of these actions. § 8, Suits in Admiralty
Act; 46 U. S. C., § 748. Cf. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185
U. S. 373, 387.
The analysis of the Act and the reasons on which rests
our decision in Fleet Corporation v. Rosenberg Bros.
apply here. Putting the United States and the Fleet Corporation on the same footing and providing remedies to
be exclusive in admiralty would not serve substantially
to establish uniformity if suits under the Tucker Act and
in the Court of Claims be allowed against the United
States and actions at law in state and federal courts be
permitted against the Fleet Corporation or other agents
for enforcement of the maritime causes of action covered
by the Act. Such a failure of purpose on the part of the
Congress is not readily to be inferred. We conclude that
the remedies given by the Act are exclusive in all cases
where a libel might be filed under it. As shown above,
§ 2 authorizes a libel in personam against the United
States or against the Fleet Corporation in each of these
cases. It follows that on disclosure-whether by pleading
or proof-of the facts aforesaid, the District Court should
have dismissed each case for lack of jurisdiction.
Judgments in Nos. 5, 32 and 56 reversed and
causes remanded with directions to dismiss.
Judgment in No. 123 affirmed.
BREWSTER v. GAGE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 61.

Argued December 6, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. Under the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921, which provide,, §§ 202
(a), that for the purpose of ascertaining the gain. derived or loss
sustained from the sale of property "acquired" on or after March

