WABASH RY. CO. v. BARCLAY.
183

Syllabus.

Department of the Interior in construing statutes which
refer only to Indian "allottees," or Indian " allotments."
as applicable also to Indians claiming under the homestead laws, must be considered as "equivalent to consent
to continue the practice until the power was revoked by
some subsequent action by Congress." United States v.
Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 481.
Nothing herein contained must be taken as intimating
that the Act of June 21, 1906, has any application to the
acquisition of homestead rights under the generaf homestead laws by persons of the Indian race who have
acquired or seek to acquire such rights as citizens
rather than as Indian wards of the United States. This
distinction is pointed out in Case of Frank Bergeron,
30 L. D. 375.
Both questions answered, "Yes."
WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. BARCLAY
ET AL.

AUSTIN v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE) CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 37 and 38.

Argued December 2, 1929.
1930.

Decided January 6,

When the net profits of a corporation out of which a dividend might
have been declared for the preferred stock are justifiably applied
by the directors to capital improvements, the claim of the stock
for that year is gone, if by the terms of the articles of incorporation
and the certificates the preferential dividends are not to be cunmilative. The fact that there were profits in that year out of which
dividends might have been (but were not) declared does not
entitle such stock to a correspondingly greater preference over
other stock when the profits of a later year are to be divided.
P. 203.
30 F. (2d) 260, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioners.

280 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 828, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining a bill brought against
the Railway Company and its directors by holders of
preferred shares to control the apportionment of dividends
as between the plaintiffs and shareholders of other classes.
The District Court had dismissed the bill.
Mr. CharlesE. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Winslow S.
Pierce, F. C. Nicodemus, Jr., Gerald V. Hollins, George R.
Leslie, Earle Krapp, Winthrop Taylor, Myron S. Hall,
H. W. Cohu, La Motte Cohu, Arnold L. Davis, and William FraserDickson were on the brief, for petitioners.
In the absence of language creating a different obligation, the holders of a non-cumulative preferred stock who
do not become entitled by appropriate declaration to dividends for a particular fiscal year, have no right to require
that dividends for such year be added to the dividends
declared for a subsequent year. Bailey v. Railroad Co., 17
Wall. 96; New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Nickals, 119
U. S. 296; ContinentalIns. Co. v. United States, 259 U. S.
156.
That the mere realization of net earnings in non-dividend or partial dividend years should result in the creation of a dividend credit giving cumulative rights pro
tanto to non-cumulative stock is, we submit, an idea developed recently and directly traceable to a misinterpretation of decisions which do no more than give effect to
the special statutory law and policy of the State of New
Jersey. Bassett v. Cast Iron Pipe Co., 74 N. J. Eq. 668,
aff'd 75 N. J. Eq. 539; Moran and Day v. Cast Iron Pipe
Co., 95 N. J. Eq. 389; Moran v. Cast Iron Pipe Co., 96
N. J. Eq. 698; Day v. Cast Iron Pipe Co., 96 N. J. Eq.
736. Cf. 23 Columbia L. Rev. 358; 27 id. 53; 34 Yale
L. J. 657; 11 Va. L. Rev. 553; 74 U. Pa. L. Rev. 605; 14
Cornell L. Q. 341; 38 Yale L. J. 1003; Cook, Corporations,
8th ed., p. 3273; Black's Law Dictionary; Norwich Water
Co. v. Southern R. Co., 11 Va. L. Reg. (N. S.) 203.

WABASH RY. CO. v. BARCLAY.
197

Argument for Respondents.

The language of the Preferred A stock contract of
Wabash Railway Company definitely excludes a construction under which the investment of earnings in improvements and equipment or working capital in non-dividend
or partial dividend years operates as a permanent restraint
against the distribution of earnings of subsequent years.
Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with whom Messrs. William R.
Begg and Ellis Ames Ballard were on the brief, for respondents.
The point of difference between cumulative and noncumulative preferred dividends relates to the right of the
stockholders to receive dividends for any year in which
the company has failed to earn said dividends, either in
whole or in part. Cumulative preferred dividends must
be paid before junior dividends, regardless of the year in
which they are earned. This is not true of non-cumulative preferred dividends. If they are not earned in any
year, or to the extent that they are not earned in any year,
the stockholders are not entitled to receive dividends for
that year. The deficiency can not be made up out of
the surplus earnings of any subsequent year. Non-cumulative preferred dividends, however, to the extent that
they are earned year by year, must be paid before junior
dividends are paid. This difference between cumulative
and non-cumulative dividends is well settled by the
authorities. Machen, Corporations, 1908 ed., ยง 551;
Palmer's Company Precedents, Pt. I, 11th ed., p. 812;
Palgrave's Dictionary of Political Economy, Vol. I, pp.
606-607; Clark and Marshall, Corporations, ยง 529-d;
Staples v. Eastman Co., 65 L. J. Ch. N. S. 682, L. R.
2 Ch. Div. 303. Day v. Cast Iron Pipe Co., 95 N. J.
Eq. 389. See also, as to definition of " non-cumulative" dividend, New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Nickals.
119 U. S. 296; Dent v. London Tramways Co., L. R. 16
Ch. Div. 344; Belfast & M. L. R. Co. v. Belfast, 77 Me.
445, s. c. 79 Me. 411; Fletcher's Cyc. of Corporations, vol.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondents.

280 U. S.

6, ยง 3754; Berle, Studies in the Law of Corporation
Finance, c. V; 23 Columbia L. Rev. 358; 11 Va. L. Rev.
553; 74 U.-Pa. L. Rev. 605.
A non-cumulative preferred dividend for any year to
the extent that it is earned in that year is no more inchoate
and unenforceable than a cumulative dividend. A noncumulative preferred dividend, to the extent that it is
earned in a particular year, is not lost if not declared
within the year, but forms the basis for a dividend credit
to the extent that it is earned. No junior dividends may
be paid out of the earnings of the subsequent year or the
general surplus or any other fund until after the Preferred
A dividend credit is first satisfied.
The Preferred A dividend is "preferential" but not
guaranteed or made a charge upon any earnings, any more
than a cumulative dividend is made a charge on earnings.
Each fiscal year is a separate accounting period to determine the amount of the non-cumulative dividends which
the Preferred A stockholders are entitled to receive ii and
for that year, but not for any other purpose. The preference is not limited to dividends which may be declared by
the Board in the exercise of its ordinary discretion. The
dividend right is given by the contract, not by any dividend declaration. The contract provided that the Preferred A stock " is entitled to receive preferential dividends in each year."
By the certificate of incorporation, before any of the
preferential B dividends may be paid, the Preferred A
stockholders are entitled to receive all of their preferential A dividends, not only those for the current year, but,
in addition, those earned in prior years which still remain
unpaid. It is true that the stock certificate issued to represent the Preferred A stock uses the word "dividend" instead of the plural, but that was evidently a clerical error.
If the Board divert the earnings of any year, which
they might use to pay dividends, to pay for permanent

WABASH RY. CO. v. BARCLAY.
197

Opinion of the Court.

improvements, the result of such action by the Board is a
postponement only in the payment of the dividends and
the right of priority in payment still remains intact.
If inequitable results would follow from the adoption
of a particular interpretation of the contract, the Court
will consider carefully whether there is not some more
reasonable interpretation. Henry v. Great Northern R.
Co., 1 deG. & J. 606.
The following cases were compared and classified: (A)
New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Nickals, 119 U. S. 296;
Continental Ins. Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 156; Burk
v. Ottawa Gas & E. Co., 87 Kan. 6; (B) Wood v. Lary,
47 Hun. 550, s. c. 124 N. Y. 87; Bassett v. Cast Iron Pipe
Co., 74 N. J. Eq. 668, s. c. 75 N. J. Eq. 539; Moran v. Cast
Iron Pipe Co., 95 N. J. Eq. 389, s. c. 96 N. J. Eq. 698; Day
v. Cast Iron Pipe Co., 95 N. J. Eq. 389, s. c. 96 N. J. Eq.
736; Collins v. Portland Elec. Co., 7 F. (2d) 221, s. c. 12
F. (2d) 671; (C) Norwich Water Co. v. Sodthern R. Co.,
11 Va. L. Reg. (N. S.) 203.
MR. JUSTICE HoIMEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a bill by holders of first preferred stock (called
Class A) of the Wabash Railway Company, to have it declared that holders of such stock are entitled to receive
preferential dividends up to five per cent. for each fiscal
year from 1915 to 1926 inclusive to the extent that such
dividends were earned in such fiscal years but were unpaid, before any dividends are paid upon other stock; and
that the Company may be enjoined from paying dividends
upon preferred stock B or common stock unless it shall
first have paid such preferential dividends of five per cent.
to the extent that the Company has had net earnings
available for the payment and that such dividends remain
unpaid. The case was heard upon bill and answer. The
bill was dismissed by the District Court but the decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one of the
Judges dissenting, 30 F. (2d) 260, and a writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court. 279 U. S.828.
The railway company was organized in 1915 under the
laws of Indiana with three classes of capital stock: shares
of the par value of $100, of Five Per Cent. Profit Sharing
Preferred Stock A; shares of the same par value of Five
Per Cent. Convertible Preferred Stock B; and shares of
the same par value of Common Stock. At the date of the
bill there were 693,330.50 shares of A, 24,211.42 B and
666,977.75 common. From 1915 to 1926 there were net
earnings in most of the years but for a number of years
no dividend, or less than five per cent., was paid on Class
A, while $16,000,000 net earnings that could have been
used for the payment were expended upon improvements
and additions to the property and equipment of the road.
It is not denied that the latter expenditures were proper
and were made in good faith, or that the money could not
have been applied to dividends consistently with the duties of the Road. The Company now is more prosperous
and proposes to pay dividends not only upon A but also
on B and the common stock, but the plaintiffs say that it
is not entitled to do so until it has paid to them unpaid
preferential dividends for prior fiscal years in which it had
net earnings that might have been applied to them but
were not.
The obligations assumed by the Company appear in its
instrument of incorporation and in the certificates of Preferred Stock A in substantially the same words: "The
holders of the Five Per Cent. Profit Sharing Preferred
Stock A of the Company shall be entitled to receive preferential dividends in each fiscal year up to the amount of
five per cent. before any dividends shall be paid upon any
other stock of the Company, but such preferential dividends shall be non-cumulative." In the event of a liquidation the holders " shall be entitled to be paid in full out

WABASH RY. CO. v. BARCLAY.
197

Opinion of the Court.

of the assets of the Company the par amount of their
stock and all dividends thereon declared and unpaid before any amount shall be paid out of said assets to the
holders of any other stock of the Company." By the
plain meaning of the words the holders " are not entitled,
of right, to dividends, payable out of the net profits accruing in any particular year, unless the directors of the Company formally declare, or ought to declare, a dividend
payable out of such profits "; in the first instance at least
a matter for the directors to determine. New York, Lake
Erie & Western R. Co. v. Nickals, 119 U. S. 296, 307.
We believe that it has been the common understanding
of lawyers and business men that in the case of non-cumulative stock entitled only to a dividend if declared out of
annual profits, if those profits are justifiably applied by
the directors to capital improvements and nodividend is
declared within the year, the claim for that year is gone
and cannot be asserted at a later date. But recently
doubts have been raised that seem to have affected the
minds of the majority below. We suppose the ground
for the doubts is the probability that the directors will be
tempted to abuse their power, in the usual case of a corporation controlled by the holders of the common stock.
Their interest would lead them to apply earnings to improvement of the capital rather than to make avoidable
payments of dividends which they do not share. But
whether the remedies available in case of such a breach of
duty are adequate or not, and apart from the fact that the
control of the Wabash seems to have been in Class A, the
class to which the plaintiffs belong, the law, as remarked
by the dissenting Judge below, "has long advised them
that their rights depend upon the judgment of men
subject to just that possible bias."
When a man buys stock instead of bonds he takes a
greater risk in the business. No one suggests that he has
a right to dividends if there are no net earnings. But the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

investment presupposes that the business is to go on, and
therefore even if there are net earnings, the holder of
stock, preferred as well as common, is entitled to have a
dividend declared only out of such part of them as can
be applied to dividends consistently with a wise administration of a going concern. When, as was the case here,
the dividends in each fiscal year were declared to be noncumulative and oo net income could be so applied within
the fiscal year referred to in the certificate, the right for
that year was gone.
If the right is extended further
upon some conception of policy, it is enlarged beyond the
meaning of the contract and the common and reasonable
understanding of men.
Decree reversed.
THE FARMERS LOAN & TRUST COMPANY, EXECUTOR, v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 26.

Argued October 30, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. The maxim mobilia sequuntur personarn applies to negotiable
bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by a State or her
municipality, as to ordinary choses in action, and they have situs
for taxation-in this case a testamentary transfer tax-at the
domicile of their owner. P. 209.
2. When negotiable bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by a
State or her municipality and not used in business in that State,
are owned, at the time of his death, by a person domiciled in
another State in which they are kept, an attempt of the State in
which they were issued to tax their transfer by inheritance is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. Blackstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189, overruled. P. 209.
3. Existing conditions imperatively demand protection of choses in
action against multiplied taxation, whether following misapplication of some legal fiction or conflicting theories concerning the
sovereign's right to exact contributions. P. 212.
4. Taxation is an intensely practical matter and laws in respect of
it should be construed and applied with a view of avoiding, so
far as possible, unjust and oppressive consequences. Id.

