420

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

enforcement of the obligations imposed. Here, the taxpayers kept their accounts on the accrual basis and elected
to make their returns accordingly. They cannot complain because an item therein was changed so as to conform with admitted facts. If their returns had been made
on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements certainly they would have been subject to correction for
errors without changing the basis; and the same thing is
true of returns framed upon an accrual basis.
United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 437, 440, 443,
considered the meaning of Sec. 12 (a) and 13 (d), Act
of 1916, and sustained the action of the Commissioner
who had reassessed according to an adjusted return originally made upon the accrual basis.
We need not discuss the question whether under any
circumstances the taxable income of a manufacturing or
mercantile corporation can be ascertained without reference to inventory values.. Certainly, in most instances
where the taxpayer carries on an extensive business this
cannot be done.
The challenged judgments are reversed. The causes
will be remanded to the District Court for appropriate
action in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

TAGG BROS. & MOORHEAD
STATES

ET AL.

v. UNITED

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 45. Argued October 23, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. The Packers and Stockyards Act of August 15,. 1921, § 301,
declares that persons engaged in the business of buying and selling
in interstate commerce livestock at a stockyard on a commission
basis are "market agencies." Section 310 provides that when-

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

421

Syllabus.

ever, after a full hearing, the Secretary of Agriculture is of opinion
that any rate "of a stockyard owner or market agency" is unreasonable, he may (a) fix the charge to be thereafter observed
and (b) make an order that "such owner or operator" shall not
thereafter " collect any rate or charge for the furnishing of stockyard services other than the rate or charge so prescribed." Held,
construing these with other provisions of the Act, and with regard
to its legislative and executive interpretation, that market agencies
are within § 310 (b), the term "operator " being an apt designation
of such an agency. P. 435.
2. The market agencies at the Omaha Stockyards are owned by
corporations, partnerships and individuals, distinct from the
corporation owning the stockyards. Their specific work does
not require them to invest much capital, but involves the use
of space and facilities in the stockyards, the charges for which,
paid to the stockyards corporation, are ultimately borne by their
customers. They perform an indispensable service as brokers in
the buying and selling of livestock in interstate commerce; enjoy
a substantial monopoly of that business at the Omaha yards, and,
by agreement among themselves, have fixed uniform rates for their
services, regardless of differences in experience, skill and industry.
Held:
(1) The rates of such market agencies are subject to regulation, under authority of Congress, to prevent their services from
becoming an undue burden upon, or obstruction of, interstate
commerce. Pp. 436-9.
(2) Such regulation is not an attempt to fix wages or limit
anyone's net income, and does not violate the due process
clause. P. 439.
(3) The mere division of the stockyard services between 'the
stockyards corporation and the market agencies, does not deprive
Congress of a power of regulation which it otherwise would have
had. P. 438.
(4) There is nothing in the nature of monopolistic personal
services which makes it impossible to fix reasonable charges there'
for; and there is nothing in the Constitution which limits the
Government's power of regulation to businesses which employ substantial capital. Id.
(5) Whether a business is affected with a public interest depends,
not upon the amount of capital it employs, but upon the character
of the service which those who are conducting it engage to render.
P. 439.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

3. A notice from the Secretary of Agriculture informing market
agencies of a hearing to be held under Title III of the Packers and
Stockyards Act to inquire into the reasonableness of a new schedule
of rates, which had been filed by them and had been suspended, and
apprising them that they would have "the right to appear and
show cause why a further order in respect of the said schedule of
rates and charges should not be made," pursuant to Title III,
held sufficient to put such respondents on notice that rates lower
than those in either the proposed or the existing schedules might be
fixed by the Secretary under §§ 306 (e) and 310, upon the evidence
to be adduced at the hearing. P. 439.
4. Evidence before the Secretary of Agriculture, held suflicient to
support his findings and conclusion relative to the reasonableness
of the rates of market agencies. P. 440.
5. Mere admission by an administrative tribunal of matters which,
under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings, would
be deemed incompetent, or mere error in reasoning upon evidence
adduced, does not invalidate an order made by it. P. 442.
6. An order fixing rates of market agencies under the Packers and
Stockyards Act must be set aside if it rests upon an erroneous rule of
law, or is based upon a finding made without evidence, or upon
evidence which clearly does not support it. But the order here
assailed is not subject to these infirmities. Id.
7. A failure of the Secretary of Agriculture to give due notice of a
hearing on such rates would be ground only for setting aside the
resulting rate-fixing order as having been made irregularly; it would
not justify trying in court, upon new evidence, issues respecting the
merits of the order. Id.
8. A proceeding under § 316 of the Packers and Stockyards Act is a
judicial review, not a trial de novo. P. 443.
9. In such review, the validity of the order of the Secretary must
be determined upon the record of the proceedings before him, save
as there may be an exception of issues presenting claims of constitutional right. On all other issues, his. findings must be accepted
as conclusive, if the evidence before him was legally stjfficient to sustain them and there was no irregularity in the proceeding. Id.
10. It is within the power of the Secretary, and it is his duty, to
modify his order if new evidence warrants the change. A rate
order is not res judicata. 'P. 445.
11. 'Whether new evidence may be taken in the court reviewing the
order, on the issue of confiscation, is a question of practice not

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420
necessary
sustained
to in the
29 F. (2d)

Argument for Appellants.
to be determined where the claim of confiscation is not
by the evidence as received by the Secretary or as added
court. P. 445.
750, affirmed..

APPEAL from a final decree of the District Court, of
three judges, in a suit under the Packers and Stockyards
Act, to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the Secretary of Agriculture prescribing a tariff of maximum
charges for the services of market agencies at the Omaha
Stockyards. The decree dissolved an interlocutory injunction and dismissed the bill.
Messrs. Francis A. Brogan and James M. Beck, with
whom Messrs. Alfred G. Ellick, Anan Raymond, J. S.
Boyd, and Challen B. Ellis were on the briefs, for
appellants.
Congress has no power to fix prices for purely personal services (such as that of the commission men, for
grading and selling cattle). The question is similar to
that presented in the "Minimum Wage Cases," Adkins v.
Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, Murphy v. Sardell, 269
U. S. 530; in the "Kansas Industrial Court Cases,"
Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522; in the
"Ticket Brokers Cases," Weller v. New York, 268 U. S.
319, Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; and in the
"Employment Agency Case," Ribnik v. McBride, 277
U. S. 350.
The commissions are only wages for the labor of the
commission men. The Secretary of Agriculture so found
and the testimony is uncontradicted. The business is
wholly one of skill and labor, with the elements of capital
or other property investment negligible.
These commission men are not employees or owners
of the stockyards and have no interest, direct or indirect,
in the profits of the stockyards, or their "yardage"

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

280 U. S.

charges, nor has the stockyards any share of the compensation of the commission men.
As in all skilled labor, the commission men differ between themselves in the length of their experience, their
relative aptitude for the work and their individual industry. To prescribe a common maximum of earning
power is to penalize the skillful for the benefit of the
unskillful.
We may put aside the theories which support the power
of the State to protect itself by those regulations directly
affecting the public health, safety or morals, and only
indirectly affecting property rights and rights of individual
liberty. For we are dealing here with a more limited field
of governmental activity, Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273
U. S. 418, 431-the rate-making power, the exercise of
which does, primarily and admittedly, affect individual
property rights and individual liberty to earn a living;
which does (whatever its justification in the supposed
public interest,) obviously and intentionally, constitute a
redistribution of wealth, a "leveling of inequalities of
fortune by depriving one who has property, of some part,"
a " compulsory exaction" from one for the support of
another, a taking, directly, of some part of the property
(wages, salary, income, return on investment, etc.) from
A and handing it over to B. Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S.
1, 18; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 557.
To quote Jefferson's phrase in his first inaugural, this
fixing of wages for personal service " takes from the mouth
of labor the bread it has earned."
In this field of legislation the principles which govern
the constitutionality of the exercise of the power are now
well settled.
The first of these is that immunity from price-fixing
is the rule and not the exception. This thought has been
voiced and reiterated in every expression on the subject
by this Court from the earliest to the latest. Pattersonv.

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Argument fox Appellants.

Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169; Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350.
The second of these principles is that the guaranties
against deprivation of liberty and property in the Bill of
Rights are not to be swept away or impaired by the other
provisions of the Constitution granting specific powers to
Congress, such as the commerce clause. Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 180; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332, 347.
The third principle is that desirability of the legislation as a speedy remedy for the supposed evils, and the
difficulty of dealing with the supposed evils by other
methods, constitute no warrant for resort to price-fixing.
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Bailey v. Drexel
Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20, 37; Pennsylvania Coal Co. v.
Mahon, 260.U. S. 394; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S.
418-442; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 358.
The fourth principle is that price-fixing being a direct
taking of property for a supposed public benefit, can not
be resorted to unless "just compensation " is given in
return, and that just compensation requires an adequate
and reasonable return upon the fair market value of that
which is devoted to public use, or, as it is sometimes expressed, "affected with a public interest." Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Cotting v. Kansas City Stockyards,
183 U. S. 79, 91; New York v. Public Service Commission,
269 U. S. 244, 248; Board v. N. Y. Telephone Co.,
271 U. S. 23; Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough,
253 U. S. 287.
These principles suggest the vital distinctions, from the
constitutional standpoint, in all legislative price-fixing
between property and the use of property, on the one
hand, and personal services, on the othe.
First, property originates with the State and reverts
to the State (Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 84; Holden

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

280 U. S.

v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 392); it is held in a sense at the
will of the State. Liberty is not held at the will of. the
State; its existence is a prerequisite to the very organization of a government of the people'such as ours, and the
liberty that is meant in the Constitution is not merely
the freedom from physical restraint-it includes liberty
to work for a living by using the powers of brain and
muscle; indeed, that is of the very essence of liberty protected in the Bill of Rights. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33, 41.
Second, property may be taken by the State for public
use. But liberty-personal services-may not be taken
by the State for public use or any other use except as a
punishment for crime or in a time of war.
Third, property, in our theory of government, always
has its equivalent in money or other thing of value.
But liberty has no actual or theoretical equivalent in
money. The skill of the artist can not be compensated
for by substituting the skill of the poet. The lawyer can
not have his personal services as a lawyer taken away and
receive just compensation by being allowed to practice
medicine.
When prices are fixed for personal services, there is no
capital invested upon which an adequate and just return
may be calculated.
Fourth, when personal services are regulated by pricefixing, there can be no equivalent offered and the constitutional guaranty can not be fulfilled.
Fifth, it follows from these rules as to property and
as to personal services that, just as property may be taken
for a public use, so by the manner of its use it may, under
certain circumstances, be said to have been dedicated to a
public use or devoted to a public use or used in such a way
that the public has an interest in its use, and thus arises
a right to fix rates; but, by like token, personal services
which can not be taken for a public use, also, by their

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

427

Argument for Appellants.

very nature, can not be said to be dedicated to a public
use or devoted to a public purpose, whatever may be the
manner in which they are used, and whether the characterization of "public use" is by judicial reasoning or
legislative declaration. Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S.
350; Wolff v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 539.
It follows from these distinctions between property
and personal services that the very basis for legislative
price control, the sine qua non of the exercise of the ratemaking power, is wholly absent in the case of personal
services, wherever they may be performed, in connection
with whatever business they may be given, regardless
of the public interest, and regardless of whatever grant
of power in the Constitution is claimed to support the
regulation.
and
The essential differences between "property"
"personal services" have their basis in the Constitution.
"Property " and "liberty" may not be taken without due
process of law, is the mandate of the Constitution, but
in the same provision is the authority to take property
Thus,
upon the payment of "just compensation."
property may be taken (a) by due process, that is, by
determining in the usual methods the public need, etc.,
and (b) upon paying fair value, or, in case the taking
is by price-fixing, an adequate return on the property
devoted to a public use. Liberty, including personal
services, can .be taken by due process only, that is, by
determining the commission of the crime" for which punishment is required.
A review of all the leading cases in this Court on the
subject will show that these contentions are consistent
with the conclusion in every single case, without exception. Citing cases mentioned supra and: Frisbiev. United
States, 157 U. S. 160; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison,
183 U. S. 13; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; McLean v.
Arkansas,'211 U. S. 539; Kiley v. Massachusetts, 232

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

280 U. S.

U. S. 671; Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685; Miller v.
Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426;
Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Radice v. New York, 264
U. S. 292.
II. The statute itself confers no power upon the Secretary to make an order compelling a market agency to
follow the rate schedule prescribed by him.
The court has full power to review the Secretary's
order and determine not only whether it was within the
powers conferred upon him, but also whether or not it
was unsupported by substantial evidence, whether it disregarded undisputed evidence, and whether, considering
the evidence as a whole, it deprived appellants of their
constitutional rights.
III. The rates prescribed in the order are unreasonable,
non-compensatory and unfair, and confiscate petitioners'
property rights in the capital used in their businesses, and
in the skill, experience and personal services devoted thereto. The order disregards accepted standards of rate-making. It not only adopts an inherently fallacious standard,
but proceeds by erroneous and unconstitutional methods
to arrive at a theoretical selling cost, in disregard of the actual facts. It disallows reasonable and necessary expenses
without proof of abuse of discretion by appellants. It
omits items of basic cost, essential to a valid rate. It is
based upon irrelevant considerations of the economic situation of appellants' patrons, invokes questions of public policy having no connection with the inherent reasonableness of appellants' rates, and is based upon complete
misunderstanding of appellants' economic function, and
complete disregard of the really controlling factors in the
industry they serve. It is based upon the unconstitutional theory of deliberate elimination by rate-making of
established industries. It justifies radical reductions on
the theory of purely speculative increases which the undisputed evidence shows cannot be realized. It arbitra-

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Argument for Appellees.

rily selects the market served by appellants as a place to
begin commission rate revision, notwithstanding the vital
relation of the markets with each other, and in disregard
of precedents established by the Secretary himself. It
prescribes a rate which is generally unreasonable, considered in relation to -the record as a whole and the general
situation disclosed thereby. It ruins many appellants
outright, and deprives the remainder of the chance to earn
a fair living in the vocation to which their whole lives have
been devoted, and their right to follow which is both an
inherent and a vested one. Even the cost of service
theory, properly applied, with a reasonable profit added,
would result in a rate base which makes Tariff No. 2 unquestionably reasonable.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Hughes and Messrs. George C. Butte,
H. B. Teegarden and Charles H. Weston, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
appellees.
I. The order of the Secretary fixing appellant's maximum commission charges is authorized by the Act.
Even if subdivision (b) of § 310 does not include market
agencies, the. Secretary's determination and prescription
of maximuri reasonable charges of market agencies authorized by subdivision (a) constitutes an "order" within the meaning of subdivision (e) of § 306. Its express
provisions are partially nullified if it is construed as not
permitting any enforceable order to market agencies.
This interpretation is in harmony with the manifest
intent and purpose of the Act to make regulation of
charges for stockyard services complete and effective.
II. The authority conferred upon the Secretary does
not violate the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, held that
supervision of commission men under the-Act was authorized by the Commerce Clause. The Court referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellees.

280 U. S

to exorbitant or unreasonable stockyard charges as an
undue burden on commerce. In Chicago Board of Trade
v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 34, the Court said that Stafford v.
Wallace presented the question whether the Secretary of
Agriculture could prevent the abuse of exorbitant charges
by commission men.
The 'commission business of appellants is affected with
a public interest because of its vital importance to interstate commerce and its monopolistic character.
Prescription of appellants' maximum commission
charges is not wage-fixing, and the power to regulate rates
is not destroyed because the capital employed is small,
wages and salaries are the principal cost item, or much of
the service is performed by owners.
III. The Packers and Stockyards Act parallels the
Interstate Commerce Act. it has been held under the
latter that the Court will not substitute its judgment for
that of the Commission in the determination of reasonable
rates, but that it will consider whether the decision of the
Commission can be supported by the evidence or whether
it is confiscatory. In this case the evidence in support of
the Secretary's determination includes a detailed financial
audit of each firm affected and extensive evidence covering
the history and practical operation of the commission
business. Substantial evidence supports his subsidiary
findings as to reasonable operating cost.
It is well settled that the Court will not enjoin rates
attacked as confiscatory before they have been put into
operation unless a case for relief is clearly proved. Aetna
Insurance Company v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, held that evidence of the effect of rates upon the aggregate business
of an entire industry does not establish confiscation unless
supplemented by proof that each concern affected was
efficiently operated. In this case there is no convincing
proof of reasonably efficient operation by any of appellants. In addition, tha exhibits purporting to show the

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

confiscatory effect of operation under the Secretary's rate
schedule are incomplete, speculative, and misleading.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Packers and Stockyards' Act, August 15, 1921, c. 64,
§§ 301-316, 42 Stat. 159, 163-168; U. S. C., Tit. 7, §§ 201217, ,declares that persons engaged in the business of
buying or selling in interstate commerce livestock at a
stockyard on a commission basis are "market agencies";
requires such agencies to furnish their services upon reasonable request, without discrimination and at reasonable
rates; and confers upon the Secretary of Agriculture the
power to determine what are the just and reasonable
rates or charges for their services. The Secretary prescribed a tariff of maximum charges for such services at
the Omaha Stockyards, effective January 1, 1927. This
suit was brought in the federal court for Nebraska, under
§ 316, to enjoin the enforcement of that order and to set
it aside. Fifty-eight concerns, all registered under the
Act as such market agencies, and together comprising the
entire membership of the Omaha Livestock Exchange,
joined as plaintiffs. The United States, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Attorney General and the United States
Attorney for Nebraska were made defendants. The
prayers were that the order be declared null and void
and that the defendants be enjoined from enforcing it by
canceling the registration of the agencies, or by instituting proceedings to enforce the penalties prescribed by the
Act for violation of an order, or by other means. There
were also prayers for a restraining order and for an interlocutory injunction. Compare Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S.495.
The occasion for the Secretary's order was this. There
is no competition among the Omaha market agencies as
to rates, since the Exchange rules require all members to

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

make the same charges for their services. As required
by § 306 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, the Omaha
market agencies had filed with the Packers and Stockyards Administration at Washington a schedule of charges
known as Omaha Livestock Exchange Tariff No. 1. On
January 16, 1926, they filed a new schedule, known as
Tariff No. 2, which intioduced higher rates to become
effective January 26, 1926. The Secretary of Agriculture,
acting on his own motion, issued, on January 25, an order
suspending the operation of the proposed schedule; and
gave to the market agencies and others concerned notice
of public hearings to be held before an examiner of the
Packers and Stockyards Administration, under Title III
of the Act, to inquire into the reasonableness of the new
schedule.1
The hearings before the Examiner extended over many
months. The market agencies participated through
counsel, but introduced little evidence. The Government
introduced much. The evidence before the Secretary occupies, in condensed form, 532 pages of the printed record.
It consists of the testimony of 33 witnesses and 102 exhibits, including 59 special audits of the books of the several plaintiffs. Upon that record and the report of the
Examiner, the case was argued orally by counsel before
the Secretary. He made a report which occupies 20 pages
of the printed record. His order was based on the find-ings therein contained.
The application for an interlocutory injunction was
made before three judges, pursuant to the provisions of
the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38
Stat. 208, 219-20, U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 47, which, by § 316
of the Packers and Stockyards Act, are made applicable
to proceedings brought to restrain or annul orders of the
As the Secretary's power to suspend a tariff pending a hearing is
limited by § 306 to a period of sixty days, Tariff No. 2 became operative on March 27, 1926.

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

420

Secretary. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 512. At
that hearing, the Government consented that the interlocutory injunction should issue. Upon the filing of the
answer, a special master was appointed by the three
judges to hear the evidence and report his conclusions to
the court. -The master admitted, in addition to the record before the secretary, oral evidence which, in condensed
form, occupies 84 pages of the printed record, and 24
elaborate exhibits. Relying in part on this new evidence,
he recommended that the injunction be made permanent.
The case was then heard by the three judges on final
hearing, upon exceptions to the master's report and a
motion to confirm. That court also held the additional
evidence admissible. After considering it in connection
with that which had been introduced before the Secretary,
the court found for the defendants and entered a final decree dissolving the interlocutory injunction and dismissing
the bill. 29 F. (2d) 750. The District Judge allowed
an appeal to this Court under § 238 (4) of the Judicial
Code, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229,
43 Stat. 936, 938, U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 345 (4).2
The plaintiffs conceded below that, being engaged in
interstate commerce at public stockyards, they are subject
to some regulation by Congress.. But they claimed that
the order is void, in whole or in part, on five grounds.
That the Act does not purport to confer upon the Secretary power to issue an order prescribing commission
charges for market agencies and directing their observance
in the future. That, if the Act be construed as confer2

In doing so, he also approved an appeal bond to operate as a

supersedeas and granted a temporary injunction pending the appeal.
This part of the order, being beyond the power of a single judge, was
later vacated by him. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v.
Louisiana Public Service Commission, 260 U. S. 212. An application
for a stay made to the three judges was denied on February 11, 1929.
It was not until then that the rates which had been prescribed by the
Secretary on November 19, 1926, became operative,
81325°-30-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
• Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

ring such authority, it exceeds the constitutional power
of the Federal Government, because it is not a regulation
of commerce, and violates the Fifth Amendment, because
the charges to be fixed are those for personal services.
That so much of the order as reduces the charges below
those of Tariff No. 1 is void, because it was outside the
scope of the Secretary's 'inquiry as defined in the notice
given by him. That the evidence presented to the Secretary was not sufficient to establish that the charges contained in either Tariff No. 1 or Tariff No. 2 were unreasonable or discriminatory; or that the schedule prescribed
by the Secretary would adequately compensate the market
agencies for their services and disbursements. That the
rates in force prior to the hearing were not excessive,
unreasonable or discriminatory; and that the charges
prescribed by the Secretary are unreasonable and
confiscatory.
In this Court twenty-seven specific errors are assigned,
although some were not pressed in argument. One assignment attacks the construction given to the Act. One
attacks its constitutionality insofar as it purports to authorize the Secretary to fix plaintiffs' commission charges.
Fifteen assignments attack the findings of the Secretary
on the grounds that the evidence before him was not sufficient to sustain them, or that he erred in making specific
findings, or that he erred in ruling on the admissibility
of evidence and on the effect given to evidence, or that he
erred in his processes of reasoning. Seven relate to the
lower court's treatment of the additional evidence introduced before the master. One assignment attacks the
legality of the order, insofar as it reduces the charges
below those of Tariff No. 1, on tht ground that it was beyond the scope of the inquiry. One attacks the order
on the ground that it is confesstdly confiscatory as to
some of the plaintiffs and cannot be sustained except by
fixing the number of plaintiffs entitled to carry on the

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

business, or by eliminating some plaintiffs for the purpose
of increasing the compensation of those remaining. And
one assignment attacks the order on the ground that it
is confiscatory as to all the plaintiffs.
First. The contention that Congress did not purport to
empower the Secretary to issue an order prescribing the
charges of market agencies is without substance. The
language used was apt to confer the power. The Committee of the House declared in terms that it did so,
when it reported the bill.' The executive department
charged with the duty of enforcing the Act so interpreted
it. This Court assumed in Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.
495, 514, and Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S.
1, 34, that the power had been conferred. The Maximum
Rate Cases, 162 U. S. 184, 167 U. S. 479, 168 U. S. 144,
upon which appellants rely, lend no support to their
contention.
The order here in question resulted from a proceeding
begun under Title III, § 306. Subdivision (a) of that
section requires the agencies to file with the Secretary
their schedules of rates. Subdivision (e) authorizes the
Secretary, upon complaint or on his own motion, to susspend a new rate pending a hearing as to its lawfulness;
and, after the hearing, to make such order with reference
thereto as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after
the rate had become effective. Subdivision (g) makes
any agency which fails to comply with any order made
under this section liable to a penalty recoverable in a
3 Report No. 77, 67th Congress, First Session, on H. R. 6320, states
at p. 10, referring to Title III: ". . . the Secretary of Agriculture
is'given substantially the same jurisdictioh over stockyard matters
which the Interstate Commerce Commission has over railroads, including the power, after full hearing, to establish and enforce just
and reasonable rates and charges for, and practices in connection
with, the furnishing of stockyard services." By the definitions contained in § 301 (b) and (c), the term "stockyard services" includes
the services rendered by the plaintiffs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

civil action; and subdivision (h) provides for a fine and
imprisonment in cases of wilful violation.
Section 310 of the same Title provides that whenever,
after a full hearing, the Secretary is of opinion that any
rate "of a stockyard owner or market agency" is unreasonable, he may (a) fix the charge to be thereafter observed and (b) make an 6rder that "such owner or operator" shall not thereafter "collect any rate or charge for
the furnishing of stockyard services other than the rate or
charge so prescribed." Plaintiffs urge that subdivision
(a) confers only the power to declare what rates shall be
reasonable, and that this declaration is effective only for
purposes of reparation, as prima, facie proof of'such
claims; that the power to compel observance of such
rates in the future by enforcement of the penalties provided in § 314 is granted solely in subdivision (b); that
this subdivision applies only to owners or operators of
stockyards-not to all market agencies; and that, therefore, t hey are entitled to an injunction against the enforcement of the penalties, even though such injunction would not finally dispose of this litigation.
The argument is highly strained. There is nothing in
§ 310, or elsewhere in the Act, evidencing a purpose to exclude market agencies from subdivision (b), and to restrict the power of regulation to but a part of the "stockyard services." The term " operator" in § 310 (b) is an
apt designation of one who conducts a market agency at
a stockyard. An operator of a stockyard is covered by
"he word "owner" under the express definition in
§ 201 (a).
Second. The contention that the Act, if construed as
authorizing the order assailed, is void under the due
process clause, is likewise unsound. It rests upon the fact',
that the services for which the Secretary's order fixes the
charges are practically the personal services of brokers.

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

Some of the market agencies are corporations; some partnerships; some are individually owned. The capital
needed in the conduct of their business is small. It is
said that the business is wholly one of skill and labor,
and that the commission man's only implements of trade
are a horse on which he rides in the stockyards and a desk
on which he keeps his accounts. The Union Stockyards
are owned by a separate corporation in which the plaintiffs have no interest and which has no interest in the
commissions charged by them. But each agency occupies a certain space in the yards and Exchange building,
for which an annual or monthly rental is paid. When
a producer wishes to sell his live stock on the Exchange,
he ships it by rail or motor truck, or drives it on foot, to
an agency at the stockyards. After the stock is un:
loaded, it is driven by the agency to its pens, sorted,
watered, fed and offered by it for sale. The feed is provided by the stockyards corporation on order of the
agency and a separate charge is made therefor by the corporation. When a purchaser is found, the stock- is driven
to the yard scales and weighed. Responsibility passes to
the purchaser, or to the agency acting for him, as the stock
is taken off the scales. Shipments are generally sold on
the day of delivery and payments are made on the same
day or the next morning. The agency remits the. proceeds to the shippers at once, after deducting its commissions, freight, yardage, feed, inspection and other charges.
The argument is that to prescribe a common maximum
of earning power for commission men, who differ between
themselves in the length of their experience, their relative
aptitude for the work and their individual industry, is
to penalize the skillful for the benefit of the unskillful;
that in legislative price-fixing there are vital distinctions,
from the constitutional standpoint, between property and
the use of property, on the one hand, and personal serv-

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

ices, on the other; that property originates with the State
and reverts to the State, whereas, liberty-freedom to
contract as to personal services-is a pre-requisite to the
very organization of a government of the people; that it
is impossible to ascertain what is a fair return for personal services because liberty, unlike property, has no
actual or theoretical equivalent in money; that while
property may be taken for a public use upon payment of
just compensation, liberty-personal services-may not
be so taken except in time of war or as a punishment for
crime; that, since personal services can not be taken for
a public use, they cannot be said to be dedicated to a
public use or devoted to a public service; that this ratefixing is in essence wage-fixing, since the stockyard services performed by the plaintiffs involve only skill and
labor, and that wage-fixing was held to be beyond the
power of Congress, Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261
U. S. 525; that, even if not obnoxious as an attempt
at wage-fixing, the limitation of charges for personal
service is precluded by Tyson & Bro. v. Benton, 273 U. S.
418 and Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350.
It is true that performance of the specific work done
by the plaintiffs does not require them to invest extensive capital. But it is essential that they employ the
valuable property of the stockyards corpoation, for which
a charge is ultimately made to the shipper or buyer. The
mere division of the stockyard services between the stockyards corporation and the market agencies does not deprive Congress of a power of regulation which it otherwise
would have had. But the constitutionality of the power
conferred does not rest upon so narrow a ground. There
is nothing in the nature of monopolistic personal services which makes it impossible to fix reasonable charges
to be made therefor; and there is nothing in the Constitution which limits the Government's power of regulation to businesses which employ substantial capital. This

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

Court did not hold in Tyson & Bro. v. Banton and Ribnik
v. McBride that charges for personal services cannot be
regulated. The question upon which this Court divided
in those cases was whether the services there sought to be
regulated were then affected with a public interest.
Whether a business is of that class depends, not upon the
amount of capital it employs, but upon the character of
the service which those who are conducting it engage to
render.
Plaintiffs perform an indispensable service in the interstate commerce in live stock. They enjoy a substantial monopoly at the Omaha Stock Yards. They had
eliminated rate competition and had substituted therefor
rates fixed by agreement among themselves, without consulting the shippers and others who pay the rates. They
had bound themselves to maintain uniform charges regardless of the differences in experience, skill and industry.
The purpose of the regulation attacked is to prevent their
service from thus becoming an undue burden upon, and
obstruction of, that commerce.
Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495, 515, 516; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262
U. S. 1, 34. There is here no attempt to fix anyone's
wages or to limit anyone's net income. Differences in
skill, industry and experience will continue to be factors
in the earning power of the several plaintiffs. For, the
order fixes. only the charges to: be made in individual
transactions.
Third. The claim that the order is yoid for lack of
proper notice, insofar as it reduces charges below Tariff
No. 1, is unsupported. The contention is that the notice
of the hearings before the Examiner and the Secretary
did not apprise plaintiffs of the Secretary's intention to
fix a new schedule, but led them to believe that the hearings would be confined to the inquiry whether Tariff No.
2 was excessive and that, if it was found to be so, Tariff
No. 1 would be left in force; whereas -the tariff prescribed

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

by -the Secretary carries rates lower than Tariff No. 1.
The notice given by the Secretary was neither defective.
nor misleading. It informed the plaintiffs that a hearing
would be had under Title III of the Act. It apprised
them that they would have "the right to appear and show
cause why a further order in respect to the said schedule
of rates and charges should not be made" pursuant to
Title III. Section 306 (e) of that title provides that
upon such a hearing the Secretary may make any order
with reference to the proposed schedule which he could
make in a proceeding initiated after the schedule had become effective. And § 310 of the same title expressly
empowers the Secretary in any such proceeding, to fix the
just and reasonable rate to be charged in the future, without limiting him to a determination of the lawfulness of
a proposed rate. The plaintiffs should have anticipated,
therefore, that the Secretary would fix a new rate, if the
evidence before him would lead him to believe that such
a course was proper and desirable.
Fourth. The claim that the order is void because unsustained by the evidence before the Secretary, or because of specific errors in rulings or findings, lacks merit.
The Secretary found that monopolistic power was exercised by the plaintiffs without the usually attendant
economy of minimizing expenditures for business getting;
that the operating costs of the several agencies for the
performance of similar services varied widely; that some
of the expenses were wasteful and unnecessary; that the
profit yielded by Tariff No. 2, on the basis of the estimated
reasonable cost of conducting the business, allowing for
reasonable salary expenses, advertising costs, overhead,
Exchange assessments and dues and interest at the rate
of 7 per cent. on the invested capital, was unreasonable;
that the Tariff was unduly complicated and confusing,
not only to shippers but even to experienced employees
of the agencies; that, because of the presence of maximum

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

and minimum charges, and because of differences in rates
based on the mode of delivery of the stock, its effect on
different shippers was unjust, inequitable and not based
on any reasonable differences in the cost or value of
the service performed; that it unjustly favored traders
and speculators by prescribing half 'the regular commission charges for buying and selling for their account; that,
for these reasons, the operation of Tariff No. 2 should be
suspended and there should be substituted the schedule
drawn by the Secretary which prescribed generally lower
charges, eliminated the several unjust discriminations and
yielded a reasonable return to the plaintiffs above the
legitimate cost of their service.
It is urged that there was not sufficient evidence before
the Secretary to establish that the charges contained in
either Tariff No. 1 or Tariff No. 2 were discriminatory oS
unreasonable, or that the schedule prescribed by the Secretary would adequately compensate the market agencies
for their services and disbursements; that the Secretary
confined the fixing of rates to Omaha, although relatively
higher rates prevail under substantially similar circumstances in other. markets and it was possible to fix rates
for all competing markets; that his order is based upon the
notion that the industry is suffering from an oversupply
of market agencies and that some of the plaintiffs should
be eliminated therefrom; that it is based upon irrelevant
considerations of the economic condition of plaintiffs'
patrons; that it resulted from a complete misunderstanding of the plaintiff's function and a disregard of the really
controlling facts of the industry; that the prescribed rates
are based upon an assumed cost of the service which disallowed expenses actually incurred and omitted basic cost
items such as some additional depreciation, bad debts,
supervision, going concern value and additional items of
invested capital; and that the revenues estimated to result
from the recommended increase of the charges to traders

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

and speculators will not be realized, because the increase
will drive the traders and speculators from the market.
We find in the evidence before the Secretary ample support for the findings and the conclusion reached by him.
It may be that some of the evidence was irrelevant or of
little weight, and that some of the reasoning was not
persuasive. But mere admission by an administrative
tribunal of matters which, under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings, would be deemed incompetent, or mere error in reasoning upon evidence adduced,
does not invalidate an order made by it. United States
v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274, 288; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S.
39, 44. It has been settled in cases arising under the Interstate Commerce Act that if an order rests upon an errone0ous rule of law, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; or is based upon a finding made
without evidence, Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258,
263; or upon evidence which clearly does not support it,
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R.
Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; New England Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184, 203; Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153,
166, the order must be set aside. These rules are applicable also to suits arising under the Packers and Stockyards Act. But the order here assailed is not subject to
any of these infirmities.
Fifth. With regard to the assignments of error based
on the additional evidence introduced below, a question of
practice requires consideration. After the defendants
filed their answer, the plaintiffs moved for the appointment of a special master. The only grounds set forth in
the motion were these; that the character and volume of
the evidence before the Secretary were such that it would
require for its clue consideration long study and the aid
of expert accountants; that it was necessary to take additional testimony from a large number of shippers to the

TAGG BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
420

Opinion of the Court.

Omaha market to show that the charges under Tariff
No. 2 were satisfactory to shippers and that the charges
prescribed by the Secretary would result in injury to the
live stock business, by deteriorating the quality of the
service; that it was necessary to introduce additional testimony and additional audits to show the effect of the rates
prescribed by the Secretary on the business of the year
1926 and their continuing effect on the business of 1927;
and that it was necessary to take additional testimony
from a large number of the plaintiffs to show that under
the application of the rates prescribed by the Secretary,
they will be unable to continue in business.
The court granted the nmotion to appoint the master
and authorized him "to rule upon the admission and exclusion of evidence, subject to the court's review of the
same." In its opinion on final decree, the court justified
the admission of the evidence, and considered the same,
on the ground that the notice of the hearings before the
Examiner did not advise plaintiffs that the Secretary intended to fix a new schedule of rates. As we have shown
above, the court erred in holding that the notice given was
inadequate. But if there had been a failure to give due notice, it would have been ground only for setting aside the
order without inquiry into its merits, as having been made
without notice and hearing. Such failure does not justify
trying in the court, upon new evidence, the issues set forth
in the motion to appoint the master.
A proceeding under § 316 of the Packers and Stockyards Act is a judicial review, not a trial de novo. The
validity of an order of the Secretary, like that of an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, must be determined upon the record of the proceedings before him,save as there may be an exception of issues presenting
claims of constitutional right, a matter which need not
be considered or decided now. Louisville A Nashville
R. R. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 463, 466; compare

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S

Liscio v. Campbell, 34 F. (2d) 646, 647; and see Prendergast v. New York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43, 50 and
Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S.
287, 289. On all other issues his findings must be accepted by the court as conclusive, if the evidence before
him was legally sufficient to sustain them and there was
no irregularity in the proceeding.4 To allow his findings
to be attacked or supported in court by new evidence
would substitute the court for the administrative tribunal
as the rate making body. Where it is believed that the
Secretary erred in his findings because important evidence
The judicial review of rate orders in suits begun under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission does not differ in substance from that in suits instituted by
the Commission under the Interstate Commerce Act to enforce, its
orders. The Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c. 104, §
16, 24 Stat. 379, 384-5, specifically provided that, in proceedings to
enforce orders of the Commission, its findings were to be merely prima
facie evidence; and the Court was not to be restricted to the record
before the Commission. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry.
Co. V*.Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, 187, 195-6;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 174-5. Compare United States v. Los Angeles & Salt
Lake R. Co., 273 U. S. 299, 309. The Commerce Court Act, June 18,
1910, c. 309, § 13, .36 Stat. 539, 554-5, amended § 16 and restricted
the scope of review as follows: "If, after hearing, that court determines that the order was regularly made and duly served, and
that the carrier is in disobedience of the same, the court shall enforce
obedience ... . " This is the provision now in force,-U. S. C.,
Tit. 49, § 16 (12). Reparation orders are still only prima facie evidence. U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 16 (2).
Compare Oregon R. R. & Navigation Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S.
510, 525; Napa Valley Electric Co. v. Cal. R. R. Comm., 251 U. S.
366, 370! and Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196,
200. Also the District of Columbia Public Utilities Law, Act of
March 4, 1913, c. 150, §"8, par. 67, 37 Stat. 938, 989; the Valuation
Act, March 1, 1913, c. 92, 37 Stat. 701, 703, U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 19a,
(b) Fifth (j); and the Federal Trade Commission Act, Sept.. 26, 1914,
a. 311, § 5, 38 Stat. 717, 719-20, U. S. C,, Tit. 15, § 45,
4

LUCAS v. AMERICAN CODE CO.
420

Syllabus.

was not brought to his attention, the appropriate remedy
is to apply for a rehearing before him or to institute new
proceedings. He has the power and the duty to modify
his order, if new evidence warrants the change. Compare Interstate Commerce Conmission v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 550. A rate order is not res
judicata. Every rate order made may be superseded by
another.
Sixth. There is also a contention that the rates prescribed are not merely unsupported by the evidence, but
are confiscatory; and that the order is therefore void.
Whether the additional evidence before the master was
admissible on the issue of confiscation presents a serious
question of practice which was not argued by counsel.
The lower court held the additional evidence admissible,
and, after considering it, reached the conclusion that the
charges prescribed are not unreasonably low or confiscatory. This conclusion of the lower court conforms, in
our opinion, to the evidence, whether the examination
be confined to that evidence which was received by the
Secretary or be extended to include the additional evidence introduced before the master and the court. The
question of the admissibility of the additional evidence
on the issue of confiscation may, therefore, be passed, and
it is passed, without decision.
Affirmed.
LUCAS, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. AMERICAN CODE COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued January 8, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
A corporation, which kept its accounts, and made its income tax

returns, on the accrual basis, sought to deduct, under § 234 (a)
of the Revenue Act of 1918, as a loss sustained in 1919, the amount

