WHEELER v. GREENE.
43

49

Counsel for Petitioner.

other cases," and the whole course of the legislation indicates a desire that the same appellate review should be
given as in other cases. We think that this customary
Ianguage requires the uniform use of the writ of certiorari
in order to secure that which a certiorari gives-a preliminary examination of proceedings by this Court before review. Unless a special reason in the Act providing for
appellate review indicates that the review is to be by
technical appeal rather than by the ordinary method of
certiorari, the latter method is the right one. This must
lead to the dismissal of the present appeal.
Appeal dismissed.

WHEELER v. GREENE, RECEIVER OF THE
BANKERS JOINT STOCK LAND BANK OF MILWAUKEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 39.

Argued October 22, 23, 1929.-Decided November 4, 1929.

The Federal Farm Loan Board has no power to levy an assessment,
nor may a receiver appointed by it maintain suit, for the enforcement of the stockholders' liability created by the Federal Farm
Loan Act. P. 52.
29 F. (2d) 468, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 829, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed a decision of
the District Court sustaining a demurrer to a declaration
in a suit brought against a stockholder of a Joint Stock
Land Bank, by its receiver, to collect an assessment levied
by the Federal Farm Loan Board.

Messrs. Floyd E. Thompson and Joseph V. Quarles,
with whom Messrs. Conrad H. Poppenhusen, Lawrence
81325 -304

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

A. Cole, and Henry J. Darby were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edwin S. Mack, with whom Messrs. Arthur W.
Fairchild and J. Gilbert Hardgrove were on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. Dean G. Acheson, on behalf of Messrs. Lyman M.
Bass and PorterR. Chandler, filed the brief of the Stockholders' Protective Committee of the Kansas City Joint
Stock Land Bank, as amicus curiae, by special leave of
Court.
MR. JUSTiCE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The plaintiff is the receiver of the Bankers Joint Stock
Land Bank of Milwaukee appointed by the Federal Farm
Loan Board. The defendant is a holder of stock of that
Bank. This suit is brought to collect an assessment equal
in amount to the par value of the defendant's stock, which
was levied by the Federal Farm Loan Board and which
the ylintiff was ordered to collect. The defendant demurrbd to the declaration that alleged these facts. The
District Court sustained the demurrer and ordered judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff appealed and the
judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
29 F. (2d) 468. A writ of certiorari was granted by
this Court to settle the question whether the Federal
Farm Loan Board had power to levy an assessment, or
the receiver to maintain suit, for the enforcing of the
tot-kholders' liability created by the Federal Farm Loan
Act, July 17, 1916; c. 245, § 16; 39 Stat. 374. U. S. Code,
Title-12, § 812.
The section (§ 29, Code, §§ 961, 963,) of the Federal
Farm Loan Act that deals with insolvency of farm loan
associations and joint stock land banks ,provides for theappointment of a receiver by the Farm Loan Board and

WHEELER v. GREENE.
49

Opinion of the Court.

states, his duties and powers. It closely follows the words
of the earlier National Bank Act, R. S. § 5234; Code, Tit.
12, § 192, stating the duties of the receiver of a bank that
has refused to pay its circulating notes, and giving him
power to take possession of books and assets and to collect
debts, &c. But whereas the Bank Act goes on" and may,
if necessary to pay the debts of such association, enforce
the individual liability of the stockholders," the Farm
Loan Act stops short and has no such words. When so
important a grant of power contained in the prototype
is left. out from the copy it is almost impossible to attribute the omission to anything but design, or to believe
that it left to very attenuated implications what the
model before it, so clearly expressed.
There is a plain reason for the difference. The national banks issue notes that constitute an important part
of the currency of the country and that the United States
has an interest in seeing paid. It is upon the bank's refusal to pay these notes that the Comptroller of the Qurrency is to appoint a receiver, and the authority to enforce
the stockholder's liability adds a security to the national
circulation that is of national scope. But the Joint Stock
Land Banks issue no such notes. They are created to
make loans on farm mortgages to members of an association in a territorially limited district, and are relatively
local affairs. It is contemplated that the bonds that they
issue shall be secured by mortgages. There is not the
same need that the stockholder's liability should be summarily disposed of behind his back in Washington (Rankin. v. Bqzrton; 199 U. S.228, 232; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S.
673, 681,) rather than by the usual proceeding of a bill
in equity which is brought in the neighborhood, in which
the stockholder can be heard, and by which the assessment instead of one hundred per cent. can be adjusted to
the specific case. Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S. 156. The
stockholders are to be held only "equally and ratably."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

And, to say the least, the bill in equity is the most likely
way of reaching that result.
The establishment in Washington of a bureau "
charged
with the execution of this Act, . . . under the general supervision of a Federal Farm Loan Board," c. 245,
§ 3; Code, § 651, and the putting of the administration
of the Act under the direction and control of that Board
by § 1, seem to us inadequate to supply the omission of
this power from the express statement of what the Board
and receiver may do when the bank is insolveht. The
receiver had power to collect the assets of the bank, but
the liability of stockholders is no par of those assets. It
is a liability to creditors which the creditors may be left
to enforce.
Decree reversed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

LOS ANGELES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 54.

Argued October 28, 29, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. Power to compel interstate railway carriers to abandon their existing passenger stations and terminals in a large city and erect in
lieu a new union station at a new site, is not conferred upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission by paragraphs 18-21 of § 1
of the imended Interstate Commerce Act, giving the Commission
authority over abandonments and extensions of lines, or by paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 3, requiring carriers to afford all reasonable,
proper, and equal facilities for interchange of traffic and authorizing the Commission in certain circumstances to require that terminal facilities of one carrier may be used by another. Railroad
Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, distinguished.
P. 67.

