224

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

KOTHE, TRUSTEE, v. R. C. TAYLOR TRUST.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT 'OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 4S. Argued December 4, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.
1. A stipulation in a contract to pay a fixed sum as liquidated damages in case the contract be broken, will not be enforced if the
amount fixed is plainly without reasonable relation to any probable
damages from a breach. P. 226.
2. In a lease for two years the lessee agreed that the mere filing
of a petition in bankruptcy against him should be deemed a breach
and that thereupon, ipso facto, the lease should terminate and the
lessor become entitled to re-enter and also to recover damages
equal to the full amount of the rent reserved for the remainder
of the term. The lessee became bankrupt, and the lessor claimed
$5,000, equal to 15 months' rent. Held, that the claim should not
be enforced against the trustee in bankruptcy, as, on the case
submitted, the provision in the lease must be regarded as one for
a penalty apparently designed to insure to the lessor preferential
treatment in the event of the lessee's bankruptcy. P. 226.
3. Agreements tending to defeat the purpose of the Bankruptcy Act
to bring about an equitable distribution of the bankrupt's estate
among creditors holding just demands based upon adequate consideration must be regarded with disfavor. P. 227..
30 F. (2d) 77, reversed.
CERTIORARi, 279 U. S. 830, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the District Court and
upholding a claim against Kothe, as trustee in bankruptcy.

Mr. Frank H. Pardee for petitioner.'
Mr. George S. Taft,,with whom Mr. T. Hovey Gage was

on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
April 20th, 1927, respondent-the R. C. Taylor Trustleased to one Turkel certain real estate, reserving rent at
the rate of $4,000 per annum, The meager record before

KOTHE v. R. C. TAYLOR TRUST.
224

Opinion of the Court.

us does not affirmatively show the length of the term, but
we accept the statement by counsel for both sides that
it was two years. The lease contained the following
provision"The filing of any petition in bankruptcy . . . by
or against the Lessee shall be deemed to constitute a
breach of this lease, and thereupon, ipso facto and without entry or other action by the Lessor, this lease shall become and be terminated; and, notwithstanding any other
provisions of this lease the Lessor shall forthwith upon
such termination be entitled to recover damages for such
breach in an amount equal to the amount of the rent reserved in this lease for the residue of the term hereof."
Turkel having been adjudged bankrupt the lessor filed
proof of debt for $5,000 demanded as " damages for
breach of lease . . . that being the same as the
amount of rent reserved in the lease from February 15,
1928 to May 15, 1929, the end of the term."
The referee disallowed the claim " for the reason that
the proof is based on damages for the amount of rent running from the date of the filing of the petition to the end
of the term of the lease, no part of such claim being for
any rent which had accrued at the time of the filing'of
said bankruptcy petition." The District Court affirmed
his action; but the court below held the claim valid and
allowable under ยง 63 (a) 4 of the Bankruptcy Act, 1898,
30 Stat. 563 (U. S. C.,Title 11, c.7, ยง 103).
The Trustee, petitioner here, maintains that the quoted
provision of the lease imposed a penalty and did not express any lawful purpose to fix the liquidated damages
which might follow failure to perform. On the other"
hand, the respondent insists that in view of the length of
the term the agreement must be regarded as one for
liquidated damages and therefore unobjectionable.
Sun Printing & Publishing Ass'n v. Moore, 183 U. S.
642 and United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205 U. S.
81325'-30-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

105, 119, point out principles applicable to enforcement of
contracts providing for payment of definite sums upon
failure to perform. The courts are " strongly inclined to
allow parties to make their own contracts, and to carry
out their intentions, even when it would result in the recovery of an amount stated as liquidated damages, upon
proof of the violation of the contract, and without proof
of the damages actually sustained. . . . The question
always is, what did the parties intend by the language
used? When such intention is ascertained it is ordinarily
the duty of the court to carry it Out." And see United
States v. United Engineering Co., 234 U. S. 236, 241: '
" Such contracts for liquidated damages when reasonable
in their character are not to be regarded as penaltims and
may be enforced between the, parties." But agreements
to pay fixed sums plainly without reasonable relation to
any probable damage which may follow a breach will not
be enforced. This circumstance tends to negative any
notion that the parties really meant to provide- a measure
of compensation-" to treat the sum named as estimated
and ascertained damages."
Here, we find the lessee in a lease for two years agreeing that the mere filing of a petition in bankruptcy
against him shall be deemed a breach and thereupon, ipso
facto, it shall be terminated and the lessor shall become
'entitled' to re-enter, also to recover damages equal to the
full amount of the rent reserved for the remainder of the
term. The amount thus stipulated is so disproportionate
to any damage reasonably to be anticipated in the circumstances disclosed that we must hold the provision is for
an unenforceable penalty. The parties were consciously
undertaking to contract for payment to be made out of
the assets of a bankrupt estate-not for something which
the lessee personally would be required to discharge. He,
therefore, had little, if any, immediate concern with the
amount of the claiin to be presented; most probably, that

REINECKE v. SPALDING.
224

Syllabus.

would affect only those entitled to share in the proceeds
of property beyond his control.
The broad purpose of the Bankruptcy Act is to bring
about an equitable distribution of the bankrupt's estate
among creditors holding just demands based upon adequate consideration.- Any agreement which-tends to defeat that beneficent design must be regarded with disfavor. Considering the time which the lease here involved had to run, nothing else appearing, it seems plain
enough that the real design of- the challenged provision
was to insure to the lessor preferential treatnent in the
event of bankruptcy. The record discloses no circumstance sufficient to support a contrary view. If the term
wire much shorter, or there were facts tending to disclose
a, proper purpose, the argument in favor of the lessor
would be more persuasive.
The decree of the court below must be reversed. The
judgment of the District Court will be affirmed ,and the
cause remanded there for further appropriate proceedings.
Reversed.
REINECKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REV-.
ENUE, v. SPALDING.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 59.

Argued December 6, 1929-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. One who seeks to recover money exacted as income taxes upon
the ground that a deduction as claimed was illegally disallowed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, has the burden of
showing that he was entitled to such deduction. P. 232.
2. Under ยง 214 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918, and likewise (semble)
under ยง 5 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1916, the deduction for
depletion in computing the net income derived duripg a tax year
from a mine, by its lessor, under a long lease made prior to March
1, 1913, reserving a fixed royalty per ton of ore extracted by the
lessee, is to be determined on the basis of the fair market value

