OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

WILLIAMS

ET AL.

280 U.S.

v. RILEY, STATE CONTROLLER

OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NbRTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 12.

Argued April 18, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

Statutes of California directed that all distributors of motor vehicle
fuel should be licensed and pay taxes amounting to three cents
per gallon sold, less an allcwance of 1%, and provided for reimbursing purchasers 9 f fuel not used for operating vehicles upon
public highwaA. Plaintiffs, who, like thousands of other citizens
and taxpayers of. the State, must obtain fuel for operating their
motor vehicles along the highways from the licensed distributors
at prices enhanced by the 3-cent tax, sued the state officer charged
with the duty of collecting the tax to enjoin him from so doing,
alleging that the tax Was in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, the Federal Highway Acts, and the constitution of the
State. Held that the plaintiffs had no status to maintain such a
suit. Frothinghamv. Mqllon, 262 U: S. 447. P. 79.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court (three
judges) dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin the State
Controller of California from enforcing statutes imposing
a gasoline tax.

Messrs. Edwin C. Ewing and W.' R. Crawford submitted for appellants.
lMr. Frank L. Guerena, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General,
was on the brief, for appellee.

Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE
announced by the CHIEF JUSTICE.

MCREYNOLDS,

By Acts approved July 11, 1916, Chap. 241, 39 Stat.
355, and Nov. 9, 1921, Chap. 119, 42 Stat. 212, Congress
provided for aid to the states in road-making and directed "that all highways constructed or reconstructed

WILLIAMS v. RILEY.
78

Opinion of the Court.

under the provisions of this Act shall be free from tolls of
all kinds." California assented to the provisions of these
acts and under them received large sums of money from
the United States.
By the Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Statutes, Chap. 267,
Act 1923, Chap. 359, Act 1925, and Chaps. 716, 795,'Act
1927, the California- Legislature defined motoi' vehicle
fuel and directed that all distributors of it should be
licensed and pay taxes to the Controller of the State,
amounting to three cents per gallon sold, less an allowance of one per centum. These statutes further provide
for reimbursing purchasers of fuel not used for operating
vehicles upon public highways.
Appellants, along with thousands of other citizens and
taxpayers of California, operate motor vehicles along the
highways. They have procured, and must hereafter procure, the necessary fuel from licensed distributors at
prices enhanced by the amount of the three cent tax.
The original bill, filed in the District Court of the
United States August 4, 1928, names as the only defendant the State Controller-the officer charged with the
duty of enforcing the Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Statutes.
It proceeds upon the theory that those statutes, under
the form of taxing dealers from whom appellants and all
other operators of motor vehicles must buy, in effect
exact tolls for the use of the highways, also grant\certain
favors to the distributors, and deprive all such purchasers of their property without due process of law.
Therefore, it is said, they conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment, the Federal Highway Acts, and the Constitution of California. The prayer is for a decree declaring
their invalidity and for an injunction restraining defendant from attempting to enforce them, etc:
In the court below-three judges sitting-the bill was
dismissed, without written opinion.'
Appellants may not undertake to test the validity of
the questioned acts by a proceeding of this character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Frothinghamv. Mellon, Sec'y of the Treasury, 262 U. S.
447, 487, 488,, announces the applicable doctrine.
"The administration of any statute, likely to produce
additional taxation to be imposed upon a vast number of
taxpayers, the extent of whose several liability- is indefinite and constantly changing, is essentially, a matter
of public and not, of indi-idual concern."
The federal courts have no power per se to review and
annul acts of state legislatures upon the ground that they
conflict with the federal or. state constitutions. "That
question may be considered only whenr'the justification
for some direct injury suffered or threatened, presenting
a justiciable issue, is made to rest upon. such an act."
The decree below is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and

are -of opinion that the appel-

lants' status is such as entitles them to test the validity
of the California statutes in "question; that these statutes
do not exact tolls for the use of highways within the
meaning of the limitation contained in fthe Federal HighWay acts, and are not subject to the other objections
urged• against them; and that for these reasons the decree below should be affirmed.

BEKINS VAN LINES, INCORPORATED,

ET AL. V.

RILEY, STATE CONTROLLER OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN

No. 13.

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued. April 18, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

A state law which, in the taxation- of carriers of freight by motor
vehicle using the public highways, distinguishes between 1 those
common carriers who operate over regular routes between fixed
termini and other carriers, common and private, does not deprive

