FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
363

Syllabus.

460, 462; Macdonough v. Starbird, 105 Calif. 15, 19.
Compare Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Tr. Co., 157 U. S.
429.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma also rested its denial
to petitioners of the right to recover the 1926 tax upon
the ground that, having failed to pay the tax for the year
when due, they were barred by the provisions of §§ 9971
and 9973 of the Compiled Oklahoma Statutes for 1921.
Under these sections, relief by injunction against the collection of any tax is forbidden and a suit to recover a tax
alleged to be illegally assessed is allowed only if paid" at
the time and in the manner provided by law." But the
petitioners' allegations, admitted on demurrer, are that
the tax was paid-under duress and compulsion to prevent
the issue of respondent's warrant for its collection, to prevent the stopping by respondent of further royalty payments to them, and to prevent the accumulation of statutory penalties. These allegations are sufficient to bring
the case within the ruling of this Court in Ward v. Love
County, supra, that a denial by a state court of a recovery
of taxes exacted in violation of the laws or Constitution
of the United States by compulsion is itself in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment below. will be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HENRY FORD & SON, INCORPORATED, v. LITTLE

FALLS FIBRE COMPANY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 1NEW YORK.

No. 47. Argued December 4, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.
A private business corporation, licensed by the Federal Power Commission to use, for development of electric power, the surplus water
from a dam in the Hudson River, constructed under acts of Con81325 "-30-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

280 U. S

gress, placed flash-boards on the crest of the dam, as the license
permitted but did not require it to do, and thus raised the level
of the water-pool to such an extent as to diminish the head and
impair the value of a dam and water-power belonging to riparian
proprietors above on the Mohawk River, a navigable tributary of
the Hudson. The parties so injured sued the licensee in the New
York courts and were awarded damages and an injunction restraining it from maintaining the- flash-boards. Held:
1. That the interest of the plaintiffs in the use of the water, even
though subject to destruction under the power of the United States
to control navigation, was, so far as the state laws were concerned,
a vested right acquired under those laws, and as such was, by § 27
of the Federal Water Power Act, expressly saved from destruction
or appropriation without compensation by licensees of the Commission; and that the licensee, by acceptance of the license under § 6
of that Act, must be deemed to have agreed to recognize and protect
such interests. Pp. 375, 377.
2., Whether § 21 of the Federal Water Power Act, giving to
licensees the power of eminent domain, confers on them the power
to condemn rights such as those of the plaintiffs, and whether it
might have been invoked by the licensee in this case, were questions
not before the Court. P. 379.
249 N. Y. 495, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 829, to review a judgment entered in the Supreme Court of New York on remittitur
from the-Court of Appeals, restraining the above-named
petitioner from maintaining flash-boards on a dam in the
Hudson River, and awarding damages.
Mr.Charles E. Nichols, Jr., with whom Messrs. Robert
E. Whalen, Clifford B. Longley, and Wallace R. Middleton were on the brief, for petitioner.
We are dealing with navigable waters of the United
States over which Congress has control for purposes of
navigation. In the exercise of this power, Congress has
proceeded to erect a dam across the Hudson River, including a lock for the passage of boats, and has dredged
and maintained the channel in the pool formed by the
dam which extends'to respondents' mills.

FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
369

Argument for Petitioner.

Congress has also seen fit to enact the Federal Water
Power Act, by which a Commission has been created
for the purpose of preserving, enlarging and maintaining the navigable capacity of the waters of the United
States over which it has jurisdiction. This Commission,
acting within the power delegated to it by Congress, has
made a finding that navigation would be benefited by
issuing a license to petitioner, which included permission
to install the flash-boards, whereby the surplus water at
this government dam might be utilized for power purposes, requiring from petitioner, in exchange, that it furnish to the Government electric power for the operation,
lighting, repair and upkeep of the lock; that it install,
maintain, and operate, at its own expense, such lights
and signals as the Secretary of War might prescribe; and
that it pay to the United States an annual charge or fee
of $5,000.00 for the cost of administration of the Federal
Water Power Act and for the use of the government dam
and property.
The finding of the Federal. Power Commission that
flash-boards are an aid to navigation is conclusive and
binding upon the courts and is not subject to judicial
review, except in so far as it may be examined for the
purpose of determining whether or not it is arbitrary
or capricious, and whether or not the act permitted has.
a real and substantial relation to the interest of navigation. Where a state court has denied a federal right,
this Court has the power to review the record and determine for itself whether there is any basis in fact for
the state court's decision,-in this case that the license
granted to petitioner does not result in any development
and improvement of navigation. The uncontradicted evidence at the trial is that flash-boards do benefit navigation. and, consequently, there is a real and substantial
relation between the erection of flash-boards and the
interests of navigation.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondents.

280 U. S.

Conceding that the purpose of petitioner was confined
to the creation of power, as long as its act was legal,
its motive was immaterial; further, the courts may not
inquire into the motives of Congress when its activity
is confined within the limits of its constitutional authority; and it is, l-erefore, of no concern to the courts what
may have prorrnted Congress in authorizing the Commission to grant the license to petitioner.
The petitioner has done only what the Federal Government itself could do legally and the courts may not
interfere with an act for which Congress has provided,
in the exercise of its lawful authority to improve navigable waters. For the courts so to interfere extends beyond their judicial powers and is an attempted usurpation
of the legislative function which the Constitution has reposed in Congress alone.
There is nothing in the Federal Water Power Act which
creates a cause of action in favor of the respondents; and
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution does not afford
a basis for the judgment, because there has been no
"taking," but only a consequential damage, and because
respondents have not been deprived of "private property,"
inasmuch as their riparian rights are subject to the paramount right of the Government to make improvements
for navigation purposes.
Messrs. George E. O'Connor, Thomas O'Connor, and
Gerald W. O'Connor were on the brief for respondents.
Respondents' ownership of the water-power, the dam,
and the riparian rights is stipulated and conceded.
Under the law of New York the respondents have the
right to have the water leave their property at its natural
level free from the effect of down-stream obstructions;
and the backing of water upon the water-power or lands
or buildings of respondents is an invasion of real property
rights and constitutes a continuing trespass against which
the injured party is entitled to injunctive relief.

FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
369

Argument for Respondents.

These flash-boards were installed by petitioner for its
own private purposes and the plea, that it was acting
as the agent of the Federal Government in the improvement of navigation for the benefit of interstate and foreign commerce is a mere subterfuge.
The license.was issued, not for a navigation improvement, but for a water-power project for the development
of surplus water-power at a government dam.
The finding of the trial court that no navigation purpose is served by the flash-boards is amply supported by
the evidence.
Government permission does not give immunity from
liability for invasion of private property rights. It is
conclusive only against persons claiming under the public
right of navigation. No federal com, .oission has the power
to give the petitioner permission to take or damage the
private property rights of others without responding in
damages.
The correspondence regarding the flash-boards, the regulations and the license constitute a, determination by
the government officials (1) that the power plant and
flash-boards will not interfere with navigation, and (2)
of the terms upon which the petitioner shall be permitted
to use the water-power owned by the Government at
the dam. That is all that the government officials pre
tended to do in this situation.
Congress did not, by the Federal Water Power Act,
assume to invest licensees with the privilege of taking
or damaging the property of others with impunity. On
the contrary, the Act expressly provides that compensation shall be made for the property of others which may
be used or damaged; that the licensee shall be liable -for
all damages to the property of others, and that. no vested
rights in waters shall be affected or interfered with.
If the Secretary of War or the Federal Power Commission purported to invest petitioner with " the title, right,

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

privilege, and immunity . . . to erect and maintain said
flash-boards" and thereby take a portion of respondents'
water-power and convert it to its own use for private
power purposes, their acts are clearly void.
The Federal Government- has not the right, without
making compensation, to take from the respondents waterpower concededly owned by them and transfer the same
to the possession and use either of itself or of its licensee,
even though the transaction be characterized as a navigation improvement. United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316;
American Woolen Co. v. New York, 195 App. Div. 698.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on writ of certiorari to review a
determination of the Court of Appeals of New York, 249
N. Y. 495, upon which a judgment was entered in the state
Supreme Court, awarding damages and an injunction restraining petitioner from maintaining flashboards on the
crest of the "Federal Dam," constructed in the Hudson
River near Troy, New York, under acts of Congress. Act
of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 630, c. 382, March 4, 1913, 37
Stat. 801, c. 144.
Respondents, it is stipulated, are riparian owners on the
Mohawrk River, above its confluence with the Hudson,
where at a point about three miles above the -Federal Dam
they own a dam and water power which they maintain for
the development of power for use in their factories on adjacent land. The petitioner, a private business corporation, has procured from the Federal Power Commission
a license for a hydro-electric power project, purporting to
be granted under the Federal Water Power Act of June
10, 1920, 41 Stat. 1063 (U. S. C., Title 16, c. 12). The
license granted permission to use surplus water from the
Federal Dam for the development of power at a plant to
be constructed and maintained by petitioner for that
purpose, on government land. As the license also per-

FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
369

Opinion of the Court.

mits, but does not require, petitioner has placed flashboards on the crest of the dam which, under normal conditions, raise the level of the water in the pool above the
dam approximately two feet. Electric power developed
by the project is used in the business of an affiliated
private manufacturing corporation. The maintenance of
the water at the new level has resulted in materially
raising the water at the tail-races of respondents' power
plants, with a corresponding reduction of the head of
water and of the power developed at their dam.
As the court below held, the acts complained of constitute, under local law, an actionable wrong, entitling respondents to an injunction and to damages. Hammond
v. Fuller, 1 Paige (N. Y.) 197; Brown v. Bowen, 30 N. Y.
519; Hall v. Augsbury, 46 N. Y. 622, 625, 626; Rothery v.
New York Rubber Co., 24 Hun. 172, aff'd 90 N. Y. 30;
American Woolen Co. v. State, 195 App. Div. (N. Y.) 698,
705. To avoid this liability petitioner relies on the federal
right or immunity specially set up by its answer, that the
Hudson and Mohawk are navigable rivers; that all of the
acts complained of were done under the license and authority of the Federal Power Commission and under regulations of the Secretary of War, authorized by the Water
Power Act; that the license and the acts of petitioner
authorized by it were found by the Commission to be
desirable and justified in the public interest for the
purpose of improving and developing the Hudson River
for the benefit of interstate commerce, and that the petitioner, acting under the license, is an agency of the Federal
government, in the exercise of its power to regulate commerce and navigation.
It is contended that the navigable capacity of the
Hudson and the Mohawk is subject to the regulation and
control of Congress, under Clause 3 of § 8, Art. I, of the
Constitution, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;' Gilman v.
Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 724; United States v. Chandler-

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53, 63; New Jersey v. Sargent, 269
U. S. 328, 337, which may constitutionally be delegated
to the Power Commission; cf. Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278
U. S. 367, 415; that even if the finding of the Commission
that the licensed project is in aid of commerce and navigation is not conclusive, as petitioner asserts it is, and even
though some of the power developed by petitioner is used
for private purposes, the raising of the level of the water
by the use of flashboards is shown by the evidence to be
beneficial to navigation, and it was therefore within the
competency of the Commission to determine whether the
project should be authorized. It appears that the petitioner is required by the license and its acceptance of it to
supply from.. the licensed project, power in specified
amounts for the lighting and operation of the existing
government lock and a second projected lock at the Federal Dam, which are instrumentalities of navigation.
It is argued that Congress, by the Federal Water Power
Act, has authorized the Commission to develop navigation and for that purpose to establish obstructions in
navigable waters and, subject only to the constitutional
requirement of compensation for property taken, its
power when so exercised is supreme; that the present exercise of that power does not amount to a taking of the
respondents' property for the reason that it does not appear that the obstruction has so raised the water as to
flood the respondents' land, and any right of theirs recognized by the state and asserted here, to have the river
flow in its natural manner without obstruction, is subordinate to the power of the national government exerted
by the Commission through its licensee, whose action so
far as it affects respondents' water power, is damnum
absque injuria. United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co.,
229 U. S. 53; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 271;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 162, 163; Lewis Blue
Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82; see Fox River

FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
369

Opinion of the Court.

Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S. 651; ChaseHibbard Co. v. City of Elmira, 207 N. Y. 460; compare
United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316.
The respondents insist, as the court below found, that
the Federal Dam was designed to be sufficient for purposes of navigation without the flashboards and it was
unnecessary to use them for purposes of navigation; that
the petitioner had installed them for the development of
power for its own private use; that the effect upon navigation of the power plant and flashboards is negligible,
hence the licensed project was not one authorized under
the Federal Water Power Act. In any case, it is urged
that the injury and damage complained of amount to a
taking of respondents' property without compensation
and, further, that the Federal Water Power Act, by its
terms, does not authorize the granting of licenses which
would enable the licensee to destroy or affect the rights
of riparian owners.
But, in the view we take of the application of the Federal Water Power Act to the present case, it is unnecessary to decide all the issues thus sharply raised. Whether
the Commission acted within or without its jurisdiction
in granting the license, and even though the rights which
the respondents here assert be deemed subordinate to
the power of the national government to control navigation, the present legislation does not purport to authorize
a licensee of the Commission to impair such rights recognized by state law without compensation. Even
though not immune from such destruction they are, nevertheless, an appropriate subject for legislative protection.
See United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427; Guthrie
National Bank v. Guthrie, 173 U. S. 528, 535; Joslin Co.
v. Providence, 262 U. S. 668, 675, 676; Otis v. Ludlow Co.,
201 U. S. 140, 152; Oswego & Syracuse R. Co. v. State,
226 N. Y. 351, 356. Especially is there reason for such
protection where, as here, their sacrifice may be involved

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

in the grant of a valuable privilege to a licensee. We
think that the provisions of the Act are quite sufficient
in themselves to save respondents from any such appropriation of their water power.
Section 10(c) (U. S. C., Title 16,§ 803(c)) providesthat
licensees "shall be liable for all damages occasidned to
the property of others by the construction, maintenance or operation" of the licensed project and by § 27
(U. S. C., Title 16, § 821) it is provided, "Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as affecting or
intending to affect or in any way to interfere with the
laws of the respective states relating to the control, appropriation or distribution of water used in irrigation or
for municipal or other uses, or any vested right acquired
therein."
By § 21 (U. S. C., Title 16, § 814), licensees
are given the power of eminent domain and authorized
to conduct condemnation proceedings in district or
state courts for the acquisition " of the right to use or
damage the lands or property of others necessary to the
construction, maintenance or operation of any dam
[or] .
.
diversion structure
. ."in connection
with an authorized project which, they are unable to
acquire by contract. By § 6 (U. S. C., Title 16, § 799), all
licenses are required to be "conditioned upon acceptance
by the licensee of all the terms and conditions of this
Act."
While these sections are consistent with the recognition
that state laws affecting the distribution or use of water
in navigable waters and the rights derived from those
laws may be subordinate to, the power of the national
government to regulate commerce upon them, they nevertheless so restrict the Operation of the entire act that the
powers conferred by it on the Commission do not extend
to the impairment of the operation of those laws or to the
extinguishment of rights acquired under them without
remuneration. We think the interest here asserted by

POPOVICI v. AGLER.
369

Statement of the Case.

the respondents, so far as the laws of the state are concerned, is a vested right acquired under those laws and
so is one expressly saved by § 27 from destruction or
appropriation by licensees without compensation, and
that it is one which petitioner, by acceptance of the license
under the provisions of § 6, must be deemed to have
agreed to recognize and protect. Whether § 21, giving
to licensees the power of eminent domain, confers on
them power to condemn rights such as those of respondents, and whether it might have been invoked by the
petitioner in the present situation, are questions not
before us.
Affirmed.
OHIO EX REL. POPOVICI, VICE-CONSUL OF ROU-

MANIA, v. AGLER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 35.

Argued January 7, 8, 1930.-Decided January 20, 1930.

1. The provisions of Article III, § 2, of the Constitution extending
the judicial power to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and investing this Court with original
jurisdiction of such cases, do not, of themselves and without more,

exclude jurisdiction in the courts of a State over a suit against
a vice-consul for divorce and alimony. P. 382.
2. The provisions of the Judicial Code, § 24, par. Eighteenth;
§ 256, par. Eighth, giving the District Court original jurisdiction,
exclusive of the courts of the several States, over all suits against
consuls and vice-consuls, should not be construed as granting to
the District Court or denying to the state courts, jurisdiction over
suits for divorce and alimony. P. 383.
119 Ohio'St. 484, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

279 U. S. 828, to review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Ohio denying a writ of prohibition,
which was sought by the petitioner for the purpose of
restraining a proceeding for divorce and alimony in the
Court of Common Pleas.

