B. & 0. S. W. R. CO. v. CARROLL.
Syllabus.

486

the rule ceases to be operative whenever, and as long as,
the place is closed against the servant., and he is authoritatively notified that it is unsafe and warned to avoid it.
The master who furnishes the place may, of course,
abandon or suspend its use, whenever he discovers that
it has ceased to be safe; and a servant, so notified and
warned, who ignores the notice and warning, does so at
his own risk.
Judgment reversed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. CARROLL, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 87.

Argued January 15, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Where the plaintiff in an action in damages for personal injuries
dies pending an appeal from a judgment in his favor, the judgment.
subsequently being reversed and remanded by this Court for a
new trial on the ground that the Federal Employers' Liability Act
and not state law was applicable, an amendment of the complaint

by the administrator so as to include a claim for damages on account
of the death introduces a new cause of action and can not be
allowed if the two-year period of limitation has already run against
that cause of action. P. 494.
2. Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the cause of action
which arises from death accrues, and the two-year period of limitations begins to run, at the time of the death. P. 495.
3. A judgment based on a verdict awarding a single suni as
damages upon two causes of action, one for personal injuries and
the other for death resulting therefrom, must be reversed if one
of the causes of action was erroneously allowed to go to the jury,
and must be sent back for retrial on the other cause of action.
P. 495.
4. The duty of the employer to provide a safe place to work and
safe working appliances is not absolute; he is held only to the
exercise of reasonable care to that end. P. 496.
200 Ind. 589, reversed.

492

( )("()I,I
,

vInwntlIl

'I'I

I, 192!).

f'or Re's~lentt.

2, O V;. S.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 537, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Indiana, which affirmed a judgment
against the Railroad Company in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.

ilr. William A. Eggcrs, with whom Messrs. Morison R.
Waite, Harry R. McMulile and Cassius IV. McMullen
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Oscar H. Montyomcry, with whom Messrs. T. Harlan Montgomcry and William .. Hughes were on the brief,
for respondent.
The liability created by ยง 1 of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act is for both injury and death resulting from
certain specified negligence. This liability is readily distinguishable from that given for death by statutes patterned after Lord Campbell's Act. Such statutes merely
modify the common law to the extent that an action is
given to specified beneficiaries for a death which is the
result of any wrongful act.
The federal Act is exclusive in its field, and, by amendinent, was intended to grant all the relief afforded by the
statutes of any of the States under like circumstances.
Death and survival acts, in a number of States, authorized
recovery of damages resulting to an injured employee, and
also resulting to his widow and children from his death
because of the negligent or wrongful act of his employer.
The amendment of April 5, 1910, provides that " any
right," or the entire right of action, so given, not for personal injuries only, nor for death only, but for both, shall
survive; but, that there shall be only one recovery.
Tle cause of action in this case is not barred, since suit
was timely brought; but. the effect of the amendment
to the federal statute is to permit and require all damages,
both to decedent in his lifetime, by reason of the injury,
and to his widow-and children, by reason of his death, to
be merged upon his death and to be recovered in one

B. & 0. S. W. R. CO. v. CARROLL.
Opinion of the Court.

491

action for the benefit of his widow and children. St.
Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648; Great
Northern R. Co. v. Capital Trust Co., 242 U. S. 144;
Kansas City Southern. R. Co. v. Leslie, 238 U. S. 599;
Moffett v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 220 Fed. 39; Northern
Pac. R. Co. v. Maerkl, 198 Fed. 263; Illinois Cent. R. Co.
v. O'Neill, 177 Fed. 328; 217 U. S. 604.
The decision of this Court in St. Louis, I. M. d S. 2.
Co. v. Craft, supra, awarding damages both for personal
injuries and death in the same action, under the amended
federal Act, has been followed in many cases.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The deceased, Guerney 0. Burtch, sustained personal
injuries while assisting to unload a heavy ensilage cutter
from a freight train operated by petitioner. He sued in
a state court, and recovered damages on the theory that
state law, and not the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
applied. This court reversed the judgment, holding that
the federal act applied, and remanded the cause for a new
trial. On February 10, 1921, while the appeal was pending in the state supreme court, Burtch died, and his
widow (now Lula Carroll) was appointed administratrix.
Upon her application she was substituted as respondent in
this court. B; & 0. S. W. R. R. v. Burtch, 263 U. S.
540.
Three years after the death of Burtch when the case
was back in the state court of first instance, respondent,
by leave of that court, amended the complaint, and,
among other things, alleged for the first time the death of
Burtch as a result of the injury, and demanded judgment.
in a single sum for the loss and injury sustained by the
deceased during his lifetime and the pecuniary loss resulting from his death. A motion to require respondent to
state these claims as separate causes of action was over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

ruled. The answer affirmatively alleged that in so far as
the amended complaint was based upon the death of
Burtch, the cause of action was barred because not
brought within two years, as required by ยง 6 of the act
(U. S. Code, Title 45, ยง 56), which provides that no action
shall be maintained under the act unless commenced
within two years from.the day the cause of action accrued.
The jury returned a verdict for respondent and the judgment thereon was affirmed by the state supreme court.
In respect of the statute of limitations, that court held
that the challenged amendment did not introduce a new
cause of action,. but was a mere amplification of the original complaint and related back to the commencement of
the action. In support of the ruling, reliance was had
upon the decisions of this court that neither an amendment for the first time setting up the right of the plaintiff to sue as personal representative, Mo., Kans. & Tex.
Ry. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, nor an amendment for the first
time .alleging that the parties were engaged in interstate
commerce, N. Y. Cent. R. R. v. Kinney, 260 U. S. 340,
introduces a new cause of action. Each of these decisions
proceeds upon the ground that the amendment did not set
up 4ny different state of facts as the ground of action,
and therefore it related back to the beginning of the action. In the Kinney case it was pointed out'that the original declaration was consistent with a wrong under either
state or federal law, as the facts might turn out; and that
the acts constituting the tort were the same, whichever
Jaw gave them that effect.
But here two distinct causes of action are involved, one
for the loss and suffering of the injured person while he
lived, and another for the pecuniary loss to the beneficiaries named in the act as a result of his death. 'St. Louis
& Iron Mtn. Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648, 658; C., B. & Q.
R. R. v. Wells-Dickey Trust Co., 275 U. S. 161,162. In the
Craft case it was said: "Although originating in the same

B. &. 0. S. W. R CO. v. CARROLL.
491

Opinion of the Court.

wrongful act or neglect, the two claims are quite distinct,
no part of either being embraced in the other.
One begins where the other ends, and a recovery upon
both in the same action is not a double recovery for a
single wrong but a single recovery for a double wrong."
And in the Wells-Dickey case it was explicitly held that
for an injury resulting in death the act gives two distinct
causes of action.
The statute, it is true, provides that " there shall be only
one recovery for the same injury "; but this has the effect
not of merging the two rights into a single cause of action,
but of limiting the personal representative "to one recovery of damages for both, and so to avoid the needless
litigation in separate actions of- what would better be
settled once for all in a single action." St. Louis & Iron
Mtn. Ry. v. Craft, supra, p. 659.
The cause of action which arises from death accrues at
the time of death, and the two-year period of limitation
then begins. Reading Co. v. Koons, 271 U. S. 58. Here,
more than two years having passed, the amendment, introducing as it did a new and distinct cause of action, does
not relate back to the beginning of the action so as to
avoid the bar of the statute of limitations, Union Pacific
Railway v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285, 296-298; and since the
verdict of the jury was for a single sum, including an
undetermined amount as damages for the death, the judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for a new
trial only upon the alleged cause of action for the personal
injuries suffered by the deceased.
The court below gave weight to the fact that this court,
in disposing of the former appeal, remanded the cause for
a new trial, and suggests that this would not have been
done if the complaint was not subject to amendment so
as to allow a submission of the case to a jury under the
federal act. It is enough to say that on the former
appeal the right to maintain an action on account of

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Burtch's d&ath was in no way involved; and there is no
warrant for assuming that this court had in mind any
future proceedings in regpect thereof.
We do not stop to discuss the complaint, rather faintly
urged, that the trial court gave conflicting and improper
instructions to the jury on the subject of assumption of
risk. That question received the consideration of this
court in Texas & Pacific Railway v. Archibald, 170 U. S.
665, 671, and Choctaw, Oklahoma &c., R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 68, and the rule to be followed in any
subsequent trial of this case will there be found fully and
carefully stated. Under the rule established by these
cases, some of the instructions of the court were over
favorable to the railroad company rather than the reverse.
On the other hand, the charge in respect of the duty of
the employer to furnish safe appliances was without qualification, and the jury might well have understood that the
.duty was an absolute one. That is not the. law. The
employer is not held to an absolute responsibility for the
reasonably safe condition of the place, tools and appliances, but only to the duty of exercising reasonable care
to that end. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492,
502; Yazoo & M. V. R. R. Co. v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531;
533.
Judgment reversed.
EARLY, RECEIVER, v. RICHARDSON.
CERTIFIC4TE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 133. Argued January 21, 22, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. When the purchaser of stock of a national bank receives from the
seller the certificates properly endorsed, title passes and the transfer i's complete as between' the parties; and, as between them, the
purchaser alone becomes liable for assessments thereafter imposed
P. 498.
on the shares.

