390

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

SUPERIOR OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI EX REL. KNOX, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 28. Argued October 31, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. In a regular course of business, gasoline was sold by an oil company in Mississippi to shrimp packers in that State, was delivered
at the wharves of their packing plants there and was thence carried by the packers' boats to a neighborhood in Louisiana and
delivered to shrimp fishermen for use in fishing. The fishermen
brought their catches to the packing plants, sold them to the
packers and were charged with the cost of the gasoline. The Oil
Company received in each case from the packer a so-called bill of
lading, signed by the master of the boat on which the gasoline was
loaded, purporting to show a consignment to the packer, to the
Louisiana neighborhood as destination, on that boat and providing
that the gasoline should remain the property of the Oil Company
until delivered to the consignee or its agent at such " destination,"
and that all risks should be upon the purchaser. The Oil Company
paid no freight. The packers, when the gasoline was delivered at
their plants, were free to do with it as they liked. Held, that the
sales by the Oil Company were not in interstate commerce and were
subject to be taxed by Mississippi. P. 395.
2. It is not within the power of the parties by the form of their
contract to convert a local business into an interstate commerce
business protected by the Commerce Clause, when the contract
achieves nothing else. P. 394.
156 Miss. 377, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi upholding taxes. The suit was brought by the
state Attorney General to collect the taxes ff'om the Oil
Company. A judgment of the Chancery Court dismissing the bill was affirmed by the Supreme Court after a
hearing before a division thereof consisting of three judges.
Upon suggestion of error -there was a rehearing by the

full court, resulting in the decree here considered.

SUPERIOR OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
390

Argument for Appellant.

Messrs. W. Lee Guice and William H. Watkins, with
whom Mr. John L. Heiss was on the brief, for appellant.
The sale and delivery of gasoline in this case, according
to the established course of dealing, was in a regular
channel of interstate commerce, and formed an integral
part thereof.
Interstate commerce comprises not only shipments but
negotiations and contracts. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.282; Lemke v. Farmers' Grain Co.,
258 U. S.50; Rosenberger v. Pacific Express Co., 241 U. S.
48; Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific States P. T.
Asso., 273 U. S.52; Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S.1.
It is not dependent upon passage of title, nor does it
necessarily involve transportation by carrier. Browning
v. Waycross, 233 U. S.16.
From the moment the interstate movement begins, the
commodity is not subject to local taxation.
This case is even stronger in that the tax is one upon
the sale itself and not a property tax. The gasoline started
on its interstate journey as it was drawn from storage
tanks and placed in sealed drums. While it may have
been within the range of possibility that the purchaser
might divert the shipment, the amount ordered corresponded as to quantity with the requirements of the fishermen in the Louisiana marshes. From the time the gasoline was drawn, there was one continuous movement. To
state the case most strongly for Mississippi, the sale was
not completed until the drums were placed on the wharf
at the water's edge.
The essential facts are that here was a continuous flow
of gasoline from Mississippi into Louisiana to be used
in the latter State. The question is not of an occasional
or an isolated sale. We have a well-established course of

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

280 U. S.

business carried on in a practical manner. Suppose the
seller in its own conveyances had contracted to sell and
deliver the gasoline at Grant's Pass. That such course of
business would have constituted interstate commerce can
not be questioned. Suppose there had been a regular.
carrier either by land or water transporting property to
Grant's Pass and the contract of sale had required the
seller to deliver the commodity to such carrier. Title
would have passed to the buyer upon delivery to the
carrier. Yet the transactions would have been in interstate commerce although the title passed in Mississippi.
The essential characteristics of interstate commerce are
the negotiations, the contract of purchase and the transportation in interstate commerce.
The State can lay no tribute directly or indirectly
upon the right to engage in interstate commerce. FosterFountain Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, illustrates
the immateriality of the means employed in transportation. Substance and not form determines. Heyman v.
Hays, 236 U. S. 178; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; South Covington & C. S.R. Co. v.
Covington, 235 U. S. 537.
It was competent for the purchaser and the seller to
make any agreement they saw fit respecting the passage
of the title. Harkness v. Russell, 118 U. S.663; Beardsley
v. Beardsley, 138 U. S. 262; Williston on Sales, 2d ed.,
Vol. 1, par. 259; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578;
Segrist v. Crabtree, 131 U. S.287.
If the transactions possess the characteristics and essentiials of interstate commerce, they'are such,- irrespective
of what parties may term them. At the same time the
form of billing and the terms applied by the parties to
the transaction may be looked into in order to determine the real nature of the transaction. Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501; Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178; South
Cdvington & C. S. R. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537;

SUPERIOR OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
390

393

Opinion of the Court.

Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346;
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 275 U. S.
257; Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; York Manufacturing Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
Mr. James W. Cassedy, Jr., Assistant Attorney General
of Mississippi, pro hac vice, by special leave of Court,
with whom Messrs. George T. Mitchell, Attorney General
of Mississippi, and E. C. Sharp were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mississippi has the power to levy an excise tax on the
sale of gasoline by a distributor to a purchaser, both
being residents of the State and the sale being completed
in the State, and does not thereby place a burden upon
interstato commerce, even though the purchaser move
the gasoline to another State. Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hopkins, 264 U. S. 137.
The State's power to tax property is not destroyed by
the fact that it is intended for and will move in interstate commerce. LaCoste v. Department of Conservation,
263 U. S.545.
The contracts for sale and delivery must be for sale
and delivery across state lines to make the sale exempt
from state taxation. A tax without discrimination on
sales of gasoline after the interstate transportation ceases,
or before it begins, is not a burden on interstate commerce
where the sales are entirely contracted for and completed
in the taxing State.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit by the State of Mississippi to collect a tax
on distributors of gasoline of three and four cents respectively per gallon sold, according to the statute in force at
the time of the sales. The defence was that the sales
were in interstate commerce. The Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

State upheld the tax, 119 So. Rep. 360, and the defendant,
the Superior Oil Company, appealed to this Court on the
ground that the statutes as applied violated the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States. Article
1, Section 8.
The facts are as follows. The Superior Oil Company, a
corporation created and doing business in Mississippi,
sold gasoline to packers in Biloxi in that State and delivered it at the packers' wharves. The latter loaded the
oil upon their own fishing boats and sent it out to the
neighborhood of Grants Pass, Louisiana., where they
delivered it to shrimp fishermen for use in fishing. The
fishermen brought their catch back to Biloxi, sold it to
the packers and were charged with the cost of the oil in
account. The appellant received in each case from the
purchaser what is called a bill of lading, signed by the
master of the boat on which the oil was loaded and
reading in part: " Consigned to Gussie Fontaine Pkg. Co.
[or other purchasers]. Destination: Grants Pass, La.
By boat Frank Louis, owned or operated by Gussie Fontaine Pkg. Co." The instrument then provided that " the
property consigned herein remains the property of said
Superior Oil Company until it shall be delivered to consignee or consignee's agent at point of destination", with
provisions throwing all risks upon the purchasers. The
seller of course paid no freight. The document seems
to have had no other use than, as the Supreme Court of
Mississippi said, to try to convert a domestic transaction
into one of interstate commerce. There was no consignee
at the point of destination. The goods were delivered to
the so-called consignee before they started, and were in
its hands throughout. There was no point of destination
for delivering of the oil but merely a neighborhood in
which the packers that had bought it and already held it
expected to sell it again. The document hardly can affect
the case, because it is "not within the power of the

SUPERIOR OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
390

Opinion of the Court.

parties by the form of their contract to convert what was
exclusively a local business, subject to state control, into
an.interstate commerce business protected by the commerce clause "; Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16, 23;
at least when the contract achieves nothing else.
The importance of the commerce clause to the Union
of course is very great. But it also is important to prevent that clause being used to deprive the States of their
lifeblood by a strained interpretation of facts. We may
admit that this case is near the line. There was a regular course of business known to the appellant, that took
the gasoline into another State, and if by mutual agreement the oil had been put into the hands of a third person,
a common carrier, for transportation to Louisiana the
mere possibility that the vendor might be able to induce
the carrier to forego his rights might not have been
enough to keep the transaction out of interstate commerce. A. G. Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66,
(a case of foreign export, see Sonneborn Brothers v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506, 5'20, 521). But here the gasoline was
in the hands of the purchaser to do with as it liked, and
there was nothing that in any way committed it to sending
the oil to Louisiana except its own wishes. If it had
bought bait for fishing that it intended to do itself, the
purchase would not have been in interstate commerce
because the fishing grounds were known by both parties
to be beyond the State line. A distinction has been
taken between sales made with a view to a certain result
and those made Simply with indifferent knowledge that
the buyer contemplates that result. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Parker,242 U. S. 13, 14. Kalem Co. v.
Harper Brothers, 222 U. S. 55, 62. The only purpose of
the vendor here was to escape taxation. It was not taxed
in Louisiana and hoped not to be in Mississippi. The
fact that it desired to-evade the law, as it is called, is immaterial, because the very meaning of a line in the law

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

is that you intentionally may go as close to it as you can
if you do not pass it. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625,
630, 631. But on the other hand the desire to make its
act an act in commerce among the States was equally
unimportant when it was apparent that the buyer's journey to Louisiana, was accidental so far as the appellant
was concerned. It is a matter of proximity and degree
as to which minds will differ, but it seems to us that the
connection of the seller with the steps taken by the buyer
after the sale was too remote to save the seller from the
tax. Dramatic circumstances, such as a great universal
stream of grain from the State of purchase to a market
elsewhere, may affect the legal conclusion by showing the
manifest certainty of the destination and exhibiting
grounds of policy that are absent here.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
UNITED STATES v. WURZBACH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 66. Argued January 20, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. A representative in Congress who receives or is concerned in
receiving money from officers and employees of the United States
for the political purpose of promoting his nomination at a party
primary, as a candidate for re~lection, is guilty of the offense
defined by ยง 312 of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. U. S. C.,
Title 18, ยง 208. P. 398.
2. Congress may provide that officers and employees of the United
States neither shall exercise nor be subjected to pressure for
money for political purposes, upon or by others of their kind,
while they retain their offic, or employment. Id.
3. Neither the Constitution nor the nature of the abuse .to be
checked requires that the words of the Act be confined to political
purposes within the control of the United States. P. 399.

