OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

otherwise would have been lost. The fact was a general
one' No particular oil was mentioned and the fact was
not confined to oils. The public was directed to make
a 'simple preliminary test to determine which oily substance yields the proportion of froth or scum desired.'
The patent having been held good as to the oils although
experiment was necessai'y to find out what oil would
work best with a given ore, the disclosure was an anticipation although experiment might be necessary to choose
among the substances having the required affinity the one
that would produce the best result.
The petitioner adverts to the success that has attended
the later patent and to the fact that the world waited
until it appeared. But interlopers naturally would be
slow to venture into the field occupied by a powerful company armed with patent No. 835120 and supported by a
subtle ingenuity that we cannot doubt would have been
exerci d with even more effect to show that a process
like that in No. 962678 was an infringement than it now
is to prove that the later patent was a revelation that
transformed the art.
Decree affirmed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BRYANT, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 113.

Argued January 16, 17, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. An action for wrongful death will not lie under the Federal Employers' Liability Act where the injury from which death resulted

was inflicted two days after the employment of the decedent by
the railway company had been terminated. P. 405.
2. The writ of certiorari should not issue to review a case in a state
court as one governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
if judgment against the carrier was rested upon the state law,
pursuant to a finding that the injured person's employment by

C. & 0. RY. CO. v. BRYANT.
Opinion of the Court.

404

the carrier had ceased before the injury Qccurred, and if there
was some evidence to support that finding. Id.
152 Va. 263, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

279 U. S. 834, to review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, affirming a recovery against the Railway Company in an action for
death by wrongful act.
Mr. J. M. Perry for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Curry, with whom Messrs. R. B. Stephenson and Curry Carter were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an action seeking to charge the petitioner for the
death of the respondent's intestate, who was shot. and
killed by the foreman of a gang in which the deceased
if not discharged would have worked. At the trial the
petitioner demurred to the evidence, on the ground,
among others, that at the time of the killing the parties
were engaged in interstate commerce. The demurrer was
overruled and the respondent (plaintiff) got judgment,
which was affirmed by an equally divided Court. If the
parties were governed by the Federal Employers' Liability
Act the respondent might have difficulties from the decisions of this Court. Davis v. Green, 260 U. S. 349.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Southwell, 275 U. S.64.
But the deceased was killed on Monday, and there was
some evidence that he had been discharged on the Saturday before. If so the Act of Congress did not govern
and the parties were left to the State law, with which we
have no concern. The writ of certiorari would not have
been granted but for the impression that there was no
doubt that the deceased was employed by the petitioner
in interstate commerce up to the moment immediately
preceding his death.
Judgment affirmed.

