SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
80

83

Syllabus.

undue discrimination. We regard the controversy as not
open to serious doubt and further discussion of it seems
unnecessary.

Affirmed.
SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SPECIAL COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.
No. 20.

Argued October 24, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. Cause held properly here on appeal; certiorari denied. P. 89.
2. A statute of a State which undertakes to tax things wholly beyond
her jurisdiction or control conflicts with the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 92.
3. Mobilia sequuntur personam is a fiction intended for convenience,
not controlling where justice does not demand it, and not to be
applied if the result would be a patent and inescapable, injustice
through double taxation, or otherwise. Pp. 92, 93.
4. Intangibles, such as stocks and bonds, in the hands of the holder
of the legal title, with definite taxable situs at that owner's residence not subject to be changed by the equitable owner, may not
be taxed at the latter's domicile in another State. P. 93.
5. A citizen of Virginia transferred a fund of etocks and bonds to a
Maryland Trust Company in trust for his two minor sons. The
trustee was empowered to change the investments and was to
accumulate the income, first paying taxes and its own commissions, and, as each son attained the age of twenty-five years, was
to pay him one-half of the principal with the income accumulated
thereon. If either son died before receiving his share, his share was
to be paid over to his children, if he left any; otherwise it was to be
added to that of the surviving son and held for his use and benefit
in the same manner as the original share of that son was held.
The deed made no provilsion for the event of death of both sons
under twenty-five without issue. The donor reserved to himself
a power of revocation but died in Virginia without exercising it.
The Trust Company continued to hold the origina- securities in
Baltimore, Maryland, and paid the taxes regularly demanded by
that City and State on account of them. Administration of the

84

.

OCTOBER TERM; 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

280 U. S.

donor's estate was had in Virginia, where the two sons, still in
their minority, also were domiciled. The courts of Virginia sus-

tained a Virginia tax upon the whole corpus of the trust estate by
rqgarding the sons, in conjunction with the administrator, as the
real owners' of it. Held that the tax was on property beyond the
jurisdiction of the State and
I
Amendment.

invalid under the Fourteenth

151 Va..883, reversed.

A'PPEAL from a judgment of the Special Court of Appeals of Virginia which affirmed a judgment denying
.relief to the Trust Company from assessments of taxes.
Mr. Littleton M. Wickham, with whom Messrs. J. Jordan Leake, A. S. Buford, Jr., Wm. P. Constable, and
Joseph M. Hurt, Jr., were on the brief, for appellant.
The statute. is unconstitutional unless the cestuis and
the estate own 'the entire corpus. We take it to ber undisputed by counsel for the Commonwealth that no
greater tax would have been imposed had an. identical
set of securities been held in absolute estate by a resident
of Richmond, Virginia, in his' safe-deposit box in a
l iRhmon'd bank.'
It surely cannot be contended that the mere accident of
appellant's appearance, before a Virginia tribunal can
justify the taxation of the corpus of a fund held in Maryland, when appellant neither resides in Virginia nor is
acting in any fiduciary capacity under the supervision of
a Virginia court. Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193,
A State has power, to tax intangibles held without. its
bqrders to the extent only of such interest therein as-may
belong to a resident of the State. Brooke v. Norfolk,
277 U. S. 27.
: The inquiry here, then, is what interest in the fund
assessed is owned by residents of Virginia? Obviously,
the owners of the largest share are appellant's
but, though their interest may be technically a fee de.cestuis,

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

Argument for Appellant.

feasible, it is certainly not the entirety. Saltonstall v.
Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260. Assume the disabilities of
nonage removed, so that the cestuis could validly bind
themselves to part with their interest, could they, or
either of them, obtain for it the value actually taxed?
Obviously not, because any purchaser would estimate the'
probability of a defeasance and reduce accordingly the
amount he would be willing to pay. In other words,
neither cestui can sell the remainder, or whatever estate
depends upon his death before 25, since such estate is
owned by others, amongst whom are his brother and his
own issue (now unborn). We do not now contend that
the State of Virginia could not constitutionally tax whatever may be the value of the cestui's interest. This, however, she has not seen fit to do (as she has not, indeed,
provided any machinery for ascertaining such value);
but, on the contrary, she has taxed the entirety.
Still another interest is owned by the Kellam estate, as
representing such persons as may take in event both
cestuis die without issue and under twenty-five. The contingency is not provided for in the trust, and the record
is, of course, silent ps to the place of residence-of these
persons, if they exist or are identifiable. Whoever they
are, or wherever they may be, it is clear that their interest is a mere reversion, if we may speak by analogy with
the law of real property, and, as such, is far from entire.
The Kellam estate as standing in the place of the
grantor, can claim no ownership. Bullen v. Wisconsin,
240 U. S. 625. No resident ownership, therefore, can be
predicated upon the fact that administration took place
in Virginia.
The interests belonging to both cestuis when added to
those belonging to the estate, fall short of totality by the
extent of the interest belonging to the cestuis' issue,
whom, as already stated, we may with complete confi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellant.

280 U. S.

dence assume to have been yet in futuro at the time of
the institution of these proceedings, as the two boys were
then, respectively 141 and 11 years old.
The contingent interests just discussed would seem to
have no situs apart from the securities themselves, and
the securities are in Maryland, not Virginia. In other
words, so far as concerns these contingent interests, there
is no "person for the movables to follow."
Any theory that would support a tax in this case on
the ground that the property Was once in Virginia must,
we conceive, be based on a fundamental misconception of
state power and jurisdiction. State Tax on ForeignHeld
Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473.
Now, "jurisdiction" and "power to impose" a tax
are questions, not of motive, but of fact. Their existence
does not depend on the intentions of the person whose
object it may be to escape them. Either the property is
within the jurisdiction or. it is not. Can a tax upon it be
justified by a retrospective view of why it is where it is?
Surely not. If M, a resident of Virginia, believing his
taxes too burdensome and desiring to escape them, removes himself and all his property to another State,
could this Commonwealth (assuming she in some way
obtained a temporary jurisdiction of his person) impose
a tax on his property? Surely not. Yet any theory involving origin as a criterion would justify a tax in that
case. Cf. Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392.
Appellant's cestuis are not, from the constitutional
standpoint, the owners of the fund in any sense of this
term. Ownership is not a technical conception but one
that should be viewed realistically and as meaning possession or control, or the immediate right to either. Bullen
v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Wachovia v. Doughton, 272
U. S. 567; Brooke v. Norfolk, 277 U. S. 27; Attorney
General v. Power, [1906] 2 I. R. 272, K. B. D.

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

Argument for Appellee.

The ownership pertaining to appellant's cestuis in their
own right will not support the constitutionality of the
statute.
Mr. Henry R. Miller, Jr., with whom Mr. W. W. Martin was on the brief, for appellee.
The proper party appellant is "The Safe Deposit and
Trust Company of Baltimore, Maryland, Trustee for L. J.
and E. P. Kellam," and not that company in its individual capacity.
Under the doctrine of mobilia sequuntur personam,
approved in Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, Virginia
may tax intangible property such as is here involved to its
residents, even though the physical evidences thereof be
located outside the jurisdiction of Virginia. Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.54; and even
though the legal title thereto be in a non-resident.
The question at issue here is, did the sons "own" so
much of the trust fund as amounted in value to the value
of the entire fund?' If they did, the assessment is valid.
The two sons took vested absolute estates in. the personal property, with their enjoyment thereof postponed
such vested estates being subject to be divested upon the
happening of either of the conditions subsequent. Cropley v. Cooper, 19 Wall. 167; Carter v. Keesling, 130 Va.
655. There 'can be no question of the right of Virginia
to tax such vested estates, and such pther estates as the
two sons have in the property..
It is argued, however, that the aggregate value of the
sons' interest is less than the value of the fund, the difference being represented by (a) the interests of the
unborn issue and (b) the interest s of whatever persons
take in the event of the death of both sons under twentyfive and without issue.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellee.

280 U. S.

The interests of the unborn issue of -the sons are of no
value. Howbert v. Cauthorn, 100 Va. 649; Young v.
Young, 89 Va. 675.
It is true that by statute in Virginia now, such an
interest as was involved in either of those two cases may
be disposed of by deed and, even in the absence of statute,
a deed of such interest might operate as an estoppel. But
the "naked possibility" is not thereby given any value.
In the Howbert and Young cases some of the remaindermen were in esse. Here the remaindermen are yet unborn. The interests of the unborn issue are thus dependent upon a double contingency-birth of issue, death of
the issue's father under twenty-five-and are thereby
reduced from a "naked possibility" to a "strong improbability."
Then too, the assessment of a property tax is made
upon the basis of the value of the property at a definite
day in the past, not upon the value of the property in the
future. On the dates when these assessments were made,
the twosons were the owners of the abs~lute estate in the
personalty. They were both alive without issue and
there- was, therefore, no derogatory estate in any one else.
The possibility of death of both sons under twenty-five,
without issue, does not defeat the assessment. Should
such event happen, the property would descend to the
heirs of the one dying second, or pass under his will to his
legatees. As to this contingency, the deed of trust is
silent, and there can be no estate in other persons by way
of limitation upon such event, save by implication, and
such limitations are not favored and the courts will incline
against their creation either by devise or'by deed, when
the words employed are not clear and definite. Brewster
v. McCall, 15: Conn. 274. In the absence of all reference
to such an event, and' when it was the intent of the
grantor in the deed to give to the beneficiaries an absolute
estate; it. should be held that the happening of the con-

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

83

tingency (death of both sons under twenty-five, without
issue) does not affect the estate already created by the
death of the first son, which estate is (1) an absolute
estate in the then surviving son, or (2) a reversion in the
grantor in the deed. Both (1) and (2) are represented by
residents of Virginia; and Virginia may therefore
tax
those interests and include such tax in the assessment
made against the trustee, who is directed to pay all
taxes chargeable. Distinguishing Brooke v. Norfolk, 277
U. S. 27.
Mr. Russell L. Bradford, as amicus curiae, filed a brief
off behalf of The City Bank Farmers Trust Company, of
New York, as Trustee, by special leave of court.
Opinion of the -Court by MR.

announced by the

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,"

CHIEF JUSTICE.

This cause is properly here upon appeal. The petifion
for certiorari is therefore denied.
May 4th, 1920, Lucius J. Kellam, then domiciled and
residing in Accomac County, Virginia, transferred anddelivered to the Safe Deposit and Trust Company of
Baltimore, Maryland, stocks and bonds of sundry corporations valued at fifty thousand dollars, with power to
change the investments, upon the following termst
to collect the income arising therefrom and-after paying such taxes as may be chargeable therieon and
its 5% commissions on the gross income, to accumulate the
net income for the benefit of the two sons of myself, that
is to say, Lucius J. Kellam, Jr., who attained the age of
eight years on September 25, 1919, and Emerson Polk
Kellam, who attained the Age of five years on February 5,
1920, and when tle said Lucius J. Kellam, Jr., arrives at
twenty-five years of age, to deliver to him one-half of the
principal of the estate hereby conveyed and one-half of
the said accumulations of income-the other half of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

90

Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

said principal and accumulations of income shall be retained by said Trustee and all income therefrom shall
continue to be accumulated until the said Emerson Polk
Kellam arrives at twenty-five years of age when he shall
become entitled to the said one-half of the principal and
accumulations so retained together with all further accumulations thereon. If either of said two sons shall die
before receiving his share of said principal and accumulations, then the same shall be paid over and delivered
to his children living at his death; and if either shall die
before receiving his share without issue, then such share
shall be added to the share of the survivor and be held
for his use and benefit in the same manner precisely as
his original share is held."
The deed made no provision for the event of death
of both sons under twenty-five without issue. The donor
reserved to himself power of revocation, but without exercising it, died in 1920. Administration on his estate was
had in Accomac County, Virginia, and his two sons are
domiciled there.
Except as changed by reinvestment, the Trust Company has continued to hold the original securities in
Baltimore, Maryland, and has paid the taxes regularly
demanded by that City and State on account of them.
An apsessment for taxation in Accomac County, Virginia, for the years 1921, 1922, 1923, 1924 and 1925 upon
the whole corpus of the trust estate was sustained by
the court below-the highest State tribunal to which the
matter could be submitted. It declared Sec. 2307, Virginia Code (1919), as amended in 1920, 1922 and 1923*,
*Sec.

2307, Va

Code 1919 (as amended).

By whom'property

is to be listed; to whom taxed.-If property be owned by a person
sis juris, it, shall be listed by and taxed to him. If property be
owned by a minor, it shall be listed by and taxed to his guardian or
trustee, if any he has; if he has no guardian or trustee it shall be
listed by and taxed to his father, if any he has; 'it he has no father,

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

Opinion of the Court.

applicable, adequate to support the demand and not in
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Appellant maintains that, so interpreted and applied,
the statute lays a tax upon property wholly beyond the
jurisdiction of the State and consequently offends the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Manifestly, the securities are subject to taxation in
Maryland where they are in the actual possession of the
Trust Company-holder of the legal title. That they are
property within Maryland is not questioned. De Ganay
v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, 382. Also, nobody within Virginia has present right to their control or possession, or
to receive income therefrom, or to cause them to be
brought physically within her borders. They have no
legal situs for taxation in Virginia unless the legal iction
mobilia sequuntur personam is applicable and controlling. The court below, recognizing this, held the two
sons, in conjunction with the administrator of the father's
estate-all domiciled in Virginia-really owned the fund
then it shall be listed by and taxed to his mother, if any he has;
and if he has no guardian, nor trustee, father nor mother, it shall
be listed by and taxed to the person in possession. If the property
is the separate property of a person over twenty-one years of age
or a married woman, it shall be listed by and taxed to the trustee,
if any they have in this State; and if they have no trustee in this
State, it shall be listed by and taxed to themselves. In either case,
it shall be listed and taxed in the county or city where they reside;
but if they be non-residents of Virginia, the property shall be listed
and taxed in the county or city wherein such trustee resides. If the
property be the estate of a deceased person, it shall be listed by
the personal representative or person in possession, and taxed to the
estate of such deceased person. If the property be owned by an
idiot or lunatic, it shall be listed by and taxed to his committee,
if any; if none has been appointed, then such property shall be
listed by and taxed to the person in possession. If the property is
held in trust for the benefit of another, it shall be listed by and
taxed to the trustee in the county or city of his residence (except as
hereinbefore provided).

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

and that by reason of the fiction its taxable situs followed them.
We need not make any nice- inquiry concerning the
ultimate or equitable ownership of the securities or the
exact nature of the interest held by the sons. In the disclosed circumstances, we think that is not a matter of
controlling importance.
Ordinarily this Court recognizes that the fiction of
mobilia sequuntur personam may be applied in order to
determine the situs of intangible, personal property for
taxation. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1. But the
general rule must yield to established fact of legal ownership, actual presence and control elsewhere, and ought
not to be applied if so to do would result in inescapable
and patent injustice, whether through double taxation or
otherwise. State Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National
d'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388, 404; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S.
392, 408. Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221 U. S. 346, 354; Maguire v. Trefry, 253 U. S. 12,
17. Here, where the possessor of the legal title holds
the securities in Maryland, thus giving them a permanent
situs for lawful taxation there, and no person in Virginia
has present right to their enjoyment or power to remove,
them, the fiction must be disregarded. It plainly conflicts with fact; the securities did not and could not follow
any person domiciled in Virginia. TheiiP actual situs is
in Maryland and can not be changed by the cestuis que
trustent.
The power of Virginia to lay a tax upon the fair value
of any interest in the securities actually owned by one of
her resident citizens is not now presented for consideration. See Maguire v. Trefry, supra.
A statute'of a State which undertakes to tax things
wholly beyond her jurisdiction or control conflicts with
the Fourteenth Amendment. Union Refrigerator Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 204; Buck v. Beach, 206

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 392, 402, 408, 409; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S.
473; Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v. Doughton, 272 U. S.
567, 575.
Tangible personal property permanently located beyond the owner's domicile may not be taxed at the latter
place. Union Refrig. Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra;
Frick v. Pennsylvania, supra. Intangible personal property may acquire a taxable situs where permanently located, employed and protected. New Orleans v. Stempel,
175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Vashington County, 177 U. S.
133; State Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National
d'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Liverpool & L. & G. Ins.
Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221 U. S. 346.
Here we must decide whether intangibles-stocks,
bonds-in the hands of the holder of the legal title with
definite taxable situs at its residence, not subject to
change by the equitable owner, may be taxed at the lattcr's domicile in another State. We think not. The reasons which led this Court in Union Refrig. Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, and Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268
U. S. 473, to deny application of the maxim mobilia
sequuntur personam to tangibles apply to the intangibles
in appellant's possession: They have acquired a situs
separate from that of the beneficial owners. The adoption' of a contrary rule would "involve possibilities of an
extremely serious character" by permitting doable taxation, both unjust and oppressive. And the fiction of
mobilia sequuntur personam " was intended for convenience, and not to be controlling where justice does not
demand it."
No opinion of this Court seems definitely to rule the
exact point now presented. Blackstone v. Miller. 188
U. S. 189, sustained an assessment of tax by New York
upon the transfer of credits, declared to have taxable situs
within her borders, under the will of a citizen of Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

In Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434, the tax was not laid
at the owner's domicile, but by the State wherein the
securities were deposited. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S.
625, involved an inheritance tax; the creator of the trust
resided in Wisconsin at his death and an Illinois Company with legal title then held possession of the property
in Chicago; but the creator had retained full power to
revoke the trust and regain control. Fidelity & Columbia
Tr. Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, sustained a tax laid at
the domicile of the legal owner. He had full power to
control the deposits in St. Louis banks and might have
brought the entire fund within Kentucky's jurisdiction.
In Blodgett V. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, the decedent-a
resident of Connecticut-had control and present- right
to all benefits arising from the property. The legal title
was not held by another with the duty to retain possession, as in the present cause. Moreover, this Court did
not there determine that the property had a taxable situs
in New York.
Any general statement in the above opinions which
may seem to interfere with the conclusion here announced must be limited and confined to the precise
situation then under consideration.
It would be unfortunate, perhaps amazing, if a legal
fiction originally invented to prevent personalty from
escaping just taxation, should compel us to accept the
irrational view that the same securities were within two
States at the same-instant and because of this to uphold
a double and oppressive assessment.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

STONE;, J., concurring.

Concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE STONE.
I concur in the result. It is enough to support it that,
as stipulated in the record, the Virginia assessment was
levied against a trustee domiciled in Maryland upon securities held by it in trust in its exclusive possession and
control there, and so is forbidden as an attempt to tax
property without the jurisdiction. Brooke v. Norfolk, 277
U. S. 27. But the question whether the Fourteenth
Amendment forbids a tax on the beneficiaries, in Virginia,
where they are domiciled, measured by their equitable interests, seems to me not to be presented by the record and
so, under the settled rule of decision of this Court, ought
not now to be decided. Burton v. United States, 196 U. S.
283, 296; Blair v. United States, 250 U. S. 273, 279; Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Light v. United States,
220 U. S.523, 538.
No attempt was made by Virginia to tax the equitable
interests of the beneficiaries of the trust. That the thing
taxed or the measure of the tax is different from the
equitable interests of the beneficiafies, as affected by
the specified contingencies, sufficiently appears from the
fact that the one may well have been of different value
than the other. In fact, the securities seem to have
been assessed at their full value although the equitable interests of the beneficiaries are less than the whole.
It may be that Virginia, following its own view of the
nature of vested and contingent interests, might tax the
interests of these beneficiaries as though they were the
whole, but it is sufficient for present purposes that it has
not assumed to do so. In the face of the present record
we are not required to speculate how far a tax, forbidden
because assessed upon property beyond the jurisdiction,
may be upheld because it may be passed on to the bene-

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

ficiaries in Virginia and the equitable interests thus
reached by indirection.
If the question were here I should not be prepared to
go so far as to say that the equitable rights in personam
of the beneficiaries of the trust might not have been taxed
at the place of their domicile quite as much as a debt
secured by a mortgage on land in another jurisdiction,.
notwithstanding the fact that the land is also taxed at
its situs. See Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 205; Bristol v. Washington County,
177 U. S. 133; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491;
Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 421, 431.
In neither case, if the threat of double taxation were controlling, which Under the decisions it is not, Fideity &
Columbia Tr. Co. v. Louisville, 245-1. S.54, 58; Cream
of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks Co., 253 U. S. 325, 330;
Citizens Nat'l Bank v. Durr, 257 U. S. 99, 109; cf. Siviss
Oil Corporationv. Shanks, 273 U. S. 407, 413, would it
,seem that in any real sense is there double taxation, since
the legal interests protected and taxed by the two taxing
jurisdictions are different.
MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES:

The Special Court of Appeals was plainly right in hold-'
ing that. the deed of trust conferred an absolute gift upon'
the two beneficiaries, perhaps, though I doubt it, subject
to be divested upon a condition subsequent. Gray, Per108. If the beneficiaries could be
Ptetuities, 1st ed.,
taxed at all they could be taxed for the whole value of
the property, because the whole title was in them, even
if liable to be divested at some future time in a not very
probable event.
I arn of opinion that on principle they can be taxed.
In the first place I do not think that it matters that the
owners, residing in Virginia, have only an equitable title.
To be sure the trustee having the legal title and posses-

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
83

97

HOLMES, J., dissenting.,

sion of the bonds in Maryland may be taxed there. But
that does not affect the right of Virginia by reason of
anything that I know of inthe Constitution of the United
States. Bonaparte v. Tax Court, 104 U. S. 592. Kidd
v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732, 733. Hawley v. Malden,
232 U. S. 1, 13. Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks,
253 U. S. 325, 330. Citizens National Bank v. Durr, 257
U. S. 99, 109. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 10.
Compare with the last case Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S.
434.
I see no other fact to cut down Virginia's power. It is
true that the conception of domicil has been applied to
tangible personal property and it now is established that
a State cannot tax the owner of such property if it is
permanently situated in another State. But hitherto the
decisions have. been confined to tangibles that in a plain
and obvious way owed their protection to another power.
Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194, 206. It seemed to me going pretty far to discover
even that limitation in the Fourteenth Amendment. It
opens vistas to extend the restriction to stocks and bonds
in a way thfat I cannot reconcile with Blodgett v. Silber,man, 277 U. S. 1. Taxes generally are imposed upon
persons, for the general advantages of living within the
jurisdiction, not upon. property, although generally
measured more or" less by reference to the riches of the
person taxed, On grounds not of fiction but of fact.
Fidelity , Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.
54, 58. Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491, 498. The
notion that the property must be within the jurisdictioii
puts the emphasis on the wrong thing. The owner may
be taxed for it although it never has been within the
State. Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63.
It seems to me going still further astray to rely upon the
situs of the debt. A debt is a legal relation between two
parties and, if we think of facts, is situated at least as
much with the debtor against whom the obligation musf
be enforced as it is with the creditor. To say that a debt
91325*-30-

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

has a situs with the creditor is merely to clothe a foregone
conclusion with a fiction. The place of the property is
not material except where inability to protect carries
with it inability to tax. But that is an exceptional consequence. One State may tax the owner of bonds of
another State, although it certainly contributes nothing
to their validity. Bonapartev. Tax Court, 104 U. S. 592.
It is admitted that Maryland could tax the trustee in
this case although most at least of the securities handed
over were beyond the power of Maryland to affect in
any substantial way. The equitable owners'of the fund
were in Virginia and I think they could be taxed for it
there. I do not understand that any merely technicl
question is raised on the naming of the trustee instead of
the cestuis que trustent as the party taxed. Nor is there
any question of the amount. Throughout the record,
by the Court and by the trustee, the single issue is stated
to be whether the fund can be reached. In the words
of the trustee it is: "Has such corpus, so created and
held, a taxable situs in Virginia within the sanction of
section one of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States?" I think the judgment should
be affirmed.

UNITED STATES

v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM' THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 30.

Argued November 1, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. The Inter.tate Commerce Commission has power to establish
rates on intrastate shipments which are part of foreign commerce.
P. 100.
2. Whether a shipment is foreign or local is determined by the essential character of the commerce; it is not dependent upon the

question when or to whom title passes; and the shipment may be

