UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
173

Syllabus.

alter the rates paid to American ships, "but to clarify
the law." House Report No. 1305, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.;
Senate Report No. 1096, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; House
Report No. 1788, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.; Annual Report
Postmaster General, 1927, p. 46.
We hold, therefore, that on the findings of the Court
of Claims set forth in the record, judgment should have
been given the petitioner for the balance of $30,370.94.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. JACKSON

ET AL.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

Argued December 5, 1929.

Decided January 6, 1930.

1. An Indian who, being a ward of the United States, has entered land

under the Homestead Law, as permitted by the Act of July 4,
1884, c. 180, 23 Stat. 96, and, pursuant to the latter enactment, has
received a "trust patent" under which the title is to be held in
trust for him by the United States for twenty-five years and at
the expiration of that period is to be conveyed to him discharged of
the trust, has no vested right which would be unconstitutionally
impaired by an enlargement of the period of restriction. P. 189.
2. The United States, in virtue of its guardianship over the Indians,
may during the period of restriction provide for its extension. Id.
3. The Act of June 21, 1906, 34 Stat. 326, which provides "That prior
to the expiration of the trust period of any Indian allottee to whom
a trust or other patent containing restrictions upon alienation has
been or shall be issued under any law or treaty the President may
in his discretion continue such restrictions on alienation for such
period as he may deem best .

.

."

applies to Indians who, under

the Act of July 4, 1884, supra, have entered public lands as homesteaders. P. 191.
4. Nothing herein contained must be taken as intimating that the
Act of June 21, 1906, has any application to the acquisition of
homestead rights under the general homestead laws by persons
of the Indian race who have acquired or seek to acquire such
rights as citizens rather than as Indian wards of the United
States. P. 197.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

5. A construction consistently given a statute by an executive department charged with its enforcement should be allowed great weight
and not be overthrown unless a different construction is plainly
required. P. 193.
Opinion of District Court, 27 F. (2d) 751.

The following statement is by the Chief Justice, preceding the opinion:
In accordance with the provisions of the Act of Congress of July 4, 1884, c. 180, § 1, 23 Stat. 76, 96; U. S. C.,
Title 43, § 190, the United States, on December 11, 1891,
issued to Jack Williams, an Indian, a trust patent on
certain lands. The patent recited that the United States
would hold the lands in trust for the sole use and benefit
of Williams, or, in case of his decease, of his widow and
leirs, for a period of 25 years from the date thereof, and
that at the expiration of such time the United States
would convey the land to Williams, or his widow or heirs,
in fee and free of the trust or any incumbrance whatever.
Before the expiration of the 25 year trust period, Williams died, and his interest in the land passed to his
widow and sole heir, Nellie Williams, an Indian woman.
She held the land until March 18, 1921-more than. four
years after the trust period, by its terms, would have
expired-and then deeded it to Jack Jackson, also an
Indian., In the succeeding year-October 10, 1922-she
died leaving a will by which the same property was devised to Bob Roberts, a tribal Indian.
.The deed to Jackson was recorded November 3, 1922;
but the Secretary of the Interior has never approved it.
Nellie Williams' will, and the devise to Roberts therein
contained, were approved by the Secretary of the Interior, December 1, 1923.
This is a suit by the United States against the heirs
of Jack Jackson. It is brought on behalf of Bob Roberts,
and its purpose is to quiet title in him to the lands in
question. The position of the United States is that,

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Statement of the Case.

while it is true that the deed to Jackson was made after
the original 25 year trust period, with its attendant restrictions on alienation, had, by the terms of the trust
patent, expired, it further appears that the restrictions
on the alienation of this land by Williams or his heirs has
been continued in force and extended by a series of oneyear executive orders from 1916 to 1919, and by 'a further 25-year executive order issued in 1920. The executive orders in question were, it is urged, authorized by
the Act of Congress of June 21, 1906, c. 3504,. 34 Stat.
325, 326.
The United States therefore argued' that the deed to
Jackson, having been made while there was a restriction on alienation, and not having been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior, was void.
The District Court, 27 F. (2d) 751, held that .the Act
of June 21, 1906 did not authorize the President to con-.
tinue the restrictions on alienation contained in the pat-ent issued to Williams. The purpose of the 10064.Act,
said the District Court, was to permit the continuation
of restrictions in patents issued to Indian allottees,, that
is, to Indians who received patents under the Generai
Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, which created the
Indian allotment system, or under any of its subsequent
amendments; but that the 1906 Act did not purport to
give the President a like power with respect to Indians
who received their patents under the Act of July 4, 1884,
which conferred homestead entry rights upon Indians.
The court therefore held that the restrictions on the
alienation of this land had expired at the time Williams'
widow deeded it to Jackson; that there was no statute
expressly extending the restrictions, and no statute authorizing the President so to do; that the deed to Jackson
conformed to the law of the State where it was executed,
and it was valid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the United States.

280 U. S.

The United States appealed to the Ci'cuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The judges of that court,
being in doubt, have certified to us, conformably to § 239
of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938, U. S. C., Title
28, § 346, the two following questions of law concerning
which our instruction is desired for the proper decision
of the cause:
" 1. Could the trust period and the restriction of alienation in an Indian homestead patent issued under the
act of July 4, 1884, (43 U. S. C. A. sec. 190), be extended
by Executive orders?
" 2. Did the act of June 21, 1906 (25 U. S. C. A. see.
391) authorize the President in his discretion to continue
restrictions on alienation in patents issued under the Indian homestead act of July 4, 1884? (43 U. S. C. A.
sec. 190)."
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Hughes and Mr. Pedro Capo-Rodriguez
were on the brief, for the United States.
Congress, in the exercise of its constitutional powers
over the Indians, could authorize the President, in his
discretion, to continue the restrictions on alienation in
patents issued to Indians under the Act of July 4, 1884.
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; United States v.
Nice, 241 U. S. 591.
Under the original Homestead Act of May 20, 1862, c.
75, 12 Stat. 392, the right to enter a homestead was limited to citizens of the United States, or those who had
filed their declaration of intention to become such. Indians were not citizens and could not be naturalized, except
by' Act of Congress, Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U. S. 94. No such
authqrity had been generally granted at the time of the
Homestead Act. Consequently, an Indian could not
originally enter a homestead. United States v. Joyce,

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Argument for the United States.

240 Fed. 610. Later, as the general policy of the Government to grant lands in severalty to the Indians was
being developed, either by means of treaty with the Indian tribes, as such, or through special acts of Congress,
laws were successively enacted gradually extending the
benefit of the homestead laws to certain classes of Indians, obviously with the purpose of encouraging them to
abandon their tribal customs and relations, to attain a
self-supporting station, and to become useful and lawabiding citizens. See the Acts of March 3, 1865, c. 127,
13 Stat. 541; March 3, 1875, c. 131, 18 Stat. 402; January
18, 1881, c. 23, 21 Stat. 315. Then came the Indian
Homestead Act of July 4, 1884, which was designed to
permit all Indians, whether tribal or not, to avail themselves of the benefit of the homestead laws as fully and
to the same extent as might be done by citizens of the
United States (United States v. Joyce, 240 Fed. 610;
Hemmer v. United States, 204 Fed. 898; United States
v. Hemmer, 241 U. S. 379), not as citizens but as Indians.
See opinion in the case of Frank Bergeron, 30 L. D. 375.
In this case, the District Court does not seem to question the proposition that Congress during the continuance
of the guardianship had ample power to extend the trust
period or limitations upon the power of alienation of
Indian homesteads. The existence of this power can not
be doubted in view of Tiger v. Western Investment Co.,
221 U. S. 286; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413;
and Brader v. James, 246 U. S. 88. Congress, having this
power, could authorize the President to extend the period
in his discretion, as it did by the first proviso of § 5 of the
General Allotment Act. See United States v. Reynolds,
250 U. S. 104.
The Act of June 21, 1906, confers upon the President
authority in his discretion to continue restrictions upon
alienation for such period as he may deem best in cases
where the trust or other patent has been issued under any

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

law or treaty to an Indian "allottee."
The general rule
of statutory construction is that the intention of the lawmaker, as disclosed by the language used, is to prevail;
but when that intention does not clearly appear, recourse
may be had to other sources of information to aid in the
'discovery of that intention.' And for this purpose, the
obvious policy of the Act (Levindale Lead Co. v. Coleman,
241 U. S. 432), the purposes of statutes in pari materia,
especially if constituting part of a system (United States
v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216; Tiger v. Western Investment Co.,
221 U. S. 286; United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556;
Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413; United States v.
Hemmer, 241 U. S. 379), and the construction placed upo*
the same by the Executive Department in charge of their
administration (United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos y
Compaiia, 209 U. S. 337; Robertson v. Downing, 127
U. S. 607; United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136) are to
be given great weight.
The Interior Department has treated Indian homesteaders as being upon practically the same footing as Indian
allottees, and as coming within the purview of the statutory provisions here involved. Toss Weaxta, 47, L. D.
574; Jim Crow, 32 L. D. 657; Doc Jim, 32 L. D. 291. This
settled construction by the Department should not be
overturned by the Court except for cogent reasons, and
unless it is clearly wrong (United States v. Hemmer,
supra; United States v. Healey, supra; Hewitt v. Schultz,
180 U. S. 139; United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236;
United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S. 236), or unless a
different construction is plainly required. Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476.
No appearance for Jackson et al.

Opinion of the Court, by MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE
announced by MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER.

TAFT,

The statute under which the Indian, Jack Williams,
secured his trust patent to the land here involved was

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Opinion of the Court.

that of July 4, 1884, c. 180, 23 Stat. 96, the pertinent part
of § 1 of which is printed in the margin.' Its purpose and
effect were to extend to the Indian wards of the United
States, subject, however, to the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, the privileges then enjoyed by citizens of
the United States under the federal homestead laws. It
was provided that patents issued to Indians for homestead lands under the Act should, however, recite that
the United States holds the land in trust for the sole use
and benefit of the Indian for a period of twenty-five years,
and that at the expiration of such period the United
States would convey the same by final patent to the Indian or his widow and heirs in fee and discharged of the
trust. The trust patent here issued to Williams conformed to these requirements of the law.
The first question certified to us by the Circuit Court
of Appeals is whether, after an Indian had acquired a
trust patent under the provisions of this statute, power
remained in the Congress to extend, or to provide that
the Executive, in his discretion, might extend, before its
expiration and before there had come to be issued to
the Indian a patent in fee, the period of the trust with its
"That such Indians as may now be located on public lands, or as
may, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, or otherwise,
hereafter, so locate may avail themselves of the provisions of the
homestead laws as fully and to the same extent as .may now be done
by citizens of the United States; . . . but no fees or commissions
shall be charged on account of said entries or proofs. All patents
itherefor shall be of the legal effect, and declare that the United States
does and will hold the land thus entered for the period of twenty-five
yearg, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Indian by whom
such entry shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of his
widow and heirs according to the laws of the State or Territory where
such land is located, and that at the expiration of said period the
United States will convey the same by patent to said Indian, or his
widow and heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free
of all charge or incumbrance whatsoever."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

resulting restrictions on alienation. We do not think that
our decisions leave any doubt not only that it is within
the power but that it is the duty of the Congress, where
it finds conditions which warrant it, so to do. We have
had frequent occasion to point out the duty of the United
States to protect its wards, the Indians, and the consequent broad extent of its power over them and their
affairs. United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 384;
United States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 597. There is nothing in the Act of 1884 which indicates any disposition on
the part of the United States to dispossess itself of its
powers and duties as guardian, or so to change the status
of its wards as to leave them no longer subject to manifestations of its protection. On the contrary the provisions of the Act leave no doubt that it is an act done by
the United States in its capacity as guardian, and that the
rights conferred by the Act upon the Indians were so conferred principally because they were wards of the Government. This is shown by the provis'ons exempting Indians from the payment of the usual fees, and by the
provision respecting the form of the trust patent, and the
restrictions on alienation.
This being so, we fail to find anything in the Act of
June 21, 1906, which transcends the valid powers of the
Government over its wards. Passing, for the moment, the
question whether the Act of 1906 was intended to apply
to Indian homesteaders claiming under the Act of 1884,
and assuming, for the purposes of question No. 1, that
the word" allottee" was intended to include such Indians,
we find that the Act provides:
"That prior to the expiration of the trust period of any
Indian allottee to whom a trust or other patent containing
restrictions upon alienation has been or shall be issued
under any law or treaty the President may in his discretion continue such restrictions on alienation for such
period as he may deem best. .

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Opinion of the Court.

This does not involve any question of an attempt to
destroy vested rights. The power of the United States,
delegated by the Act to the President, is to be exercised
prior to the issuance of final patent. It has been held that
until final patent be issued no vested right is obtained by
the Indian which would support a constitutional objection to the enlargement of the period of the restriction.
See United States v. Allen, 179 Fed. 13, 22, 23; United
States v. Hemmer, 195 Fed. 790.
What has here occurred is that the United States has
conferred a privilege upon its wards-as such-and has
surrounded its final acquisition with restrictions calculated
to secure the advantage of the privilege to those intended
to be benefited. Finding that the restrictions authorized
at the time of the extension of the privilege will not, in all
cases, be long continued enough to secure this result, Congress has authorized the Executive, in his discretion, to
continue the restrictions for such period as he may deem
best. That this is within the constitutional power of
Congress must be considered as concluded by our decisions
in Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413; and Braderv. James,
246 U. S. 88.
The first question must be answered in the affirmative.
But it is suggested, and the District Court has held,
that since the language of the Act of June 21, 1906, refers
only to Indian allottees, it cannot be considered as authorizing the President to continue restrictions on alienation in patents issued to Indian homesteaders under the
Act of July 4, 1884. In ruling that the 1906 Act did not
apply to the trust patent issued to Williams, since he was
not an allottee but an Indian homesteader, claiming by
virtue of the 1884 Act, which extended the benefits of
the homestead laws to the Indians, and not under the
General Allotment Act of 1887 or any of its amendments,
the District Court relied upon Seaples v. Card, 246 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

501. In that case a homestead patent was issued to a
non-tribal Indian under the Act of July 4, 1884, and, as
required by that Act, the patent declared-as does the
one here-that the United States held the title in trust
for the Indian for a period of 25 years, and would then
issue him or his heirs a patent in fee. Before the expiration of this trust period, the Land Department, assuming
to act either under the Allotment Act of 1887, or the
Act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, amendatory
thereof, canceled the original trust patent and issued a
new patent giving the Indian title in fee simple. The
Act of May 8, 1906, provided that the Secretary of the
Interior might, in his discretion, whenever he should be
satisfied that any "Indian allottee" was competent and
capable of managing his or her affairs, cause to be issued
to such allottee a patent in fee simple, and the District
Court held in that case that this statute gave no authority
to the Secretary to cancel the patent issued to Seaples
under the 1884 Act, which extended the benefit of the
homestead laws to the Indians, but that the 1906 Act
applied only to " Indian allottees."
Into the correctness of this decision we do not inquire.
It is not, however, controlling here since it turned upon
the interpretation of the Act of May 8, 1906, and did
not involve any question concerning proper construction
of the Act of June 21 of that year, which is presently
involved.
Our inquiry is whether Congress intended to include
within the meaning of the word " allottees " as used in
the latter Act, Indian wards of the United States holding
homestead lands by virtue of the Act of 1884. It is
argued that Congress did so intend, but that the legislators used only the term "allottee" and did not add "or
Indian homesteader" because, while such addition would
have prevented the question here involved from arising,
it would have added further confusion for the reason that

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Opinion of the Court.

the language is too broad and would include as well as
tribal Indians claiming as wards of the United States
under the Act of 1884, Indians claiming as citizens-not
as Indian wards-under the general homestead laws. The
purpose of the language used is therefore not so plainly
apparent as to preclude resort to judicial interpretation.
On the contrary, if effect is to be given to the true intent
of the Congress, we must avail ourselves of sources of
information other than the language of the Act in order
to aid us in the disclosure of that intention. There is
here no lack of familiar and approved sources from which
light upon the proper construction of this statute may be
obtained.
It is a familiar rule of statutory construction that great
weight is properly to be given to the construction consistently given to a statute by the Executive Department
charged with its administration. United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos y Compaiiia, 209 U. S. 337; Robertson
v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607; United States v. Healey, 160
U. S. 136; and such construction is not to be overturned
unless clearly wrong, or unless a different construction is
plainly required. United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S.
236, 253; Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476, 488. Applying
this rule, we find from the case of Toss Weaxta, 47 L. D.
574, that it has long been the settled ruling of the Department of the Interior, both under the very statutes here
involved and under other statutes enacted by Congress
with similar purpose and pursuant to its general plan with
respect to Indian allotments and homesteads, that Indian
allotments and Indian homesteads are in all essential
respects upon the same footing, and that each is equally
within the purview of a statute in which the Congress
may use only the terms" allottee" and " allotment."
The case of Toss Weaxta, supra, was in all essential respects identical with this case, and it involved the same
question of law under the game two statutes. Weaxta had
83 325'-30-1.1

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

received a trust patent under the Act of 1884, and, at the
expiration of the 25-year trust period, he applied to the
.Commissioner of the General Land Office to issue to him a
patent in fee covering his homestead. The Commissioner
denied the application, on the ground that the trust period
had been, by order of the President, extended, pursuant to
the power given the President by the Act of June 21, 1906.
Weaxta appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, claiming
that an Indian homestead, such as he held, was not an Indian allotment, and that the Act 'of June 21, 1906, by its
terms limits the authority to extend the trust periods to
" Indian allotments only." The First Assistant Secretary,
in affirming the decision of the Commissioner, found:
"The Department all along has considered Indian
homesteads and Indian allotments upon the public lands
as being upon practically the same footing, and Congress
has recognized the similarity."
He concluded, from a review of laws in pari materia,
the condition and standing of the Indians, and the obligations of the Government, that both Indian homesteads
and Indian allotments must be considered as included
within the meaning of the Act of June 21, 1906.
In the case of Jim Crow, 32 L. D. 657, 659, the question
was whether lands inherited from a deceased Indian
homesteader came within the provisions of the Act of
May 27, 1902, 32 Stat. 245, 275, which Act, by its terms,
authorized the sale and conveyance of inherited Indian
lands by the heirs of a deceased allottee. The Assistant
Attorney General held that the Act applied to the heirs
of all Indian claimants for portions of the public lands, to
whom a trust or other patent containing restrictions upon
alienation had been issued, regardless of whether the claim
of the Indian was initiated under what are known as Indian homestead laws or under Indian allotment laws.
This ruling was approved by the Acting Secretary of the
Interior, 32 L. D. p. 659. In that ruling the similarity of

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
183

Opinion of the Court.

the claims of Indians arising out of rights conferred upon
them by the General Allotment Act and by the Act of
1884 which gave them homestead entry rights, was
pointed out. It was there said:
"The general allotment act, so far as it affects public
lands, and the preceding Indian homestead provisions, are
so clearly connected that they should be construed in pari
materia as relating to the same subject-matter. The
later allotment act but carries forward the policy of the
former enactments to give Indians a right to secure homes
upon the public domain.
"Congress has recognized that allotment 'claims are of
the same nature as homestead rights. A fund has been
provided for assisting Indian homesteaders and carried
upon the books of the Treasury Department under the
title 'Homesteads for Indians,' and by the Act of March
3, 1891, 26 Stat. 989, 1007, the Secretary of the Interior
was authorized and directed to apply the balance of this
fund for the employment of allotting agents 'to assist Indians desiring to take homesteads under section 4,' of the
act of February 28 [8], 1887.
"Here Congress characterized claims under the allotment act as homesteads. Claims under the various laws
relating to Indian homesteads may with equal propriety
be characterized as allotments. - In fact the terms mean
substantially the same thing so far as the laws in which
they are found affect the public lands and so far as the interests of the Indian claimant are concerned.
"This Department has considered Indian homesteads
upon practically the same footing as Indian allotments
upon the public lands. It is held that the Government is
bound to protect the rights of the Indian homesteader
during the trust period, that no preference right of entry
is obtained by contest against an Indian homestead and a
relinquishment of an Indian homestead entry does not
become effective until approved by this Department.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

(Doe Jim, 32 L. D. 291). These rules:apply also to Indian allotments. The control, jurisdiction, and obligations of the Department are the same in one case as in
the other.
"The objects of the law relating to Indian homesteads
are the same as those relating to Indian allotments on the
public lands, the status of the Indian claimant is the same
under both classes of laws, the duties and obligations of
the government are the same. Both the legislative and
executive branches of the government have recognized
these similarities of purpose in the laws, standing of
claimants thereunder, and obligations of the government."
The ruling of the Department of the Interior has been
to the same effect under the Act of June 25, 1910, 36
Stat. 855. It was held that that Act empowered the Secretary to determine the heirs of an Indian to whom a
homestead trust patent had been issued under the Act of
1884, when the Indian dies before the expiration of the
trust, notwithstanding that the Act provides only "that
when any Indian to whom an allotment of land has been
made, or may hereafter be made, dies before the expiration of the trust period," the Secretary may determine his
heirs. Toss Weaxta, 47 L. D. at 577.
We find that the Indian Homestead Act of July 4, 1884,
and the General Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, with
its various amendments, constitute part of a single system
evidencing a continuous purpose on the part of the Congress. The statutes are in pari materia, and must be so
construed. It cannot be supposed that Congress, in any
part of this legislation, allof which is directed toward the
benefit and protection of the Indians, as such, intended
to exclude from the beneficent policy which each Act
evidences, an Indian claiming under the homestead act,
If
even though the statute uses the .term "allottee."
there were any doubt on the question, the silence of Congress in the face of the long continued practice of the

WABASH RY. CO. v. BARCLAY.
183

Syllabus.

Department of the Interior in construing statutes which
refer only to Indian "allottees," or Indian " allotments."
as applicable also to Indians claiming under the homestead laws, must be considered as "equivalent to consent
to continue the practice until the power was revoked by
some subsequent action by Congress." United States v.
Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 481.
Nothing herein contained must be taken as intimating
that the Act of June 21, 1906, has any application to the
acquisition of homestead rights under the generaf homestead laws by persons of the Indian race who have
acquired or seek to acquire such rights as citizens
rather than as Indian wards of the United States. This
distinction is pointed out in Case of Frank Bergeron,
30 L. D. 375.
Both questions answered, "Yes."
WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. BARCLAY
ET AL.

AUSTIN v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE) CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 37 and 38.

Argued December 2, 1929.
1930.

Decided January 6,

When the net profits of a corporation out of which a dividend might
have been declared for the preferred stock are justifiably applied
by the directors to capital improvements, the claim of the stock
for that year is gone, if by the terms of the articles of incorporation
and the certificates the preferential dividends are not to be cunmilative. The fact that there were profits in that year out of which
dividends might have been (but were not) declared does not
entitle such stock to a correspondingly greater preference over
other stock when the profits of a later year are to be divided.
P. 203.
30 F. (2d) 260, reversed.

