412

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, and Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440, considered the validity of an enactment which laid a tax upon donors because of gifts fully

consummated prior to its passage. We held this was beyond
the power of Congress. None of these cases is in point;
they gave no consideration to the power of Congress to require that taxable income should include profits from
transactions consummated within the year.
We can find nothing unusual, arbitrary or capricious
in the provision of the taxing Act here involved, and the
judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CAN COMPANY.

UNITED STATES v. MISSOURI CAN COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. DETROIT CAN COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 128, 129, 130. Argued January 21, 1930.--Decided February
24, 1930.
1. The Act of September 8, 1916, ยง 13, par. (d), in providing that a
corporation which keeps its accounts upon any basis other than
that of actual receipts and disbursements, may, subject to regulations, make its income return upon the basis of its accounts "unless
that basis does not clearly reflect the income, refers to the general
bookkeeping system followed by the taxpayer and not to the accuracy or propriety of mere individual items or entries upon the
books. P. 419.
2. Therefore, where the books of corporations, kept upon the accrual
basis, and returns upon that basis, contained excessive inventory
valuations and thereby indicated net incomes much too small, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue properly corrected the erroneous
valuations and made reassessments upon the returns as so modified.
His rejection of the errors was not a rejection of the basis upon

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CAN CO. 413
Argument for the United States.

412

which the returns were made, and did not make it necessary that
the reasgessment be based on actual receipts and disbursements. Id.
31 F. (2d) 730, reversed.

post, p. 538, to review judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed recoveries in
the District Court, 20 F. (2d) 970, in actions against
the United States for moneys collected as income and
excess profits taxes. See also, Aluminum Castings Co.
v. Routzahn, 31 F. (2d) 669.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Assistant Attorneys General Willebrandt and Youngquist and
Messrs. Millar E. McGilchrist, Claude R. Branch, Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Thomas J. Crawford, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the briefs, for
the United States.
I. The question whether the correction made by the
Commissioner in the returns amounted to a rejection of
the basis upon which the accounts were kept involved the
application of reasoning to the uncontroverted facts and
hence presented a question of law which is reviewable
here. If material, the question whether the findings of
the amounts of respondents' tax liabilities when computed on the cash basis are supported by evidence is also
open to review.
II. The entire dispute arises out of the Commissioner's
treatment of the inventory item. Respondents kept their
accounts on the accrual basis and treated all items consistently with the exception of the inventory of tin plate.
The market price of tin plate rose sharply in the early
part of 1917 from $3.60 per base box to $7. Respondents
took advantage of this increase in value of stocks on hand
by writing up as of January 1, 1917, to $7 per base box
their opening inventories of tin plate which had cost them
but $3.60 per box. Since the effect of this was to increase

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Respondents.

280 U. S.

the cost of goods sold as shown on their returns, and resulted in an understatement of net income, the Commissioner eliminated this artificial inflation of the cost of
goods sold and made additional assessments. The courts
below have held that this action of the Commissioner
amounted to a rejection by him of the basis upon which
respondents' accounts were kept and that the necessary
consequence of this rejection was to require that the tax
be computed on the cash basis., We submit that the decision of the court below puts too narrow a construction
upon the statute and sanctions a result which Congress
never intended.
The statute authorizes the filing of a return on the 1 asis
of the taxpayer's accounts unless such basis does not
clearly reflect his income. Respondents kept their accounts and filed their returns on the accrual basis. Even
if it should be held that the Commissioner rejected the
basis upon which respondents' accounts were kept, we
submit that, since there is no finding that the basis upon
which respondents kept their accounts and filed their
returns did not clearly reflect income, the findings do not
support the judgment.
III. The findings of the amounts of respondents' net
incomes on the cash basis are not supported by evidence.
Mr. Graham Sumner, with whom Messrs. L. A. Welles,
John J. Treacy, and Adrian McCalman were on the briefs,
for respondents.
I. The Revenue Act of 1917 provided that the income
of every corporation should be determined upon the basis
prescribed in ยง 12,of the Act, 'except in cases where a
corporation kept its accounts and made its return upon
some other basis which clearly reflected its income and
complied with the Regulations made by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury.
II. The plaintiffs did not. keep their accounts or make
their returns for 1917 upon a basis which clearly reflected

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CAN CO. 415
412

Opinion of the Court.

their incomes and complied with the Regulations made
by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury.
III. The findings of fact established the net incomes
of the plaintiffs upon the basis prescribed in ยง 12 of the
Revenue Act and are fully supported by the evidence.
IV. The plaintiffs are entitled to judgments for the
amounts of the taxes paid in excess of the amounts payable upon the cash basis, with interest at the rate of six
per cent. per annum from the dates of payment to a (late
preceding the date of the refund check by not more than
thirty days, such date to be determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In the courts below these causes were heard together
and one opinion here will suffice.
Respondent, The Amer'can Can Company, owned the
entire capital stock of respondents Missouri Can
Company and Detroit Can Company. All were
incorporated under the laws of New Jersey and had their
legal residences and principal offices therein. Their
places of business wer. within the Second United States
Internal Revenue District of New York. William H.
Edwards, formerly Collbector for that District, retired in
1921; Frank K. Bowbrg succeeded him. During Edwards' term he demanded and collected from these three
corporations income and excess profits taxes for 1917 aggregating more than $5,200,000. Thereafter Collector
Bowers exacted of them above $3,300,000 as additional
income and excess profits taxes-for the same year.
In January, 1926, 'respondents instituted actions against
the United, States in the District Court for New Jersey,
as permitted under U. S. Code, Title 28, Sec. 41, par.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

20 (Judicial Code, Sec. 24, par. 20; Revenue Act, Nov.
23, 1921, c. 136, Sec. 1310 (c), 42 Stat. 311; Revenue Act,
February 24, 1925, c. 309, 43 Stat. 972). They sought
to recover with interest more than $2,700,000 paid, as
they alleged, to Edwards in excess of taxes properly assessable to them for 1917. Judgments against the United
States for the amounts claimed were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, Third Circuit, March 5, 1929; and
the matter is here upon certiorari.
They also sued Bowers, Collector, in the District Court,
Southern District of New York, to recover the additional
taxes for 1917 ($3,300,000) demanded by and paid to him.
These suits involved the same questions as those 'presented in the causes now before us. Judgments went for
Bowers, Collector. The Circuit Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, affirmed them November 4, 1929.
The opinions and judgments in the two Circuits upon
the same facts are thus in direct conflict.
Pertinent provisions of the statutes and Treasury Regulations are printed in the margin.*
* The Revenue Act of September 8, 1916, Sec. 10, imposed taxes
reckoned upon the amount of income.
The Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, 40 Stat. 300, 302, 303, 305, increased the income tax rates; also imposed an excess profits tax. It
providedTitle I, Sec. 4. "That in addition to the tax imposed by subdivision
(a.) of section ten of such Act of September eighth, nineteen hundred
and sixteen, as amended by this Act, there shall be levied, assessed,
collected, and paid a like tax of four per centum upon the income
received in the calendar year nineteen hundred and seventeen and
every calendar year thereafter, by every corporation, joint-stock company or association, or insurance company, subject to the tax imposed
by that subdivision of that section. . .
" The tax imposed by this section shall be computed, levied,
assessed, collected, and paid upon the same incomes and in the same
manner as the tax imposed by subdivision (a) of section ten of such
Act of September eighth, nineteen hundred and sixteen, as amended
by this Act, except, &c. . .

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CAN CO. 417
412

Opinion of the Court.

The accounts of respondents were kept during 1917 not
upon the basis of actual receipts and disbursements but
upon the accrual basis-that is, pecuniary obligations
Title II, Sec. 201. "That in addition to the taxes under existing
law and under this act there shall be levied, assessed, collected, and
paid for each taxable year upon the income of every corporation,
partnership, or individual, a tax (hereinafter in this title referred to as the tax) equal to the following percentages of the liet
income:
"Sec. 206. That for the purposes of this title the net income of a
corporation shall be ascertained and returned . . . (c) for the
taxable year upon the same basis and in the same manner as provided in Title I of the Act entitled 'An Act to increase the revenue,
and for other purposes,' approved September eighth, nineteen hundred
and sixteen, as amended by this Act, except
The Act of September 8, 1916, 39 Stat. 756, 765, 766, 767, 770, 771,
c. 463,.providedTitle I, Sec. 10. "That there shall be levied, assessed, collected, and
paid annually upon the total net income received in the preceding
calendar year from all sources by every corporation, joint-stock
company or association, or insurance company, organized in the United
States, no matter how created or organized but not including partnerships, a tax of two per centum upon such income;
"Sec. 12 (a). In the case of a corporation, joint-stock company
or association, or insurance company, organized in the United States,
such net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross
amount of its income received within the year from all sources" [Expenses, losses, interest, taxes.]
"Sec. 13 (a). The tax shall be computed upon the net income, as
thus ascertained, received within each preceding calendar year ending December thirty-first:
"(b) Every corporation, joint-stock company or association, or insurance company, subject to the tax herein imposed, shall, on or before the first day of March, nineteen hundred and seventeen, .
render a true and accurate return of its annual net income in the
manner and form to be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, and
containing such facts, data, and information as are appropriate and
in the opinion of the commissioner necessary to determine the correctness of the net income returned and to carry out the provisions of
this title., The return shall be sworn to by the president, vice-presi. 81325*_30. _27

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

payable to or by the Company were treated as if dis,charged when incurred. Purporting to proceed as permitted by Sec. 13 (d), Title I, Revenue Act of 1916, they
made returns to the Collector upon the same basis. The
Commissioner ascertained that the books showed excessive inventory values and thereby indicated net incomes
much too small. The valuation placed on large quantities of tin plate had been marked up from $3.60 per box
to $7.00, and the higher rather than the lower cost of this
raw material had been reported. Thereupon, he disdent, or other principal officer, and by the treasurer or assistant
treasurer. The return shall be made to the collector of the district
in which is located the principal office of the corporation, company,
or association, where are kept its books of account and other data
from which the return is prepared,
"(d). A corporation, joint-stock company or association, or insurance company, keeping accounts upon any basis other than that of
actual receipts and disbursements, unless such other basis does not
clearly reflect its income, may, subject to regulations made by the
Commissioner of Internal. Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, make its return upon the basis upon which its
accounts are kept, in which case the tax shall be computed upon its
.
income as so returned;
Treasury Decision No. 2609, promulgated December 19, 1917"(1). For the purposes of income and excess-profits tax returns, inventories of merchandise, etc., and of securities will be subject to the
following rules:
"A. Inventories of supplies, raw materials, work in process of production, and unsold merchandise must be taken either (a) at cost or
(b) at cost or market price, whichever is lower, provided that the
method adopted must be adhered to in subsequent years, unless another be authorized by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
"C. Gain or loss resulting from the sale or disposition of assets
inventoried as above must be computed as the difference between
the inventory value and the price or value at which, sold or disposed of.
"(2). In all other cases inventories must be taken at cost or at
value as of March 1, 1913, a5 the case maybe."

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CAN CO. 419
412

Opinion of the Court.

allowed the inflation, corrected the erroneous entries and
made reassessments according to the returns so modified.
Respondents claimed thatthis action amounted to rejection of the basis upon which their returns had been
made. Also, that, after such rejection, no assessment
could be made except one based upon receipts and disbursements; that is, upon amounts ascertained by deducting from gross income received, expenses paid out,
losses charged off, interest, and taxes (Sec. 12, Act 1916).
And further, that computation should be made without
regard to inventories.
The District Court for New Jersey and the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Third Circuit, accepting respondents'
view, awarded and approved judgments against the
United States aggregating some four million dollars. The
result, we think, is manifestly erroneous. Upon the findings, judgments should have gone the other way.
The claims of respondents rest upon improper construction of par. (d), Sec. 13, Act. of Sept. 8, 1916. This provides that "a corporation . . . keeping accounts
upon any basis other than that of actual receipts and disbursements, unless such other basis does not clearly reflect its income, may, subject to regulations .
make its return upon the basis upon which its accounts
are kept, in which case the tax shall be computed upon
its income as so returned;
.
"Basis of keeping accounts" as there used refers to
the general bookkeeping system followed by the taxpayer
and not to the accuracy or propriety of mere individual
items or entries upon the books. And to correct an improper item in a return-whether the result of mere error
or designed-cannot prioperly be said to constitute rejection of the basis upon which the return was constructed.
The statute empowers tax officers to make necessary rules
and regulations and to take action essential to orderly

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

enforcement of the obligations imposed. Here, the taxpayers kept their accounts on the accrual basis and elected
to make their returns accordingly. They cannot complain because an item therein was changed so as to conform with admitted facts. If their returns had been made
on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements certainly they would have been subject to correction for
errors without changing the basis; and the same thing is
true of returns framed upon an accrual basis.
United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 437, 440, 443,
considered the meaning of Sec. 12 (a) and 13 (d), Act
of 1916, and sustained the action of the Commissioner
who had reassessed according to an adjusted return originally made upon the accrual basis.
We need not discuss the question whether under any
circumstances the taxable income of a manufacturing or
mercantile corporation can be ascertained without reference to inventory values.. Certainly, in most instances
where the taxpayer carries on an extensive business this
cannot be done.
The challenged judgments are reversed. The causes
will be remanded to the District Court for appropriate
action in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

TAGG BROS. & MOORHEAD
STATES

ET AL.

v. UNITED

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 45. Argued October 23, 1929.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. The Packers and Stockyards Act of August 15,. 1921, ยง 301,
declares that persons engaged in the business of buying and selling
in interstate commerce livestock at a stockyard on a commission
basis are "market agencies." Section 310 provides that when-

