GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
338

Syllabus.

business, not to the proportion adopted. And so I think
that the incidence of a part of the tax on interstate commerce, if any such there be, "does not constitute a direct
and material burden " upon it. Hendrick v. Maryland,
235 U. S. 610, 622; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335.
I do not think names of any importance in this case, and
do not discuss whether the tax is to be called a property
tax upon an easement, a, franchise tax upon an incorporeal hereditament as it is called in New Jersey, a license
tax, or by some other title. If the statute fixes a price
for what the appellant needs the State's permission to use,
I think it within New Jersey's constitutional power.
"Even interstate commerce must pay its way." Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S.252, 259.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS agrees with this opinion..

GRANT, RECEIVER OF THE STRUTHERS FURNACE COMPANY, v. A. B. LEACH & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 9.

Argued Apiil11, 12, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. An allegation in a bill in a federal court, by a receiver, that the
suit was brought by authority of the state court which appointed
him, is put in issue uhder the 30th Equity Rule by an allegation
in the answer that the defendant has no knowledge or information
as to the authority granted the plaintiff in that regard and therefore neither admits nor denies the allegation, but requires the
plaintiff to make strict proof thereof. P. 357.
2. The Court of Common Pleas of Ohio appointed a receiver of all
the property of a local corporation; in two suits, (1) a suit by a
mortgage trustee seeking to satisfy the company's defaulted bonds
by foreclosure of the mortgage, and praying for a receiver to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

charge of and manage the company's property and to collect the
rents an( income therefrom and to sequester all amounts so received from any of the mortgaged property for payment of the
bonds, and praying general relief; and (2) a suit by a preferred
stockholder of the company against it and the mortgage trustee,
alleging that, owing to market conditions and want of capital, the
company had ceased operations and w:as unable to pay or finance
its obligations, including the bonds, and would be subject to suits,
judgments, executions and sale of its assets, and praying that, for
the necessary protection of its bondholder:,, stockholders and creditors, a receiver be appointed to take charge of and conserve its
plant and property until its financial requirements could be provided; and for general relief. The court directed and empowered
the receiver to take possession -of the property and to do all
things necessary to preserve and protect it for the- best interests of
all parties interested therein, and authorized him to bring suit
in the federal court to recover certain of the bonds, or their value,
from their holder, upon the ground that they had been obtained
from the company under an udtra vires and illegal contract in
exchange for some of its preferred stock. The claim was a chose
in action of the company, and as such was part of the property
embraced in the receivership. Held:
(1) The Court of Common Pleas had chancery jurisdiction
(ยง 11894, Gen. Code of Ohio) to appoint the receiver; and even
if it was erroneous to extend the receivership under the petition
of the mortgage trustee to property not covered by the mortgage,
and to grant any receivership under the petition of the stockholder,
which prayed no other relief, the validity of the appointment could
not be attacked collaterally in another court. P. 358.
(2) The action against the bondholder,-involving, in effect, the
claim of an illegal taking of a large amount of the company's bonds,
which if recovered would reduce the amount of the mortgage lien,was within the terms of ยง 11897, Gen. Code of Ohio, providing that
"under the control of the court, the receiver may bring and defend
actions in his own name, as receiver, . . . and generally do such
acts respecting the property as the court authorizes." P. 360.
(3) In any case, the order specifically authorizing and directing
the receiver to bring that action was one which the Court of
Common Pleas had jurisdiction to make in the exercise of its
discretion and under the construction which it placcd upon the
statute, and, even if erroneous, was not subject to collateral attack by the party sued under it in the federal court. P. 360.

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
351

Opinion of the Court.

3. The rule that a chancery receiver, having no title; cannot maintain a suit in a foreign jurisdiction to recover demands or property
therein situate, held inapplicable to a suit in the District Court
by a receiver appoirted by a state court having territorial jurisdiction within the Division of the District in which the suit was
brought. P. 361.
4. When the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously reverses a decree of the District Court in favor of a receiver and dismisses
the suit, upon the ground that the plaintiff had no 'authority to
sue, this Court, upon correcting the error, will remand the case
for determination of the merits. P. 363.
27 F. (2d) 201, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 593, to review a decision of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the
District Court in favor of Grant, receiver, and dismissed
the suit on the ground that he had no authority to sue.
Messrs. James P.

Wilson and A.

il.

Henderson for

petitioner.
Mr. Edward R. Johnston, with whom Messrs. TVm. L.

Day, Donald W. Kling, Conrad H. Poppenhusen, Floyd
E.

Thompson, and Henry.Jackson Darby were on the

brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
Grant, a citizen and resident of Ohio, was appointed by
the Common Pleas Court of Mahoning County in that
State, receiver of the property and assets of. the Struthers

Furnace Co., an Ohio corporation.

Thereafter, pursuant

to an order of that court so directing, he brought this suit
in equity against Leach & Co., a New York corporation,
in the Federal District Court for the Eastern Division
of the Northern District of Ohio,' to recover certain mort1 Mahoning County is included in the Eastern Division of the
Northern District, and a stated term of the District Court is held
therein.
81325-3 0-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

gage bonds of the Furnace Company, or their value. The
District Court gave decree in favor of the Receiver. The
Circuit Court of Appeals vacated this decree and dismissed the suit, on the ground that it was beyond the
power of the Common Pleas Court to authorize the
Receiver to bring it. 27 F. (2d) 201.2
1. The bonds in question were part of an issue of eight
per cent bonds of the Furnace Company, secured by a
mortgage upon certain real and personal property. In
1922 Leach & Co. purchased from the Furnace Company
a large number of these bonds, at 901/ and accrued interest, for which it paid partly in shares of the seven
per cent preferred stock of the Furnace Company, at 85
and accrued dividends, and partly in cash.*
In 1925 the trustee under the mortgage brought suit
in the Common Pleas Court against the Furnace Company for foreclosure. The verified petition alleged that
the Furnace Company had defaulted in semi-annual interest on the bonds, and all the outstanding bonds had
*This sentence conforms with an amendment made by order of
February 24, 1930. Reporter.
2 The record here consists in part of copies of orders and proceedings in the Common Pleas Court, which were filed in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, for its consideration, pursuant to a stipulation of the
parties. The Circuit Court of Appeals, after stating that no issue
had been made in the evidence in the District Court as to the
receiver's authority to bring the action, said: "We preferred not to
decide it upon a construction of the pleadings, and hence we suggestedto counsel that they file certified copies of any orders or proceedings had in the common pleas court, where the receiver was appointed, and stipulate that this court might consider such. orders or
proceedings in determining the question on its merits. This suggestion
has been acted upon, and certified copies of all pertinent pleadings and
orders have been filed." And we have likewise considered the orders
and proceedings in the Common Pleas Court, with like effect as if they
had been offered in evidence in the District Court.

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
351

Opinion of the Court.

been declared due and payable.

It prayed that judg-

i ent be given for the amount of the bonds and interest,

that the mortgaged property be sold and the proceeds applied to the payment of the outstanding bonds, that a
receiver be appointed to take charge of the " property of
the defendant " and manage the same and collect the tents
and incomes therefrom, and that he be ordered to set
apart and sequester all amounts so received from any
of the mortgaged property for the payment of the bonds;
and for general relief.
On the same day a preferred stockholder of the Furnace Company, brought suit in the Common Pleas Court
against the Furnace Company and the mortgage trustee.
The verified petition alleged that the Furnace Company,
owing to prevailing market conditions and want of capital, had been compelled to close down its plant and cease
operations, had been unable to pay the semi-annual interest on its bonds, was indebted in the sum of $1,500,000
on the bonds, had no funds with which to pay the same
and accruing interest, was indebted on past due notes
and other current obligations in a sum exceeding
$2,000,000 which it could not pay, was unable to finance
its obligations, and would be subjected to suits, judgments, and executions and the sale of its property and
assets, and that for the protection of bondholders, stockholders and creditors of the Company it was necessary
that a receiver be appointed to take charge of and conserve its plant and property until its financial requirements could be provided; and prayed that the court appoint a receiver to take charge of its property and assets,
and for general relief.
These causes came on to be heard on the petitions for
the appointment of a receive', whereupon the court consolidated them in so far as the question of the appointment, acts and duties of a receiver were common to both.
And, finding that there was urgent exigency for the im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

mediate appointment of a receiver in the two cases to
preserve the property and assets of the Furnace Company,
the court granted the prayers of the petitions, appointed
Grant receiver in both cases, and directed and empowered
him to take possession of all the property designated in
the trustees' petition, together with all other property,
both real and personal, of the Furnace Company, including its books and papers, to do all things necessary in
order properly to preserve and protect the assets and
property for the best interests of all parties interested
therein, and to manage and control the same and collect
the rents and income therefrom.
Thereafter Grant applied to the Court for an order
granting him as Receiver authority to bring suit in the
Federal District Court against Leach & Co., on the ground
that it, under an ultra vires and illegal contract, had received bonds of the Furnace Company in exchange for
preferred stock; and represented to the court that he
should recover for the benefit of the stockholders and
creditors of the Furnace Company the value of such
bonds, or the bonds themselves, and that it would be to
the material benefit of the stockholders and creditors if
leave to commence such suit were granted. Upon hearing this applicatio, the court, finding that it was for the
best interests of t'he creditors and stockholders of the
Furnace Company that such suit be- commenced, authorized and directed the Receiver to commence-the suit
against Leach & Co., praying for such relief as should be
obtained against it, in order to reimburse the Receiver for
the apparent unlawful and iliegal issue of the bonds by
the Furnace Company to Leach'& Co. in consideration
of the preferred stock.
In his petition in the District Court Grant alleged that
he was the receiver of all the assets, choses in action and
other property of the Furnace Company, duly appointed
by the Common Pleas Court, and brought the suit by

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
351

Opinion of the Court.

virtue of authority so to do granted to him by that court;
and that the Furnace Company was without authority to
exchange its bonds for its stock. He prayed that the
court order Leach & Co. to surrender and deliver to him
the bonds that it had received from the Furnace Company
in exchange for the stock, or, if it had disposed of the
bonds and could not redeliver them, to pay him their
value, upon the surrender of the stock; and for general
relief. Leach & Co., answering the petition on the merits,
admitted that the petitioner was duly appointed receiver
of all the assets, choses in action and property of the
Furnace Company oy the Common Pleas Court, but
stated that it had no knowledge or information as to the
authority granted to him by that court to bring the
action, and therefore neither admitted nor denied that
allegation but required the plaintiff to make strict proof
thereof. This, we think, under the 30th Equity Rule,3
put in issue the allegation that the action was brought
under authority granted by the Common Pleas Court.
At the hearing, the District Court, after stating that
the plaintiff was the receiver of the Furnace Company,
duly appointed by the Common Pleas Court, and as such
possessing all the powers conferred by statute and general
principles of equity on a receiver-without referring to the
question whether he had, been authorized to bring the
action 4-found, upon the evidence, that the transaction
3 This Rule provides that: " The defendant in his answer shall in
short and simple terms set out his defense to each claim asserted by
the bill . . . specifically admitting or denying or explaining the facts
upon which the plaintiff relies, unless the defendant is without knowledge, in which case he shall so state, such statement operating as a
denial. Averments other than of value or amount of damage, if not
denied, shall be deemed confessed, except as against an infant, lunatic,
or other person non compos and not under guardianship . . ."
4 No evidence had been offered upon this issue in the District Court;
but the absence was fully supplied, by concurrence of both parties, in
the Circuit Court of Appeals.' See Note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

by which the bonds were delivered to Leach & Co. violated numerous principles of corporation law, justice and
honesty, was a gross fraud upon other preferred stockholders, and could not be sustained against creditors; and,
as it appeared that Leach & Co. had disposed of the bonds
to innocent purchasers, gave decree against it in favor of
the Receiver for their value, with the interest on them
that had been paid to Leach & Co.
On appeal by Leach & Co., the Circuit Court of Appeals
held, in substance, that the powers of the Receiver were
limited to the purposes of the suit in which he was appointed, and the Common Pleas Court could confer upon
him authority to do only such acts as were within the
scope of its jurisdiction as limited by such purposes; and
that since there was no object or purpose in them that
could be served by the bringing of the suit against Leach
& Co., the court was without authority to direct him to
bring it, and the purported authorization so to do was
beyond its power. And, without passing upon the merits
of the receiver's claim, the decree of the District Court
was reversed and the suit dismissed.
2. Upon these facts we conclude that the Circuit Court
of Appeals was in error in reversing the decree of the
District Court and dismissing the Receiver's action, without consideration of his claim upon the merits. While
the argument in this Court has covered a wide range, we
do not find it necessary to state more than the controlling
reasons which lead us to that conclusion.
The Common Pleas Court by its order had in fact authorized and directed Grant, as receiver, to bring the action
in the District Court. The Common Pleas Court had
previously appointed him receiver of all the property of
the Furnace Company, both real and personal, and had
directed and empowered him to take possession thereof
and to do all things necessary to preserve and protect it
for the best interests of all parties interested therein.

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
351

Opinion of the Court.

The claim against Leach & Co. arising out of the exchange of bonds for preferred stock, was a chose in action
of the Furnace Company, and as such was a part of the
property of which he had been appointed receiver.
The Common Pleas Court had jurisdiction of the petitions for the appointment of a receiver in the suits of the
mortgage trustee and preferred stockholder; and the
power to determine whether, under the allegations of the
petitions, it was authorized to appoint a receiver of the
Company's property; to what extent and for what
purposes; and what authority should be vested in him
as such receiver.
Section 11894 of the General Code of Ohio provides
that the Common Pleas Court may appoint a receiver in
causes pending therein in certain designated cases, and
"6. In all other cases in which receivers heretofore have
been appointed by the usages of equity."
It is questioned whether under this statute the court
rightly appointed, under the petition of the mortgage
trustee, a receiver of the portion of the Furnace Company's property which was not covered by the mortgage;
and it is asserted that under the petition of the preferred
stockholder, in which no other relief was prayed, the appointment was erroneous, under the decisions of the Ohio
courts. But, however this may be, the court had jurisdiction and the power to determine these questions. And
even if the order appointing the receiver was erroneous
and might have been vacated in part in d direct attack,
as upon an appeal by the Furnace Company, its validity
was not challenged in any respect by the answer of Leach
& Co. in the District Court, which admitted the allegation
that Grant had been "duly appointed" receiver of all the
Company's property. And plainly the validity of the
appointment could not have been questioned by a collateral attack in another court. See Cadle v. Baker, 20
Wall. 650, 651; Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168, 178;

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Lively v. Picton (C. C. A.) 218 Fed. 401, 406; Lydick v.
Neville (tC. C. A.) 287 Fed. 479, 482; Olmstead v. Distilling Co., (C. C.) 73 Fed. 44, 48; Shinney v. North American Co. (C. C.) 97 Fed. 9, 10; Barbour v. National Bank,
45 Oh. St. 133, 140; McNary v. Bush, 35 Ore. 114, 117.
Section 11897 further provides that " under the control of the court, the receiver may bring and defend actions
in his own name, as receiver, . . .and generally do such
acts respecting the property as the court authorizes."
Under this provision the Common Pleas Court had jurisdiction to determine what actions the receiver might bring.
The action against Leach & Co.,-involving in effect the
claim of an illegal taking by it of a large amount of the
Company's bonds, which if recovered would reduce the
amount of the mortgage lien-came, we think, fairly
within the terms of the statute as an act respecting property in the custody of the court in the trustee's suit. But
even if this were not the case, the order specifically authorizing and directing the receiver to bring the action i the
District Court was one which the Common Pleas Court
had jurisdiction to make in the exercise of its discretion
and under the construction which it placed upon the
statute; and, as such, was not one which, even if erroneous, was subject to the collateral attack which Leach & Co.
sought to interpose in the District Court.
Thus, in
Sanger v. Upton, Assignee, 91 U. S. 56, 58, the District
Court, on the application of the assignee of a bankrupt
corporation, had made an ex parte order that the balance
unpaid on the stock of the several stockholders should be
paid to the assignee by a certain day, and in default of
such payment the assignee should proebed to collect the
amount due from each delinquent stockholder. This
Court, in a suit instituted by the assignee in the Circuit
Court against a stockholder who had failed to pay pursuant to that order, said: "The order was conclusive as to

GRANT v. LEACH & CO.
351

Opinion of the Court.

the right of the assignee to bring the suit. Jurisdiction
was given to the District Court by the Bankrupt Act
. . . to make it. It was not necessary that the stockholders should be before the court when it was made, any
more than that they should have been there when the
decree of bankruptcy was pronounced. That decree gave
the jurisdiction and authority to make the order. The
plaintiff in error could not, in this action, question the
validity of the decree; and, for the same reasons, she
could not draw into question the validity of the order.
She could not be heard to question either, except by a
separate and direct proceeding had for that purpose."
3. It is urged, however, in argument that, even if the
order of the Colmnon Pleas Court be otherwise valid,
Grant is merely a chancery receiver having no title to the
property, and therefore cannot maintain an action for
its recovery by reason of the settled doctrine in federal
jurisprudence that such a receiver has no authority to sue
in the courts of a foreign jurisdiction to recover demands
or property therein 'situated, and that his functions and
authority are confined to the jurisdiction in which he was
appointed. See Sterrett v. Second Niational Bank, 248
U. S.73, 76; and cases cited. The underlying reason for
this rule, as shown in Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, 338,
and emphasized in Hale v. Allison, 188 U. S. 56, 68, is that
such a receiver "has no extra-territorial power of official
action; none which the court appointing him can confer,
with authority to enable'him to go into a foreign jurisdiction to take possession of the debtor's property; none
which can give him, upon the principle of comity, a
privilege to sue in a foreign court or another jurisdiction."
It has been applied by this Court in cases where a chancery receiver appointed by a state court sought to maintain a suit in a Federal court in another State; its effect
thtre being as appears from a statement in Hale v. Allin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

son, supra, at p. 68, merely to deny permission to such
an action by a receiver, "outside the jurisdiction of the
State of his appointment."
Here, however, the Ohio court authorized and directed
the Receiver to bring the action in a Federal District
Court within Ohio, and having jurisdiction in territory
within which the Common Pleas Court itself was located.'
The Receiver's petition merely prayed for a recovery
against Leach & Co., and did not seek an administration
of the property by the District Court. Upon such recovery no assets would have to be removed from the territorial jurisdiction of the District Court to Ohio, the
State of the receiver's appointment, as they would be
recovered and held therein. The order did not authorize
or require the receiver to take any extra-territorial action
outside of Ohio, either for the purpose of bringing the suit
or taking possession of the property recovered; and the
bringing of the action within Ohio involved no application
to the District Court to be granted the privilege of bringing a suit outside of Ohio upon the principle of comity.
We think that under these circumstances the Federal
court in the same State cannot rightly be considered a
court of foreign jurisdiction within the meaning of the
general rule, and that there is no substantial ground for
extending that rule, as hitherto applied, so as to bring
this case within its terms.
This conclusion is emphasized by the fact that in
Shields v. Coleman, supra, p. 174, a receiver appointed by
a chancery court of a Tennessee county, was allowed,
without question, pursuant to its order, to maintain an
action in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee,-within whose territorial limits
that county was included-for the restoration of property
then in the custody of a receiver appointed by the Fed5 See note 1, supra.

CARPENTER v. SHAW.
351

Syllabus.

eral court. Similar action was taken by this Court in
Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36, 42, in a proceeding by
receivers appointed by the Superior Court of Cook
County, Illinois, brought in the Federal District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois. And, conversely, it
was held in Shull v. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 81 W. Va.
184, 188, that a receiver appointed by a Federal District
Court in West Virginia, might maintain an action in a
Circuit Court of the same State, under authority from
the Federal court, not being under such circumstances "a
foreign receiver" nor proceeding outside of the jurisdiction of his appointment.
4. As the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Receiver was without authority to bring the action
against Leach & Co. was erroneous, its judgment must be
reversed. And since it did not determine the merits of
the Receiver's claim, the case will be remanded to that
court with instructions to proceed to that end in conformity with this opinion. See Buzynski v. Luckenbach
S. S. Co., 277 U. S.226, 228, and cases cited.
Reversed and remanded.
CARPENTER ET AL. V. SHAW, STATE AUDITOR
OF OKLAHOMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 50.

Argued December 5, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. Tax exemptions secured to the Indians by agreement between
them and the national government are to be liberally construed in
favor of the Indians. 1. 366.
2. The provision in the "Atoka Agreement" with the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Tribes, ratified August 24, 1898, that "all lands allotted
shall be non-taxable while the title remains in the original allottees but not to exceed twenty-one years from the date of patent," is to be construed in the sense in which it would be naturally

