OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

quired is much greater than that which ordinarily accompanies even a business loan carrying such assurance of
repayment as would have resulted from an application of
the priority rule. Thus, both the general purposes of
Title II and its specific provisions make it clear that Congress intended to exclude -the indebtedness so arising from
the scope of ยง 3466 of the Revised Statutes, just as under
the Federal Control Act it had excluded therefrom claims
incident to current operation of the railroads. Mellon v.
Michigan Trust Co., 271 U. S. 236, 240.
Affirmed.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
AMBROSE, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF HUDSON COUNTY,
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 73.

Argued January 10, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act for a death
alleged to htve resulted from the negligent failure of the employer
to furnish a safe place to work, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving that the accident was proximately due to the negligence
of the employer, and a verdict resting upon speculation and conjecture can not be sustained. P. 489.
2. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, a showing that the accident may have resulted from one of several causes,
for some of which the defendant was responsible, and for some
of which it was not, is not sufficient to establish liability. P. 490.
3. Liability under the rule which requires the master to use reasonable care to furnish a safe place to work ceases when the servant
is authoritatively notified that the place is unsafe and is warned
to avoid it. P. 490.
Reversed.
& Pac. Ry., 67 I. C. C. 569; Loan to Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R.,
ibid. 580; Equipment Notes of Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R., 70
I. C. C. 67.

N. Y. C. R. CO. v. AMBROSE.
486
CERTIORARI,

Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S. 833, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Hudson County, New Jersey, against the
Railroad Company in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, which. was affirmed by the Court
of Errors and Appeals, by an equal division of the judges.
Mr. William H. Carey argued the cause, and Messrs.
Albert C. Wall and John A. Hartpence were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. A. 0. Stanley argued the cause, and Mr. Alexander
Simpson was on the brief, for respondent.
hR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act for the death of John Ambrose, as the result of an
alleged negligent failure of the railroad company to furnish a safe place to work.
Ambrose had been employed for many years in a grain
elevator belonging to the company and used to facilitate
the shipment of grain in interstate commerce. He worked
on the "bin floor," which lies above a large number of
grain bins, and with each of which it is connected by a
circular opening, seventeen inches in diameter, furnished
with a spout to carry the grain from the floor into the
bin, and by a rectangular manhole, twenty by sixteen and
three-quarter inches in size. These openings, when not
in use, are closed with metal covers resting on flanges and
sunk to a level with the floor.
Ambrose's duties were to sweep the floor, help set the
spouts, and generally to do such floor work as his foreman might direct. Sometimes grain became clogged so
that it would not run out from the bin'; in which event
one man would descend into the bin to clean it out,
while another lowered and held a light in such position
as to assist the former in the performance of his work.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of.the Court.

280 U. S.

This work was rarely done and only upon an order from
the foreman or superintendent.
A short time prior to the accident, with the consent of
the superintendent, a representative of a company not
connected with the railroad was permitted to make an
experiment in one of the bins for the extermination of
weevil and other insects, which sometimes got into
the grain. This experiment was conducted by mingling
with the grain, as it moved through the bin, a powder,
which generated a poisonous gas supposed to destroy the
insects. In conducting the experiment, forty small bags
containing weevil were dropped into the grain. After
the experiment, one of the bags which had failed to come
through was found lodged within the bin, but it was not
intended or thought necessary to remove it. Ambrose
was present when the foreman lowered a droplight into
the bin and disclosed the bag, and was told by the foreman
to keep away from the bin as much as possible, not to
"hang around" it, that the gas was poisonous.
The following morning the only men at work on the
floor were the foreman, Ambrose, and another employee.
Both covers were in place, and Ambrose was engaged
in sweeping the floor. The foreman went to another
part of the premises, but, about twenty minutes later,
hearing a noise "like something hitting," returned to the
floor. He then found the covers of both openings off,
and an electric droplight hanging through the spouthole
into the bin. Looking down he saw Ambrose's body lying
at the bottom. There is no evidence to show how the
covers were removed or the circumstances tinder which
Ambrose entered the bin and so came to his death.
The case was tried before a state circuit court, and the
jury returned a verdict for the respondent, upon which
there was a final judgment. Upon appeal to the New
Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals, the judges were

N. Y. C. R. CO. v. AMBROSE.
486

Opinion of the Court.

equally divided; and the judgment, because of that division, was affirmed.
We are of opinion that there must be a reversal because
the evidence fails to establish negligence on the part of
the railroad company. That the bin was a dangerous
place does not admit of doubt. It contained a poisonous
gas of the most deadly character. But of this Ambrose
was informed. Not only was there no duty on his part
to enter the bin, unless ordered to do so, but he had been
specifically told of its dangerous character and warned to
keep away as much as possible.
It is said the jury could have found that a signal had
been given to get the spouts ready, to which Ambrose responded; or that Ambrose found it necessary, within the
scope of his employment while sweeping the floor, to adjust the covers of the openings, and in so doing was overcome by the gas and fell into the bin. But these are
mere surmises, not legitimate inferences deducible from
the proved facts. Considering the limited size of -the
openings, it is beyond reasonable belief that Ambrose
could have fallen through either of them. In the absence
of positive evidence to the contrary, the more rational conclusion is that he passed through the manhole by conscious
and deliberate effort; and to that conclusion, the fact that
the covers of both openings were off, with a droplight
hanging through the smaller one, lends a noticeable degree
of plausibility. True, in the face of the warning that
the bin was dangerous and to keep away from it as much
as possible, it is hard to find any good reason for such
voluntary entrance on his part; but it is more difficult
to account for the tragedy in any other way.
In any view of the matter, the.respondent (plaintiff),
upon whom lay the burden, completely failed to prove
that the accident was proximately due to the negligence
of the company. It follows that the verdict rests only

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

upon speculation and conjecture, and can not be allowed
to stand. C. 1. & St. P. Ry. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472,
478, and cases cited.
The utmost that can be said is, that the accident may
have resulted from any one of several causes, for some of
which the company was responsible, and for some of which
it was not. This is not enough. See Patton v. Texas &
Pacific R. Co., 179 U. S. 658, where, at page 663, this
court said:
"The fact of accident carries with it no presumption of
negligence on the part of the employer, and it is an
affirmative fact for the injured employ6 to establish that
the employer has been guilty of negligence. . . . it is
not sufficient for the employ6 to show that the employer
may have been guilty of negligence-the evidence must
point to the fact that he was. And where the testimony
leaves the matter uncertain and shows that any one of
half a dozen things may have brought about the injury,
for some of which the employer is responsible and for
some of which he is not, it is not for the jury to guess
between these half a dozen causes and find that the negligence of the employer was the real cause, when there is
no satisfactory foundation in the testimony for that c9ifelusion. If the employ6 is unable to adduce sufficient
evidence to show negligence on the part of the employer,
it is only one of the many cases in which the plaintiff
fails in his testimony, and no mere sympathy for the
unfortunate victim of an accident justifies any departure
from settled rules of proof resting upon all plaintiffs."
It is scarcely necessary to add that a recovery can not
be predicated upon the theory that Ambrose, of his own
accord, entered the bin. Whatever previously would
have been the liability of the company, in. virtue of the
rule which requires the master to use reasonable care to
furnish a safe place to work, there was no liability under
that rule at the time of the accident, since, manifestly,

B. & 0. S. W. R. CO. v. CARROLL.
Syllabus.

486

the rule ceases to be operative whenever, and as long as,
the place is closed against the servant., and he is authoritatively notified that it is unsafe and warned to avoid it.
The master who furnishes the place may, of course,
abandon or suspend its use, whenever he discovers that
it has ceased to be safe; and a servant, so notified and
warned, who ignores the notice and warning, does so at
his own risk.
Judgment reversed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. CARROLL, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 87.

Argued January 15, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. Where the plaintiff in an action in damages for personal injuries
dies pending an appeal from a judgment in his favor, the judgment.
subsequently being reversed and remanded by this Court for a
new trial on the ground that the Federal Employers' Liability Act
and not state law was applicable, an amendment of the complaint

by the administrator so as to include a claim for damages on account
of the death introduces a new cause of action and can not be
allowed if the two-year period of limitation has already run against
that cause of action. P. 494.
2. Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the cause of action
which arises from death accrues, and the two-year period of limitations begins to run, at the time of the death. P. 495.
3. A judgment based on a verdict awarding a single suni as
damages upon two causes of action, one for personal injuries and
the other for death resulting therefrom, must be reversed if one
of the causes of action was erroneously allowed to go to the jury,
and must be sent back for retrial on the other cause of action.
P. 495.
4. The duty of the employer to provide a safe place to work and
safe working appliances is not absolute; he is held only to the
exercise of reasonable care to that end. P. 496.
200 Ind. 589, reversed.

