ALDRICH v. ALDRICH.

75

Per Curiam.

ALDRICH v. ALDRICH

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF WEST
VIRGINIA.

No. 55. Argued October 24, 1963.-Decided November 12, 1963,
that questions be certified to Supreme Court of Florida.
It appearing that this case hinges on questions of Florida law with
respect to which there seem to be no clear controlling precedents
in the decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida, this Court initiates
proceedings to certify* certain questions to the Supreme Court of
Florida pursuant to Rule 4.61 of the Florida Appellate Rules.
Pp. 75-76.
Reported below: 147 W. Va. 269, 127 S. E. 2d 385.

Herman D. Rollins for petitioner.
Charles M. Love for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

It appearing that there are questions of Florida law
that are determinative of this cause, with respect to which
questions there seem to be no clear controlling precedents
in the decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida, this
Court desires to certify to the Supreme Court of Florida,
pursuant to Rule 4.61 of the Florida Appellate Rules, the
following questions:
1. Is a decree of alimony that purports to bind the
estate of a deceased husband permissible, in the absence
of an express prior agreement between the two spouses
authorizing or contemplating such a decree?
2. If such a decree is not permissible, does the error of
the court entering it render that court without subject
matter jurisdiction with regard to that aspect of the cause?
3. If subject matter jurisdiction is thus lacking, may
that defect be challenged in Florida, after the time for
*[For subsequent certification of such questions, see post, p. 249.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Per Curiam.

375 U. S.

appellate review has expired, (i) by the representatives
of the estate of the deceased husband or (ii) by persons to
whom the deceased husband has allegedly transferred part
of his property without consideration?
4. If the decree is impermissible but not subject to
such attack in Florida for lack of subject matter jurisdiction by those mentioned in subparagraph 3, may an
attack be successfully based on this error of law in the
rendition of the decree?
The petitioner, within 20 days of the date of this
opinion, is directed to file with the Clerk of this Court a
proposed certificate consistent with this opinion and conforming to the requirements of Rule 4.61, supra, with
proof of service of a copy thereof on counsel for the
respondents. Within 10 days thereafter the respondents
may file with the Clerk of this Court proposed amendments. When the certificate has been settled it will be
transmitted by the Clerk of this Court to the Clerk of
the Supreme Court of Florida for appropriate action.
It is so ordered.

