OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Syllabus

488 U. S.

PERRY v. LEEKE, COMMISSIONER, SOUTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 87-6325.

Argued November 8, 1988-Decided January 10, 1989

At the conclusion of petitioner's direct testimony in his state-court trial for
murder and related offenses, the trial judge declared a 15-minute recess
and ordered that petitioner not be allowed to talk to anyone, including
his lawyer, during the break. In affirming petitioner's conviction, the
South Carolina Supreme Court ruled that Geders v. United States, 425
U. S. 80-in which it was held that a trial court's order directing a defendant not to consult his attorney during an overnight recess, called
while the defendant was on the witness stand, violated his Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel-did not require reversal, since
this Court had there emphasized the fact that a defendant would "normally confer" with counsel during an overnight recess and had explicitly
disclaimed any intent to deal with limitations imposed in other circumstances. The state court declared that, normally, counsel is not permitted to confer with his client between direct and cross-examination.
Subsequently, the Federal District Court granted petitioner a writ of habeas corpus, but the Court of Appeals reversed. Although agreeing
with the District Court that Geders applied and that constitutional error
had occurred, the court disagreed with the lower court's ruling that a
defendant subjected to a Geders violation need not demonstrate prejudice in order to have his conviction set aside. The court concluded that
petitioner's conviction should stand because the trial court's error was
not prejudicial under Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, in that
the evidence against petitioner was overwhelming and there was no
basis for believing that his testimony on cross-examination would have
been different had he been given an opportunity to confer with his counsel during the recess.
Held:
1. A showing of prejudice is not an essential component of a violation
of the Geders rule, in light of the fundamental importance of the criminal
defendant's constitutional right to be represented by counsel. By citing
Geders in distinguishing between direct governmental interference with
that right and denial of the right by virtue of counsel's ineffective assistance, Strickland made clear that the complete denial of the right by the
government is not subject to the kind of prejudice analysis that is appro-

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

priate in determining whether the quality of a lawyer's performance itself has been constitutionally ineffective. Pp. 278-280.
2. However, the Federal Constitution does not compel a trial judge to
allow a criminal defendant to confer with his attorney during a brief
break in his testimony. It is an empirical predicate of our system ofjustice that, quite apart from any question of unethical "coaching," crossexamination of an uncounseled witness, whether the defendant or a
nondefendant, following direct examination is more likely to lead to the
discovery of truth than is cross-examination of a witness given time to
pause and consult with his lawyer. Thus, although it may be appropriate to permit such consultation in individual cases, the trial judge must
nevertheless be allowed the discretion to maintain the status quo during
a brief recess in which there is a virtual certainty that any conversation
between the witness and his lawyer would relate exclusively to his ongoing testimony. The long interruption in Geders was of a different character because the normal consultation between attorney and client that
occurs during an overnight recess would encompass matters that the defendant does have a constitutional right to discuss with his lawyer-such
as the availability of other witnesses, trial tactics, or even the possibility
of negotiating a plea bargain-and the fact that such discussions will inevitably include some consideration of the defendant's ongoing testimony
does not compromise that basic right in that instance. Pp. 280-285.
832 F. 2d 837, affirmed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and WHITE, O'CONNOR, and SCALIA, JJ., joined, and in Parts I and
III of which KENNEDY, J., joined. KENNEDY, J., filed an opinion concurring in part, post, p. 285. MARSHALL, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in
which BRENNAN and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined, post, p. 285.

W. Gaston Fairey, by appointment of the Court, 485 U. S.
1004, argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Donald J. Zelenka, Chief Deputy Attorney General of
South Carolina, argued the cause for respondents. With him
on the brief were T. Travis Medlock, Attorney General, and
James C. Anders.*
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
In Geders v. United States, 425 U. S. 80 (1976), we held
that a trial court's order directing a defendant not to consult
*Jon May filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense
Lawyers as amicus curiae urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

his attorney during an overnight recess, called while the defendant was on the witness stand, violated his Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel. Today we consider
whether the Geders rule applies to a similar order entered at
the beginning of a 15-minute afternoon recess.

I
Petitioner was tried and convicted by a jury of participating in a brutal murder, kidnaping, and sexual assault. His
defense was that he had not taken an active part in the abduction or the homicide and that his participation in the sexual assault was the product of duress. Evidence offered on
his behalf indicated that he was mildly retarded and that he
was a nonviolent person who could be easily influenced by
others. He took the stand and began to testify in his own
defense after a lunch recess.
At the conclusion of his direct testimony, the trial judge
declared a 15-minute recess, and, without advance notice to
counsel, ordered that petitioner not be allowed to talk to anyone, including his lawyer, during the break. When the trial
resumed, counsel moved for a mistrial. The judge denied
the motion, explaining that petitioner "was in a sense then a
ward of the Court. He was not entitled to be cured or assisted or helped approaching his cross examination." App.
4-5.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina affirmed petitioner's
conviction. State v. Perry, 278 S. C. 490, 299 S. E. 2d 324
(1983). It concluded that Geders was not controlling because
our opinion in that case had emphasized the fact that a defendant would normally confer with counsel during an overnight recess and that we had explicitly stated that "we do not
deal with . . . limitations imposed in other circumstances."
Geders v. United States, supra, at 91. The state court
explained:
"We attach significance to the words 'normally confer.'
Normally, counsel is not permitted to confer with his

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

defendant client between direct examination and cross
examination. Should counsel for a defendant, after direct examination, request the judge to declare a recess
so that he might talk with his client before cross examination begins, the judge would and should unhesitatingly
deny the request." 278 S. C., at 491-494, 299 S. E. 2d,
at 325-326.
Justice Ness dissented. He pointed out that a defendant
would normally confer with his lawyer during a short routine
recess and therefore that Geders should apply. Moreover, in

his opinion the importance of protecting the defendant's fundamental right to the assistance of counsel far outweighs the
negligible value of preventing the lawyer from "coaching" his
or her client during a brief recess.1
Thereafter, petitioner sought and obtained a federal writ of
habeas corpus. Applying settled law in the Fourth Circuit,
"I agree with the Fourth Circuit decision in [United States] v. Allen,
[542 F. 2d 630 (1976), cert. denied, 430 U. S. 908 (1977)], which held the
Sixth Amendment right to counsel is so fundamental that it should never
be interfered with for any length of time absent some compelling reason.
See also Stubbs v. Bordenkircher,689 F. 2d 1205 (4th Cir. 1982) [,cert. denied, 461 U. S.907 (1983)]. To allow defendants to be deprived of counsel
during court-ordered recesses is to assume the worst of our system of criminal justice, i. e., that defense lawyers will urge their clients to lie under
oath. I am unwilling to make so cynical an assumption, it being my belief
that the vast majority of lawyers take seriously their ethical obligations as
officers of the court.
"Even if that assumption is to be made, the Geders opinion pointed out
that opposing counsel and the trial judge are not without weapons to combat the unethical lawyer. The prosecutor is free to cross-examine concerning the extent of any 'coaching,' or the trial judge may direct the
examination to continue without interruption until completed. Additionally, as noted in Allen, a lawyer and client determined to lie will likely invent and polish the story long before trial; thus, the State benefits little
from depriving a defendant of counsel during short recesses.
"I think the Sixth Amendment right to counsel far outweighs the negligible value of restricting that right for a few minutes during trial."
State v. Perry, 278 S.C., at 495-497, 299 S.E. 2d, at 327-328 (dissenting
opinion).

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

the District Court held that although a defendant has no right
to be coached on cross-examination, he does have a right to
counsel during a brief recess and he need not demonstrate
prejudice from the denial of that right in order to have his
conviction set aside. App. 17-19; see United States v. Allen,
542 F. 2d 630, 633-634 (1976), cert. denied, 430 U. S. 908
(1977); Stubbs v. Bordenkircher, 689 F. 2d 1205, 1206-1207
(1982), cert. denied, 461 U. S. 907 (1983).
The Court of Appeals, sitting en banc, reversed. 832 F.
2d 837 (1987). It agreed with the District Court that Geders
applied and that constitutional error had occurred, but it concluded that petitioner's conviction should stand because the
error was not prejudicial. This conclusion rested on the
court's view that our opinions in United States v. Cronic, 466
U. S. 648 (1984), and Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S.
668 (1984), implied that trial errors of this kind do not pose
such a fundamental threat to a fair trial that reversal of a conviction should be automatic. After a review of the record,
the Court of Appeals found that the evidence against petitioner was "overwhelming," 832 F. 2d, at 843, and that there
was no basis for believing that his performance on crossexamination would have been different had he been given an
opportunity to confer with his lawyer during the brief recess.
Four judges dissented. They argued that Geders had
been properly interpreted in earlier Fourth Circuit cases to
require automatic reversal and that the majority's reliance
on Strickland was misplaced because the prejudice inquiry
in that case was employed to determine whether a Sixth
Amendment violation had occurred-not to determine the
consequences of an acknowledged violation. Moreover, they
reasoned that the prejudice inquiry was particularly inappropriate in this context because it would almost inevitably
require a review of private discussions between client and
lawyer.

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

Because the question presented by this case is not only important, but also one that frequently arises,2 we granted certiorari, 485 U. S. 976 (1988).
and state courts since Geders have expressed varying views
on the constitutionality of orders barring a criminal defendant's access to
his or her attorney during a trial recess. See Sanders v. Lane, 861 F. 2d
1033 (CA7 1988) (denial of access to counsel during lunchtime recess while
defendant still on witness stand violation of the Sixth Amendment without
consideration of prejudice, but error held harmless); Bova v. Dugger, 858
F. 2d 1539, 1540 (CAll 1988) (15-minute recess "sufficiently long to permit
meaningful consultation between defendant and his counsel" and therefore
bar on attorney-defendant discussion constitutional violation even though
defendant on stand during cross-examination); Crutchfield v. Wainwright,
803 F. 2d 1103 (CAll 1986) (en banc) (6 of 12 judges hold that if defendant
or counsel indicates, on the record, a desire to confer during a recess, then
any denial of consultation is a per se constitutional violation; 5 judges hold
that restriction on discussion with counsel regarding testimony during
brief recess near end of direct examination when no objection was raised
does not constitute constitutional violation; 1 judge holds that a violation
may exist if defendant and counsel actually desired to confer, but then prejudice need be shown to gain postconviction relief), cert. denied, 483 U. S.
1008 (1987); Mudd v. United States, 255 U. S. App. D. C. 78, 79-83, 798 F.
2d 1509, 1510-1514 (1986) (order permitting defense counsel to speak with
client about all matters other than client's testimony during weekend recess while client on stand per se Sixth Amendment violation); United States
v. Romano, 736 F. 2d 1432, 1435-1439 (CAll 1984) (Sixth Amendment violation when judge barred attorney-defendant discussion only regarding
defendant's testimony during 5-day recess), vacated in part on other
grounds, 755 F. 2d 1401 (CAll 1985); United States v. Vasquez, 732 F. 2d
846, 847-848 (CAll 1984) (refusing to adopt rule "that counsel may interrupt court proceedings at any time to confer with his or her client about a
matter in the case," thus affirming denial of counsel's request to consult
with client during court's sidebar explanation to counsel); Stubbs v.
Bordenkircher,689 F. 2d 1205, 1206-1207 (CA4 1982) (denial of access to
counsel during lunch recess while defendant on stand constitutionally impermissible, but no deprivation of right to counsel here because no showing
that defendant desired to consult with attorney and would have done so but
for the restriction), cert denied, 461 U. S. 907 (1983); Bailey v. Redman,
657 F. 2d 21, 22-25 (CA3 1981) (no deprivation of right to counsel from
order barring defendant from discussing ongoing testimony with anyone
during overnight recess because no objection and no showing that defend2Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

II
There is merit in petitioner's argument that a showing of
prejudice is not an essential component of a violation of the
ant would have conferred with counsel but for order), cert. denied, 454
U. S. 1153 (1982); United States v. DiLapi, 651 F. 2d 140, 147-149 (CA2
1981) (denial of access to counsel during 5-minute recess while defendant
on stand Sixth Amendment violation, but nonprejudicial in this case), cert.
denied, 455 U. S. 938 (1982); 651 F. 2d, at 149-151 (Mishler, J., concurring) (no Sixth Amendment right to consult with attorney during crossexamination; instead, Fifth Amendment's due process requirements should
govern whether such denial of access to counsel rendered trial unfair);
United States v. Conway, 632 F. 2d 641, 643-645 (CA5 1980) (denial of access to counsel during lunch recess while defendant on stand violation of
right to effective assistance of counsel); United States v. Bryant, 545 F. 2d
1035, 1036 (CA6 1976) (denial of access to counsel during lunch recess while
defendant on stand violation of right to counsel); United States v. Allen,
542 F. 2d 630, 632-634 (CA4 1976) ("[A] restriction on a defendant's right
to consult with his attorney during a brief routine recess is constitutionally
impermissible," even while defendant is still on stand), cert. denied, 430
U. S. 908 (1977); Ashurst v. State, 424 So. 2d 691, 691-693 (Ala. Crim.
App. 1982) (bar on defendant's access to attorney during defendant's testimony, including all breaks and recesses, violates right to counsel); State v.
Mebane, 204 Conn. 585, 529 A. 2d 680 (1987) (denial of access to counsel
during 21-minute recess while defendant on stand per se error), cert. denied, 484 U. S. 1046-1047 (1988); Bailey v. State, 422 A. 2d 956, 957-964
(Del. 1980) (order prohibiting defendant from discussing testimony with
anyone during overnight recess, not objected to, not error, and if error,
harmless); McFadden v. State, 424 So. 2d 918, 919-920 (Fla. App. 1982)
(error by instructing counsel not to discuss defendant's ongoing testimony
with him over holiday recess, but error held harmless because judge gave
attorney ample opportunity to meet with defendant before proceeding to
trial after recess); Bova v. State, 410 So. 2d 1343, 1345 (Fla. 1982) (denial of
access to counsel during 15-minute break during cross-examination of defendant violation of Sixth Amendment, but harmless error); People v.
Stroner, 104 Ill. App. 3d 1, 5-6, 432 N. E. 2d 348, 351 (1982) (no violation of
right to counsel when judge barred defendant from discussing testimony,
but permitted other contact with attorney, during 30-minute recess while
defendant on stand), aff'd in part and rev'd in part on other grounds, 96
Ill. 2d 204, 449 N. E. 2d 1326 (1983); Wooten-Bey v. State, 76 Md. App.
603, 607-616, 547 A. 2d 1086, 1088-1092 (1988) (order denying defendant consultation with counsel concerning ongoing testimony during lunch

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

rule announced in Geders. In that case, we simply reversed
the defendant's conviction without pausing to consider the
extent of the actual prejudice, if any, that resulted from the
defendant's denial of access to his lawyer during the overnight recess. That reversal was consistent with the view we
have often expressed concerning the fundamental importance
of the criminal defendant's constitutional right to be represented by counsel. 3 See, e. g., United States v. Cronic, 466
U. S., at 653-654; Chapman v. California,386 U. S. 18, 23,
n. 8 (1967); Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963);
Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60, 76 (1942).
The disposition in Geders was also consistent with our later
decision in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), in
which we considered the standard for determining whether
counsel's legal assistance to his client was so inadequate that
it effectively deprived the client of the protections guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment. In passing on such claims of
"'actual ineffectiveness,"' id., at 686, the "benchmark ...
must be whether counsel's conduct so undermined the proper
functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be
relied on as having produced a just result." Ibid. More
specifically, a defendant must show "that counsel's performance was deficient" and that "the deficient performance prejudiced the defense." Id., at 687. Prior to our consideration
of the standard for measuring the quality of the lawyer's
work, however, we had expressly noted that direct governmental interference with the right to counsel is a different
matter. Thus, we wrote:
break error, but error cured by judge's permitting discussion with counsel
and opportunity for further redirect after defendant left stand); People v.
Hagen, 86 App. Div. 2d 617, 446 N. Y. S. 2d 91 (1982) (Sixth Amendment
violation when judge barred still-testifying defendant from discussing testimony with attorney during overnight recess).
See U. S. Const., Amdt. 6 ("In all criminal prosecutions, the accused
shall enjoy the right . . . to have the Assistance of Counsel for his
defence").

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

"Government violates the right to effective assistance
when it interferes in certain ways with the ability of
counsel to make independent decisions about how to conduct the defense. See, e. g., Geders v. United States,
425 U. S. 80 (1976) (bar on attorney-client consultation
during overnight recess); Herringv. New York, 422 U. S.
853 (1975) (bar on summation at bench trial); Brooks v.
Tennessee, 406 U. S. 605, 612-613 (1972) (requirement
that defendant be first defense witness); Ferguson v.
Georgia, 365 U. S. 570, 593-596 (1961) (bar on direct
examination of defendant). Counsel, however, can also
deprive a defendant of the right to effective assistance,
simply by failing to render 'adequate legal assistance,'
Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U. S., at 344. Id., at 345350 (actual conflict of interest adversely affecting lawyer's performance renders assistance ineffective)." Id.,
at 686.
Our citation of Geders in this context was intended to make
clear that "[a]ctual or constructive denial of the assistance of
counsel altogether," Strickland v. Washington, supra, at
692, is not subject to the kind of prejudice analysis that is appropriate in determining whether the quality of a lawyer's
performance itself has been constitutionally ineffective. See
Penson v. Ohio, ante, at 88; United States v. Cronic, supra,
at 659, and n. 25. Thus, we cannot accept the rationale of
the Court of Appeals' decision.
III
We are persuaded, however, that the underlying question
whether petitioner had a constitutional right to confer with
his attorney during the 15-minute break in his testimony-a
question that we carefully preserved in Geders-was correctly resolved by the South Carolina Supreme Court. Admittedly, the line between the facts of Geders and the facts of
this case is a thin one. It is, however, a line of constitutional
dimension. Moreover, contrary to the views expressed by

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

the dissenting member of the South Carolina Supreme Court,
see n. 1, supra, it is not one that rests on an assumption that
trial counsel will engage in unethical "coaching."

The distinction rests instead on the fact that when a defendant becomes a witness, he has no constitutional right to
consult with his lawyer while he is testifying. He has an absolute right to such consultation before he begins to testify,
but neither he nor his lawyer has a right to have the testimony interrupted in order to give him the benefit of counsel's
advice.
The reason for the rule is one that applies to all witnesses -not just defendants. It is a common practice for a
judge to instruct a witness not to discuss his or her testimony
with third parties until the trial is completed. 4 Such
nondiscussion orders are a corollary of the broader rule that
witnesses may be sequestered to lessen the danger that their
testimony will be influenced by hearing what other witnesses
have to say, and to increase the likelihood that they will con'See, e. g., Jerry Parks Equipment Co. v. Southeast Equipment Co.,
817 F. 2d 340, 342-343 (CA5 1987) (improper discussion of case by defense
witness with defense counsel); United States v. Greschner, 802 F. 2d 373,
375-376 (CA10 1986) (circumvention of sequestration order where "witnesses indirectly defeat its purpose by discussing testimony they have
given and events in the courtroom with other witnesses who are to
testify"), cert. denied, 480 U. S. 908 (1987); United States v. Johnston, 578
F. 2d 1352, 1355 (CA10) (exclusion of witnesses from courtroom a "timehonored practice designed to prevent the shaping of testimony by hearing
what other witnesses say"; judge should avoid circumvention of rule by
"making it clear that witnesses are not only excluded from the courtroom
but also that they are not to relate to other witnesses what their testimony
has been and what occurred in the courtroom"), cert. denied, 439 U. S. 931
(1978); Milanovich v. United States, 275 F. 2d 716, 720 (CA4 1960) ("[O]rdinarily, when a judge exercises his discretion to exclude witnesses from
the courtroom, it would seem proper for him to take the further step of
making the exclusion effective to accomplish the desired result of preventing the witnesses from comparing the testimony they are about to give. If
witnesses are excluded but not cautioned against communicating during
the trial, the benefit of the exclusion may be largely destroyed"), aff'd in
part and set aside in part on other grounds, 365 U. S. 551 (1961).

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

fine themselves to truthful statements based on their own
recollections.5 The defendant's constitutional right to confront the witnesses against him immunizes him from such
physical sequestration.'
Nevertheless, when he assumes
the role of a witness, the rules that generally apply to other
witnesses -rules that serve the truth-seeking function of the
trial-are generally applicable to him as well. Accordingly,
it is entirely appropriate for a trial judge to decide, after listening to the direct examination of any witness, whether the
defendant or a nondefendant, that cross-examination is more
likely to elicit truthful responses if it goes forward without
allowing the witness an opportunity to consult with third parties, including his or her lawyer.
In other words, the truth-seeking function of the trial can
be impeded in ways other than unethical "coaching." Crossexamination often depends for its effectiveness on the ability
of counsel to punch holes in a witness' testimony at just the
right time, in just the right way. Permitting a witness,
including a criminal defendant, to consult with counsel after
direct examination but before cross-examination grants the
witness an opportunity to regroup and regain a poise and
sense of strategy that the unaided witness would not possess.
This is true even if we assume no deceit on the part of the
witness; it is simply an empirical predicate of our system of
adversary rather than inquisitorial justice that crossexamination of a witness who is uncounseled between direct
examination and cross-examination is more likely to lead to
the discovery of truth than is cross-examination of a witness
who is given time to pause and consult with his attorney.
ISee, e. g., 6 J. Wigmore, Evidence §§ 1837-1838 (J. Chadbourn rev.
1976 and Supp. 1988); Fed. Rule of Evid. 615, "Exclusion of Witnesses."
'See U. S. Const., Amdt. 6 ("In all criminal prosecutions, the accused
shall enjoy the right ... to be confronted with the witnesses against him");
see also, e. g., Coy v. Iowa, 487 U. S. 1012, 1016 (1988) ("We have never
doubted ... that the Confrontation Clause guarantees the defendant a
face-to-face meeting with witnesses appearing before the trier of fact").

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

Opinion of the Court

"Once the defendant places himself at the very heart of the
trial process, it only comports with basic fairness that the
story presented on direct is measured for its accuracy and
completeness by uninfluenced testimony on cross-examination." United States v. DiLapi, 651 F. 2d 140, 151 (CA2
1981) (Mishler, J., concurring), cert. denied, 455 U. S. 938
(1982).1
Thus, just as a trial judge has the unquestioned power to
refuse to declare a recess at the close of direct testimony-or
at any other point in the examination of a witness -we think
the judge must also have the power to maintain the status
quo during a brief recess in which there is a virtual certainty
ISee United States v. DiLapi, 651 F. 2d, at 149-151 (Mishler, J., concurring) (emphasis in original):
"[W]e must also account for the function of cross-examination in the trial
process in construing the Sixth Amendment guarantee of counsel.
"'The age-old tool for ferreting out truth in the trial process is the right
to cross-examination. "For two centuries past, the policy of the AngloAmerican system of evidence has been to regard the necessity of testing by
cross-examination as a vital feature of the law."' 5 Wigmore, Evidence

§ 1367 (Chadbourn rev. 1974). The importance of cross-examination to the
English judicial system, and its continuing importance since the inception
of our judicial system in testing the facts offered by the defendant on direct,

. . . suggests

that the right to assistance of counsel did not include the

right to have counsel's advice on cross-examination.
"The Court has consistently acknowledged the vital role of cross-examination in the search for truth. It has recognized that the defendant's decision to take the stand, and to testify on his own behalf, places into question
his credibility as a witness and that the prosecution has the right to test his
credibility on cross-examination ....

Once the defendant places himself at

the very heart of the trial process, it only comports with basic fairness that
the story presented on direct is measured for its accuracy and completeness by uninfluenced testimony on cross-examination."
Cf. 5 J. Wigmore, Evidence § 1367 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1974) (calling crossexamination "the greatest legal engine ever invented for the discovery of
truth"); 4 J. Weinstein, Evidence 800[01] (1988) (cross-examination, a
"'vital feature' of the Anglo-American system," "'sheds light on the witness' perception, memory and narration,'" and "can expose inconsistencies,
incompletenesses, and inaccuracies in his testimony").

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion of the Court

488 U. S.

that any conversation between the witness and the lawyer
would relate to the ongoing testimony. As we have said, we
do not believe the defendant has a constitutional right to discuss that testimony while it is in process.
The interruption in Geders was of a different character because the normal consultation between attorney and client
that occurs during an overnight recess would encompass matters that go beyond the content of the defendant's own testimony-matters that the defendant does have a constitutional
right to discuss with his lawyer, such as the availability of
other witnesses, trial tactics, or even the possibility of negotiating a plea bargain. It is the defendant's right to unrestricted access to his lawyer for advice on a variety of trialrelated matters that is controlling in the context of a long
recess. See Geders v. United States, 425 U. S., at 88. The
fact that such discussions will inevitably include some consideration of the defendant's ongoing testimony does not compromise that basic right. But in a short recess in which it is
appropriate to presume that nothing but the testimony will
be discussed, the testifying defendant does not have a constitutional right to advice.
Our conclusion does not mean that trial judges must forbid
consultation between a defendant and his counsel during such
brief recesses. As a matter of discretion in individual cases,
or of practice for individual trial judges, or indeed, as a matter of law in some States, it may well be appropriate to permit such consultation. 8 We merely hold that the Federal
Constitution does not compel every trial judge to allow the
defendant to consult with his lawyer while his testimony is in
'Alternatively, the judge may permit consultation between counsel and
defendant during such a recess, but forbid discussion of ongoing testimony.
See People v. Stroner, 104 Ill. App. 3d, at 5-6, 432 N. E. 2d, at 351 (no
violation of right to counsel when judge barred defendant from discussing
testimony, but permitted other contact with attorney, during 30-minute recess while defendant on stand), aff'd in part and rev'd in part on other
grounds, 96 Ill. 2d 204, 449 N. E. 2d 1326 (1983).

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

progress if the judge decides that there is a good reason to
interrupt the trial for a few minutes.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY, concurring in part.
I join Parts I and III of the Court's opinion and the holding
that petitioner was not denied his constitutional right to assistance of counsel. In view of our ruling, it is quite unnecessary to discuss whether prejudice must be shown when the
right to counsel is denied. I would not address that issue,
and so I decline to join Part II of the Court's opinion.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN
JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, dissenting.

and

In Geders v. United States, 425 U. S. 80 (1976), we held
unanimously that a trial judge's order barring a defendant
from conferring with his attorney during an overnight recess
violated the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel. The majority holds today that when a
recess is "short," unlike the "long recess" in Geders, a defendant has no such constitutional right to confer with his attorney. Ante, at 284. Because this distinction has no constitutional or logical grounding, and rests on a recondite
understanding of the role of counsel in our adversary system,
I dissent.
I
Contrary to the majority's holding, the Sixth Amendment
forbids "any order barring communication between a defendant and his attorney, at least where that communication
would not interfere with the orderly and expeditious progress of the trial." Geders, supra, at 92 (MARSHALL, J., concurring) (emphasis in original). This view is hardly novel; on
the contrary, every Court of Appeals to consider this issue
since Geders, including the en banc Fourth Circuit in this
case, 832 F. 2d 837, 839 (1987), has concluded that a bar on

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

attorney-defendant contact, even during a brief recess, is impermissible if objected to by counsel. See Sanders v. Lane,
861 F. 2d 1033, 1039 (CA7 1988) (collecting cases). With
very few exceptions, the state appellate courts that have addressed this issue have agreed. The majority attempts to
sidestep this point, stating that the "[f]ederal and state
courts since Geders have expressed varying views on the constitutionality of orders barring a criminal defendant's access
to his or her attorney during a trial recess." Ante, at 277,
n. 2 (emphasis added). To the extent there has been disagreement in the lower courts, however, it has been limited
to the separate question whether a Sixth Amendment violation predicated on a bar order should be subject to a prejudice or harmless-error analysis -the sole question on which
the Court granted certiorari in this case.
In concluding that bar orders violate the Sixth Amendment, the lower courts have faithfully reflected this Court's
long-expressed view that "the Assistance of Counsel" guaranteed under the Constitution perforce includes the defendant's right to confer with counsel about all aspects of his case:
"'The right to be heard would be, in many cases, of little
avail if it did not comprehend the right to be heard by
counsel ....
[A defendant] is unfamiliar with the rules of
evidence ....
He lacks both the skill and knowledge adequately to prepare his defense, even though he [may]
have a perfect one. He requires the guiding hand of
counsel at every step of the proceedings against him."'
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, 68-69 (1932), quoted
in Geders, supra, at 88-89.
See also Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 462-463 (1938);
Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335, 343-345 (1963); United
States v. Wade, 388 U. S. 218, 224 (1967); Argersinger v.
Hamlin, 407 U. S. 25, 31-36 (1972); United States v. Cronic,
466 U. S. 648, 659 (1984). This long line of cases, which
stands for the proposition that a defendant has the right to
the aid of counsel at each critical stage of the adversary proc-

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

ess, is conspicuously absent from the majority's opinion.
The omission of this constitutional legacy is particularly glaring given that "[i]t is difficult to perceive a more critical stage
. . than the taking of evidence on the defendant's guilt."
Green v. Am, 809 F. 2d 1257, 1263 (CA6 1987). Instead,
after an obligatory nod of the head to the fundamental nature
of the right to counsel, the majority strings together several
unstated assumptions and unsupported assertions and concludes that attorney-defendant discussions during short trial
recesses may be completely barred because they might disserve the trial's truth-seeking function. The majority's conclusory approach ill befits the important rights at stake in
this case.
A
*

The majority begins its analysis by stating that a defendant "has no constitutional right to consult with his lawyer
while he is testifying." Ante, at 281 (emphasis added). This
truism is beside the point. Neither Perry nor his counsel
sought to have Perry's "testimony interrupted in order to
give him the benefit of counsel's advice," ibid.; nor has Perry
suggested that he had a constitutional right to the interruption.
This case instead involves the separate question
whether a defendant has a right to talk to his lawyer after the
trial judge has called a recess for some reason independent of
the lawyer's desire to talk to the defendant or the defendant's
desire to talk to his lawyer.
The majority further blurs the real issue in this case by describing the practice of not allowing defendants or lawyers to
interrupt the defendant's testimony as a corollary of the
"broader rule that witnesses may be sequestered." Ibid.
The majority even provides a lengthy footnote which contains citations to several Court of Appeals cases discussing
the purposes of witness sequestration. Ante, at 281, n. 4.
The flaw in the majority's logic is that sequestration rules
are inapplicable to defendants. Defendants, as the majority later acknowledges, enjoy a constitutional right under

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

the Sixth Amendment to confront the witnesses against them.
Ante, at 282; see also Geders, 425 U. S., at 88.
The majority's false premise-that the issue is whether a
defendant has the right to consult with his lawyer "while he
is testifying"-naturally conjures up a greater-includes-thelesser argument: Perry had no right to interrupt his testimony; he therefore had no reasonable expectation that he
would be permitted to confer with counsel during any interruption provided by the trial judge. Yet, we rejected this
facile argument in Geders. There, the trial judge sought to
justify his bar order on the ground that it was merely an "accident" that he had called a recess during the defendant's
testimony. Geders, 425 U. S., at 83, n. 1. In dismissing this
notion, we did not frame the inquiry as whether recesses normally occur during the course of a defendant's testimony.
Instead, we asked whether consultations normally occur during recesses called for some independent reason by the trial
judge. Id., at 88; see also Sanders v. Lane, supra, at 1036,
n. 1; 832 F. 2d, at 849, n. 4 (Winter, C. J., dissenting).
To the extent the majority recognizes that the dispositive
fact is not a defendant's right to interrupt, but rather the legitimacy of his expectation that he may speak with his lawyer
during such an interruption, it does so by grounding its holding on a general "rul[e]" forbidding attorney-witness contact
between a witness' direct and cross-examination. Ante, at
282. This "rule," we are told, is based on the view "that
cross-examination is more likely to elicit truthful responses if
it goes forward without allowing the witness an opportunity
to consult with third parties, including his or her lawyer."
Ibid. This "rule" is applicable to a defendant, the majority
contends, because when a defendant takes the stand, the
rules applicable to nonparty witnesses are "generally applicable to him as well." Ibid.
The defects in this line of reasoning are manifold. In the
first place, the majority cites no authority whatsoever for its

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

"rule."

Even if such authority exists, the presence of contrary authority undercuts any suggestion that settled practice renders unreasonable a defendant's expectation that he
will be able to speak with his lawyer during a brief recess.'
One need look no further than the facts of this case to see that
the majority's "rule" is often honored in the breach. The
trial judge declared at least three recesses while witnesses
for the State were testifying, Tr. 213, 274, 517; two of these
recesses came at the end of direct testimony but before crossexamination had begun. Id., at 213, 517. During none of
these recesses did the trial judge issue a bar order. The
State's witnesses thus were free to consult with anyone, including the prosecutors, during these breaks. Similarly, in
nearly every case cited by the majority in its collection of
post-Geders cases, ante, at 277-279, n. 2, there is no indication that witnesses for the State were barred from speaking
with the prosecutor or their attorneys during trial recesses.
Even if the majority is correct that trial courts routinely
bar attorney-witness contact during recesses between direct
and cross-examination, its lumping together of defendants
with all other witnesses would still be flawed, for it ignores
the pivotal fact that the Sixth Amendment accords defendants constitutional rights above and beyond those accorded
witnesses generally.' We recognized the defendant's unique
' See, e. g., 23 C. J. S., Criminal Law § 1025 (1961); United States ex rel.
Lovinger v. Circuit Courtfor the 19th Judicial District,652 F. Supp. 1336,
1346 (ND Ill. 1987), aff'd, 845 F. 2d 739 (CA7 1988); Griffin v. State, 383
So. 2d 873, 878-879 (Ala. Crim. App. 1980); People v. Pendleton, 75 Ill.
App. 3d 580, 594-595, 394 N. E. 2d 496, 506-507 (1979); cf. United States
v. Allen, 542 F. 2d 630, 633, n. 1 (CA4 1976) ("While the sequestering of
witnesses is of ancient origin the practice has never been universal, which
suggests that the danger of influencing witnesses feared so much by some
is not at all feared by others").
I Likewise, the majority's equation of a defendant's discussions with his
attorney with a defendant's discussions with "third parties," ante, at 282,
seriously misapprehends the nature of Sixth Amendment rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

status in Geders: "the petitioner was not simply a witness; he
was also the defendant ....

A nonparty witness ordinarily

has little, other than his own testimony, to discuss with trial
counsel; a defendant in a criminal case must often consult
with his attorney during the trial." 425 U. S., at 88; see also
United States v. DiLapi, 651 F. 2d 140, 148 (CA2 1981) ("The
fact that other witnesses were cautioned not to speak to
anyone during recesses does not justify a prohibition upon
defendant-lawyer conversations"). 3 The majority, in its
haste, today overlooks this axiomatic distinction.'
B
The most troubling aspect of the majority's opinion, however, is its assertion that allowing a defendant to speak with
his attorney during a "short" recess between direct and
cross-examination invariably will retard the truth-seeking
function of the trial. Although this notion is described as an
"empirical predicate" of our adversary system, ante, at 282,
the majority provides not a shred of evidence to support it.
Furthermore, the majority fails to acknowledge that, in
3
Cf. Rock v. Arkansas, 483 U. S. 44, 57-58, and n. 15 (1987); Glasser v.
United States, 315 U. S. 60, 71 (1942). The trial judge did at one point
recognize that defendant Perry was not like the other witnesses. The significance of this distinction escaped him, however, for he justified the bar
order imposed on Perry in part on the ground that "no one is on trial but
Mr. Perry ....
The 6th Amendment rights apply only to one who is on
trial." App. 5. This reasoning stands the Sixth Amendment on its head.
4The majority errs, furthermore, in assuming, ante, at 282, that defendants are subject to the same rules of cross-examination as nonparty
witnesses. See generally E. Cleary, McCormick on Evidence §§ 21-26
(3d. ed. 1984) (discussing different views on permissible scope of crossexamination of defendants and nonparty witnesses); §§ 41-44 (discussing
different subjects on which defendants and nonparty witnesses may be impeached); §§ 130-140 (discussing different ways in which defendants and
nonparty witnesses may invoke their self-incrimination rights while testifying); compare Fed. Rule Evid. 404(a)(1) (character evidence of the accused) with Fed. Rule Evid. 404(a)(3) (character evidence of a witness).

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

Geders, we never equated the attorney-client contact which
we held constitutionally mandated with the evasion of truth.
Central to our Sixth Amendment doctrine is the understanding that legal representation for the defendant at every
critical stage of the adversary process enhances the discovery of truth because it better enables the defendant to put
the State to its proof. As the author of today's majority
opinion wrote for the Court earlier this Term:
"The paramount importance of vigorous representation
follows from the nature of our adversarial system of justice. This system is premised on the well-tested principle that truth-as well as fairness-is 'best discovered
by powerful statements on both sides of the question.'
Absent representation, however, it is unlikely that a
criminal defendant will be able adequately to test the
government's case, for, as Justice Sutherland wrote in
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45 (1932), '[e]ven the
intelligent and educated layman has small and sometimes
no skill in the science of law.' Id., at 69." Penson v.
Ohio, ante, at 84 (citations omitted).
Nowhere have we suggested that the Sixth Amendment
right to counsel turns on what the defendant and his attorney
discuss or at what point during a trial their discussion takes
place. See generally Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S.
668, 684-686 (1984); United States v. Cronic, 466 U. S., at
653-657; Polk County v. Dodson, 454 U. S. 312, 318-319
(1981); Herring v. New York, 422 U. S. 853, 857-858, 862
(1975).
With this understanding of the role of counsel in mind, it
cannot persuasively be argued that the discovery of truth will
be impeded if a defendant "regain[s] ... a sense of strategy"
during a trial recess. Ante, at 282. If that were so, a bar
order issued during a 17-hour overnight recess should be sustained. Indeed, if the argument were taken to its logical extreme, a bar on any attorney-defendant contact, even before
trial, would be justifiable. Surely a prosecutor would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

greater success "punch[ing] holes," ibid., in a defendant's testimony under such circumstances. Indeed, the prosecutor
would then be assured that the defendant has not had "an
opportunity to regroup and regain a poise ... that the unaided witness [does] not possess." Ibid. In other words,
the prosecutor would be more likely to face the punch-drunk
witness who the majority thinks contributes to the search for

truth.I
The majority's fears about the deleterious effects of
attorney-defendant contact during trial recesses are vastly
overstated. Vigorous cross-examination is certainly indispensable in discerning the trustworthiness of testimony, but
I would think that a few soothing words from counsel to the
agitated or nervous defendant facing the awesome power of
the State might increase the likelihood that the defendant
will state the truth on cross-examination. The value of counsel in calming such a defendant would seem especially apparent in this case given that Perry, who the majority describes
as "mildly retarded," ante, at 274, was on trial for his life.6
I The majority claims that its decision does not "res[t] on an assumption
that trial counsel will engage in unethical coaching." Ante, at 281. Nonetheless, I am inclined to believe that the majority's fears that the defendant
will "regain ... a sense of strategy" are motivated, at least in part, by an
underlying suspicion that defense attorneys will fail to "respect the difference between assistance and improper influence."
Geders v. United
States, 425 U. S. 80, 90, n. 3 (1976). "If our adversary system is to function according to design," however, "we must assume that an attorney will
observe his responsibilities to the legal system, as well as to his client."
Id., at 93 (MARSHALL, J., concurring); see also United States v. Allen, 542
F. 2d, at 633 ("[A]ll but very few lawyers take seriously their obligation as
officers of the court and their proper role in the administration of justice.
We think the probability of improper counseling, i. e., to lie or evade or
distort the truth, is negligible in most cases").
'At trial, a psychologist and a psychiatrist testified regarding Perry's
personality and mental health. They stated that Perry, then 21 years old,
had an I. Q. of 86, had encountered learning difficulties in school, had
dropped out by the ninth grade, and had a childlike personality. They also
testified that Perry often had difficulty distinguishing reality from fantasy

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

Furthermore, to remind a defendant that certain crossexamination questions might implicate his right against selfincrimination or relate to previously excluded evidence, or to
caution a defendant to mind his demeanor at all times, is
merely to brace the defendant for the "legal engine" steaming
his way. Ante, at 283, n. 7, quoting 5 J. Wigmore, Evidence
§ 1367 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1974). I cannot accept the view
that discussions of this sort necessarily threaten the trial's
truth-seeking function. To the extent that they might in
some circumstances, it is important to remember that truth
would not be sacrificed in the name of some obscure principle-a constitutional command hangs in the balance. See
Geders, 425 U. S., at 91.
Although the majority appears to believe that attorneydefendant recess discussions on any subject are inconsistent
with "the discovery of truth," ante, at 282, it finds discussions
regarding testimony to be particularly pernicious. This distinction finds no support in our Sixth Amendment cases.
But even if it did, the majority's logic on this point would
remain inscrutable. The majority distinguishes "long" recesses, such as the 17-hour recess at issue in Geders, from the
"short" 15-minute recess in this case on the ground that it is
"appropriate to presume," or, alternatively, that there is "a
and that he suffered from "hysterical reaction," an inability to cope with
stressful situations. Tr. 1048-1049, 1053-1054, 1087, 1091-1098.
One can only assume that the treatment the trial judge accorded Perry
during the 15-minute recess exacerbated his sense of fright or trepidation.
After the trial judge sua sponte ordered the recess, Perry's counsel attempted to confer with Perry in order to "answer his questions and also to
make sure he understood his rights on cross-examination." App. 7. The
bar order, however, prevented him from doing so. During the recess,
Perry was "taken out of the courtroom and placed in a very small room
with no window and no other person, just one chair, enclosed in about a six
by six room, with no one to talk to." Tr. of Oral Arg. 8. Apparently,
Perry's counsel was not even allowed to explain to Perry why they were
not permitted to confer during the recess. Treatment of this sort may
well have had an adverse effect on Perry's ability to retain his composure
and testify truthfully on cross-examination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

virtual certainty," ante, at 283, 284, that any discussion during a 15-minute recess will focus exclusively on the defendant's upcoming testimony. Once again, the majority reasons
by assertion; it offers no legal or empirical authority to buttress this proposition. While this assertion might have some
validity with respect to nonparty witnesses, who might have
little else to discuss with the parties' attorneys, see Geders,
supra, at 88, it defies common sense to argue that attorneydefendant conversations regarding "the availability of other
witnesses, trial tactics, or even the possibility of negotiating
a plea bargain," ante, at 284, cannot, or do not, take place
during relatively brief recesses.
For example, while a defendant is on the stand during direct examination, he may remember the name or address of a
witness, or the location of physical evidence, which would be
helpful to his defense. It would take mere seconds to convey
this information to counsel. As a matter of sound trial strategy, defense counsel might believe that this new witness or
evidence would have the most impact if presented directly
after the defendant concluded his testimony. But under the
majority's approach, defense counsel would not even learn
about this witness or evidence until the defendant steps down
from the stand. Alternatively, the defendant might be so
discouraged by his testimony on direct examination as to conclude that he should attempt plea negotiations with the prosecution immediately, or accept an outstanding plea bargain
offer. It need only take seconds for him to convey this to his
lawyer, particularly if they had previously discussed the advisability of pleading guilty. This opportunity might be forever lost, however, if a bar order issues and the prosecution
conducts a successful cross-examination. These are just a
few examples of the tactical exchanges which defendants and
their attorneys might have midtrial; there is no reason to believe such exchanges predominantly occur during overnight
recesses rather than during brief recesses. Indeed, an overnight recess "may entail a deprivation of little more than the

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

fifteen minutes at stake here because many attorneys will devote the vast majority of such an extended break to preparation for the next day of trial, while sending the client home to
sleep, or back to jail." 832 F. 2d, at 849 (Winter, C. J.,
dissenting).
Yet another perverse aspect of the majority's opinion is its
recognition that a defendant has a "constitutional right" to
discuss those "matters that go beyond the content of the defendant's own testimony." Ante, at 284. Having recognized this right, one would expect the majority to require
trial judges to permit attorney-defendant contact during all
recesses, no matter how brief, so long as trial testimony is
not discussed. Instead, the majority merely suggests in a
footnote that trial judges "may permit consultation between
counsel and defendant during such a recess, but forbid discussion of ongoing testimony." Ante, at 284, n. 8 (emphasis
added).
If attorney-client discussions regarding matters
other than testimony have constitutional stature, they surely
deserve more protection than the majority offers today. It
may well be that Perry and his counsel would have discussed
"matters that [went] beyond the content of [Perry's] own
testimony," ante, at 284; Perry was, however, denied this
constitutional right. In allowing trial judges to ban all brief
recess consultations, even those including or limited to discussions regarding nontestimonial matters, the majority
needlessly fires grapeshot where, even under its own reasoning, a single bullet would have sufficed.8
Judge Winter further observed:
"Few categories of constitutional error so undermine the adversary system
7Chief

as to warrant reversal without any proof of prejudice in a particular case.
Denial of the assistance of counsel during a critical stage of criminal proceedings is one such category of error. Whether the deprivation of counsel spans an entire trial or but a fraction thereof, it renders suspect any
result that is obtained." 832 F. 2d, at 845.
8
The majority assumes that it is possible to distinguish discussions
regarding trial strategy from discussions regarding testimony. I am not
so sure. Assume, for example, that counsel's direct examination of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

II

Today's decision is regrettable in two further respects. In
practical terms, the majority leaves the trial judge "to guess
at whether she has committed a constitutional violation"
when she issues a recess bar order. Sanders v. Lane, 861 F.
2d, at 1037. Is it "appropriate to presume" that a 30-minute
recess will involve a discussion of nontestimonial matters?
How about a lunch break? Does it matter that defense counsel has promised only to discuss nontestimonial matters with
his client? Does the majority's rationale encompass recesses
during the defendant's direct or redirect testimony, or just
those after the direct examination has concluded? These are
not abstract inquiries, but the sort that have arisen, and will
continue to arise, on a routine basis. See id., at 1036-1037
(collecting cases). By not even providing a practical framework in which to answer these questions, the majority ensures that defendants, even those in adjoining courtrooms,
will be subject to inconsistent practices. Such inconsistency
is untenable when a critical constitutional right is at stake.
The majority's standardless approach guarantees a new
bout of appellate litigation during which lower courts ineluctably will issue conflicting decisions as to the point at which a
"short" recess bar order becomes a constitutionally impermissible "long" recess bar order. Given that "clarification is
defendant inadvertently elicits damaging information that can be effectively neutralized on redirect only if the defendant has the opportunity to
explain his direct testimony to counsel. If a recess were called, the ensuing attorney-defendant discussion would seem to be as much about trial
strategy as about upcoming testimony. Without a chance to speak with
the defendant, counsel will be hampered in knowing whether redirect is
even advisable. The majority's failure to spell out the difference-if there
is one-between testimonial and nontestimonial discussions may well "have
a chilling effect on cautious attorneys, who might avoid giving advice on
non-testimonial matters for fear of violating [a court order barring recess
discussions of testimonial matters]." Mudd v. United States, 255 U. S.
App. D. C. 78, 81, 798 F. 2d 1509, 1512 (1986).

PERRY v. LEEKE
272

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

feasible," United States v. Ross, 456 U. S. 798, 804 (1982),
and indisputably desirable in this area of law, the majority's
willingness to tolerate such ambiguity is dismaying. See
United States v. Allen, 542 F. 2d 630, 633 (CA4 1976). The
majority purports to draw a "line of constitutional dimension," ante, at 280, but it is one which lower courts, faced
with a continuum of recess possibilities, will find impossible
to discern.
Finally, today's decision marks a lapse in this Court's commitment to fundamental fairness for criminal defendants.
The majority wholly ignores the trial judge's uneven imposition of bar orders. No bar order issued when recesses were
called during testimony by the State's witnesses, but when a
recess was called at the conclusion of Perry's direct testimony, the trial judge suddenly became concerned that witnesses might be "cured or assisted or helped approaching...
cross examination." App. 4-5. Perry's counsel objected
that Perry was being unfairly singled out, but the trial judge
responded that he felt compelled to act as he did to ensure, of
all things, "fairness to the state." App. 5. This peculiar
sense of obligation meant that Perry was removed from the
courtroom and held incommunicado for the duration of the
9
recess.
Needless to say, the due process concerns underpinning
the Sixth Amendment right to counsel are designed to ensure
a fair trial for the defendant, not the State. See generally
Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S., at 684-685; United
9In addition to the bar order issued against Perry, the trial judge ordered Perry's wife not to speak with anyone during a recess called after
she had completed her direct testimony on behalf of her husband. Defense
counsel protested that "this was not done during the state's case. It is
only being done on the defendant's case and it is being done without even
the request of the state .... And I again urge the Court that it appears
to show some bias on the part of the Court." Tr. 904. The trial judge
rebuffed the objection: "I don't apologize for it. I'm in charge of this trial
and I'm going to see that it remains .fairto all parties." Ibid. (emphasis

added).

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

488 U. S.

States v. Cronic, 466 U. S., at 653-656; United States v.
Morrison, 449 U. S. 361, 364 (1981). By ensuring a defendant's right to have counsel, which includes the concomitant
right to communicate with counsel at every critical stage of
the proceedings, see Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, 68-69
(1932), the Constitution seeks "to minimize the imbalance in
the adversary system." United States v. Ash, 413 U. S.
300, 309, (1973). The majority twice disserves this noble
goal-by isolating the defendant at a time when counsel's assistance is perhaps most needed, and by ignoring the stark
unfairness of according prosecution witnesses the very prerogatives denied the defendant. The Constitution does not
permit this new restriction on the Sixth Amendment right to
counsel. I dissent.

