CALIFORNIA v. FREEMAN
Opinion in Chambers

CALIFORNIA v. FREEMAN
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-602.

Decided February 1, 1989

California's application for a stay of enforcement of the State Supreme
Court's judgment reversing respondent Freeman's conviction for pandering under the California Penal Code pending the disposition of a petition for certiorari is denied. It is unlikely that four Justices would vote
to grant certiorari since the state court's decision rests on the adequate
and independent state law ground that Freeman's hiring and paying of
performers for pornographic films does not constitute pandering under
the State Code. The court's discussion of state law is not interwoven
with its discussion of federal law, specifically the First Amendment.
Even if this Court were to review the case below and find that the state
court had misinterpreted the strictures of the First Amendment, on remand that court would still reverse Freeman's conviction on state statutory law grounds.

Circuit Justice.
The State of California requests that, as Circuit Justice, I
stay the enforcement of the judgment of the Supreme Court
of California pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2101(f) pending the
disposition of a petition for certiorari (No. 88-1054) to review
that judgment. Because I think it unlikely that four Justices
would vote to grant certiorari, see Hicks v. Feiock, 479 U. S.
1305, 1306 (1986) (O'CONNOR, J., in chambers), I deny the
application for issuance of a stay.
In its petition for certiorari, California seeks review of
the State Supreme Court's judgment reversing the conviction of respondent Freeman for pandering under Cal. Penal
Code Ann. §266i (West 1988). 46 Cal. 3d 419, 758 P. 2d
1128 (1988). Freeman is a producer and director of pornographic films who hired and paid adults to perform sexual
acts before his film cameras. In 1983, Freeman was arrested and charged with five counts of pandering based on
the hiring of five such performers. He was not charged with
violation of any of California's obscenity laws. Freeman
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion in Chambers

488 U. S.

was tried before a jury and convicted on all five counts of
pandering; the State Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment
of conviction. 198 Cal. App. 3d 292, 233 Cal. Rptr. 510
(1987).
On discretionary review, the California Supreme Court
first considered the relevant statutory language of the State
Penal Code. In relevant part, § 266i of the Penal Code provides that a person is guilty of felonious pandering if that
person "procure[s] another person for the purpose of prostitution .... ." Prostitution, in turn, is defined in § 647(b) of
the Penal Code as "any lewd act between persons for money
or other consideration." Finally, "'for a "lewd" or "dissolute" act to constitute "prostitution," the genitals, buttocks,
or female breast, of either the prostitute or the customer
must come in contact with some part of the body of the other
for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratificationof the customer or of the prostitute." 46 Cal. 3d, at 424, 758 P. 2d, at
1130 (emphasis in original), quoting People v. Hill, 103 Cal.
App. 3d 525, 534-535, 163 Cal. Rptr. 99, 105 (1980).
Interpreting these definitions of terms relevant to the
state pandering statute, the State Supreme Court held that
"in order to constitute prostitution, the money or other consideration must be paid Jbr the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification." 46 Cal. 3d, at 424, 758 P. 2d, at 1131 (emphasis in original). Applying this principle to Freeman, the
court characterized the payments made to the performers as
"acting fees" and held that "there is no evidence that [Freeman] paid the acting fees for the purposes of sexual arousal or
gratification, his own or the actors'." Id., at 424-425, 758 P.
2d, at 1131. Thus, the court held, "[Freeman] did not engage in either the requisite conduct nor did he have the requisite mens rea or purpose to establish procurement for purposes of prostitution." Ibid. In the succeeding section of
its opinion, the California Supreme Court went on to observe
that "even if [Freeman's] conduct could somehow be found to
come within the definition of 'prostitution' literally, the appli-

CALIFORNIA v. FREEMAN
1311

Opinion in Chambers

cation of the pandering statute to the hiring of actors to perform in the production of a nonobscene motion picture would
impinge unconstitutionally upon First Amendment values."
Ibid.
California, in its petition for certiorari, would have us
review this First Amendment holding of the State Supreme
Court. I recognize that the State has a strong interest in
controlling prostitution within its jurisdiction and, at some
point, it must certainly be true that otherwise illegal conduct
is not made legal by being filmed. I do not, however, think
it likely that four Justices would vote to grant the petition
because in my view this Court lacks jurisdiction to hear the
petition. It appears "clear from the face of the [California
Supreme Court's] opinion," Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S.
1032, 1041 (1983), that its analysis of the pandering provision
of the State Penal Code constitutes an adequate and independent state ground of decision. Interpretations of state
law by a State's highest court are, of course, binding upon
this Court. O'Brien v. Skinner, 414 U. S. 524, 531 (1974);
Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590 (1875). Here, the
California Supreme Court has decided that Freeman's hiring
and paying of performers for pornographic films does not
constitute pandering under § 266i of the California Penal
Code. That is an adequate ground for reversing Freeman's
conviction.
As I read the State Supreme Court's opinion, it is independent of federal law as well. This Court has held that
where a state court has "felt compelled by what it understood
to be federal constitutional considerations to construe and
apply its own law in the manner it did ...we have jurisdiction and should decide the federal issue; for if the state court
erred in its understanding of our cases and of the First and
Fourteenth Amendments, we should so declare, leaving the
state court free to decide . . . 'suits according to its own local
law."' Zacchini v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co., 433
U. S. 562, 568 (1977), quoting Missouri ex rel. Southern R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion in Chambers

488 U. S.

Co. v. Mayfield, 340 U. S. 1, 5 (1950). This does not appear
to be such a case.
The discussion section of the California Supreme Court
opinion is divided into two subsections, the first titled "The
Statutory Language," the second titled "First Amendment
Considerations." The state court's discussion of the language of the Penal Code, which concludes with the clear holding quoted above, is not "interwoven with the federal law."
Michigan v. Long, supra, at 1040. Discussion of federal
law-specifically the First Amendment-is strictly confined
to the second subsection and constitutes an independent,
alternative holding. Were we to review the state court's
decision and hold that it had misinterpreted the strictures
of the First Amendment, on remand the court would still
reverse Freeman's conviction on state statutory grounds.
This is precisely the result the doctrine of adequate and independent state grounds seeks to avoid. Herb v. Pitcairn,324
U. S. 117, 126 (1945) ("We are not permitted to render an
advisory opinion, and if the same judgment would be rendered by the state court after we corrected its views of
federal laws, our review could amount to nothing more than
an advisory opinion").
There is language early in the California Supreme Court's
discussion section observing that "the prosecution of [Freeman] under the pandering statute must be viewed as a somewhat transparent attempt at an 'end run' around the First
Amendment and the state obscenity laws. Landmark decisions of this court and the United States Supreme Court compel us to reject such an effort." 46 Cal. 3d, at 423, 758 P. 2d,
at 1130. Nevertheless, in light of the subsequent clear holding based exclusively on the state pandering statute, as well
as the State Supreme Court's doubts in its discussion of the
First Amendment whether "[Freeman's] conduct could somehow be found to come within the definition of 'prostitution'
literally," id., at 425, 758 P. 2d, at 1131 (emphasis added),
I conclude that the state court's statutory holding is inde-

CALIFORNIA v. FREEMAN
1311

1315

Opinion in Chambers

pendent from its discussion of the First Amendment and was
not driven by that discussion. Because the decision of the
California Supreme Court rests on an adequate and independent state ground, the State of California's application
for a stay of enforcement of the judgment of the California
Supreme Court is denied.
So ordered.

