OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Per Curiam

488 U. S.

HARBISON-WALKER REFRACTORIES, A DIVISION
OF DRESSER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. BRIECK
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 87-271. Argued October 31, 1988-Decided December 12, 1988
822 F. 2d 52, dismissed.

Andrew M. Kramer argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Erwin N. Griswold, David A. Copus,
PatriciaA. Dunn, and James P. Hollihan.
Brian J. Martin argued the cause for the United States et
al. as amici curiae urging affirmance. On the brief were Solicitor General Fried,Assistant Attorney General Reynolds,
Deputy Solicitor General Merrill, Charles A. Rothfeld, and
Charles A. Shanor.
James H. Logan argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Julius L. Chambers, Charles Stephen
Ralston, Ronald L. Ellis, and Eric Schnapper.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
JUSTICE WHITE

dissents.

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States of America by John C. Unkovic and Stephen A. Bokat; and for the Equal Employment Advisory Council by Robert
E. Williams, Douglas S. McDowell, and Ann Elizabeth Reesman.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American Association of Retired Persons by Alfred Miller, Steven S. Honigman, Christopher G. Mackaronis, and Cathy Ventrell-Monsees; and for the Plaintiff
Employment Lawyers Association by Paul H. Tobias.

OLDEN v. KENTUCKY
Syllabus

OLDEN v.KENTUCKY
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF
APPEALS OF KENTUCKY
No. 88-5223.

Decided December 12, 1988

Petitioner and one Harris, who are black, were charged with the kidnaping, rape, and forcible sodomy of Starla Matthews, a white woman. In
his defense, petitioner asserted that he and Matthews had engaged in
consensual sex, an account corroborated by several witnesses. Matthews' story was corroborated only by the testimony of one Russell.
Petitioner claimed that, at the time of the incident, Matthews and Russell had been engaged in an extramarital affair, and that she had lied to
Russell to protect that relationship. In order to show that Matthews
had a motive to lie, petitioner wanted to introduce evidence that Matthews and Russell were living together at the time of the trial. However, the trial court granted the prosecutor's motion to keep such evidence from the jury and sustained the prosecutor's objection when the
defense attempted to cross-examine Matthews about the matter after
she had testified that she was living with her mother. The jury acquitted Harris of all charges and found petitioner guilty only of forcible sodomy. On appeal, petitioner claimed, inter alia, that the court's failure
to allow him to impeach Matthews' testimony deprived him of his Sixth
Amendment right to confront the witnesses against him. The Court of
Appeals of Kentucky upheld the conviction. While acknowledging the
relevance of the testimony, it found that the probative value of the evidence was outweighed by the possibility of prejudice against Matthews
that might result from revealing her interracial relationship to the jury.
Held: Petitioner was denied his right to confront the witnesses against
him, and, considering the relevant factors enumerated in Delaware v.
Van Arsdall, 475 U. S. 673, that error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. Matthews' testimony was crucial to the prosecution's
case. Her account was directly contradicted by petitioner and was
corroborated only by the testimony of Russell, whose impartiality may
have been impugned by evidence of his relationship with Matthews. In
addition, as the jury's verdicts show, the State's case was far from
overwhelming.
Certiorari granted; reversed and remanded.

