OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

BALTIMORE CITY DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES v. BOUKNIGHT
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-494.

Decided December 21, 1988

An application to stay the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Marylandthat Jacqueline Bouknight's confinement for civil contempt violated her
privilege against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the
United States Constitution-is granted pending the timely filing and
subsequent disposition of a petition for certiorari. At the request of the
Baltimore City Department of Social Services (DSS), the Circuit Court
for the city determined that Bouknight's son, Maurice, who had received
several suspicious injuries, was a "child in need of assistance" under
Maryland law. Bouknight received supervised custody of Maurice, but
failed to cooperate with DSS and refused to produce him or tell DSS
where he was. Subsequently, she was arrested and ordered to disclose
the child's whereabouts. After giving a false answer, she was jailed
until she purged herself of contempt by either producing Maurice or revealing his location. The Court of Appeals found that the terms of the
confinement violated Bouknight's privilege against self-incrimination,
since the risk that producing Maurice would necessarily admit a measure
of continuing control over the child that might be relevant in a subsequent criminal prosecution could not be outweighed by any governmental interest in finding Maurice. DSS meets the requirements for
the issuance of a stay. The lower court's decision is based on the United
States Constitution, and the burden on Bouknight's liberty must be
weighed against the very real jeopardy to a child's safety and well-being
and perhaps even his life. If Bouknight is permitted to go free, DSS
may not have the means to obtain information about or to locate the
child. Also, it is likely that four Justices will vote to grant certiorari,
and DSS has a fair prospect of persuading a majority of the Court that
the state-court decision was erroneous.

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion in Chambers
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

488 U. S.

Circuit Justice.

The Baltimore City Department of Social Services (DSS)
has asked me to stay the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Maryland in this case, In re Maurice, No. 50 (Dec. 19, 1988).
The Court of Appeals held that Jacqueline Bouknight's confinement for civil contempt violated the privilege against selfincrimination secured to her by the Fifth Amendment to the
United States Constitution. Bouknight is presently incarcerated until she either presents her child, Maurice M., to the
DSS or tells where the child can be found. There is no indication that she is unable to comply in one way or the other.
When Maurice was three months old, he was admitted for
treatment of a fractured left leg. X rays disclosed that the
child had previously suffered multiple fractures of various
other major bones. Nurses and others observing Maurice's
mother at the hospital reported her unusual conduct with the
child, including shaking him and dropping him into his crib
when he was in a cast. Because of the suspicious nature of
Maurice's injuries at such a young age, DSS obtained authorization to place the child in foster care. It then filed a petition in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City seeking a determination that Maurice was a "child in need of assistance"
under Maryland law, Md. Cts. & Jud. Proc. Code. Ann.
ยง3-801(e) et seq. (1984 and Supp. 1988). Maurice was found
to be such.
By agreement of the parties, Bouknight received custody
of Maurice under an order of protective supervision specifying that she accept parenting assistance, attend classes, and
refrain from corporal punishment of the child. Some months
later, DSS advised the court that Bouknight had ceased cooperating with it, and that she had refused to produce the
child or tell DSS where he was. DSS feared for Maurice's
safety because Bouknight was not complying with the court
order, because of her history of child abuse, because of her
known use of drugs and current threats to kill herself, and

BALTIMORE CITY DEPT. OF SOC. SERVS. v. BOUKNIGHT
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

because Maurice had not been seen for nearly a month and
could not be located by DSS or the police.
Bouknight did not attend the hearing set to consider these
representations, but was later arrested and ordered to disclose the whereabouts of Maurice. After giving a false answer, she was jailed until she purged herself of contempt by
either producing Maurice or revealing his location.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland granted certiorari and
heard the case without decision by the state intermediate
appellate court. It found that the terms of Bouknight's
confinement violated her privilege against compulsory selfincrimination. Noting that some acts of production have
been found testimonial, see United States v. Doe, 465 U. S.
605 (1984), it concluded that the act of producing Maurice
would necessarily admit a measure of continuing control over
the child which might be relevant in a subsequent criminal
prosecution. That risk, it thought, was so substantial that it
could not be outweighed by any governmental interest in
finding Maurice. Two judges dissented. They argued that
there were no testimonial components to compliance with the
civil contempt order; that if there were, they were clearly
outweighed by the public interest in protecting children from
abuse; and that Bouknight had waived any Fifth Amendment
privilege against disclosing Maurice's whereabouts when she
accepted conditional custody of the child from the city.
In my opinion DSS meets the requirements we have established for the issuance of a stay. See Rostker v. Goldberg,
448 U. S. 1306 (1980) (BRENNAN, J., Circuit Justice); California v. Riegler, 449 U. S. 1319, 1321 (1981) (REHNQUIST,
J., Circuit Justice). First, the decision of the Court of
Appeals of Maryland is unquestionably based on the United
States Constitution. Second, I think the balance of equities
favors the granting of a stay. There is undoubtedly a burden on Bouknight's liberty caused by her confinement, but
against it must be weighed a very real jeopardy to a child's
safety, well-being, and perhaps even his life. There is hard

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Opinion in Chambers

488 U. S.

evidence in this case suggesting Bouknight has abused Maurice in the past and may well do so again. If she is permitted
to go free, DSS may not have an alternative means of obtaining information about the child or of locating the child.
Finally, I conclude that it is likely that four Justices of this
Court will vote to grant certiorari in this case, and that DSS
has a fair prospect of persuading a majority of the Court that
the decision of the Court of Appeals of Maryland was erroneous. Of the claims made in the application to me, I think two
fit this category. The first is an important question about
whether acts - such as the act of production of Maurice on the
part of Bouknight -would constitute testimony for purposes
of the Fifth Amendment. See United States v. Doe, supra;
Fisher v. United States, 425 U. S. 391, 411-412 (1976);
Schmerber v. California, 384 U. S. 757 (1966).
Second, and in my view equally as important, is whether
even assuming there is a testimonial element in the act of
surrendering Maurice, the Fifth Amendment privilege is
available in this situation. In Californiav. Byers, 402 U. S.
424 (1971), we upheld a California law making it a crime to
leave the scene of an automobile accident without giving
one's name and address. In that case we recognized that
"[t]ension between the State's demand for disclosures and the
protection of the right against self-incrimination" must "[i]nevitably ...be resolved in terms of balancing the public need
on the one hand, and the individual claim of constitutional
protections on the other." Id., at 427 (plurality opinion of
Burger, C. J.). This plurality found it significant that the
law "was not intended to facilitate criminal convictions but to
promote the satisfaction of civil liabilities," id., at 430, and
was not aimed at a "'highly selective group inherently suspect of criminal activities."' Ibid., quoting Albertson v.
Subversive Activities Control Board, 382 U. S.70, 79 (1965).
"Considering the noncriminal governmental purpose in securing the information, the necessity for self-reporting as a
means of securing the information, and the nature of the dis-

BALTIMORE CITY DEPT. OF SOC. SERVS. v. BOUKNIGHT
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

closures involved, I cannot say that the purposes of the Fifth
Amendment warrant imposition of a use restriction as a condition on the enforcement of this statute." 402 U. S., at 458
(Harlan, J., concurring in judgment.)
In New York v. Quarles, 467 U. S. 649 (1984), we recognized a public safety exception to the usual Fifth Amendment
rights afforded by Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966),
so that police could recover a firearm which otherwise would
have remained in a public area. In the present case, a citation for civil contempt in order to obtain the production of a
child such as Maurice, or knowledge about his whereabouts,
is not essentially criminal in nature and aims primarily at securing the safety of the child. Protecting infants from child
abuse seems to me to rank in order of social importance with
the regulation and prevention of traffic accidents.
The DSS has offered to file a petition for certiorari within
35 days. The stay requested is therefore granted, pending
consideration of a timely petition for certiorari and disposition of the same by the Court. If the petition is granted,
the stay shall remain in effect until the Court disposes of the
case or otherwise orders.

