RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Syllabus in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

formed, must be maintained in any regulations prescribed for
its government, or we must admit that the power of the legislature over the corporation is, in spite of constitutional limitations, as absolute as that of the Parliament of Great Britain.
Indeed, the argument which supports the statute of Mississippi
seems to proceed upon the ground that such is the legitimate
outcome of the decisions of this court with respect to the control which the legislature may exercise over such corporations,
irrespective of any stipulation in their charters. If such be the
result of the decisions, it is important that it should be known,
in order that parties interested in railway property may see
that their protection against unreasonable and vindictive measures is not by appeal to the courts, but by efforts to secure wise
and intelligent action from the legislature.
MR. JUSTICE BLArCHFORD

did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

STONE & Others v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

An act of incorporation of a railway company which provides that the president and directors may "adopt and establish such a tariff of chayges for the
transportation of persons and property as they may think proper," and the
same "alter and change at pleasure," does not deprive the State of its power,
within the limits of its general authority as controlled by the Constitution
of the United States, to act upon the reasonableness of the tolls and charges
so adopted and established.
A corporation of one State leasing and operating a railroad in another State
is, as to the leased road, subject to local legislation to the extent to which
the lessor would have been subject had there been no lease.

This was a bill in equity praying for an injunction to restrain the railroad commissioners in Mississippi from enforcing

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

the act referred to in Stone v. Farmers' loan & Trtst Co., an,
307, against the Illinois Central Railroad Company as the
lessee of the Chicago, St. -Louis and New Orleans Railroad, in
the State of Mississippi. The bill was demurred to. After the
demurrer was overruled, the bill was taken as confessed, and
an injunction was granted. The defendant appealed to this
court. The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion
of the court. The case was argued with Stone v. Farmers'
loan & Trust Co., ante, 307, and Stone v. _Z7ew Orleans cf
"Vortheastern Railroad Co., post, 352, substantially the same
questions being involved in the three cases.
Mi'. John V. C. Watson for appellants.
Jf1r. James Fentress for appellee, in addition to the general
line of argument in the previous case, presented the following
facts as specially applicable to the lines of railway, for which
he appeared.
The subject of a continuous railway connection from Lake
Michigan to the Gulf early occupied the attention of Congress. On May 3, 1848, a bill passed the Senate to connect the upper and lower Mississippi with the great lakes at
Chicago. In 1850 the subject was again before Congress, and
on the 20th September of that year an act was passed "granting the right of way and making a grant of land to the States
of Illinois, Mississippi and Alabama, in aid of the construction
of a railroad from Chicago to Mobile." 9 Stat. 466. This act
was advocated by Mr. Clay;, Mr. Cass, Mi. Sewaid, Mr. King,
Mr. Crittenden, and Mr. Denton. The several States legislated
in aid of this as an inter-state railroad, to be dedicated to commerce among the States.
In 1853 Louisiana incorporated the New Orleans, Jackson and
Great Northern Railroad Company for the purpose of making
"a continuous line of communication between New Orleans
and the northern and western portions of the Confederacy."
On the 11th March, 1852, the legislature of Mississippi
enacted that the construction of the same railroad "from the
city of New Orleans, running through the State of Mississippi,

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.

349

Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

. is deemed a work of great public importance
and should be encopraged by legislative sanction," and required
the governor, on learning of the incorporation of the company
in New Orleans, to issue a proclamation "declarin g said company capable of entering on the territory of Mississippi," "for
the purpost of constructing and extendijng their works."
The legislature of Tennessee, on the 25th February, 1S62,
granted the company the right of- way through that State.
The preamble to the act recited as follows: "Whereas, by
resolutions adopted by a railroad convention begun and held
on the 6th of April, A. D. 1851, at the city of New Orleans, in
the State of Louisiana, it appears to this General Assembly
that the rights of way and charter for i railroad to extend
northward from said city of New Orleans through a part of
the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kentucky
to the Ohio River, having in view to connect the same with the
proposed great North and South Central Railroad of Illinois,
are earnestly solicited from the legislatures of the various
States through which it is to pass; and also in which said reso-'
lutions the city of New Orleans did therein, through its representatives, pledge itself for a very liberal aid in the construction
of said railroad, and whereas, it is deemed a matter of vital
importance to this State that a direct communication byrailroad to the Gulf of Mexico and the Great Northern Lakes be
established, Be it enacted," etc.
Kentucky took similar action, and Illinois authorized the
building of a railroad from the lakes to a junction on the Ohio
River, and the connecting of this road when built with the line
south of the river as a through line.
In order to hasten the completion of this inter-state railroad,
Mississippi incorporated the Mississippi Central Railroad Company, to construct that part of the through line in that State
which ran from Canton northwardly; and Tennessee created
the Mississippi Central and Tennessee Railroad Company to
continue the extension. The companies thus created were
authorized by their respective charters to consolidate into one
company. The legislature of Kentucky authorized the extension through that State by an act reciting that it was a " cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 18S5.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

poration chartered by the joint legislatures of Mississippi and
Tennessee." Mississippi recognized and legalized the consolidation after 'it had taken place, by an act reciting that "it was
contemplated when said contract was made, in order to fully
secure the advantages of. said continuous line of railroad, and
facilitate the operations thereof, that said New Orleans, Jackson and Great Northeri.Railroad Company and said Mississippi
Central Railroad Company might be consolidated into one corporation."
And Louisiana passed an act reciting the last named act of
Vississippii, also authorizing them "to amalgamate and be consolidated," and it was provided that such consolidated company
"shall have, possess and enjoy in perpetuity all the rights,
powers, franchises, privileges and immunities originally conferred by law on either of said companies in their several acts
of incorporation or the amendments thereto."
That part of this inter-state railroad from New Orleans,
Louisiana, to Canton, Mississippi, was built by. the New Orleans,
Jackson and Great Northern Railroad Company; and that part
from Canton, Mississippi, to the Ohio River was built by the Mississippi Central Railroad Company. Becoming insolvent, both
roads were sold by decrees of the United States courts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Kentucky. The purchasers
were organized into corporations and consolidated the two companies, under the name of the Chicago, St. Louis and New
Orleans Railroad Company, Which was by name chartered by
each of said States, and granted all the rights, powers, privileges, liberties and immunities of the New Orleans, Jackson
and Great Northern Railroad Company and the Mississippi
Central Railroad Company.
The Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company
leased their lines, thus acquired, to the appellee, which now
operates over 2000 miles of railroad, extending into six different States, and is operating part of that railroad in Mississippi.
The railroad commission act of that State, if enforced, would
control the operation in Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Kentucky,
Tennessee and Louisiana, as well as in Mississippi. The language is plain and unambiguous. NG matter where else it may

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

run, if the company is operating a railroad in gississippi, the
act covers it all.
M.r.W. P. Earrisand 21r. ,.B. -Harrisalso for appellee.
MR. CHrEF JUSTIo WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit, like that of Stone v. The Farners'Loan and T'ust
Co., just decided, ante, 307, was brought to restrain the railroad
commission from enforcing the railroad supervision act of Mississippi against a corporation operating a railroad in that Stfte.
The railroad in Mississippi forms part of a line from New Orleans through Louisiana, -Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky
to a point on the Ohio River opposite Cairo, Illinois, where it
connects with the Illinois Central Railroad, extending to Chicago. The entire line is now owned by the New Orleans, St.
Louis and Chicago Railroad Com pany, a corporation formed by
the consolidation of the several corporations created by the different States through which the road runs, for the purpiose of
securing its construction and operation for inter-state traffic, as
well as for transportation within the limits of the several States.
The whole road from Cairo to New Orleans has been leased
to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, an Illinois corporation, and is now operated by that company, much the largest
part of its business being of an inter-state character.
The Mississippi charter, under which the road is now owned
and operated in that State, provides:
"That the president and directors be, and they are hereby,
authorized tp adopt and establish such a tariff of charges for
the transportation of persons and property as they may think
proper, and the same to alter and change at pleasure."
This is now part of the charter of the consolidated company
in Mississippi. 'Inall other respects the material facts in this
case are the same as those in that just decided. Relief is also
asked on the same grounds. The court below granted the injunction prayed for, and this appeal was taken for a review of
a decree to that effect.
This case comes clearly within the rulings in the other.
There is nothing here any more than there to show an intention

352

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus in Stonev. k. 0.. & N. E. gailroad Co.

by Mississippi "toexempt the corporatiofi in that State from
proper legislative control, and the Illinois corporation, by going
into Mississippi to operate a railroad there, subjected itself to
such local legislation as would have been applicable to the corporation owning the road, if no lease had been made. As a
corporation of another State, it has no other privileges in Mississippi than such as belong to the corporation whose road it
runs.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed on the authority
of Stone v. Farmers' Loan'-and Trust Co., and the cause
is remzanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.
MR. JusTicE FIELD dissented from the opinion of the court
and the judgment in this case for the reasons expressed in.his
dissent in Stone v. Farmers'Loan and Trust Co., ante, 342.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAw also dissented for the reasons expressed
in his dissent in the same case, ante, 337.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision.

STONE & Others v. NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

A State statute providing that a railroad company may receive for transporting, carrying and telegraphing, such tolls and charges as might from time
to time be establisher], fixed and regulated by the directors, and that the
act should be construed liberally so as to favor its purposes and objects,
.provided,thatnothing in it should h construed as preventing the legislature
from regulatingthe rates of transportation for passengers and freight over the
road, and providedfutrther,that'there should be no discrimination in favor of
any road, does not deprive the State of its power, within the limits of its
general authority, as controlled by the Constitution of the United States, to
act upon the reasoniableness of the tolls and charges so established, fixed and
regulated. Subsequent legislation by the State fixing a maximum rate for
other railroads does not apply to this road by virtue of the proviso as to discrimination.

