A38

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

SAN MATEO COUNTY v. SOUTIIERN PACIFIC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

STATES FOR THE

Submitted December 17, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1835.

The court hears a motion by counsel for plaintiff in error, specially appointed
for the purpose, to dismiss the writ of error, which motion is opposed by
.counsel of record for plaintiff in error. The court dismisses the writ on
the ground that there is no longer an existing cause of action.

This was a motion to dismiss the writ of error in this case.
The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
-- for the motion.
X;'. John ". Ross

Air. A. L. Rhodes opposing.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion was made on the 18th of November last by
Mr. John W. Ross, who had been specially appointed by the
Board of Supervisors of the county as counsel for that purpose.
Upon suggestion that counsel of record desired to oppose the
motion, an order was made that notice be given them to appear and show cause against it if they desired to do so. This
they have done, and it now appears that the suit was begun in
a State court April 22, 1882. An answer was filed by the railroad company May 25, 1882. On the 30th of June the suit
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States. An
amended answer was filed August 16, 1882, and on the same
day a demurrer was filed to the answer. On the 6th of September the counsel for the county executed to the railroad
company a receipt, of which the following is a copy:

MR.

"County of San Mateo, Plaintiff, .In U. S. Circuit Court,
V.
t
Ninth Circuit. No.
2807.
Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
. Defendant.
"Received, San Francisco, September 6,1882, of the Southern

SAN MATEO COUNTY V'.SOITHERN PAC. R. R. CO. 139
Opinion of the Court.
Pacifie'Railroad Company, the sum of seven thousand two
hundr d and forty-seven -1% dollars ($7247.63), End the sum
of $721.76 dollars, attorneys' fees, all to be credited upon any
judgment" that may be obtained by the plaintiff ii the above
entitled action.
"In case judgment shall be rendered in said action in favor
of said defendant, then said sum of money, less our fees agreed
to be paid by said county, shall be paid into the treasury of
the said county of San Mateo as a donation by.said defendant
in lieu of taxes for the fiscal year 1881-2, declared invalid. But
in the event that a law shall be hereafter passed providing for
a re-assessment of pr6perty in said complaint in said action in
said county for said year, then said sum of money is to be
treated as a part payment for taxes for said fiscal year.
(Signed)
'RHoDEs & BAR STow,
Att
ey8 for San .fateo 0o. in 8ai( action."
On the 20th of September the following stipulation was filed
in the cause:
"The County of San Mateo
v.
No. 2807.
The Southern Pacific'Railroad Company.
"It is stipulated in the above-entitled actions that each of
them be, and hereby is, submitted upon the. plaintiff's demurrer
to the first affirmative defence (second defence) in the defendant's answer. And it is further stipulated that judgment final
i4 the action may be rendered upon the demurrer, it beingagreed that for the purpose of this proceeding the other' defences .are withdrawn from the consideration of the court.

"RHODEs & B&Amsow,

SAty8 for Plaintiff.

'1 .A XcKisiox,

Att'y for .Defendant."
On the 25th of September a judgment was rendered upon
the demurrer in favor of the defendant, and the suit dismissed.
The next day a writ of error was brought to this court and
docketed here October 13, 1882. The case was elaborately

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

argued before us December 19, 1882, but before a decision was
reached a stipulation was entered into'between the parties, as
follows:
"In the Supreme Court of the United States.
".The County of San Mateo
)
No. 1063.

v.f

Southern Pacific Railroad Company.)
"Whereas certain actions brought by the People of the
State of California, or by certain counties of said State, against
said defendant, and other railroad companies operating railroads in said State, for the recovery of taxes assessed against
said companies for State and county purposes, were, during
the month of August last, tried before and submitted to the
Circuit Court of the United States, Ninth Circuit, for the District of California, which actions have since been decided
against the plaintiffs;
-" And whereas the attorneys for the respective parties to said
actions against whom judgments have been rendered intend to
sue' out a writ or writs of error in one or more of said actions,
and to prosecute the same with as much diligence as possible,
and to move the Supreme Court that the same be advanced on
the calendar for argument:
"It is hereby stipulated by and between the parties to the
first-mentioned action that the further consideration of the said
action by the Supreme Court may be deferred until the argument of one or more of the last-mentioned cases.
"San Francisco, September 18, 1883.
(Signed)
"A. L. RHoDxs.
Ati'y for P1'f in -Error.
(Signed)
"S. W. SANDERSON,
Att'y for Defendant."
And thereupon the following order was made:
"The County of San Mfateo, Plaintiff in Error,)
V.

The Southern Pacific Railroad C6mpany.
"The parties having stipulated that the furthev considera-

SAN MATEO COUNTY v..SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. 141
Opinion of the Court

tion of this cause may be postponed until certain other cases
are disposed of, this cause is restored to its. original position bn
the docket, there to await the further action of the court.'
It. now appears that, according to the claim of the counsel of
record, there isdue on account of the taxes sued for, including
penalty, attorneys' fees, and interest at the rate of two per
cent. per month, from the time of delinquency until now, thesum of $14,399.07. It also appears that on the 11th of the
present month the railroad company paid into the treasury of.
the county the sum of $7613.30. The county has also had the
use of the $7247.63 paid.on the 6th of September, 1$82, from
the time of such payment until now., The only condition
attached to the payment made on the 11th of this month is
that, if when the account is finally settled between the county
and Rhodes & Barstow upon the basis of the assessment-roll,
principal, interest, delinquency, and attorneys' fees, it shall
appear that the payments, including that to Rhodes & Barstow,
are more than the actual amount due, the excess shall be returned to the railroad company. The payments have beenTo Rhodes & Barstow, taxes ........ $7247 63
124 76
Attorneys' fees ...................
7613
30
To the.county ....................
In all ......

................ $15,585 69

As this is more than the entire sum estimated by the counsel for the plaintiff to be due, it is clear that the debt for whieh
the suit was brought has been unconditionally paid and satisfled.
As to the objection that this was by agreement of parties
made a test case, and many others are depending'on its adjudication, it is sufficient to say that both sides agree that the
suit of the County Santa Clara against the same company presents all the questions that are in this case, and that the parties
hive stipulated that this need not be taken up for decision until
that is heard. The' interests of the State, therefore, will be as

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

well protected by the determination of
For the reason that there is no longer
action in favor of the county against the
IV& writ of error io disminsed, eacAh

that case as of this.
an existing cause of
railroad company,
party to pay its own

0048.

HEWITT v. FILBERT & Another.
.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted December 7, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

Except in cases of appeals allowed in open court during the term at which the
decree appealed from was rendered, a citation returnable at the same term
with the appeal or writ of error is necessary to perfect the jurisdiction of
this court over the appeal or the writ, unless it sufficiently appears that
citation has been waived.
-This court has no jurisdiction to issue citation in an appeal docketed here after
the term to which the appeal was returnable.

This was a motion to dismiss an appeal. The facts which
*make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. C. C. Cole and .r.
tionl

lRliam F. 21attingly for the mo-

Xr. S. kS. Renkle opposing.
JusToi, WIrrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is. a motion to dismiss an appeal for want of a citation.
The facts are these: A decree was entered by the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia on the 21st of November,
I1882,.disinissing
the bill in a suit between Robert C. Hewitt,
complainant, tnd Lewis S. Filbert and others, defendants. On
th6 same day an appeal was allowed in open court, but that
appeal was never docketed' in this court by the appellant. It
was, however, docketed by the appellee, and dismissed under
Rule 9, on the 15th of October, 1883, but the mandate was not
MRt. CHIEF

