OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

.A&. 1eander Holmes and -Mr. John H -3Tlichell for the
motion.
Mr. CHiEF

JUSTICE

W.AT delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. According to the petition, the court
entertained jurisdiction of the cause, but dismissed it for want
of due prosecution; that is to say, because errors had not been
assigned in accordance with the rules of practice applicable to
the form ofthe action. This is a judgment which can only be
reviewed by writ of error or appeal, as the case may be. Mandamus lies to compel a court to take jurisdiction in a proper
case, but not to control its discretion while acting within its
jurisdiction. This rule is elementary. Epar e .2forgan,114
U. S. 174, and cases. cited.
Motion denied.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ORIGINTAL MOTION IN A CASE

ON "APPEAL FROM THE COURT

OF

CLAIMS.
Submitted January 11, 188.-Deeided January 18, 1886.

When a judgment of the Court of Claims is rever§ed and the case is remanded
for new trial, the findings of fact on the first trial form no part of the
record on appeal from the judgment in the second trial, unless embodied
by that court in the second findings.
When a claimant in the Court of Claims amends his petition by filing a new
one in the place of it, and the case is heard on the amended petition
only, and on appeal that court sends up only the amended petition,
this court will not'issue a writ of certiorari to bring up the original
petition.

This was a motion for a writ of certiorari to the Court
of Claims. The motion set forth the following facts:
This cause was originally commenced in the Court of Claims

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

403

Opinion of the Court.
by three petitions. In one, numbered 12,515, judgment was
given against the company. On appeal this court reversed
that judgment. 104 U. S. 662. The three cases were then
consolidated in the Court of Claims'and an amended petition filed as a substitute for the previous petitions. The
original petition in 12,515 set forth as exhibit B a certain
letter to the Postmaster-General; and the findings of fact
found that letter by referring to the petition. The letter was
not attached as an exhibit to, or contained in the amended
petition, and was not found as a fact by the Court of Claims.
This motion set forth the importance of the letter to the issues
in this case, and prayed as follows: "That the said findings
of fact in No. 12,515, and, particularly, the said letter of
September 1, 1876, be ordered to be madb and considered
a part of the record on this appeal; and to that end, if necessary, prays, under Rule 14 of this court, that a writ of
certiorari issue to the Court of Claims requiring it to transmit
to this court the record and the said findings of fact in -No.
12,515, and the said letter of September 1, 1876, to which
end it prays, under the 30th rule of this court, that the appellant's motion, heretofore filed at this term for a further finding
of facts by the Court of Claims, and the order'of this court
entered thereon, may be reheard, if such rehearing shall be
necessary, in order to get said letter of September 1, 1876,
before this court as part of the record on this appeal."
Mr. J. F. Wilson and Xr. John F. Dillon for the motion.
rft.Solicitor-Generalopposing.
MR. CHrEF JUSTIoE WAIT,

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. The findings of fact on the first
trial in the Court of Claims have not under our rules any
place in this record. Those findings were set aside when
the judgment thereon was reversed, and the cause remanded
for a new trial. On this appeal we consider only the findings
at the second trial.
The original petition filed in the Court of ClaiNs contained

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

by reference the letter of September 1, 1876. In the amended
petition, on which the last trial was had, this letter was
omitted. It is not, therefore, any part of the record on
this appeal. We decided on the former motion to send
the case back for further findings, that it could not now be
brought here as par of the evidence, and that it was not
the proper subject of a special finding. We see no reason
to reconsider that decision.
.Aotion deni6d.

GIBBONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUM1BIA.
.AIPFEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted December 21, 1885.-Decided January 18, 188.

If a church building is taken down, and a new church, with a sufficient space
around it for'air and light, is built on other land within the same enclosure,
in order to enable a revenue to be derived from the sale or lease of the land
on which the old church stood, and it is unnecessary for the enjoyment of
the now church that this land should remain vacant, this land is not exempt
from taxation for the support of the government of the District of Columbia
under § 8 of the acts of March 3,1875, ch. 162; July 12, 1876, ch. 180; and
March 3,1877, ch. 117.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress, acting as the local legislature
of the District of Columbia, to tax different classes of property within the

District at different rates.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity by
the Roman Catholic Archbishop of the Diocese of Baltimore,
of which the District of Columbia is a part, to clear the title of
lots numbered 36 to 46 inclusive (being the lots formerly num-

bered 5, 6 and 7), in square 376 in the City of Washington,
from a cloud created by the assessment and sale thereof for
taxes amounting, with interest, to more than $5000.
The case was heard upon the bill, answer, a general replication, and the deposition of the pastor of St. Patrick's Church,
from which the facts appeared to be as follows:
The lots in question front south on F Street about 170 feet,

