OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

must in some way have co-operated in producing the injury
complained of before he incurs any liability for it. "If the
law were otherwise," as said by Mr. Justice Depue in his
elaborate opinion in the latest case in :New Jersey, "not only
the hirer of the coach but also all the passengers in it would be
under a constraint to mount the box and superintend the conduct of the driver in the management and control of his team,
or 1e put for remedy exclusively to an action against the irrsponsible driver or equally irresponsible owner of a coach, taken,
it may be, from a coach stand, for the consequences of an injury which was the product of the co-operating wrongful acts
of the driver and of a third person, and that, too, though the
passengers were ignorant of the character of the driver, and of
the responsibility of the owner of the team, and strangers to
the route over which they were to be carried." New York,
Iake Erie & Weter Railroad v. Sein.rener, 47 N. 1. L.
(18 Vroom), 161, 11.
In this case it was left to the jury to say whether the plaintiff had exercised any control over the conduct of the driver
further than to indicate the places to which he wished him to,
drive. The instruction of the court below, that unless he, did
exercise such control and require the driver to cros the track
at the time the collision occurred, the negligence of the driver
was not imputable to him, so as to bar his right of action
against the defendant, was therefore correct, and
The judgment must be affimed.

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
SAME v. SAME & Another.
ERROE TO THE SUPRFME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued December 17, 18,18M5.-Decided January 4, 1886.

If the proper officers of the United States approve a selection of school lands in
disputed territory in California, outside the limits of an unsettled survey
by the United States of a private claim, and issue proper certified lists,

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.
and a purchaser under the title thus 'acquired by the State enters into
possession, improves, and holds the land, no one, by forcibly or surreptitiously getting into possession can make a pretmption settlement which
will defeat his title.

The nature of these two actions and the facts which make
the issue are stated in the opinion of the court.
X:.T. J. John8ton and Xr. U.J.Bavter for plaintiff in
error.
Jame8 K 1 eingtonr for de-

Mr. X. D. Brainard and Y.
fendants in error.

EF JusrIoE WArTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question in each of these cases is the same, and
it arises on the following facts: By the act of March 3, 1853,
10 Stat. 244, ch. 145, "to provide for the survey of the public
lands in California, the granting qf Prebmption Rights therein,
and for other purposes," sections 16 and 36 of the -public lands
in each township, surveyed or unsurveyed, were granted to the
State "for the purposes of public schools." By ยง 7 it was provided that if section 16 or section 36 in any township should
'be taken by a private claim other lands might be selected in
lieu by the proper authorities of the State. A plat of the
survey of township 2 south, range 13 west, San Bernardino
meridian, was filed in the United States land office at San Francisco, April 22, 1868, and on the same day the State's locating
agent selected S. I I. W. I and N. S. W. ,see. 32, in that
township, in lieu of S. E. I see. 36, T. 4 S., R. 4 W., same meridian, "claimed to be within a Mexican or Spanish grant." .In
the case to which Fletcher alone is defendant in error it is found
as a fact, "that at the time of making said application and se-

MR.CH

lection the S. E. I of see. 36

.

.

.

was and has been ever

since and is now in place, and is the property of the State of
California, and has never been under the claim of any confivrhed
and finally surveyed Mexican or Spanish grant." In thi other
case there is no finding on this subject, but it is found "that at
the time of said selection and location the owners of the Rancho

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Sausal Redondo claimed that said [selected] lands were within
the limits of said Rancho." According to the findings in the
last case the dispute between the United States and the claimants of the Rancho seems to have continued until about March
22, 1875, when a survey was finally approved that excluded
the selected lands from the grant, and a patent was issued according to this survey. The lieu selection as made by the agent
was duly certified by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office and the Secretary of the Interior to the State, Novem..
ber 23, 1871, and the land selected was patented by the State
to Ehmore W. Squiers, October 20, 1875, who had bought from
the State a long time before. The title thus acquired by Squiers
afterwards passed to the defendant in error Fletcher, who, on
the 20th December, 1875, entered into a contract with Mower,
the plaintiff in error, for the sale of the W. - of the S. W. I of the
N. W. f, twenty acres, for $1,000, of which $500 was paid in
hand, and for the balance Mower gave his note payable
eighteen months after date, with interest at the rate of one per
cent. per month, taking back from Fletcher an agreement for
a conveyance of the land on payment of the note. Under this
contract Mower took possession of the land he bought, and on
the 12th of March, 1876, made and filed with the register of
the proper land office a declaratory statement of his intention to
claim under the pre8mption laws the whole of the S. N. W..1
and N. - S. W. .-1 of the section including the twenty acres he
had bought from Fletcher. On the 12th of December, 1876, he
tendered to the register and receiver of the proper land office
proof of his settlement, improvements and general compliance
with the requirements of the pre~mption laws, and also tendered
the price and all legal fees and commissions, and requested to
be allowed to enter the lands as a pre~mptioner. This was refused by the register and receiver, and he thereupon appealed
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, where the case
is now pending undetermined. Mower moved upon the lands
outside of the twenty acres in January, 1877. In doing so he
took possession of a dwelling-house erected by Squiers. The
lands had all been enclosed, and at the time Mower moved on
to them the north eighty acres were enclosed on three sides,

'MOWER v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

and there were upon the tract a bearing orchard of about fifteen
hundred trees, fifteen years old, and a dwelling-house, corrals
and out-houses, all put there by Squiers.
On the first of March, 1877, Congress passed an act "relating to indemnity school selections in the State of California,"
19 Stat. 267, ch. 81. Section 2 of that act is as follows:
"SEc. 2. That where indemnity school selections have been
made and certified to said State, and said selection shall fail
by reason of the land, in lieu of which they were taken, not being
included within such final survey of a Mexican grant, or are
otherwise defective or invalid, the same are hereby confirmed,
and tho sixteenth and thirty-sixth section, in lieu of which
the selection was made, shall, ,nporbeing excluded from such
final survey, be disposed of as other public lands of the United
States: P-ovided, that if there be no such sixteenth and
thirty-sixth section, and the land certified therefor shall be
held by an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration,
such purchaser shall be allowed to prove such facts before the
proper land office, and sh.ll be allowed to purclase the same
at one dollar and wenty-five cents per acre, not to exceed
three hundred and twenty acres for any one person: P'ovided,
that if such person shall neglect or refuse, after knowledge of
such facts, to furnish such proof and make payment for such
land, it shall be subject to the general land laws of the United
States."
Section 3 declares that the confirmation shall not extend to
lands settled upon under the homestead or pregmption laws,
"provided that such settlement was made in good faith upon'
lands not occupied by the settlement or improvement of any
other person, and prior to the date of certification of said lands
to the State of California by the Department of the Interior."
Mower having neglected to pay his note when it fell due,
Fletcher, on the 2d of August, 1877, after tendering a deed for
the land, brought suit for the recovery of the money. Mower
answered, setting up a failure of title to the land, and, there
fore, a want of consideration for the note. The Supreme
Court held that Fletcher had good title, and gave judgment
for the amount of the note and interest. To reverse that judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ment the writ of error in the suit of Xlower v. Fetcher was
brought.
On the 24th of April, 1879, Fletcher and Bicknell, who held
title under the patent to Squiers, brought suit to recover possession and quiet their title to the part of the lands upon which
.Mower had entered, not included in the twenty acres sold by
Fletcher to him. To this Mower set up his prebmption claim
as a defence, and insisted that the title under the selection by
the State was invalid. The Supreme Court decided that
Mower acquired no right to the possession by his attempt at a
preemption settlement, and gave judgment accordingly. To
reverse that judgment the writ of error in ]Jfower v. Fletcher
S&Bieknell was brought.
All questions of mere irregularity in the selection of lieu lands
by the State, and in the grant by the State to Squiers, were
conclusively settled, so far as the parties to this suit are concerned, by the issue to the State of the lists, certified by the
Commissioner of the Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior, and by the patent from the State to Squiers. Frhaeer
v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102. By an act of August 3, 1854-, 10
Stat. 346i ch. 201, it was provided that where a law granting
lands to the States or Territories does not convey the fee simple title, "lists of such lands

.

.

.

certified by the Com-

missioner of the General Land Office, under the seal of said
office, either as originals, or copies *of the originals or records,
shall be regarded as conveying the fee simple of all the lands
embraced in such lists that are of the character contemplated
by such act of Congress, and intended to be granted thereby;
but where lands embraced in such lists are not of the
character embraced by such acts of Congress, and are not intended to be granted thereby, said lists, so far as these lands
are concerned, shall be perfectly null ,and. void, and no right,
title, claim, or interest shall be conveyed thereby." This
statute is now section 2449 of the Revised Statutes.
In the argument for the plaintiff in error it. -as contended
-that this S. E. I of section 36 was not actually within the limits of any Mexican claim when the lieu selection was made, and
that consequently the certified list conveyed no title.

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

It is found as a fact in the case of 21ower v. Fletcher that
when the selection was made the S. E. t section 36, "was, and
has been ever since, in place, and is the property of the State
of California, and has never been under the claim of any confirmed and finally surveyed Mexican or Spanish grant." This
is not inconsistent with the fact that when the selection was
made the land was within the limits of an unconfirmed Mexican
claim, the boundaries of which had not been fixed by a final
survey. The finding that the S. E. I- of section 36 i8. the property of the State is not, under the circumstances, the equivalent
of a finding that it was the undisputed property of the State
when the lieu selection was made. Such being the case, we
are at liberty to presume it was as represented within the claim
of a Mexican grant when the selection was made and certified.
As in the case of Mower v. Fletcher & Bicknell there is no
finding on the subject, the same presumption arises there.
In Fra8her v. O'Connorit was decided that the survey made
in 1868 of the Sausal Rancho Redondo was sufficient to authorize the State to select, under its various grants, lands outside
of the then surveyed -boundaries, subject, of course, to a defeat
of title if in the end the survey as made should be set aside and
the boundaries of the grant finally extended so as to include
the selections. This was because by ยง 8 of the act of July 23,
1866, 14 Stat. 220, ch. 229, it was provided that "all land not
included in such grant as so set off shall be subject to the general laws of the United States." As the survey finally made
fixed the boundaries so-as to exclude the selected lands, the
title of the State related back to the selection, and this enured
to the benefit of Squiers under his patent from the State.
The question still remains, however, whether, if school selections are found in disputed territory outside the limits of an
unsettled survey by the United States of a private claim, the
State must wait until the boundaries are finally fixed before it
can get its lieu lands. Without determining whether, if lieu
lands are selected and certified under such circumstances, the
United States can reassert title when it is finally ascertained
that theschool sections were not covered by the claim, we have
no hesitation in saying that if the proper officers of the United
VOL. cx=-25

'OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

States approve such a selection and issue the proper certified
lists, and a purchaser under such a title enters into the possession of the land and improves, cultivates, and holds it, no one
by forcibly or surreptitiously getting into possession can make
a preemption settlement which will defeat his title. Atherton
v. Fowler, 96 U. S. 513, 519. As was said in that case, "The
generosity by which Congress gave the settler the right of pre6mption was not intended to give him the benefit of another
man's labor, and authorize him to turn that man or his family
out of his home. It did not propose to give its bounty to settlements obtained by violence at the expense of others. The
right to make a settlement was to be exercised on unsettled
land; to make improvements on unimproved land. To erect
a dwelling-house did not mean to seize' some other man's
dwelling."
This disposes of the claim of preemiption, and that being out
of the way it is clear that the act of March 1, 1877, confirmed
the State's title and made that of Fletcher good when the note
of Mower to him fell due, and when he was bound to convey
under his contract.
Thejiidgment in each of thw cases is affirmed.

STEBB1NS & Others v. ST. ANNE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted Deember 18, 1885.-Decided January I1, 188.

Two alternative claims, eacl belonging to many persons, one of whom has no
interest in one claim, and others of whom have no interest in the other
claim, cannot be joined in one bill in equity.

This was a bill in equity, filed June 25, 1884, by john
H. Stebbins, Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney and
Sutherland Tenney, and by William D. Judson and Amos

