DUNPHY v. RYAN.
Statement of Facts.

he already had. As he failed to appear at all, there was noth-,
ing for the board to do but to act upon the evidence which was
before it, and decide accordingly. In Cowdrey v. Vandeburg
the suit was by Vandeburg, the owner of a certificate like
those now in question, against Blumenburg and Cowdrey, to
compel surrender of the certificate to him, upon allegations as
to their title very similar to those which are here made against
them. Upon proof of the charge against Blumenburg and a
failure by Cowdrey to show that he paid value for the certificate, the decree sought was granted. So here, if Laughlin had
appeared before the board and made his showing, it is possible
he might have got the pay instead of Cowdrey, but he failed
to do so, and it is now too late for him to assert his rights against
the District.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

DUNPHY v. 'RYAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.'
Argued January 15, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

An agreement, on the part of A to acquire title in his own name to a tract of
land upon the best terms possible, and when acquired to convey to B an
undivftled part thereof, and on the part of B to pay to A his proportionae
part of the purchase money and expenses incurred in obtaining title, is a
contract for the sale of lands within the Statute of Frauds : and the contract being verbal and not in writing as required b7 the Statute, A, after
performing his part of the agreement, cannot recovex from B his share of
the price and expenses in an action at law founded upon and seeking to
enforce the contract; nor in equity, under a statute which prescribes the
same forms at law and in equity, when the pleadings show no allegation to
lay a foundation for equitable relief.

Under the statute law of the Territory of Montana there is
no distinction between legal and equitable remedies, and there
is "but one form of action for the enforcement or protection
of private rights and the redress or prevention of private

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

wrongs," which is "the same at law and in equity." Revised
Statutes of Montana of 1879, page 41. This law being in
force, James M. Ryan, the defendant in error, brought this
suit in the District Court for the Third Judicial District in he
County of Lewis and Clarke, Montana Territory, against
Elijah M. Dunphy, the plaintiff in error, to recover judgment
against the latter on his promissory note for $1511.50, dated
June 1, 1879, and payable to the plaintiff in error on December
1st following.
The defendant admitted in his answer the. execution and
delivery of the note, and that it had not been paid, and, by
Way of cross-action and counterclaim, alleged that in February,
1879, one Rumsey and one Embrey were the owners of certain
placer mining ground, with the appurtenances particularly described, situate in Grizzly Gulch, Minnesota Mining District, in
Lewis and Clarke County, Montana, and that at the time
mentioned, the defendant being in negotiation for the purchase
thereof, entered into a contract with the plaintiff, which is thus
stated in the defendant's answer:
"The said defendant was to effect the purchase of the twothirds of the above-described property upon the best terms
possible, exercising and using his best judgment for the joint
use and benefit of said plaintiff and defendant; that the title
thereto and all deeds of conveyance for the said interest in and
to said premises and property were to be taken in the name of
the defendant herein, and that the plaintiff herein was not to
be known in the transfers and purchase until such time as the
purchase was completed and all of the conveyances executed,
and when so completed and a good and sufficient title acquired
to said property by defendant, the defendant was to make and
deliver to the said plaintiff a good and sufficient deed of conveyance for the undivided one-third thereof; and that upon
the execution and delivery of such deed the said plaintiff
promised and agreed to pay to this defendant the one-third of
all moneys paid by him as the consideration for such conveyance and transfer, and tle one-half of all expenses incurred
andpaid in and about obtaining the title to the said property
as aforesaid."

DUNPHY v. RYAN.
Statement of Facts.

The answer further averred, in substance, that on July 26,
1879, the defendant had acquired a complete and perfect title
to the entire interest and estate in said property by conveyances
from Rumsey and Embrey; that the consideration for said
conveyances was $5200, and the expenses incident to acquiring
the title were $2200, and that on the day last mentioned the
plaintiff was indebted to the defendant, under said contract on
account of the said purchase and expenses, in the sum of
$1935.51, and that on that day he tendered to 'the plaintiff
a good and sufficient deed for the one undivided third of said
property, and demanded' qf him' the, payment of the lastmentioned sum of money, and the plaintiff refused to receive
the deed or pay the money demanded of him, and. denied the
existence of the agreement above set forth. The defendant
therefore prayed judgment against the plaintiff for the sum of
money so demanded, with interest from July 26, 1879.
The plaintiff, filed a replication, in which he denied that he
ever made the contract set out in the answer.
Upon the trial of the cause, as appeared by the bill of exceptions, the defendant being upon the stand as a witness in
his own behalf, and having stated that he did, in February,
1879, enter into a verbal contract with the plaintiff for the
purchase of the mining ground described in the answer, and
that there was no written agreement, was asked to state what'
the agreement was. "The plaintiff objected to the witness
answering said question, for the reason that the agTeement, not
being i'n writing," was "void by the statute of frauds. The
court sustained the objection and refused to permit the said
witness*to answer the question." • "The defendant then proposed to prove by said witness the truth of the matters alleged
and set up in his answer, and read the same to the court. The
court refused to permit the defendant to prove said matters on
the ground that the said matters rested in parol and were not
in writing." The defendant excepted to these rulings. There
being no further evidence the jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for $1733, the amount due on the note sued'on, for
*hich sum the court rendered judgment against the defendant.
Upon appeal by the defendant to the Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Territory this judgment was affirmed. ]By the present writ of
error -the defendant seeks a reversal of the judgment of affirmance.
2fr. X. F. Morris for plaintiff in error.
I. It is of no consequence whether the set-off or counterclaim interposed as a defence is a legal or equitable one. Law
and equity 'proceedings are blended by the laws of Montana,
and such laws have been sustained by this court. Hfornluckle
v. Tombs, 18 Wall. 648.
II. The Statute of Frauds of 29 Charles II. has been re-enacted, in Montana with some modification. The Statute of
Charles IL provided that the agreement or memorandum
should be signed by the party to be charged therewith. The
Statute-of Montana, it will be noticed, requires. signature only
by the lessor or vendor, and therefore seems to imply that, as
to the lessee or purchaser, no writing is necessary.
III. It would appear as if the territorial court had treated
the case of the plaintiff in error as though it were one for the
specific performance of a verbal contract for the sale and purchase of lands. It is respectfully submitted: 1st, that this is
not the correct view of the case; and 2d, that even if it were,
the plaintiff in error was entitled to recover.
IV. "If one has voluntarily done a thing which, being
within t1je statute, he could not have been compelled to do, he
may enforce payment of it--that is, recover the consideration
orally agreed-from the other." Bishop on Contracts, §§ 503,
535,' 545. If a conveyance is actually made, any oral promise
to pay for the land is good. This is the tenor of all the
authorities on the subject. Pkillis v. Thompson, 1 Johns. Ch.
131; .Parkhurstv. Van Cortlandt, 1 Johns. Ch. 273; Baker v.
TVainwrigh4, 36 Maryland, 336; Green v. Drummond, 31 Maryland, 71; JArutting v. Dickinson, 8 Allen, 544; Philbrook v.
Bel nap, 6 Vt. 383; .Bay v. Young, 13 Texas, 550; Zabel v.
Sch-roeder, 35 Texas, 308'; Sims v. _3fcEwen, 27 Ala. 184;
Knowman v. Bluett L. R. 9 Exch. 1; Swain v. Seamens 9
Wall. 254.
V. No doubt it will be objected here, as it was in the court

DUNPHY v. RYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

below, if we may judge from the opinion filed in the case, that
"in order to "establish a resulting trust the purchase-money
must be the property of the party paying it at the time of
payment;" in other words, that if the plaintiff in error pays
his own money, and not that of the defendant in error, there is
no resulting trust, and no relation of principal and agent. But
the answer to this is, that, if the plaintiff in error advances his
own money for the use and benefit of the defendant in error,
the payment is a loan to the latter in contemplation of lav,
and thereby becomes the money of the defendant in error.
.Mr. Edwin T. Toole and AJfk. Jose~p R Toole for defendant
in error.
Mn. JusTc,

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
The defendant insists that the court erred in refusing to
allow him to prove the contract set up in his answei. The
statute law of Montana applicable to the question in hand is
as follows: Chapter XIII., Art. I., of the Revised Statutes of
Montana of 1879 provides as follows:
"Section 160. No estate or interest in land, other than for
leases for a term not exceeding one year, or any trust or powei'
over or concerning lands, or in any manner relating thereto,
shall hereafter be created, granrted, assigned, surrendered, or
declared, unless by act or operation of law, or by deed or conveyance in writing, subscribed by the party creating, granting,
assigning, surrendering, or declaring the same, or by his lawful
agent thereunto authorized by writing."
"Section 162. Every contract for the leasing for a longer
time than one year, or for the sale of any lands or interest in
lands, shall be void, unless the contract, or some note or memorandum thereof expressing the consideration, be in writing
and be subscribed by the party by whom the lease or sale isto
be made."
The denial in the replication of the plaintiff of the making
of the contract on which the defendant based his cross-action
is as effective for letting in the defence of'the statute of frauds

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

as if ihe statute had been specifically pleaded. tray v. Mloan,
101 U. S. 23T; Butimere v. Hayes, 5 M. & W. 456; Yay v.

Curd, 6 R. Mon. 100. The question is, therefore, fairly presented, whether the contract alleged in the answer of the defendant, not being in writing, is valid and binding under the
statutes of Montana.
. We cannot doubt that the coptract which the defendant
seeks to,enforce is a contract for the sale of lands. According
to the averments of the answer it was this: Tho plaintiff, being
in-.treaty for the purchase of the lands, agreed with the defendani.to acquire title to the undivided two-thirds thereof in his
own name upon the best terms possible, and, when he had
acquired the title, to convey to the plaintiff, by a good and
sufficient deed, an undivided third of the premises, for which
the plaintiff promised to pay the defendant one-third of the
purchase-money, and one-half the expenses incurred in obtaining the title. This is simply an agreement of the defendant to
convey to the plaintiff a tract of land for a certain consideration. It, therefore, falls precisely within the terms of section
162, above quoted. It is a contract for the sale of lands, and,
not. being in writing signed by the vendor, is void. The circumstance that the defendant, not owning the land which he
agreed to convey, undertook to acquire the title, instead of
taking the case out of the statute, brings it more clearly and
unequivocally within its terms. A -contract void by the statute
cannot be enforced directly or collaterally. It confers no right
and creates no obligation as between the parties to it. Car94ngton v. Root8, 2 M. & W. 248; Dung v. Parker,52 N. Y.
494. The defendant must, therefore, fail in his cross-action,
unless he can take his case out of the operation of the statute
of frauds.
The defendant seeks to evade the effect of the statute by the
argument that in the transaction set out in his answer he was
acting as the agent of the plaintiff as well as for himself, and
*that, having as such agent paid for the share of the land which
he had agreed to convey to the plaintiff, he is entitled to recover
back the price, as for money paid out and expended for the
plaintiff at his request.

DUNPHY v. RYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

It i well settled that when one person pays money or performs services for another upon a contract void under the
statute of frauds, he may recover the money upon a count
for money paid to the use of defendant at his request, or recover for the services upon the quantum meruit count.
TFetwerbee v. Potter, 99 Mass. 354; Gray v. Hill, Ryan &
Moody, 420; Shute v. Dow, 5 Wend. 204; Bay v. Young, 13
Texas, 550. But in such cases the suit should be brbught upon
the implied promise. Buttimere v. Hfayai, 5 M. & W. 456;
Griffth v. .Foung, 12 East. 513; Eidder v. Eunt, 1 Pick. 328.
Clearly the present case does not belong to that class. Here
the suit is based upon, and its purpose is to enforce the void
contract.
The cause of action set up in the defendant's answer is that
the plaintiff, having contracted to purchase the land and receive
a conveyance therefor, became liable, upon a tender to and refusal by him of the deed, to pay the agreed price. This is a suit
upon the express contract. There is no implied contract on
which the cross-action can rest, for the law implies a contract
only to do that which the party is legally bound to perform.
As the express contract set up by the defendant was void under
the statute, the plaintiff was not bound in law to accept the
deed tendered him by the defendant or pay the purchase
money. The defendant paid no money to or for the plaintiff.
The money paid out by him was' to enable him to perform his
contract with the plaintiff. He paid it out for himself and
for his own advantage. The plaintiff has received neither the
money nor the land from the defendant. Neither reason nor
justice dictate that he should pay the defendant the price of the
land, and therefore the law implies no provision to do so. 2 1I1.
Com. 443 ; Ogden, v. Sanders, 12 Wheat. 213, 341. The crossaction cannot, therefore, be sustained on any supposed implied
promise of the plaintiff.
But the defendant's counsel further insist that there has been
such a part performance of the contract as entitles the defendant to equitable relief, on the ground that it would be a fraud
on him not to enforce the contract.
The case, as stated in the defendant's answer, is not, eithe.
voL. cxvi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in the averments or prayer, one for equitable relief. There is
no averment, and no proof was offered, that the refusal of the
plaintiff to accept the deed and pay the purchase price of the
land has subjected the defendant to any loss. His answer
avers that before he made his contract with the plajntiff he was
negotiating with the owner for the purchase of the land. It is
n6t alleged that he would not have purchased the land if he
had not made his contract with the plaintiff. There is no averment that the land is not worth, or that if. cannot be sold for,
all it cost him. As between these parties there has been no
payment, no possession, and no improvements., The only cornplaiht of misconduct on the part of the plaintiff which can be
iiferred from the pleadings is his refusal to perform a verbal
c6ntract for the purchase of lands. But the mere breach of
n verbal promise for the purchase of lands will not justify
the interference of a court of equity. Purcell v. .Xf her 4
Wall. 513. There is no fraud in such a refusal. The party
who so refuses stands upon the law and has a right to refuse.
Under ,the circumstances of this case the statute is as binding
on a court of equity as on a court of law.. If the mere refusal
of party to perform a paxol contract for the sale of lands
could be construed to be such a fraud as would give a court of
equity jurisdiction to enforce it, the statute of frauds would be
rendered vain and nugatory. The defendant knew or ought
to have known that the statute requires such a contract as the
one he seeks to enforce to be evidenced by writing. That he
did not exact a contract in writing is his own fault. Courts of
equity are not established to relieve parties from the consequences of their own negligence or folly.
The statute of frauds is founded in wisdom and has been
justified by long experience. As was said by -Mr.Justice Grier,
in Purcell v. Afiner, ubi supra, the statute "is absolutely
necessary to preserve the title to real property from the chances,
the uncertainity, and the fraud attending the admission of parol
testimony." It should be enforced. Courts of equity, to prevent the statute from becoming an instrument of fraud, have
in many instances relaxed its provisions. But this case is barren of any averment or proof, or offer of proof, which ought to

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Syllabus.

induce a court of equity to afford relief. It follows that neither
in a court of law nor a court of equity can the defendant maintain his suit on the cause of action set up in his answer by way
of counter-claim or cross-action.
Judgmnent affimed.

OBERTEUFFER & Another v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO

TIE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORR.
Argued January 6, 7, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

Under section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 523, the cost or value of
paper cartons or boxes, in which hosiery and gloves are packed, in Germany, and transported to the United States, and the cost or value of flie
packing of the goods in the cartons, and of the cartons in an outer case,
are not dutiable items, either by themselves, or as part of the market value
abroad of the goods, unless the cartons are of a material or form desigae
to evade duties thereon, or are designed for use otherwise than in the bona
fide transportation of the goods to the United States.
Where the cartons are of the usual kind known to the trade before the act of
1883 was passed, as customarily used for covering and transporting such
goods, and are intended to accompany them and remain with them, in the
hands of the retail dealer, until the goods are sold to the consumer, they
are designed for use in the bona fidle transportation of the goods to the
United States, within the meaning of the act, and their cost or value is not
a dutiable item.
Where the importer is not dissatisfied with the appraisement of his goods per
8e, but only with the addition to the entry of items for cartons and packing, his proper remedy is not to apply for a re-appraisement, but to protest
and appeal.

This was an action brought to recover back duties alleged
to have been illegally exacted. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Edwin B. Smil for plaintiffs in error. .r'. Chares
Currie, .Ar. Step/ en G. Clarke and Mr. Rrilliam Stanley were
with him on the brief.

