167-

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Syllabus.

ing that Spaulding said, after the sale, to others, was competent upon the issue as to the character of the sale; that is,
whether it was made in good faith, or with the intent on the
part of Webb & Co. and the plaintiff to hinder and delay creditors. Spaulding was plaintiff's agent to control and manage
the property. It was not within the scope of his agency to
make admissions or declarations as to the circumstances under
which, and the purpose for which, the plaintiff bought the
property Such admissions or declarations are only recitals of
the details or circumstances of a past occurrence, and are not
proof of the existence of the occurrence. They constitute, in
their essence, hearsay evidence.
We are of opinion, upon the wliole case, that the jury were
misdirected as to the law of the case, by those portions of the
charge which allowed them to consider as evidence the subsequent declarations or admissions of Webb and Spaulding, in
respect to the true character or nature of the sale to plaintiff.
The judgment is reversed, with directions to set aside the
verdict and award a new trial.
_Rever8ed.

SMITH v. WHITNEY & Others.
APPEAL

FROM AND

ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Argued December 11, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

This court has appellate jurisdiction, under the act of March 3,1835, ch. 855,
of a-judgment of the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia, dismissing a petition for a writ of prohibition to a court martial convened to try
an officer for an offence punishable by dismissal from the service, and consequent deprivation of a salary which during the term of his office would
exceed the sum of $5000.
Where an inferior court has clearly no jurisdiction of a suit, and the defendant therein has objected to its jurisdiction at the outset, and has no other
remedy, he is entitled as matter of right to a writ of prohibition fron, a bourt
having authority to grant it;. and a refusal to grant it, where all the proceedings appear of record, may be reviewed on error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
BI 8ee,
that a writ of prohibition should issue from the law side of a court
having both common law and equity powers.
Whether the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has power to issue a
writ of prohibition to a court martial--guorc.
A writ of prohibition does not lie to the Secretary of the Navy convening a
naval court martial.
A writ of prohibition does not lie to a court martial to correct mistakes in the
decision of questions cf law or fact within its jurisdiction.
A writ of prohibition will not be issued to prohibit a naval court martial from
trying a naval officer, being paymaster general and chief of a bureau in
the Dapartment/of the Navy, upon a charge of "scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of good morals," with specifications alleging that
as such chief of bureau he made contracts and payments in disregard of
the interests of the government, and to promote the interests of contractors,
in violation of law, and to the great scandal and disgace to the service,
and injury of the United States; and upon an additional charge of culpable inefficiency in the performance of duty." with specifications setting
forth acts similar to those specified under the first charge.
A naval court martial, which has returned its proceedings to the Secretary of
the Navy, and been adjourned by him until further order, may be reconvened by him to reconsider those proceedings.

This was a petition, filed September 21, 1885, praying the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to issue a writ of
prohibition to the Secretary of the Navy, and to a general
court martial of naval officers convened by his order of June
25, 1885, to try the petitioner, a pay inspector in the navy,
and, by. appointment of the President, confirmed by the Senate, of the dafe of June 27, 1882, "Chief of the Bureau of Pro-visions and Clothing and Paymaster General in the Department of the Navy, with the relative rank of Commodore,"
upon certain charges and specifications, a copy of which was
made part of the petition.
The first of those charges was "Scandalous conduct tending
to the destruction of good morals," under which were fourteen
specifications, alleging that "the said Joseph A. Smith, then
being a pay ihspector in the United States navy, and having
been theretofbre,.as such officer of the navy., duly appointed
Chief of the Bureau of Provisions and Clothing, with the title
of Paymaster General, in the Department of the Navy," and
being responsible for the proper and reputable administration
thereof, and it being .his duty-to protect the interests of the

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Statement of Facts.

government in the making of contracts for supplies for the
navy, did various acts, which were set forth in different forms
arid with.much detail, but the substance of which was that
he enlarged existing contracts, so as to include at the contract price additional supplies not required by the necessities
of tho service, without consulting the Secretary of the Navy or
the sureties on the contractor's bond, or giving any opportunity
for competition, and when the market was falling; extended
the time of delivery of supplies contracted for, thereby necessitating the acceptance of supplies of an inferior quality; falsified a copy of. a contract, and thereby enabled the contractor
to obtain payment at a place other than that required by the
contract; and by directions and instructions to pay-officers
caused to be paid claims which had been refused by other payofficers, and which, as he knew, had been declared illegal by
the accounting officials of the Treasury; and by so causing
pay-officers to pay these claims, and to pay them out of appropriations for years other than those in which the contracts were
made, greatly embarrassed those officers in the performance of
their duties; and thereby wilfully and knowingly, in'disregard
of his duties and responsibilities as chief of bureau, subordinated the inferests-of the government to those of the contractors, in violation of law, and "to the great scandal and disgrace
of the service, and.theinjury of the United States."
The second charge was "Culpable inefficiency in the performance of duty," under which were four specifications, alleging that he failed in his duty in not obliging contractors to
comply with the terms of their contracts, and in allowing .eliveries to be made after the time for delivery bad expired;
and also in purchasing more supplies than the current needs of
the navy required, and in purchasing unfit supplies, and in not
affording due opportunity for competition.
In the application for a writ of prohibition, the petitioner
alleged that, immediately upon the organization of the cburt
martial, he objected that it had no jurisdiction of him, or of the
charges and specifications against him, or of the subject-matter
contained in them, or any part thereof; but the court martial
overruled all his objections to its jurisdiction, and proceeded to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

hear evidence on the charges, and to try him thereon. He
further alleged that none of the charges or specifications in
any degree arose out of or were involved in any case arising
in the land or naval forces of the United States, or in the
militia, but all, as appeared on their face, pertained exclusively
to duties required of and performed by him in the exercise of
a purely civil office, and under a civil commission; that none
of the specifications charged him with the violation of any law
of the United States, or of any rule of procedure in the Navy
Department, or of any order of the Secretary of the Navy;
that each of the acts complained of had been approved by the
late Secretary of the Navy in the lawful exercise of his discretionary powei over the subject, and that the exercise of his
discretion could not be reviewed by his successor, or by a court
martial; that throughout the trial the petitioner insisted on his
objections to the jurisdiction; that after the conclusion of the
testimony and arguments the court martial went into secret
session, and excluded him and his counsel from its presence,.
and, as he was informed and believed, rendered some judgment
adverse to him, and submitted it to the Secretary of the Navy
for his approval, but it had not been approved; that all the
proceedings at the trial, with the finding and judgment of the
court, were made up and signed by the judge advocate, and
returned to the exclusive custody of the Secretary of the Navy,
and the court discontinued its sessions, and adjourned without
day; that afterwards the Secretary of the Navy made an order,
the terms of which were unknown to the petitioner, directing the
court martial to reconvene on Septeinber 25, 1885, and to take
additional action in the matter of the charges and specifications
and evidence submitted to it as aforesaid; that it was about to
reconvene accordingly, and, without permitting the presence of
the petitioner or his counsel, to reconsider the evidence and the
principles of law involved in his trial, and to reexamine and
readjudge his case; that the proceedings about to be taken
by the court martial were not only unauthorized for
want of jurisdiction, but would deprive him of the right of
trial by jury, and put him twice in jeopardy for the same
offence, in violation o the Constitution of the United States;

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Statement of Facts.

and that he was without remedy, except by the writ of prohibition.
On September 23, the petiti6ner moved for an order upon
the defendants to show cause why a writ of prohibition should
not issue as prayed for; and it was ordered that the petition
be entertained and certified for hearing in the first instance to
the court in general term.
On September 24, the Secretary of the Navy filed a plea,
averring that .the court ought not to hear or take further
cognizance of the petition and proceedings, because their object and purpose were "to prohibit and restrain him from the
exercise of powers and duties appertaining to his said office of
Secretary of the Department of the Navy, whereas it is beyond
the jurisdiction of this court and the judicial power of the
United States to restrain or otherwise intermeddle with the
exercise of the said powers and duties, which belong to and
form a part of the political powers and duties of the government of the United States."
On the same day, the members of the court martial filed a
plea and answer, in which they "say that they are advised
that this court has no jurisdiction to arrest by writ of prohibition any proceeding they may take in the court martial referred to in the said petition;" and "not waiving in any wise,
but insisting on their jurisdictional exception or plea, answering" admitted that the petitioner pleaded to the jurisdiction
of the court martial, and that his plea was overruled; but
alleged that he was subject to its jurisdiction, and that there
was nothing in the legislation of Congress, creating the office
of paymaster-general of the navy, manifesting an intention
to withdraw the incumbent of that position from amenability
to a court mart.ial for offences committed while exercising the
same; that the first charge and the specifications pursuant
thereto were founded on the twenty-second of the Articles'for
the Government of the Navy, contained in § 1624 of the Revised Statutes, and on § 127 of the Orders, Regulations and
Instructions for the Administration of Law.and Justice in the
United States Navy, which prescribes that "when the offence
is a disorder or neglect not specially provided for, it should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

charged as scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of
good morals;" and the second charge and the specifications
pursuant thereto were founded on the ninth paragraph of the
eighth Article for the Government of the Navy; that the
question whether the acts and omissions charged against the
petitioner were offences was a matter for the exclusive decision
of the court martial; and that the court martial did not and
could not adjourn itself without day, but, as appeared by
orders, copies of which were produced, was by order of the
Secretary of the Navy of August 11 "1adjourned until further
orders," and by'his order of September 16 directed to reassemble on September 25 ; and concluded by praying to be dismissed with costs.
On September 25 the petitioner filed a replicati6 n, in which
he "joins issue with tho defendants upon the return and
answer filed to the petition for the writ of prohibition;" and
upon a hearing in general term the court entered the following
judgment: " The court being of opinion that it has not jurisdiction of the matter complained of, it is therefore considered
that the petition be and it is hereby dismissed, with costs, to be
taxed by the clerk."
The petitioner in open court prayed and was allowed an appeal from that judgment, and also sued out a writ of error to
reverse it.
Mr. JTf Ohandler for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Inpca Hunton was with him on the brief.

M.

Mr. A88itant Atorney-GemraZ .Xaury for appellees and
defendants in error.
-M& JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
The final judgment or'decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in any case in which the matter in 'dispute, -exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of five thousand dollars, may be reviewed and reversed or affirmed in this court
upon writ of error, if the judgment is at law, or upon appeal,

SMITH v. WmITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

if the decree is in equity. Rev. Stat. § 691, 692, 705; Rev.
Stat. D. 0. %§846, 847; Act of March 3, 1885, 6h. 366, 23
Stat. 443.
The objection, founded on Xurtz v. Afoftt, 115 U. S. 487,
and cases there cited, that this court has no appellate jurisdiction of the present case, because there is nothing in dispute the
value of which can be estimated in money, cannot be sustained.
The matter in dispute is whether the petitioner is subject to a.
prosecution which may end in a sentence dismissing him from
the Pervice, and depriving him of a salary, as paymaster general during the residue of his term as such, and as pay inspector afterwards, which in less than two years would exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars, Rev. Stat. %§1556, 1565,
1624, arts. 8, 22, 48, 53. The case cannot be distinguished in
principle froin those in which it has been held that a judgment
awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus to admit one to an
office, or a judgment of ouster from an office, might be reviewed by this court upon writ of error, if the salary during
the term of the office would exceed the sum named in the
statute defining its appellate jurisdiction. Columbian Ins.
Co. v. l-/eelwright, 7 Wheat. 534; United States v. Addison,
22 How. 174.
It is often said that the granting or refusing of a writ of
prohibition is discretionary, and therefore not the subject of a
writ of error. That may be true, where there is another legal
remedy, by appeal or otherwise, or where the question of the
jurisdiction of the court whose action is sought to be prohibited
is doubtful, or depends on facts which are not made matter of
record, or where a stranger, as he may in England, applies for
the writ of prohibition. But where that court has clearly
no jurisdiction of the suit or prosecution instituted before it,
and the defendant therein has objected to its jurisdiction at
the outset, and has no other remedy, he is entitled to a writ of
prohibition as matter of right ; and a refusal to grant it, where
all the proceedings appear of record, may be reviewed on error.
This is the clear result of the modern English decisions, in
which the law concerning writs of prohibition has been more
fully discussed and explained than in the older authorities. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

re Forter,4:B. & S. 187, 199 ; .Mayor&c. of.London v. Cox,
L. R. 2 H: L. 239, 280; IForthingtonv. Jefriel, L. R. 10 C. P.
379, 380; Ckfambers v. Green, L. R. 20 Eq. 552, 555. See also
Weton v. City Council of Charledton, 2 Pet. 449, reversing on
error S. C., Harper, 340.
The petitioner in the present case objected, at the very
beginning of the proceedings before the court martial, that it
had no jurisdiction to try him on the charges laid before it;
and the facts upon which his objection to its jurisdiction are
.based, as well as the final judgment dismissing his petition for
a writ of prohibition, appear of record. The case is therefore
within the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia having both
common law and equity powers, it would seem that the proceedings in this cas6 must be considered as on the common law
side of that court, and that the proper mode of invoking the
appellate jurisdiction of this court is by writ of error. In
England, from long before the Declaration of Independence,
writs of prohibition have usually issued from the- courts of
common law, and do not appear to have issued from a court
of chancery in any case in which a court of law might issue
them, except during vacation, when the courts of common law
were not open. 2 Hale P. C. 147; Lord Holt, in Blackborough
v. Davis, 1 P. Wims. 41, 43; Anon., 1 P. Wins. 476; Montgomerj v. Blair, 2 Seb. & Lef. 136; In re Foster, 24 Beavan,
428 ; in re Bateman, L. R. 9 Eq. 660. And in this country,
so far as wo are informed, these writs have never been issued
but by a court of common law jurisdiction. But as the
petitioner has both taken an appeal and sued out a writ of
error, it is immaterial which is the -proper form of bringing up
the case.
The hearing below was upon a rule to show cause why a
writ of prohibition should not issue as prayed for. The question at that hearing was the general question whether the court
should issue a writ of prohibition. That question could not, at
that stage of the case, be narrowed or divided by the pleadings
filed by the defendants. The judgment, as recorded, although
it contains a statement of the court's "opinion that it has no

SMI

v. WRITNEY.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisaiction of the matter complained of," is a general judgment dismissing the petition, with costs, which could not have
been awarded upon a judgment of dismissal for want of jurisdiction.. -Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247; Elk v. Wilkin, 112
U. S. 94, 98. The writ of error brings in questibn the judgni~nt, not the opinion, of the court below. If the petition was
rightly dismissed for any reason, whether because that court
had no jurisdiction to issue a writ of prohibition to a court
martial, or because the court martial had jurisdiction of the
charges against the petitioner, the judgment must be affirmed.
It is argued in behalf of the petitioner that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia is authorized to issue writs
of prohibition, on the same grounds on which it was held, in
United State8 v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, to be authorized to issue
writs of mandamus, namely, because by the act of February
27, 1877, ch. 69, § 2, 19 Stat. 253, that court has cognizance of
"all cases in law and equity between parties, both or either of
which shall be resident or be found within said District;" as
well as because it has all the powers formerly exercised by the
courts of Maryland, which, as declared by the Court of Appeals bf that State in Price v. State, 8 Gill, 295, 310, included
"all the powers exercised in England by the Court of King's
Bench, so far as these powers are derived from rules and principles of the common law, and so far as the same are suited to
the change ini our political institutions, and are not modified
by our constitutional or statutory enactments." On the other
side, it is contended that neither the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, nor any other court of the United States,
is empowered to issue writs of prohibition to a court martiaL
Whether the Supreme Court of the District of Columlia has
power'in any case to issue a writ of prohibition to a court martial is a question of great importance, not heretofore adjudged
by this court; and we are not inclined, in the present case,
either to assert or to deny the, existence of the power, because
upon settled principles, assuming the power to exist, no case is
shown for the exercise of it. In deciding the case upon the
facts before us, and expressing no opinion upon the broader
question, because the determination of the case does not require

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

it, we take the same course that has been followed by eminent
English judges in disposing of applications for writs of prohibition under similar circumstances. J parte iSmyth, Tyrwh. &
Gr. 222, 225; S. C., 2 Cr., M. & L 748, 753; 1 Gale, 274, 277;
.r, re Fordter, 4 B. & S. 187, 198.
The object of a writ of prohibition is to prevent a court of
peculiar, limited or inferior jurisdiction from assuming jurisdiction of a matter beyond its legal cognizance. It can only be
issued to restrain the exercise of judicial functions. When
the suit complained of is brought by a private person, he may
be joined as a defendant. Butrwhen it is a suit or prosecution
on behalf of the government, the writ of prohibition can go to
the court only. 3 Bl. Com. 112; Ex parte 'Braudlacht,2 Rill
(N>.Y.) 36T; Thom8on v. Tracy, 60 N. Y. 31; Connecticut
River _Railroad v. Franklin County Commiseionere, 127 Mass.
50, 59, 60.
The Secretary of the Navy being an executive officer, and
not a member of the court martial sought to be prohibited, it
is quite clear that his acts concerning the petitioner .cannot be
the subject of a writ of prohibition. The reasons against issuing a writ of prohibition to the court martial 'require fuller
statement.
A writ of prohibition is never to be issued unless it clearly
appears that the inferior court is about to exceed its jurisdiction. It cannot be made to serve the purpose of a writ of error
or certiorari,to correct. mistakes of that court in deciding any
question of law or fact within its jurisdiction. These rules
have been always adhered to by this court, in 'the exercise of
the power expressly conferred upon it by Congress to issue writs
of prohibition to the District Courts sitting as courts of admiralty ; United Statesv. Peters, 3 Dall. 121 ; Exyurte Baton, 95
'U. S. 68; Ex pcrte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; Exparte 1erry
Co., 104: U. S. 519; Ex parte Pennoylvania,109 U. S. 174;
as well as by the courts of England and of the several
States,- in the exercise of their inherent jurisdiction to issue
Grant v. Gould, 2 H.
writs of prohibition to courts martial
410; Stato v.
Nott
&
McCord,
2
v.
TVakely,
B1. 69; State
2 Met. 296.
v.
Phillip.,
32;
Washlurn,
2
'McCord,
Stevens,

SMITH v. WHTIEY.
Opinion of the Court.

And this court, although the question of issuing a writ of prohibition to a court martial has not come before it for direct
adjudication, has repeatedly recognized the general rule that
the acts of a court martial, within the scope of its jurisdiction
and duty, cannot be controlled or reviewed in the civil courts,
by writ of prohibition or otherwise. Dynes v. Hoov2cr, 20
How. 65, 82, 83 ; Expar Reed, 100 U. S. 13; Eaiparte Mason,
105 U. S. 696; RKeyes v. United States, 109 U. S. 336; Waea'
v. 'Whitney, 114 U. S. 564, 570; .Kurtz v. .foffit, 115 'U. S. 487,
500. See also Wie v. Withers, 3 Oranch, 331 ; Meade v. Deputy
.2far8halof Virginia,1 Brock. 321; In re Bogart, 2 Sawyer,
396; In re White, 9 Sawyer, 49; Barrett v. Hopkins, 2 McCrary, 129.
In the leading case of Grant v. Gould, 2 H. B1. 69, under an
article of war subjecting to punishment at the discretion of a
court martial any officer or soldier convicted of "having advised or persuaded any other officer or soldier to desert his
Majesty's service," the petitioner for a writ of prohibition had
been charged with "having advised and persuaded" two soldiers in the Coldstream Regiment of foot guards "-to desert
his Majesty's service, and to enlist into the service of the East
India Company, knowing them at the same time to belong to the
said regiment of foot guards." The sentence did not in terms
find him guilty of having advised or persuaded them to desert
the King's service; but merely stated that the court martial was
of opinion that he was "guilty of having promoted and havifig
been instrumental towards the enlisting of" the two soldiers
"into the service of the East India Company, knowing them at
the said time to belong to the said regiment of foot guards;
and deeming this crime to be precisely of the same nature with
that which is set forth in the charge, and to differ only in this,
that it is rather inferior, but in a very slight degree, in point of
aggravation," adjudged him to be punished. It was argued
for the petitioner that he had not been found guilty of advising
or persuading to desert, which was the substance of the offence
charged, but, at the utmost, of promoting and aiding in the enlistmenb into the service of the East India Company, which of itself
was no offence under the Articles of War or the Mutiny Act.
voL. cxV-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour.

But Lord Loughborough, delivering the judgment of the Court
of Common Pleas, discharging the rule for a writ of prohibition, said: "Taking the whole of the case together, it is clear
that there is ground to suppose that they meant to convict him
of the charge. But if, by the nicety which they used in penning the sentence, that sentence were to be invalidated, it could
not be by a prohibition, whatever it might be by a review, or by
an appeal. The most that can be made of it is an error in the
proceedings; but we cannot prohibit upon that account. The
sentence in the case of an unfortunate admiral* was certainly
an inaccurate one. The question there was whether the court
had not mistaken the law, yet a prohibition was not thought
of. But it is unnecessary to discuss the sentence further; it
would be extremely absurd to comment upon it as if it was a
conviction before magistrates, which was to be discussed in a
court where that conviction could be reviewed." 2 H. Bl.107.
Of questions not depending upon the construction of the
statutes, but upon unwritten military law or usage, within the
jurisdiction of courts martial, military or naval officers, fron!
their training and experience in the service, are more competent
judges than the courts of common law. This is nowhere better
stated than by -Mr. Justice Perry in the Supremq Court of
Bombay, saying: "And the principle,of the non-interference of
the courts of law with the procedure of courts martial is clear
and obvious. The groundwork of the jurisdiction, and the extent of the powers of courts martial,. are to be found in the
Mutiny Act-and the Articles of War, and upon all questions
arising upon these her Majesty's judges are competent to decide;
but the Mutiny Act and Articles of War do not alone constitute the military code, for they are, for the most part, silent
upon all that relates to the procedure of the military tribunals
to be erected under them. Now this procedure is founded
upon the iisages and customs of war, upon the regulations
issued by the Sovereign, and upon old practice in the army, as
to all which points common law judges have -no opportunity,
either from their law books or from the course of their ex* See Admiral Byng's Trial (official ed. fol. London, 1757) 3.4, 125-130;

1 McArthur on Courts Martial (4th ed.) 103, 323; 2 Id. 274, 387-398.

SITH v. WHITNEY.
Opinon of the Court.

perience, to inform themselves.

It would therefore be most

illogical, to say nothing of the impediments to military discipline
which would thereby be interposed, to apply to the procedure of courts martial those rules which are applicable to
another and different course of practice." Poret8 Cae,
Perry's Oriental Cases, 414, 419. So in -fartinv v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 19, 35, Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of
this court, said that the law by which courts, martial were
bound to execute their duties and to regulate their mode of
proceeding, in the absence of positive enactments, was "the
general usage of the military service, or what may-not unfitly
be called the customary military law." The same view, as regarding naval courts martial, was asserted and acted on by this
court in Dyne8 v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 82.
The martial provisions of the Revised Statutes, and of the
Navy Regulations, affecting the nature of the office and duties
of the petitioner, and the jurisdiction of the court martial over
him, are as follows:
By § 415 of the Revised Statutes, "there shall be at the seat
of Government an Executive Department, to be known as the
Department of the Navy, and a Secretary of the Navy, who shall
be the head thereof." By § 419, "the business of the Department of the Navy shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary of the Navy shall judge to be expedient and proper among
A Bureau
the following bureaus," one of which is "Seventh.
of Provisions and Clothing." And by § 420, "all of the duties
of the bureaus shall be performed *under the authority of the
Secretary of the Navy, and their orders shall be considered as
emanating from him, and shall have force and effect as such."
By § 421, "the chiefs of the several bureaus in the Department of the Navy shall be appointed by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, from the classes of
officers mentioned in the next five sections respectively, dr from
officers having the relative rank of captain in the staff corps of
the Navy, on the active list, and shall hold their offices for the
term of four years." By § 425, "the Chief of the Bureau of
Provisions and Clothing shall be appointed from the list of
paymasters of the Navyj of'not less then ten years standing."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

By §§ 1471, 1472, he "shall have the relative rank of commo.
dore while holding said position," and the title of Paymaster
General; and by § 1473, upon being,retired from that position
by reason of age or length of service, he shall have the relative
rank of commodore.'
By § 178, in case of the death, resignation, absence or sickness of the chief of any bureau, his duties are to be performed
by his deputy, or if there be none, by the chief clerk of such
bureau, unless the President shall direct them to be performed
by some other officer in either department.
Chapter 10 of Title 15 of the Revised Statutes, entitled
"Articles for the Government of the Navy," contains the
following:
"SEc. 1624. The Navy of the United States shall be
governed by the following articles:"
"AnT. 8. Such punishment as a court martial may adjudge,
may be inflicted on any person in the Navy"First. Who is guilty of profane swearing, falsehood, drunkenness, gambling, fraud, theft, or any other scandalous conduct
tending to the destruction of good morals;"
"Ninth. Or is negligent or careless in obeying orders, or
culpably inefficient in the performance of duty."
"ART. 22. All offences committed by persons belonging to
the Navy, which are not specified in the foregoing articles,
shall be punished as a court martial may direct.
"ART. 23. All offences committed by persons belonging to
the Navy while on shore shall be punished in the same manner
as if they had been committed at sea."
The Orders, Regulations lnd Instructions for the Administration of Law and Justice in the United States Navy, issued
by the Secretary of the Navy under authority of the President
in 1870, provide, in § 126, that when a charge "comes directly
under any enactment, it should be set forth in the terms used
therein;" and in § 127, that "when the offence is a disorder
or neglect not specially provided for, it should be charged
as ' scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of good
morals.'"

By § 1547 of the Revised Statutes, passed since the adoption

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Couxt.

of the Navy Regulations of 1870, "the orders, regulations and
instructions issued by the Secretary of the Navy prior to July
14, 1862, with such alterations as he may since have adopted,
with the approval of the President, shall be recognized as the
Regulations of the Navy, subject to alterations adopted in the
same manner." This legislative recognition of the Navy Regulations of 1870 "must," as was said by Chief Justice MarshalI
of a similar recognition of the Army Regulations in the act of
April 24, 1816, ch. 69, § 9, 3 Stat. 298, "be understood as giving to these regulations the sanction of the law." United State8
v. Maurice, 2 Brock. 96, 105, Exparte Reed, 100 U. S. 13.
It is argued for the petitioner that his office of Paymaster
General and Chief of a Bureau in the Department of the Navy,
under a distinct appointment by the President and confirmation
by the Senate, is a separate office of a purely civil character;
that the duties of that office are not military, but civil only,
relating to the business of the Navy Department, performed
under the authority of the Secretary of the Navy, who is exclusively i civil officer, and, in case of a vacancy in the office
of chief of bureau, or of his absence, to be performed by a
deputy or chief clerk, -who is also exclusively a civil officer;
and therefore that a violation of those duties can be prosecuted
in the civil courts only, and not by court martial.
On the other hand, it is argued that the petitioner is an officer of the navy; that no one but an officer of the navy of a
certain rank can be appointed to the office of chief of bureau
and paymaster general; that the petitioner's appointment to
that office gives him the relative rank of commodore in the
navy; that the duties of paymaster general are naval duties
performed by a naval officer; and therefore that any, violation
of those duties is triable and punishable by naval court martiaL
The charges on which the court martial was ordered to try
the petitioner are drawn up in two aspects. The leading charge
is for "scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of good
morals," and various acts done by the petitioner as paymaster
general are set forth in fourteen specifications under that
charge. The other charge is for "culpable inefficiency in the
performance of duty," with four specifications, some of which,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

at least, allege, though in different forms, acts set forth in the
specifications under the first charge.
If the court martial has jurisdiction of the principal charge
and of some or all of the specifications under it, the addition of
the second charge with its specifications affords no ground for
issuing a writ of prohibition. The evidence taken before the
court martial is not produced or relied on by the petitioner.
The question presented by the record before us is whether the
court martial should be prohibited from trying him on the
charges and specifications laid before it; and the case comes
within the rule stated by Chief Justice Shaw in 1fashburn v.
Phillips,already cited, "Unless it appears upon the face of the
proceedings that the court has no juiisdiction of any part of
tie subject matter of these charges, it is not a case for a prohibition." 2 Met. 299. There may indeed be cases in which two
matters before the inferior court are so distinct, that a-writ of
prohibition may go as to the one and not as to the other. But
when the leading charge is within its jurisdiction, and the other
charge, though varying in form, is for the same or similar acts,
like a second count in an indictment, and the same sentence
may be awarded on the first charge as upon both, a writ of
prohibition should not issue. Enraght v. Penzance, 7 App.
Cas. 240.
The essential'point to be determined, therefore, is whether
the court martial has jurisdiction of the first charge; and
whether it would have jurisdiction of the second, if that were
the only one, is immaterial.
In Dynes v. Hoover, above cited, this court held that the
jurisdiction of courts martial, under the articles for the government of the navy established by Congress, was not limited to
the crimes defined or specified in those articles, but extended
to any offence which, by a fair deduction from the definition,
Congress meant to subject to punishment, being "one of a
minor degree, of kindred character, which has already been
recognized to be such by the practice of courts martial in the
army and navy services of nations, and by those functionaries
in different nations to whom has been confided a revising
power-over the sentences of courts martial;" or which, though

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

not included, in terms or by construction, within the definition,
came within "a comprehensive enactment, such as the 32d
article of the rules for the government of the navy, which
means that courts martial have jurisdiction of such crimes as
are not specified, but which have been recognized to be crimes
and offences by the usages in the navy of all nations, and that
they shall be punished according to the laws and customs of
the sea." 20 How. 82.
The 32d of the Articles for the Government of the lNavy,
established by the act of April 23, 1800, ch. 33, 2 Stat. 49, in
force at the time of that decision, has been retained in the existing Article 22, before cited, substituting only, at the beginning) the word "offences" for "crimes" and, in describing the
mode of punishment, the words "as a court martial may direct,"
instead of "according to the laws and customs in such cases at
sea." As the article in its new form still applies only to offences "not specified in the foregoing articles," the alteration
was evidently intended to change only the rule of punishment,
leaving within the jurisdiction of court§ martial cases not so
specified, but recognized as military offences by the usages of
the naval service.
It does not, therefore, appear to us important to inquire
whetheP, by the rules that govern military courts, the first
charge should be considered as made under the concluding
words of the first clause of Article 8, punishing "'profane
swearing, falsehood, drunkenness, gambling, theft, or any other
scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of good morals;"
or under Article 22, punishing "all offences committed by persons belonging to the navy, which are not specified in the foregoing articles;" for in either view, as we have already seen, it
should, under the Regulations of 1870, recognized and sanctioned
by Congress, be charged as "scandalous conduct tending to
the destruction of good morals."
Under every system of military law for the government of
either land or naval forces, the jurisdiction of courts martial
extends to the trial and punishment of acts of military or naval
officers which tend to bring disgrace and reproach upon the service of which they are members, whether those acts are done

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in the performance of military duties, or in a civil position, or
in a social relation, or in private business.
Two cases, often cited in books on military law, show that
acts having no relation to the public service, military or civil,
except so far as they tend to bring disgrace and reproach upon
the former-such as making an unfounded claim for the price
of a horse, or attempting to seduce a brother officer's wife during his illness--may properly le prosecuted before a court
martial under an article of war punishing "scandalous and infamous conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman ;" for
the sole ground on which the sentence was disapproved by the
King in the one case, and by the Governor General of India in
the other, was that the court martial, while finding the facts
proved, expressly negatived scandalous and infamous conduct,
and thereby in effect acquitted the *defendant of the charge.
2 McArthur on Courts Martial (4th ed.) 298 ; Hough's Precedents in Military Law, 238; Samuel on Military Law, 650-652 ;
Simmons on Courts Martial (4th ed.) 418-420 , De Hart on
Courts Martial, 375-37.
In a third case, a lieutenant in the army was tried in England by a general court martial for conduct on board ship while
coming home from India as a private passenger on leave of
absence from his regiment for two years. The charge was
that, being a passenger on board the ship Cosar on her voyage
from Calcutta to England, he was accused of stealing property
of one Ross, his servant; and that the officers and passengers
of the ship, after inquiring into the accusation, expelled him
from their table and society during the rest of the voyage; yet
that he, "under circumstances so degrading and disgraceful to
him, neither then, nor at any time afterwards, took any measures as became an officer and a gentleman to vindicate his
honor and reputation; all such conduct as aforesaid being to
the prejudice of good order and military discipline." Before
and at the trial, he objected that the charge against him did
not, expressly or constructively, impute any military offence, or
infraction of any of the Articles of War, or any positive act of
misconduct or neglect, to the prejudice of good order and military discipline; or state any fact which, if true, subjected him

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

to be arraigned and tried as a military officer. But the court
martial proceeded with the trial, found him "guilty of the
whole of the charge produced against him, in breach of the
Articles of War," and sentenced him"to be dismissed the service, and added, "that it has considered the charge produced
against the prisoner entirely in a military point of view, as
affecting the good order and discipline of the army; and that
it does not mean by its sentence to offer any opinion as to the
original charge of theft, of which the prisoner was accused by
the man Ross." The sentence was approved by the King, and
carried into execution, and for that reason the Court of King's
Bench denied a writ of prohibition. Lord Denman, in delivering judgment, said that the court did not think it necessary to consider whether the charge was so framed as
to bring the party within the Articles-of War; but that
it agreed with Lord Loughborough's remark in Grant' v.
Gould, above cited, that it would be extremely absurd to
expect the same precision in a charge brought before a court
martial as was required to support a conviction by a justice
of the peace. In re IPoe, 5 B. & Ad. 681, 688; S. C., 2 Nev.
& Man. 636, 644.
Under the 61st of the Articles of War for the Government
of the Army of the United States, which, omitting the words
"scandalous or infamous," provides that "any officer who is
convicted of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman
shall be dismissed from the service," it is observed in the most
recent treatise on military law, and supported by copious references to precedents, "While the act charged will more usually
have been committed in a military capacity, or have grown out
of some military status or relation, it is by no means essential
that this should have been its history. It may equally well
have originated in some private transaction of the party, (as a
member of civil society, or as a man of business,) which, while
impeaching his personal honor, has involved such notoriety or
publicity, or led to such just complaint to superior military
authority, as to have seriously compromised his character and
position as an officer of the army and brought scandal or reproach upon the service." 1 Winthrop on Military Law, 1023

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

& 8eq. See also 6 Opinions of Attorneys General, 413, 417;
Runkle v. United States, 19 C. 01. 396, 414.
This being the first case of an application to a court of the
United States for a writ of prohibition to a court martial, we
have cited the authorities bearing upon the subject more fully
than might have been thought fit under other circumstances.
It is hardly necessary to add that by the Navy Regulations
of 1870, §§ 260-265, the court martial could only be dissolved
by the Secretary of the Navy, and might, at any time before
he had dissolved it, be lawfully reconvened by him to reconsider its proceedings. Exparte Reed, 100 U. S. 13.
To order a writ of prohibition to issue in the present case
would be, to declare that an officer of the navy, who, while
serving by appointment of the President*as chief of a bureau
in the Navy Department, makes contracts or payments, in violation of law, in disregard of the interests of the government,
and to promote the interests of contractors, cannot lawfully be
tried by a court martial composed of naval officers, and by
them convicted of scandalous conduct, tending to the destruction of good morals, and to the dishonor of. the naval service.
This we are not prepare to do, being clearly of opinion that
such conduct of a naval officer is a case arising in the naval
forces, and therefore punishable by court martial under the
articles and regulations made or approved by Congress in the
exercise of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution,
to provide and maintain a navy, and to make rules for the
government and regulation of the land and naval forces, without indictment or trial by jury.
Judgment affnrmed.

