OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

which the Federal courts did not then possess, by enlarging
their jurisdiction in suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity, and not to take away from the Circuit or District
Courts jurisdiction conferred by prior statutes, or to divide the
jurisdiction which had for so long a time been vested exclusively in the District Courts. Price v. Abbott, 17 Fed. Rep.
506.
Thus construed, there is no conflict between ยง 1 the act of
March 3, 1875, and ยง 9 of the act of 1789, which conferred exclusiie jurisdiction on the District Courts of suits for penalties
and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the United States.
The latter section, therefore, except as modified by statutes
conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts in special cases,
still rbmains in force, and the Circuit Court was right in dismissing the case for want of jurisdiction.
Judgnment ,fmed.

COYLE v. DAVIS & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLMBIA.
Submitted Decenber 4,188.-Argued December 9, 188S.-Decided December21, 1885.

The grantor in an absolute deed of an undivided interest in land, in fee-simple, sought; by a suit in equity, against the grantee, to have it declared a
mortgage. There was no defeasance, either in the deed or in a collateral
paper, and the parol evidence that there wasa debt, and that the intention
was to secure it by a mortgage, was not clear, unequivocal, and convinc
ing, and it was held, that 16e presumption that the instrument was what
" purported to be must prevail.
The weight of the testimony was, that the transaction was a sale, and that the
propert y was' sold for about its sale value, in view of the facts, that there
was a poorly built and poorly arranged building on the premises, which
was incapable of actual partition, and that the law did not permit a partition by a sale in iutum, arid that the grantor's interest was a minority
interest.

In equity. In the absence of plaintiff's counsel when this

COYLE v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

case was called it was submitted by counsel for defendants.
On motion, and for reasons shown the submission was set
aside and. argument ordered. The facts are stated in the
opinion of the court.
-Yr. Benjamin F. Butler and -Yr. 0. -D. Barrett-for appellant.
.Xr.
lees.

. 1).
A )avidge and ./'.Henry E. Davi8 for appel-

BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, made in general term, July 6,. 1880, dismissing the bill of complaint, in a suit in equity brought by
John F. Coyle against Henry S. Davis, William E. Spalding,
and William W. Rapley. The bill was filed May 24, 1869, to
redeem a parcel of land in the city of Washington alleged to be
covered by a mortgage held by the defendant Davis. The substantial averments of the bill are, that Coyle, Spalding, and Rapley, in April, 1863, purchased the land, as tenants in common,
and it,
was, by their mutual consent, deeded to Rapley; that
Coyle's share was encumbered by a deed of trust executed as security for a loan made to Coyle by one Riggs- that, in order to
pay Riggs, Coyle, in June, 1866, applied to Davis for a loan of
$6000; that Davis had, for a long time, made many prQfessions
of warm friendship for Coyle, and of willingness and desire to
serve him, and had acquired Coyle's full confidence, and, upon
such application, offered to make to Coyle such a loan as would
both pay Riggs and settle up all Coyle's accounts with Spalding
and Rapley, in respect of the land, and, as security for the
loan, asked a mortgage on Coyle's undivided one-third of the
land, which would thus be free from all encumbrance and indebtedness, and suggested that a statement of Coyle's accounts
with Spalding and Rapley be furnished to him, Davis; that,
on or about June 12, 1866, Davis was furnished with a written
instrument signed by Spalding and IRapley, fully setting forth
Coyle's account in respect of the land; that, thereupon, Davis,

Mnm JusTioE

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

well knowing that one-third interest in the land was worth
about $30,000, and would increase in value, urged Coyle to
take a loan from him of about $17,000, in order to settle his
account with Spalding and Rapley, as well as pay his debt to
Riggs, and to give him, Davis, a mortgage on Coyle's interest,
as security; that, as inducement to this course, Davis represented that the arrangement proposed by him would be freer
from complication than any other, and would give him an independent security for the loan, and that his business, as well
as his desire to serve Coyle, would afford him opportunity to
effect, for the benefit of Coyle, a highly advantageous sale of
said interest in the premises, from the proceeds oE which he
could retain the balance due on his loan, and pay over the residue to Coyle, and that this arrangement would tend to the
benefit of both parties; that Coyle acceded to the proposition,
and Davis loaned to Coyle $17,659.46, by advancing $6000 to
pay the debt to Riggs, and assuming the payment, to be made
as it should fall due, of the unpaid balance on Coyle's onethird interest, viz., $11,659.46 ; that, as security for the loan,
Davis took a mortgage on Coyle's undivided one-third of the
land, in the manner following, to wit: Rapley and Coyle, on
or about July 6, 1866, conveyed to Davis Coyle's undivided
one-third interest in the land, by a deed absolute in form, but
the force and operation of which were defeated by the understanding, agreement, and contract between Coyle and Davis,
that the deed was executed as security for the loan, and that betwden the parties the conveyance should have the operation,
force, and effect of a mortgage, and none other, and that Davis
should enter upon, and take possession of, the mortgaged property, as, security for the loan, and subject to an account for its
rents and profits, and whenever Coyle should offer to redeem
the property an account. should be had in respect of the rents
and profits received by Davis, on the one hand, and of Coyle's
debt, principal, and interest, on the other hand, and, on proffer
of payment of the sum thus found due, if any, from Coyle to
,Davis, Davis, by conveyance of the property to Coyle, should
surrender possession of it to Coyle, and while Davis should
continue in possession as mortgagee, if he .should have an oppor-

COYLE v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

tunity to effect an advantageous sale of the property, he should
do so for the benefit of Coyle, and should convey title to it and
receive the purchase-money, and deduct the balance,-if any,
due on the loan, over and above the rents and profits meanwhile received by him, and pay over the residue to Coyle; and
that Davis went into possession of the property and had received its rents and profits for three years, and bad frequently
admitted that the transactions between him and Coyle were as
above set forth.
The answer of Davis alleges that Rapley, on taking a conveyance of the land, encumbered it, by a deed of trust, with a debt
of $20,000; to secure unpaid purchase-money, wh'ch was not paid
when the deed from Coyle to Davis was made; and that at
that time there was a further encumbrance on Coyle's interest
of $4100 as a debt to Riggs, secured by a deed of trust of that
interest. It denies the allegations of the bill as to the application for a loan, or the offer of a loan, or the asking for a mortgage, or the. suggesting or furnishing of a statement of account,
and all the other allegations of the bill as to the making of a
loan or of a mortgage,.or of a deed as security for a loan or
as a mortgage. It alleges the facts to be that, about six or
eight weeks before the making of the deed to Davis, be was applied to by one Winder, acting as agent for Coyle, to make a
loan to Coyle, to be secured by a deed in fee of Coyle's interest
in the property; which application was rejected, and it was renewed in person by Coyle, with the same result; that when
Coyle renewed it, he exhibited to Davis a paper purporting to
show the cost of the property and the money value of the onethird interest of Coyle, after deducting the balance due by him on
account of such interest, and $6666.66 as one-third of the unpaid
purchase-money; that, afterwards, Coyle proposed to Davis to
sell his interest to him for $20,000, but he rejected that proposition, and finally, in July, 1866, offered Coyle $18,000 in cash
for such interest, which offer Coyle accepted; that Davis
insisted that before the purchase-money should be paid the
account of Coyle in respect of the property should be settled;
that thereupon the indebtedness of Coyle to Spalding and Rap.
ley in respect of the property was ascertained by a settlement

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

dated July 'T,1866, a copy of which is annexed to the answer,
to be $6258.71; that Davis paid the $6258.71 to Spalding and
Rapley, and paid to Riggs what was due to him, and paid the
balance in cash to Coyle, less the $6666.66, which was reserved,
with the. approbation of Coyle, to pay his share of the unpaid
purchase-money, and was afterwards paid by Davis; that, on
July 7, 1866, Davis irceivedrfrom Coyle a deed executed by
Coyle and -Rapley and their wives, conveying to him in feesimple the one-third interest of Coyle; that he took possession
of it, and has received its rents and profits, as absolute owner,
recognized as such by Coyle and his co-tenants; that Coyle's
-interest at the time Davis purchased it was not worth $30,000,
and Coyle never asked from Davis more than $20,000 for it;
and that Davis never admitted that he was mortgagee in possession in -respect of Coyle's interest.
The volume of proof taken on the issue thus raised is large,
and the evidence is contradictory, as is common in such cases,
where, cimittedly,
i
a loan of some kind was at some time talked
about. The conveyance to Davis of the undivided one-third
interest of Coyle being to him, his heirs and assigns, forever, with
a coyenant of warranty, and without a defeasance, either in the
conv.eyance or in a collateral paper, the parol evidence that there
was a debt, and that the deed was intended to secure it and to
operate only as a mortgage, must be clear, unequivocal and convincing, or the presumption that the instrument is what it purports to,be must prevail. This well-settled rule of equity jurisprudence wa5 applied by this court in Howland v. Blake, 79 U.
S. 624, 626. The case stated in the bill herein is not supported
by the weight of evidence. On the contrary, it sustains the
'allegations of the answer. Especially, the force of the letter of
Coyle to Davis, of June 11, 1867, is not broken by any satisfactory explanation. It would serve no usefu. purpose to discuss
the testimony at length. There is but one point to which it is
needful to refer. Great stress is laid, in cases of this kind, on
inadequacy of consideration, where there is a considerable disproportion between the price paid and the real value of the
property. Russel v. Southard, 12 How.139, 148. There is
testimony on both sides, on the question of disproportion, in this

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

113

Statement of Facts.

case. But the preponderance is very large on the part of Davis,
that the share of Coyle in the property was sold for about its
sale value, in view of its condition. There was a poorly built
and poorly arranged building on the premises, which was incapable of actual partition; the law did not permit a partition by
a sale i invitum; and Coyle's interest was a minority interest.
These considerations made it difficult of sale at all.

-Decreeaffirmed.

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INSURANCE COMPANY
v. GUNTHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 12, 1885.-Decided December 21,1885.

A violation of any of the prohibitions in a policy of insurance against fire by a
tenant, who occupies the insured liremises with the permission of the assured, is a violation by the assured himself.
If a policy of insurance forbids the keeping of gasoline or benzine on the
insured premises, but authorizes the use of gasoline gas there, the latter
authority gives no warrant for keeping gasoline or benzine there for any
purpose other than the manufacture of gas.
As the practice in New York allows a variance between proof and pleadings to
be cured by amending the latter when the opposite party is not misled, if,
in the trial of an action in that State on a policy of insurance, evidence is
offered without objection, establishing or tending to establish a defence
under the policy which has not been properly pleaded, and, on defendant's
request for instructions, founded on that evidence, no objection is made
that the defence was not within the issues, it is competent for the defendant to rely upon the defence after the opportunity for amending the pleadings has passed.

This was an action at law brought by Charles Godfrey
Gunther, a citizen of New York, in the Supreme Court of that
State, against the plaintiff in error, a corporation created by
the laws of Great Britain, and consequently an alien, and by
the latter removed into he Circuit Court of the United States
VOL. cxr-.8

