OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

resort must be had to some form of original proceeding appropriate to relief on that account. It cannot be done by way of
defence before decree upon our mandate. The order of this

court places the case where it would be if the original decree
had been what it is now.
It follows that
The appeal mu t be dismissed under the rule, with cots; and
it is 80

ordered.

LEE v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF EMMET COUNTY=, STATE OF
MICHIGAN.

Argued' December4, 1885.-Deided December .1, 1885.

One seeking in equity to have the holder of a patent of public land declared a
trustee for his benefit on the ground that the patent was improperly issued,
must clearly establish that there was a mistake or fraud in the issue of the
patent, which affected the decision of the Land Office, and but for which he
would be entitled to the patent.
In the absence of fraud, the findings of the Secretary of the Interior are conclusive upon questions of fact as to land claims submitted to him for his
decision.
When it clearly appears in a proceeding that a claim set up is against public
policy, and that in no event could it be sustained, the tribunal should
dismiss it. whether-the allegations of the parties have or have not raised
the question.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xr. Memy E. -Davi8for plaintiff in error.
2fr. Jamre8 Blair for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MRt. JUSTICu FrEma delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes from the Circuit Court of Emmet County,
Michigan. It was originally commenbed in that court, where

LEE v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

a decree was rendered dismissing the suit. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State the decree was reversed, and the
Circuit Court directed to enter a decree., in favor.of the plaintiff for the relief prayed in the bill of complaint. The Circuit
Court having complied with the mandate of the Supreme
Court by entering that decree, the defendant sued out the writ
of error from this coifrt fo review it. The writ was directed
to the judge of the Circuit Court because the final decree was
entered and the record of the suit remained there. Atherton
v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143; Gelston v. Hloyt, 3 Wheat. 246.
The defendant in the court below, the plaintiff in error
here, is the holder of a patent of the United States for a parcel
of land in Michigan issued to him under the homestead laws,
and the present suit was brought to charge him, as trustee of
the property, and to compel a conveyance to the plaintiff.
The patent having been issued by officers of the Land Department, to whose supervision and control are entrusted the various proceedings required for the alienation of the public lands,
all reasonable presumptions are indulged in support of their
action. It cannot be attacked collaterally, but only by a
direct proceeding instituted by the government or by parties
acting in its name and by its authority. If, however, those
officers mistake the law applicable to the facts or misconstrue
the statutes and issue a patent to one not entitled to it, the
party wronged can resort to a Court of equity to correct the
mistake and compel the transfer of the legal title.to him as the
true owner. The court in such a case merely directs that to
be done which those officers would have done if no error of
law had been committed.
The court does not interfere with the title of a patentee
when the alleged mistake relates to a matter of fact, concerning which those officers may have drawn wrong conclusions
from the testimony. A judicial inquiry as to the correctness
of such conclusions would encroach upon a jurisdiction which
Congress has devolved exclusively upon the Department. It is
only when fraud and imposition have prevented the unsuccessful party in a contest from fully presenting his case, or the
officers from fully considering it, that a court will look into
VOL. CXVI-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the evidence. It is not enough, however, that fraud and imposition have been practised upon the Department, or that
false testimony or fraudulent documents have been presented;
it must appear that they affected its determination, which,
otherwise, would have been in favor of the plaintiff. He must
in all cases show that but for the error or fraud or imposition
of which he complains, he would be entitled to the patent; it
is not enough to show that it should not have been issued to
the patentee. It is for the party whose rights are alleged to
have been disregarded that relief is sought, not for the government, which can file its own bill when it desires the cancellation of a patent unadvisedly or wrongfully issued. Bohall v.
.Dilla, 114 U. S. 47; Spar78 v. Pierce, 115 IT. S. 408.
If now, we apply these doctrines, which have been settled
by repeated decisions, the case before us will be readily disposed of. The plaintiff below, Enos Johnson, on the 17th of
April, 1875, entered the land in controversy, situated in Emmet County, Michigan, under the homestead laws. Previously,
and for many years, he had resided in Kent County, in that
State, distant several miles from the land. After the entry he
resided upon the land only occasionally, offering as an excuse
that the health of his wife required him to remain at "their
home in Kent County." At the outset he employed his son-inlaw, Shaeffer, and family, to go upon the land and remain there
in his employ until his wife's health should so improve as to
admit of his leaving her or taking her with him in his personal
settlement upon the land. It would seem that afterwards
some attempts were ostensibly made toward such a personal
settlement, but they were at long intervals apart and for comparatively short periods. During these attempts Shaeffer and
his family remained on the land, cultivating and improving it.
More than a year after his entry Johnson, while living at the
old home, voted in Kent County. It appears, also, that in
June, 1876, at one of the periods, as is alleged, during which
Johnson resided with his wife on the land, Lee complained at
the land office that Johnson had abandoned the land for more
than six months prior to that date; that a contest was thereupon initiated between Johnson and Lee for the right to the

LEE v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

land; that the usual proceedings in such cases were had before the register, by whom testimony was taken and forwarded
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. The Commissioner decided in favor of Johnson, but, on appeal, the decision was reversed by the Secretary of the Interior, and the
entry ordered to be cancelled. When the land was subject to a
new entry, Lee entered it under the homestead laws, and subsequently availing himself of the privilege of commutation
under the statute, paid the government price and obtained a
patent, bearing date July 13, 1878.
Without going into any detail of the evidence presented to
the Commissioner and the Secretary of the Interior, but taking the general statement of its nature, which we have given,
it is clear that their attention was drawn by it to the character of the settlement of Johnson, and that they considered
whether his entry was made to acquire a home for himself or
for his son in-law, whether his residence" had been sufficiently
personal and continuous to save and perfect any right, flin
lact he had ever initiated any, and whether or not he had
abandoned the land. The findings of the Secretary upon any
of these matters must be taken as conclusive, in -te,-bsence of
any fraud and imposition such as we have mentioned. Upon
this point it is only necessary to refer to the cases where this
conclusive character of the action of the Department upon
matters of fact cognizable by it,-has been expressly affirmed.
John8on v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.
330, 340; Moore v. Roblins, 96 U. S. 530, 535; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S.420, 426; Smelting Co. v. Eerap, 104: U. S. 636,
640; Steel v. Smnelting Co., 106 U. S.447, 450.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior inconclusive because it was not
upon a point in issue between the contestants, stating that
the question was that of abandonment, which only was inquired into by the register, or could be considered on appeal;
that the jurisdiction of the Secretary, if he disposed of the
case finally on other grounds, was not appellate but original,
and that this had not been conferred; that the register on the
hearing and the Commissioner on appeal had decided that the

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff had not abandoned the land, and upon that ground
there was no reversal of the decision. It, therefore, held that
the plaintiff was entitled to the relief prayed.
While there are no formal pleadings in such cases, it is undoubtedly true, as a general rule, that in contested matters before
the Land Department, as in those before the courts, the decision should be confined to the questions raised by the allegations of the respective parties; but this rule has its exceptions.
If in any case it appears from the evidence that the claim of
the complaining or moving party-is against public policy or the
law, so that in no event could he recover a final judgment or
decision, whatever be the nature or extent of the testimony
upon the point at issue, the tribunal should not hesitate to dismiss the suit or the proceeding. An illustration of this rule is
found in 08canyan v. Arm8 Co.,1Q3 U. S. 261. There a large
sum was claimed from the vendor of firearms as commissions
on sales that, through the influence of the plaintiff, had been
made to the Turkish government, of which he was then an
officer. The defendant pleaded the general issue; and it was
contended that the illegality of the contract could not 'be
noticed, because not affirmatively pleaded.. But the court held
that, assuming the contract to be a corrupt one, forbidden by
morality and public policy, the objection to a recovery could
not be obviated or waived by any system of pleading, or even
by the express stipulation of the parties; that it was one which
the court itself was bound to raise in the interest of the due
administration of justice. p. 268.
So, in the present case, the Secretary of the Interior came
to the conclusion, from the evidence returned by the register,
that Johnson must be considered not as a bona fide homestead
claimant, acting in good faith, but as one seeking, by a seeming compliance with the forms of law, to obtain a tract of land
for his son-in-law, who had previously exhausted his.homestead
privileges, observing that the element of good faith is the essential foundation of all valid claims under the homestead law.
Under these circumstances, so far from having exceeded his
jurisdiction in directing a cancellation of the entry, he was exercising only that just supervision which the law vests in him

LEE v. JOhINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

over all proceedings instituted to acquire portions of the public
lands., Upon the testimony the question of abandonment could
be of no consequence, as no just right in Johnson's favor had
been initiated. Upon an application for a rehearing, the Secretary reiterated his judgment, stating that he was unable,
upon the testimony of Johnson himself, to arrive at the conclusion that he had complied with the provisions of the homestead law to an extent to entitle him to its benefits.
In the bill of complaint it is alleged that in the testimony reported by the register there was an interpolation to the effect
that the plaintiff testified that he had intended the land as a
homestead for his son-in-law, and not as a personal home for
himself, and that while in Kent County, in the spring of 1876,
he had voted at an election. His allegation that he gave no
such testimony is contradicted, the answer averring that the
testimony as reported was read over to him before he signed
it, and was reported as signed. And in his examination in this
case he admits, whilst denying that he testified as stated before
the register, that he voted in Kent County a year after he had
made his entry; and his direct testimony that he intended the
land for Shaeffer could not be more persuasive of the fact than
his conduct subsequent to the entry. To allow the conclusions
of the Secretary of the Interior on questions of fact to be subjected to review by the courts in cases of this kind would open
the door to endless litigation.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the Supreme Court of
ichigan erred in its decision. The decree of that court will
accordingly be
Revei'sed, and the cause eremanded to the Ci'cuit Court, with
direcetians to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion.

