EX PARTE BROWN.
Statement of Facts.

ing a d6cket, while the keeping of a docket by the commissioner is a like service to the keeping of a docket by the clerk,
although the docket entries to be made by each may differ.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Afflr'med.

EX PARTE BROWN & Another.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 13, 18W.-Declded January 18, 1886.

The dismissal of a cause by the Supreme Court of a Territory, because errors
had not been assigned according to the rules of practice applicable to the
form of action, is a judgment which can only be reviewed by writ of error
or appeal, as the ease may be.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus. The petition, which accompanied the motion,
showed that the petitioners commenced a suit in ejectment
in the Territory of Washington on the 10th of Jby, 1884;
that the defendant answered, denying the plaintiff's right to
recover, and setting up various separate defences; that the
plaintiffs demurred; that the court ,overruled the demurrer;
that the plaintiffs having elected to stand upon the ruling of
the court on the demurrer, the case was dismissed; Lhat the
llaintiffs thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory; that transcripts of the record were duly filed in the
Supreme Court and the causes removed and docketed there;
that a motion was made by defendant to dismiss the appeal
because the action was at law and could be reexamined only
on writ of error; that the motion was sustained and judgment
entered accordingly; and that the amount in controversy was
largely in excess of .$5000. The prayer of the petition was for
a writ of mandamusi to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
directing it to set aside the judgment, to reinstate the case, and
to decide it on the merits.
VOL. CXVi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

.A&. 1eander Holmes and -Mr. John H -3Tlichell for the
motion.
Mr. CHiEF

JUSTICE

W.AT delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. According to the petition, the court
entertained jurisdiction of the cause, but dismissed it for want
of due prosecution; that is to say, because errors had not been
assigned in accordance with the rules of practice applicable to
the form ofthe action. This is a judgment which can only be
reviewed by writ of error or appeal, as the case may be. Mandamus lies to compel a court to take jurisdiction in a proper
case, but not to control its discretion while acting within its
jurisdiction. This rule is elementary. Epar e .2forgan,114
U. S. 174, and cases. cited.
Motion denied.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ORIGINTAL MOTION IN A CASE

ON "APPEAL FROM THE COURT

OF

CLAIMS.
Submitted January 11, 188.-Deeided January 18, 1886.

When a judgment of the Court of Claims is rever§ed and the case is remanded
for new trial, the findings of fact on the first trial form no part of the
record on appeal from the judgment in the second trial, unless embodied
by that court in the second findings.
When a claimant in the Court of Claims amends his petition by filing a new
one in the place of it, and the case is heard on the amended petition
only, and on appeal that court sends up only the amended petition,
this court will not'issue a writ of certiorari to bring up the original
petition.

This was a motion for a writ of certiorari to the Court
of Claims. The motion set forth the following facts:
This cause was originally commenced in the Court of Claims

