SANDS v. EDMUNDS.
Statement of Facts.

SANDS v. EDMUNDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE M COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGIUA.
Argued January 7,8,1886.-Decided February 1,1886.

After lawful tender to the proper State officer of the requisite amount of cou-

pons (receivable by the terms of the act of the State of Virginia of March
80, 1871, in payment of taxes, debts, dues and demands due the State), for
a "separate revenue license" by a person otherwise dily authorized and
licensed to practice as an attorney-at-law, and after refusal by that officer
to receive the same, or to issue the "separate revenue license," the person
so making the tender may, -by mandamus, compel the officer to receive the
coupons, and to deliver them to the proper official for identification and'
verification according to the terms of the act of that State of January 14,
1882.

The plaintiff in error filed in the Circuit Court of Fauquier
County a petition for a mandamu against the treasurer of that
county, as follows:
"The petition of Win. H. Sands respectfully represents that
he is an attorney-at-law, regularly and duly licensed to practice
law in the courts of the State of Virginia according to the laws
of said State.
"That on the 8th day of September, 1885, he tendered to
E. G. Edmunds, who is the treasurer of the county of Fauquier,
and the officer whose duty it is to collect all license taxes due
said State in said county, in payment of his license tax as an
attorney-at-law for the ensuing year, fifteen dollars in lawful
money of the United States and seventy-five cents in like
money for the commission of the revenue's fee, in compliance
with the provisions of the acts of assembly, approved February
7th, 1884, entitled ' An act to regulate the granting of licenses
for the exercise of any privilege.'
"That, at the same time, he tendered to the said treasurer
a certain coupon for fifteen dollars, which coupon was cut from
a bond issued by the State of Virginia underthe provisions of
an act of her General Assembly, approved March 30, 1871, entitled ' An act to provide for the funding and payment of the
public debt.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

" That said coupon was overdue and past maturity, and bore
upon its face the contract ol the State of Virgifia that it"
should be received in payment of all taxes, debts, and demands
due said state.
"That, at the same time, he demanded the said treasurer
should receive said coupon along with said lawful money for
the purpose of identification and verification, in manner and
form as required by an act of the General Assembly of the
State of Virginia, approved January 14, 1882, entitled 'An act
to prevent fraud upon the Commonwealth and holders of her
securities in the collection of her revenues.'
"That the said treasurer received said lawful money tendered
by your petitioner, and gave him the certificate provided for
in said act of February 7, 1884, bat he refused to receive said
coupon as demanded by your petitioner, and he refu~ed to receive it for any purpose whatever. Your petitioner claims that
he had the right to have said treasurer receive said coupon
and deliver the same to the judge of the county court of
Fauquier, and that it was your petitioner's right to prove said
coupon before a jury in said court and thereupon to have his
said money returned to him, and that said treasurer did your
petitioner a great wrong and injury when he refused to receive
said coupon.
"That he refused to receive same because said act of February 7, 1884, requires all license taxes to be paid in money only
and not in coupons, and because the 112th section of an act of
the General Assembly of Virginia, approved -March 15, 1884,
entitled 'An act to provide for th6 assessment of taxes on
persons, property, incomes, '&c.,' requires all license taxes to be
paid in money only, and not in coupons.
"That both of said acts in this particular are repugnant to
section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of the United States,
and therefore null and void. That your petitioner has not been
licensed to practice law so long as five years.
"Your petitioner therefore prays that a mandanu8 vi8i may
be issued commanding the said E. G. Edmunds, treasurer
aforesaid, to show cause why a peremptory mandamu8 shall
not issue commanding him to receive said coupon, and deliver

SANDS v. EDMUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

it to the judge of the County Court for identification and verification, according to the terms and provisions of said act of

January 14, 1882."
The prayer for the writ was denied by' the Circuit Court of
Fauquier County; and on application to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia that judgment was affirmed by a refusal to
allow an appeal. To reverse"that judgment this writ of error
was prosecuted.
This case was argued with Barry v. Edmnunds, ante, 550;
Chaffin v. Taylor, ante, 567; and 1?oyall v. Pirginia,ante, 572.
Xi'. William L. Royall and Mr.-DanielIT Chamberlainfor
plaintiff in error.
.br. R. A. Ayres and Mr.TFaiter R7. Staoples for defendant in
'error.
M . JUSTICE MArrHEWs delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above reported, he continued;
The right of the plaintiff in error to-pay his license tax as a
lawyer in coupons, receivable for taxes, as described in his petition, is affirmed by ttle opinion and judgment in the case of
Royall-v. The State of 'irginia, just decided, ante, 572. His
remedy to have them received for verifi.ation and to recover
back the money paid for his license, is secured to him by the
terms of the act of January 14, 1882, which, for such purposes,
was upheld by this court as a valid enactment in, Antoni v.
Greenh*cw, 107 U. S. 769.
On the authority of these decisions

The judgment8 of the 8upreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
and of the Circuit Court of Fauquier County, Virginia,are reversed, and the cause is remanded to said Circuit
Court,with instructions to takefurtherproceedings according to law and in conformity with this opinion.

