OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Fiats.

CALL v. PALMER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued November 18, 1885.-Decded December 14, 1885.

When an agent, who is authorized by his principal to lend money for lawful interest, exacts for his own benefi6t more than the lawful rate, without
authority from or knowledge of his principal, the loan is not thereby ren-

dered usurious.
Where the promissor in a usurious contract makes it the consideration of a
new contract with a third person, not a party to the original contract, or to
the usury paid or reserved upon it, and the new contract is not a contrivance to evade the statutes against usury, the latter is not illegal or usurious.

This was a suit in equity brought by Henry H.. Palmer, the
appellee, against Asa C. Call, the appellant, to foreclose a
mortgage on the land of the latter given by him to secure his
note for $11,000.
The record disclosed the following facts: Albert C. Burnham, residing in Illinois, was a partner in the firm of Burnham,
Ormsby & Co., bankers, at Emmetsburg, Iowa. He had in his
hands for investment $10,000 belonging to his relative, one
Mrs. Davidson. Call applied in writing to Burnham, Ormsby
& Co. for a loan of $10,000. Soon after the application was
made Call met Burnham at Emmetsburg, Iowa, and they
entered upon i treaty for the loan. Burnham thinking Call's
proposition to be a favorable one, decided to accept it for Mrs.
Davidson, and, after his return to Illinois, sent the money to
Burnham, Ormsby & Co., at Emmetsburg, to be lent to ,Call
on the terms proposed by him. Burnham, Ormsby & Co. took
the note of Call dated in November, 187, for 610,000, payable
to A. C. Burnham, or order, on November 1, 1815, with Aten
per cent. interest, payable semi-annually, which Call secured
by a mortgage on certain of his real estate in Iowa. Call received from Burnham, Ormsby & Co. $8000 for his note, they
retaining $2000 as a compensation for their services in negotiating the loan. No part of this sum was paid to Mrs. Davidson-

CALL v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

she did not know that it had been deducted from the $10,000
lent by her to Call, and she never authorized Burnham or
Burnham, Ormsby & Co. to lend her money at a greater rate of
interest than ten per cent., or-to retain any commission or bonus
out of the sum lent. In short, she received no benefit from the.
usury and had no knowledge of it. A. 0. Burnham held the note
as the agent and trustee of Mrs. Davidson, but subject to her
control. Afterwards the appellee, Palmer, who lived in New
Jersey, bought of Burnham the $10,000 note of Call, with five
coupon notes 6f $500 each, not then due, given by the latter
for interest thereon. The notes were indorsed by Burnham
to Palmer in September, 1873, and Palmer paid therefor in cash
to Burnham for Mrs. Davidson the face of the principal note,
$10,000, and the accrued interest. In this purchase Palmer
acted for himself without the intervention of any agent whatever.
On Noveinber 13, 1875, the principal note being past due,
Call, in order to raise money to pay it, applied in writing to
Burnham, Ormsby & Co. to lend him $11,000 for five years.
They, as agents of Palmer, agreed to loan Call the money.
They took his note, dated November 1, 1875, for $11,000,
payable to the 6rder- of Palmer, on November 1, 1880, with
ten per cent. interest, payable semi-annually, secured by a
mortgage executed by Call on his lands in Iowa.
The consideration for the note was as follows: Palmer delivered up to Call the $10,000 note, which he had purchased
from Mrs. Davidson and released on the record the mortgage
made to secure it, and he sent to Burnham, Ormsby & Co.
$1000 in cash for Call. $500 of this $1000 was returned to
Palmer through Burnham, Ormsby & Co., in payment of one of
the coupon notes, for interest due on the Davidson note, and
Call consented that Burnham, Ormsby & Co., who, through
Ormsby, had procured for him the loan from Palmer, might
retain the remaining $500 as a bonus for their services. Palmer had no notice or knowledge that Call had not received the
full amount of the $10,000 for which he gave his note to Burnham for Mrs. Davidson until after the bringing of this suit,
nor any notice or knowledge that the said $500 had been re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tained by Burnham, Ormsby & Co. for their services in procuring the loan for $11,000, and did not in any manner
authorize its retention by Burnham, Ormsby & Co.
Call set up the plea of usury to the suit brought by Palmer
to foreclose his mortgage. The Circuit Court Qverruled the
defence, and entered a decree against Call for the amount due
on the note and for the foreclosure of the mortgage. The appeal of Call brings that decree under review.
2fr. Whiting S. Clark and Mr.J.-HarryCall for appellant
submitted on their brief.
.Xr.X. F. .lorri8 for appellee.
Mn. JusTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
The contention of Call is that the note given to Burnham
for Mrs. Davidson was inf-ected with usury in her hands and
in the hands of Palmer, her' indorsee, and that the note given
by Call to Palmer was also usurious, by reason of the retention
by Burnham, Ormsby & Co. of the $500 as a bonus for effecting the loan for Call.
The note which is the basis of this suit was made in Iowa,
and the contract must be governed by the laws of Iowa. De
-ol.fv. Johnson;10 Wheat. 367; Soudder v. Union Haliansl
Bank, 91 U. S. 406.
The Code of Iowa of 1873, title 14, ch. 2, see. 2077, provides:
"The rate of interest shall be six cents on the hundred by the
year on . . . money due or to become due when there is
a contract to pay interest and no rate is stipulated. In all the
cases above contemplated parties may agree in writing for payment of interest, not exceeding ten cents on the hundred by the
year."
"SEc. 2079. No person shall, directly or indirectly, receive
in money, goods, or things in actibn, or in any other manner,
any greater sum of value for the loan of money, or upon contract founded upon any bargain, sale, or loan of real or personal property, than is in this chapter prescribed.

CALL v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

SEo. 2080. If it shall be ascertained in

any suit brought on

any contract that a rate of interest has been coniracted for
greater than is authorized by this chapter, either directly or indirectly, in money or property, the same shall *ork a forfeiture of ten cents on the hundred by. the year upon the amount
of such contract to the school fund of the county in which.the
suit is brought, and the plaintiff shall have judgment'for the
principal sum, without either interest or costs.
"SEc. 2081. Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as
to prevent the proper assignee in good faith and without notice
of any usurious contract recovering against the usurer the full
amount of the consideration paid by him for such contract less
the amount of the principal money; but the same may be recovered of the usurer in the proper action before any court
having competent jurisdiction."
We are of opinion that under these sections, as construed
and administered by the Supreme Court of Iowa, the defence
of usury was not maintained.
The $10,000 lent to Call by Burnham was the money of
rs. Davidson, and the note taken therefor, though taken in
the name of Burnham, was her note. Conceding that Burn.
ham acted as her agent in making the loan, it does not follow
that Mrs. Davidson is chargeable with making a usurious
contract. It was said by this court in Bank of the United
States v. Waggener, 14 Pet. 378, 399: "That in construing the
usury laws the uniform construction in England has been (and
it is equally applicable here), that, to constitute usury, within
the prohibitions of the law, there must be aVL intention knowingly to contract for or to take usurious interest.
When the contract on its face is for illegal interest only, then
it must be proved that there was some corrupt agreement or
device or shift-to cover usury, and that it was in the full contemplation of the parties. . . . There must be an intent to
take illegal interest." To the same effect are the cases of
Lloyd v. S&ott, 4 Pet. 205 ; Condit v. Baldwin, 21 N. Y. 219;
and Jones v. Berryhill, 25 Iowa, 289.
It is clear, therefore, that Mrs. Davidson cannot be charged
with taking or reserving usurious interest, unless she was bound

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

by the acts of her agent, Burnham. But she was not so bound.
It is settled that, when an agent who is authorized by his principal to lend money for lawful interest exacts for his own
benefit more than the lawful rate, without authority or knowledge of his principal, the loan is not thereby rendered usurious.
Dagnatl v. Tfigley, 11 East, 43; Solarte v. MAelville, 7 B. & C.
430; Baretto v. Snowden, 5 Wend. 181; Conast v. Baldwin,
21 N. Y. 219 ; Bell-. Day, 32 N. Y. 165 ; Conover v. Fan lifater,
18 N. J. Eq. (3 C. E. Green), 481, 486 ; ]2oger8 v. Buckingham,
33 Conn. 81; Gokey v. Knapy, 44 Iowa, 32; WyZlig v. Awlt,
46 Iowa, 46; Brigham v. Xlfyer8, 51 Iowa, 397.
In Gokey v. XYnapp, ubi mupra, the Supreme Court of Iowa
said: "Although Danforth may have been the agent of Knapp
for the purpose of loaning the money, and may have contracted
for more than ten per cent. interest, yet the loan was not necessarily usurious. An authority to loan money at a legal rate of
interest does noi include, by implication, the authority to loan
it at an illegal rate. An authority to violate the law will never
be presumed. When Danforth exacted, in addition to the ten
per cent. interest which was embraced in the. note, something
for the benefit of P-mself, he went outside the legitimate purposes of his agency, and as Knapp did not authorize it expressly or by implication, he should not be affected thereby."
So in Brigham.v. Xyers, 51 Iowa, 397, it was held to be
"well settled that when an agent for loaning money takes a
bonus or commission to himself beyond the legal rate of interest, without the knowledge, authority, or consent of his principal, it does not affect with usury the loan of the principal."
These decisions seem to be founded on plain principles of
justice and right. For when two persons, the agent and the
borrower, conspire together and for their own purposes violate
the law, how can punishment for their acts be justly imposed
on the innocent third party, the lender?
The fact on which stress is laid by counsel for defendant,
that Burnham, in his treaty with Call, did not disclose his
agency, but professed to be acting for himself, appears t~o be
an immaterial circumstance. The misrepresentation of Burnham did not injuriously affect any right of Call, unless it can

CALL v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

be said that he was entitled to know who the real lender
was, so as to place himself in a position to plead usury against
her. It can hardly be contended that the penalties imposed.
for a violation of the usury laws are intended as a reward to
the borrower.
According to the principles of jurisprudence as generally administered, and especially as applied by the Supreme Court of
Iowa under the statute law of that State, if suit had been
brought by Mrs. Davidson herself to enforce the payment of
the note given by Call to Burnham for her, the defence of
usury would have failed. It cannot, therefore, hold as
against Palmer.
But the defence of usury set up in this suit must fail for
another reason. For it is settled that, where the promissor in
a usurious contract makes it the consideration of a new contract
with a third person not a party to the original contract, or to
the usury paid or reserved upon it, and the new contract is not
a contrivance to evade the statutes against usury, the latter is
not illegal or usurious. Cuthbert v. Haley, 8 T. R. 390 ; Bearce
v. Barstow, 9 Mass. 43, 48; Powell v. Vaters, 8 Cowen, 669;
REcnt v. W'alton, 7Wend. 256 ; Hfoughton v. Payne,26 Conn. 396.
This rule is recognized by the Supreme Court of Iowa. Thus,
in TFendlebone v. Pakq, 18 Iowa, 546, it was held in substance
that when the maker of a usurious note, which was secured by a
deed of trust, borrowed money of a third party to pay the
same, and instead of executing new securities for the money so
borrowed, caused the note to be transferred by the payee to
the lender as evidence and security for the new debt, the note
was not tainted with usury in the hands of the second holder.
The authorities cited are conclusive against Call on both the
grounds noticed. As the propositions upon which Palmer relies
to defeat the plea of usury have both been sustained by the
Supreme Court of Iowa while the present law against usury
was in force, it is unnecessary to construe or discuss the statute.
The result of the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State
is, that there is nothing in the statutes of Iowa which upon th
facts of this case, is a bar to the relief demanded by Palmer in
his bill.
Decree affirmed.

