OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. SPIEGEL.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION FROM THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK.
Submitted December 11, 1885.-Decided January 11, 1886.
It is no offence against § 12 of the internal revenue act of March 1, 1879, to
have in one's possession a cancelled stamp, or a stamp which has been used,
or which purports to have been used upon any cask or package of imported
liquors, unless the same was removed from, the cask or package by some
person intentionally, without being defaced or destroyed at the time of the

removal.
The difference between § 12 of the act of March 1,1879, 20 Stat. 842, and Rev.
Stat. § 3324, shown.

The defendant was indicted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York for an
alleged offence set out in the first count of the indictment, the
other three being substantially similar, as follows:
"The jurors of the United States of America within and for
the district and circuit aforesaid, on their oaths, present that
Morris Spiegel, late of the city and county of New York, in
the district and circuit aforesaid, yeoman, heretofore, to wit,
on the eighteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and eighty-three, at the southern district of New York, and within the jurisdiction of this court,
did feloniously, knowingly, and fraudulently have in his possessibn a certain United States stamp of the kind and description provided and required by law 'to b6 affixed to packages
containing distilled spirits imported into the United States in
packages, the said stamp being then and there in form as prescribed by the Secretary of, the Treasury, and numbered in
figures as follows: '350,460_>' a more particular description of
which said stamp is to the jhrors as yet unknown, which said
stamp had been heretofore removed from a certain package
which had contained imported spirits, to wit, brandy, and
which said stamp had not been defaced and destroyed at the
time of such removal, then and there against the peace of the
United States, andtheir dignity, and- contrary to the form of

UNITED STATES v. SPIEGEL.
Statement of Facts.

the statute of the said United States in such case made and
provided."
The indictment was founded upon provisions contained in
the act of March 1, 1879, "to amend the laws relating to internal revenue," 20 Stat. 327, 342, the 11th section of which provides as follows:
"That all distilled spirits, wines, and malt liquors, imported
ii- pipes, hogsheads, tierces, barrels, casks, or- other similar
packages, shall be first placed in public store or bonded warehouse, and shall not be removed therefrom until the same shall
haive been inspected, marked, and branded by a United
States customs gauger, and a stamp affixd to each package,
indicating the date and particulars ofsugbinspection; and the
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authbrized to presoribe the
form of, and provide, the requisite stamps, and to make all
regulations which he may deem necessary and proper for
carrying the foregoing requirements into effect."
A d sebtion 12, so far as relevant, provides:
"!Every cask or other package from which the stamp for
imported -liquors reA ired l y this act to be placed thereon shall
not be effaced, oliterated, or destroyed, on emptying such
package, shall be' forfeited, and the same may be seized by any
officer -of interial revenue wherever found; and'all the provisions and penalties of section thirty-three hundred and
twenty-four of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to empty casks or packages from which the marks,
brands, or stamps have not been ,effaced or obliterated, and
relating to the removal of stamps from packages, and to having in possession any stamps so removed, shall apply to the
stamps for imported spirits herein provided for, .and to the
casks or other packages on which such stamps shall have been
used."
Section 3324 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in § 12 of
the foregoing act, is in these words:
"Every person who empties or dravs off, or causes to be
emptied or drawn off, any distilled spirits from a cask or package bearing any mark, brand, or stamp required by law, shall at
the time of emptying such cask or package, efface and obliterate

OCTOBER TERMA, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

said mark, stamp, or brand. Every such cask or package from
which said mark, brand, or stamp is not effaced and obliterated
as herein required, shall be forfeited to the United States, and
may be seized by any officer of internal revenue wherever
found. And every railroad company or other transportation
company, or person who receives or transports, or has in possession with intent to transport, or with intent to cause or procure to be transported, any such empty cask or package, or
any part thereof, having thereon any brand, mark, or stamp,
required by law to be placed on any cask or package containing distilled spirits, shall forfeit three hundred dollars for each
such cask or package, or any part thereof, so received or transported, or had in possession with the intent aforesaid; and
every boat, railroad car, cart, dray, wagon, or other vehicle,
and all horses and other animals used in carrying or transporting the same, shall be forfeited to the United States. Every
person who fails to efface and obliterate said mark, stamp, or
brand, at the time of emptying such cask or package, or who
receives any such cask or package, or any part thereof, with
the intent aforesaid, or who transports the same, or knowingly aids or assists therein, or who removes any stamp pro.
vided by law from any cask or package containing, or which
had contained, distilled spirits, without defacing and destroying the same at the time of such removal, or who aids or
assists therein, or who has in his possession any such stamp so
removed as aforesaid, or has in his possession any cancelled
stamp, or any stamp which has been used, or which purports
to have been used, upon any cask or package of distilled
spirits, shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and shall be fined
not less than five hundred dollars nor more than ten thousand
dollars, and imprisoned not less than one year nor more than
five years."
The case was brought into this court by the following certificate:
"At a stated term of the Circuit Court of the United States
of America for the Southern District of New York, in the
second circuit, begun and held at the United States court-

UNITED STATES v. SPIEGEL.
Statement of Facts.

rooms, in the city of New York, on the third Monday of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight huq@red and
eightyfour"Present, the honorable William J. Wallace, the honorable
Charles L. Benedict, judges.
"The United States
Morris Spiegel.
"This case coming on to be heard at this term. before judgment upon the verdict of guilty, upon. a motion in arrest of
judgment and also upon a motion for a new trial, before the
two. judges above mentioned, at soch hearing the following
questions odcurred:
"First. Whether the indictiment states an offence created by
the laws of the United States.
"Second. Whether in a prosecution for having possession of
3tamps removed from i-iported liquors, instituted under the
laws of 1879, ch. 125, sec. 12, it. is necessary for the Government, in addition to proving thatLthe stamps in question had
been removed from casks containing imported spirits, also to
prove-that such stamps had been so removed by some person.
"Third. The prosecution on the trial having failed to prove
that the stamps named in the indictment were removed by a
person, was it or not error for the court to refuse to direct the
jury to acquit the defendant on the ground that the prosecution had not proven an offence under the statute.
"Fourth. Whether or not the offer on the part of the defence to prove that the stamps named in the indictment fell
accidentally from the casks and were not removed by any person was properly overruled.
"Fifth. Whether the exception taken to that portion of the
charge t6 the jury where it was said : ' It is sufficient to make
the possession of the stamps unlawful if they came off such
casks without being destroyed, whether they came off by accident or design,' was properly overruled.
"Sixth. Whether or not it was error to refuse to charge as
requested by the defendant as follows: IIf you believe the
Government has failed to prove the stamps named in the inVOL. cxvI-18

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1885.
Opirion of the Court.

dictments were removed by a person or persons from casks
containing, or which had contained, imported distilled spirits,
your verdict should be for the defendant, as an accidental, or
by action of the weather, falling or coming off of these stamps
and possession thereafter by defendant will not constitute an
offence under this statute.'
"Seventh. Whether in a prosecution for having in possession stamps removed from casks of imported spirits in violation
of the laws of 1879, ch. 125, see. 12, it is necessary for the prosecution to aver that the stamps so removed had been removed
by some person.
":Eighth. Whether the indictment is sufficient to warrant
judgment upon the verdict.
"In respect to each of which questions the judges aforesaid
were divided in opinion.
"Wherefore, at the same term, upon request of the United
States attorney, they have caused the points above stated to
be certified, under'the seal of this court, together with a copy
of the indictment and an abstract of the record, to the Supreme
Court of the United States for final decision according to law.
"WM. J. WALLAOE.
"( CHAs. L. B

'

EDIcT."

.Mr. A8sistant Ato ney-General .Maury for plaintiff.
3Lif. ]iillian P. Fiero for defendant.
MR. JUsTIcE MATrHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language above reported, he
continued:
The twelfth section of the act of March 1, 1879, does not define the offence of removing stamps from packages of imported
liquors, or of having-in possession stamps so removed, except
by adopting the pr6visions of Rev. Stat. § 3324, defining such
offences in relation to stamps upon packages of other distilled
spirits, not imported, and applying them in the case of imported
liquors. In doing this its language is that of reference merely,
and not of definition. For the precise and statutory descrip-

UNITED STATES v. SPIEGEL.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the offence described we must have recourse to the
words of Rev. Stat. § 3324, in the context there found, there
being nothing in the act of 1879 showing an intention to qualify their original meaning.
Referring for that purpose to the section of the Revised
Statutes in question, we find that the felonies therein defined
are as follows:
1. The removal by any person of any stamp provided by law
from any cask or package containing, or which had contained,
distilled spirits without defacing and destroying the same at
the time of such removal, or aiding or assisting therein.
2. Having in possession any such stamp so removed as aforesaid.
3. Having in possession any cancelled stamp, or any stamp
which has been used, or which purports to have been used,
upon any cask or package of distilled spirits.
Of these the offences described in the last division are not
adopted by the act of March 1, 1879, and applied to casks or
packages of imported liquors. It is not an offence, therefore,
under this act for one merely to have in his possession any
cancelled stamp provided by law to be affixed to each package
of imported liquors, or any stamp which has been used on such
package, or which purports to have been so used. To constitute the offence of unlawfully having in possession any such
stamps they must have been removed from the package on
which they were once placed without being defaced and destroyed at the time of such removal. But every such stamp,
once in use upon such package, to come afterwards into the
possession of a person, must in one sense have been removed
that is, must in some way and by some means have ceased to
be affixed to the package on which it was used, and have become detached and separated from it. This may have happened without the agency of a human will, by mere accident,
or as the effect of unintelligent causes, and without design on
the part of any person.
But it is not in this sense, that possession of removed stamps
is made an offence in the previous clause of the section; for so
to construe it would be to obliterate the statutory distinction

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

between the two crimes, that of having in possession removed
stamps, and of having in possession used stamps. A stamp,
once in use, may have accidentally fallen off the package, yet
afterwards to have it in possession is an offence under § 3324.
But it is not an offence under the act of March 1, 1879. To
have in possession stamps that have been removed, without at
the time of removal having been defaced and destroyed, is an
offence under both laws, one in the case of domestic distilled
spirits, the other in that of imported liquors. The removal,
therefore, which descibes *a removed stamp, possession of
which is thus made unlawful, must be a designed removal
from the package by human agency, without defacing and destroying it at the time; such removal as by the first division of
the, described offences, constitutes the guilty act of the person
removing it. It is the possession of such a stamp, " so removed
as aforesaid," in the language of the clause defining the offence,
'that must be shown to constitute guilt; that is, possession of
a stamp, not inerely once used and afterwards found and taken
into possession, but possession of a stamp, which some person,,
although he may be unknown, has removed intentionally and
by'design, and failed, by neglect or otherwise, at the time of
removal, to deface and destroy. So to remove such a stamp is
one offence; to aid and assist in such a removal is another; the
third is, to have in possession such a stamp, "so removed as
aforesaid;" and these are all of that class of offences embraced
by the 12th section of the act of March 1, 1879.
It follows, from this view of the law, that the indictment in
the present case is substantially defective, because it does not
set out an offence under the statute. It does not describe the
crime intended in the language of the act, inasmuch as it does
not charge that the defendant had in his possession a stamp of
the kind and description mentioned, which stamp had been
theretofore removed in the manner prohibited by the law; that
* is, by some person, without defacing and destroying the same at
the time of such removal. 'It also follows that whatever presumptions may arise as to the manner of removal, when
properly charged, from the circumstances in proof acqompanylug the fact of possession, it is competent for the defendant to

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Syllabus.

introduce evidence in explanation of those circumstances, and
tending to show that the stamp in question was not removed
by any person, without defacing and destroying the same at
the time of removal, but was in fact detached and removed
from the cask or package without human agency, and by the
accidental intervention of other causes.
Proceeding to dispose of the questions certified specifically,
we answer the first, fourth, fifth and eighth questions in the
negative, and the seventh in the affirmative. The second,
third and sixth questions we decline to answer, because the
answers given to the other questions necessarily dispose of the
whole case, and because we cannot answer them without a
more complete statement of the facts on which they are supposed to have arisen than is furnished by the present record.
Tie cause -is remanded, with directions to takefurther proceedings therein, not inconsistentwith this opinion ; and it
is so ordered.

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

inW EA

s!PSHIRM.

Argued April 7, 8, 18SS.-Decided January 4, MSS.
A service of citation of a writ of error to a court of a State, made upon the defendant in error in another State by the marshal of the latter State, is an
irregularity which can only be taken advantage of by motion to dismiss
made promptly, on an appearanec3 limited to that special purpose.
Upon a writ of error to a State court, the question whether on the death of a
party after judgment another party was properly substituted in that
court, before the suing out of the writ of error, is a question of practice
which the State court has exclusive right to determine, and is not reviewable here.
This court, upon writ of error to the highest court of a State, takes judicial
notice of the law of another State, where by the local law that court takes
judicial notice of it.
Under Art. IV. section 1 of the Constitution, and . 905 of the Revised Statutes,
a judgment recovered in one State against two joint defendants, one of
whom has been duly summoned and the other has not, and which is valid
and enforceable by the law of that State against the former alone, will
support an action against him in another State.

