WELLS v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CH=EF JUSTICE WATE delivered the opinion of the
court.
There is nothing in this record from which it can fairly be
inferred that the value of the matter in dispute exceeds five
thousand dollars. The suit was ejectment, begun in a State
court and removed to the Circuit Court of the United States,
for a lot in Pensacola and the profits thereof since January 1,
1880, of.the yearly value of five hundred dollars. The value
of the lot is not stated in any of the pleadings, but in the petition for the removal of the suit it is put at "more than five
hundred dollars." The recovery was of the lot and rent at
fifteen dollars per month from January 1, 1880, until March 1,
1883, or five hundred and seventy dollars in all. If this rental
is to be taken as an indication of the value of the property, it
certainly must be less than our jurisdictional limit. As it rests
on the plaintiffs in error to show our jurisdiction either from
the record or by affidavits, and this has not been done.
[ie 'writ of error is dismisedfor want of jursdietion.

WELLS & Others v. WILKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

FOR THE

Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 11, 1886.

The court receives affidavits from plaintiffs in error, and counter affidavits
from defendants in error, to determine the value of tracts of land sued for
in cjectment (neither pleadings nor evidence in the record showing it), and
dismisses the case.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3&. J. D. Tqomjaon for plaintiffs in error.
.fr. 0. C. Yonge, Se 'r, for defendant in error.
Mit. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court
These are suits in ejectment, each for a separate and distinct

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

part of a lot in Pensacola. A judgment was rendered in each
,case for the recovery of the premises sued for in that case.
Neither the pleadings nor the evidence found in the records
show the value of the property, but on suing out the writs of
error the plaintiffs in error in each case filed two affidavits to
the effect that the value was more than $.5000.' Since the cases
were docketed here, however, the defendant in error has filed
counter affidavits which prove beyond all doubt that this is a
mistake, and that the value in every one of the cases is very
much less than our jurisdictional limit.
The writs of error are consequently all dismissed for want
ofjurisdiction.
Goldstucker & Another v. Wilkins. Wells & Others v. Wilkins. Wells & Others v. Wilkins. Wrells & Others v. Wilkins.
Wells & Another v. Wilkins. All in error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Florida. These
cases were all submitted at the same time, and by the same counsel, with Wells v. Wilkins reported above, and are, for the reasons
given in the above opinion, all
.Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
A-PPEAL. FROM THE COuRT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1886.

Under the provisions of the act of July16, 1862, 12 Stat. 586, ch. 183, ยง16, an
offcer of the navy of a class subject by law or regulaiton to examination
higher grade, was not entitled to be examined until
before promotion to a,
his tarn for promotion had arrived, or wds near at hand.
If a naval officer wai delayed in promotion for want of examination, and the
examination'was delayed by reason of absence on duty when entitled to promotion, the act of July 16, 1862, gave him the righ.t to have the increased
pay of the new grade begin when the examination should have taken place.

George, P. Hunt, the appellant, a chief engineer in the navy,
brought this suit in the Court of,Claims to recover a balance of
pay due hin, as he alleged, from the United States.

