OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

criminal in its nature, it grows out of the suit to which the
person proceeded against is a party and actually represented
by an attorney. Ordinarily a corporation has in such a case a
right to service of an order to show cause upon some officer or
agent, but if its officers or agents keep themselves out of the
way for the express purpose of avoiding su6h a service, it cannot justly complain if service on its attorney is made the equivalent of that which its agents by their wrongful acts have made
impossible. The same principle applies here that governed this
court in Reynolds v. United States, 98 IT. S. 145, 158, where it
was held that, although the Constitution gives an accused person the right to a trial at which he shall be confronted with"
the witnesses against him, yet, if a witness was absent by his.
own wrongful procurement he could not complain if competent evidence was admitted to supply the place of that which
he kept away. It was said the Constitution "grants him the
privilege of being confronted with the witnesses against him,
but if he voluntarily keeps the witnesses away he cannot insist
on his privilege." So here the corporation was perhaps entitled to- service on its officers or agents, but as this was
prevented by their wrongful acts, the privilege cannot be insisted upon.
denied, but that to affirm is granted.
The motion to-dismims i8s

OREILLY & Another v. CAMPBELL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued December 4, 188.-Decided January 11, 188.

An appellate Territorial court, having before it findings of the court below
and new matter submitted by stipulation, makes no findings aaM sends up
the case without the new matter. Held, That it must be determined here
on those findings. Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, approved.
An objection to want of proof of a fact which, if taken at the trial, can be met
at once, must be taken there, or it will be considered as waived, except as
to matters going to the jurisdiction of the court.

O'REILLY v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.
When, taking findings of fact in a Territorial court in connection with the
pleadings, this court'can see enough, upon a fair construction of them, to
justify the judgment, it is immaterial that they are loosely drawn, with
intermixtures of fact and law.
The lcation of a vein or lode of mineral as running in one direction indicated by a notice, and for years not marked on-the surface and not developed, but subsequently found to run in a different direction and to dbver
another claim, located after the first on ground different from that indicated by the notice and developed by years of labor and great expend.
iture, both made without objection from the first locator, is invalid as
against the latter claim.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the c6urt.
.ltr. J. G. Su erland and .r. John 1. .XcBrIde for appellants submitted on their brief.
.A'r. Samuel Skllabarger for appellees argued the question
of jurisdiction; and on the merits submitted on his brief.
:M JUsTmE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was commenced in one of the District Courts of
Utah, and arose as follows:
The defendants, the owners of mining land in that Territory
known as the Omaha Lode, filed in 18717 a survey and plat of
it in the land office at Salt Lake City, and applied for a patent
thereof under section 2325 of the Revised Statutes. The plaintiffs are the owners of adjacent mining ground known as the
Highland Boy Lode, and within the prescribed time after the
commencement of proceedings for a patent, they filed an adverse claim to a portion of the land covered by the defendants'
survey, embracing nearly three acres. To determine the right
thereto this action was instituted. The District Court gave
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the disputed premises,
with the exception of a fractional part of an acre, and the Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the decision.
The District Court found certain facts and conclusions of
law upon which it based its judgment. The Supreme Court
had before it these findings, and also, by stipulation of the parties, a statement of the evidence prepared for a motion for a

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

new trial in the lower court. This statement is not embodied
in the record, nor were any findings filed by the Supreme
Court. Under the authority of Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S.
610, we must, therefore, take the findings of the lower court as
adopted by the Supreme Court and determine the case on their
sufficiency, considered in connection with the pleadings, to support the judgment.
The objections of the appellants, for which they ask a reversal of the judgment, may be reduced to two., first, that the
findings do not show that the plaintiffs are citizens of the
United States; and, second, that the findings of fact are confused, insufficient, and contradictory, and also mingled with
conclusions of .la*, instead of being separately stated as required by the statute of Utah.
It is true that the mineral lands of the United States are
open to exploration and purchase only by citizens of the
United States, or by those who have declared their intention
to become such; and had the objection been taken in the
court below that such citizenship of the plaintiffs had not been
shown, it might, if not obviated, have been fatal. There is,
however, nothing in the record to show that it was raised
below. Proof of citizenship, in proceedings of this kind, may
consist, in the case of an individual, of his own affidavit thereof,
and in the case of an association of persons unincorporated, of
the affidavit of their authorized agent, made upon his own
knowledge, or upon information and belief. Rev. Stat. ยง2321.
The objection to the want of proof of that fact, if taken below,
might have been met at once, if, indeed, the plaintiffs are citizens. The rule is general that an objection which might be
thus met must be taken at the trial or it will be considered as
waived, except as to matters going to the jurisdiction of the
court. The parties to this controversy own adjoining claims,
and it is probable that the citizenship of each was known to
the other, and, therefore, no proof on the subject was required.
Be that, however, as it may, the objection, in actions of this
kind, cannot be taken in this court for the first time.
As to the findings, it is true they are not drawn with skill
or precision; they are loose and somewhat confused. Facts

O'REILLY v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

and conclusions of law are sometimes mingled together contrary to the direction of the statute, creating the impression
that the findings were prepared under the pressure of other
duties, and did not receive the necessary care and attention.
But findings are not to be construed with .the strictness of special pleadings. It is sufficient if from them, all, taken together
with the pleadings, we can see enoughi upon a fair construction
to justify the judgment of the court, notwithstanding their
want of precision and the occasional intermitu.re of matters
of fact and conclusions of law. Defects of form should be
called to the attention of the trial court by the objecting party,
and the requisite correction of the findings would seldom be
denied.
The facts, which appear to be sufficiently established, are
substantially as follois: In March, 1870, the Omaha mining
claim was discovered by one M. R. Williams, and some'prospecting was then done by him for the vein or lode. Notice of
the location was posted at the time by him and eight others
associated with him, and on the 24th of June following it was
recorded in the records of the mining district. By it they
claimed two thousand feet along the lode, one thousand feet
in an easterly direction, and one thousand feet in a westerly
direction from the point at which they had a shaft. The claim
was not marked on the ground until 1877, and until then it.
was not pretended that the vein or lode ran in any other
course than east and west. But when the sur.vey was made,
preliminary to the application for a patent, it was claimed that
the vein ran northeast and southwest from the shaft. The vein
or lode did not appear on the surface of the ground, but when
its actual course was ascertained to be northeast and southwest, the survey was made to conform to it. The defendants
have succeeded to the rights of the original locators, and it is
found that in regard to work they and their grantors have
complied with the mining laws of the district and of the United
States so as to entitle them to the ground as originally located
and claimed.
In 1873 the plaintiffs and the parties through whom they
derive their title discovered a vein or lode on unoccupied land

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, which they called the Highland Boy Lode.
During the year they made an ineffectual attempt to locate it,
but it is found that the location "was perfected, made good
and marked on the surface in 1874 and a record thereof made."
Since then they have been continuously in the possession of it,
working and developing it, and have expended upon it in labor
and money several thousand dollars. At the time of its discovery and of its location in 1874, the defendants had not
ascertained the course of the vein or lode which they subsequently claimed to be covered by their Omaha location. When
they ascertained it they made their survey in accordance with
it, and included in it a portion of the claim taken up and located
by the predecessors of .the plaintiffs, embracing the premises in
controversy. The court found that the plaintiffs or their predecessors in interest had complied with the law of the mining
district and of the United States, and gave judgment in their
favor.
The question is, therefore, whether the location of a vein or
lode as running in a certain direction, but not marked on the
surface for years, nor developed, but.simply indicated by a notice,
will be allowed to prevail against a claim subsequently located
by another party on ground different from that thus indicated', after the latter has been developed by years of labor and
large expenditures, without objection by the first locators, because subsequent -explorations by them disclose the fact that
their 'vein runs in a different direction from what they supposed, .and in its true course covers the subsequent claim. We
do not think that the first claimants under these circumstances
can-appropriate the second claim. It is true the locators of the
Omaha claim intended to take the vein or lode, and were ignorant of its true direction. But it was incumbent upon them to
make explorations and ascertain its trua course, and indicate it
in some public and visible manner, so that others might not be
excluded from explorations on adjacent ground or be deprived
of the benefit of their labor. It is a rule among miners on the
public lands, so often brought to our attention and so often declared that we may speak 6f it as part of our judicial knowledge,
that.discovery and appropriation are the source of title to min-

CARRICK v. LAMAR.
Opinion of the Court.

ing claims, and that development by working is the condition
of their continued possession. Jenrnion v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453,
457; Jacmon v. Roby, 109 U. S. 440. This was the rule before Congress by its legislation sanctioned it. Four years after
the defendants had made their location the predecessors of the
plaintiffs took up the Highland Boy claim and for three years
they, or their successors, continuously worked and expended
money upon it without objection from the defendants or any
indication from them to the public that their own Omaha claim
was at all interfered with- It was too late afterwards to raise
the objection.
Jvedment aflrmed.

CARRICK v. LAVAR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued Jauuary 6, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1888.

In matters which require an executive officer of the United States to exercise
judgment or consideration, or which are dependent upon his discretion, no
rule will issue for a mandamus to control his action.
Whether the island in the Mississippi River opposite St. Louis, known as
Arsenal Island, shall be surveyed and brought into the market is a matter
within executive discretion and judgment.

This was an application to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a mandamus to require the Secretary of the
Interior to cause a survey to be made of an island in the Mississippi opposite St. Louis. 'Mandamus being refused, a writ of
error was sued out. The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. 17 Wllouglzy for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor-Gmnwralfor defendant in error.
MR. JusTicn- FrELDdelivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on writ of error to the Supreme

