OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

BRIDGEWATER IRON COMPANY v. LISSBERGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 3, 4, 1885.-Decided December 14, 1885.

A transfer for valuable consideration of shares in a Massachusetts manuf icturing corporation, not recorded as required by the statute of Massachusetts
of 1870, ch. 224, § 26, is valid against a subsequent attachment by a creditor having knowledge or notice of the transfer.

This was an action of tort, brought by a citizen of New York
against a manufacturing corporation established under the laws
of Massachusetts, for refusing to issue to him a certificate of
twenty shares of its capital stock.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that the defendant corporation in 187- accepted a new
charter from the Legislature of M[assachusetts, (Mass. Stat.
1874, ch. 26), which made it subject to the provisions of the
general act of 1870, ch. 224; that on August 10, 1877, George
B. Stetson, being the owner of these shares, executed to the
plaintiff a transfer of them, absolute in form, but intended as
collateral security for a debt due from him to the plaintiff, and
annexed the transfer to his certificate, and delivered both to
the plaintiff; and that on December 15, 1878, the plaintiff
tendered them to the defendant corporation, and duly deman(led that the transfer be recorded on its books and a new
certificate issued to him.
The defendant corporation introduced competent and urcontroverted evidence that on May 24, 1878, it brought an action
against George B. Stetson on a debt due to it from him, and
duly attached these shares on mesne process, and afterwards
obtained judgment and execution, under which the shares were
levied on and sold to the defendant in November, 1878.
To meet this, the plaintiff offered evidence tending to show
that, before the attachment, an agent of the plaintiff informed
a director of the defendant corporation of the transfer to the
plaintiff, and that the plaintiff wanted the corporation to know

BRIDGEWATER IRON CO. b. LISSBERGER.
Opinion of the Cot.

it; and the director mentioned it to Nahum Stetson, the defendant's treasurer, clerk, and business agent.
The defendant took no objection to the admission or sufficiency of this evidence, otherwise than by requesting the court
to instruct the jury that "if said evidence was competent to
prove a notice to said Nahum, or to put him on the inquiry
whether said shares had been transferred to the plaintiff, yet
no such notice was effectual to deprive the defendant of the
right as creditor to attach said shares as the-property of said
George B. Stetson, under the statutes of the State of Massachusetts."
The court declined so to rule; and instructed the jury "that
if they, upon the evidence, believed that said Nahum, being
the treasurer, clerk and business agent of the company, knew
or had notice that said George B. Stetson had conveyed said
shares to the plaintiff, prior to said attachment, the plaintiff
was entitled to recover."
To this instruction the defendant excepted, and, after verdict
and judgment for the plaintiff, tendered a bill of exceptions,
which was allowed.
.Mr. C arles A. WelcAt for plain4iff in error.
.r. Darwin E. Ware for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTICE GIUAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued :
The principal question argued by counsel, and the only onepresented by the bill of exceptions for decision, is whether a
transfer for valuable consideration of shares in a Massachusetts
manufacturing corporation, not recorded as required by the
statute of Massachusetts of 1870, ch. 224, § 26, is valid against
a subsequent attachment by a creditor having knowledge or
notice of the transfer.
That statute provides that "shares may be transferred by
the proprietor, by an instrument in writing under his hand,
which shall be recorded by the clerk of the corporation in a
book to be kept for that purpose;" and "the purchaser named

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in such instrument so recorded shall, on producing the same to
the treasurer, and delivering to him the former certificate, be
entitled to a new certificate." These provisions were re-6nacted
in the Public Statutes of Massachusetts of 1882, oh. 106, § 30,
and similar provisions had existed since 1809. Mass. Stats.
1808, ch. 65, § 4; 1829, ch. 53, § 4; Rev. Stats. 1836, ch. 38,
§ 12; Stat. 1846, ch. 45, § 1; Gen. Stats. 1860, ch. 60, § 13.
By a series of decisions of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, on which the plaintiff in error relies, it has been
held that these provisions, taken in connection with the contemporaneous statutes of that .State, authorizing and facilitating the attachment of such shares by creditors of the owner,
are not to be construed as intended merely for the donveffience
and benefit of the corporation, and the regulation of its relations to its stockholders; but are to be considered as in the
nature of a registry act, regulating the transfer of the stock as
to third persons,. and therefore preventing an unrecorded transfer from taking effect against a creditor afterwards attaching
the shares without notice of the transfer. Fisher v. Esex
Bank, 5 Gray, 373; Blanchard v. Dedham Gaslight Go., 12
Gray, 213 ; Sibley v. Q ti'sigamondBank, 133 Mass. 515, 521;
Central _YAational Bank v. Williston, 138 Mass. 244.
But the learied counsel for the plaintiff in error fails to show
that an unrecorded transfer of shares has ever been held invalid
as against a subsequent attachment by a creditor who has
notice or knowledge of the transfer. The language and the
reasoning of the opinions in the very cases that he cites clearly
imply the contrary. And under the early Massachusetts registry act of 1783, ch. 37, § 4, which provided that no unrecorded
deed of lands shotld "be good and effectual in law to hold
such lands against any other person or persons but the grantor
or grantors and their heirs only," it was always held that, the
intent of the statute being to give notice to subsequent purchasers and attaching creditors, a deed was valid, without record, against those who had notice or knowledge of it. FarmswortA v. Childs, 4 Mass. 637; Piest v. Rice, 1 Pick. 164.
Judgment affirmed.

