CONEY v. WINCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

CONEY & Another v. WINCHELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Submitted December 18, 1885.-Decided January 4,.1886.

In a suit in Connecticut for a strict foreclosure of a mortgage of real estate
brought against a grantee of the mortgagor, if the mortgagee seeks to
charge the mortgagor with any insufficiency in the appraised value of the
land to pay the mortgage debt. the latter is a necessary party to the suit
so as to prevent a removal of it to a Federal court by his grantee, if he
and the mortgagee are citizens of the same State.

This was an appeal from an order remanding a case to a
State court. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr.Simean
pellants.

. Baldwin and .-. John H. Whiting for ap-

.Xr. JoAn F Alling for appellee.
Ma. CmEF JusTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of- March 3, 1875, 18
Slat. 470, cb. 137, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed from a State court. The
facts are these:
. On the 10th of May, 1381, Peter R. Carll,
a citizen of Connecticut, gave his three notes to Alvred E. Winchell for $10,000, $6000 and $5000 respectively, all payable five years from
that date, with interest at six per cent. per annum. To secure
the payment he executed to Winchell a mortgage on certain
property in New Haven, Connecticut. He afterwards conveyed his "title, right and interest" in the mortgaged property to George E. Coney, a citizen of New York.
A statute of Connecticut, passed in 1878 and still in force,
is as follows:
" SEc. 1. The foreclosure of a mortgage shall be a bar to
any further suit or action upon the mortgage debt, note, or
obligation, unless the person or persons who are liable for the
payment thereof are made parties to such foreclosure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Coutt.

"Sxc. 2. Upon the motion of any party to a foreclosure, the
court shall appoint three disinterested -appraisers, who shall,
under oath, appraise the mortgaged property within ten days
after the time limited for redemption shall have expired, and
shall make written report of their appraisal to the clerk of the
court where said foreclosure was had, which report shall be a
part of the files of su6h foreclosure suit, and such appraisal
shall be final and conclusive as to the value of said mortgaged
property; and the mortgage creditor in any further suit or action upon tae mortgaged debt, note, or obligation, shall recover
only the difference between the value of the mortgaged property as fixed by such appraisal and the amount of his claim."
On the 16th of January, 1885, Winchell brought this suit
against both Carl1 and Coney in the Superior Court of lNew
Haven .County, Connecticut, for 1, "a foreclosure of said mortgage," and 2, "possession of the mortgaged premises." In his
bill he sets out the making of the notes and mortgage by Carll'
the conveyance of the mortgaged property by Carll to Coney;
a claim for $412.0 interest unpaid, and that Coney, "with the
said Carl,. is now in possession of the" property. Carl] and
Coney filed separate demurrers to the bill, and on the 9th of
May, 1885, which was in time, Coney petitioned for the removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States under
the second clause of ยง 2 of the act of 1875, on the ground
that there was in the suit a controversy wholly between himself, a citizen of New York, and Winchell, a citizen of Connecticut, which could be fully determined between them, and
as to which Carll was only a nominal party. On the presentation of this petition, the State court declined to proceed further
in the suit, but the Circuit Court, when the case was docketed
there, ordered it to be remanded. From that order this appeal
was taken.
In Ayres v. WM8wall, 112 U. S. 187, it was decided that in a
suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage by sale, in which it was
sought to charge the mortgage debtor with the payment of any
balaxice of the inortgage debt that might remain due after the
security was exhausted, the debtor was a necessary party, and
that, if his citizenship stood in the way, the suit could not be

CONEY v. WIfCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

removed, even though, were he not a party, the persons with
whom he had been joined, and to whom he had conveyed the
property after the mortgage, would be entitled to a removal.
Such a case we held did not fall within either the first or
second clause of ยง 2 of the act of 1875.
The principle of that case governs this. In Connecticut
mortgages are not foreclosed by a sale of the mortgaged property, but by strict foreclosure. If there is a failure to redeem
within the time limited in the decree, the mortgage debtor
remains liable for the debt, after deducting the value of the
property foreclosed. Under the old practice this value was
ascertained in the suit to collect the deficiency. In this connection counsel for the appellants say:
"In ordinary cases this suit might not be brought for four
or five years after the foreclosure, and, in case of non-negotiable notes, for ten or fifteen years. It was, therefore, often
difficult, in such suit, to ascertain the value of the property at
the time of foreclosure. To meet this difficulty the statute of
1878 was passed. It furnishes a way in which the value of the
mortgaged premises can be ascertained .atthe time the title becomes absolute; provides that such value so found shall be conclusive in any further suit upon the note ; authorizes the joining
of the maker of the note as a party, so that he can have an opportunity to obtain such appraisal, and be heard as to such
value, and bars any further suit against the maker, unless he is
so made a party."
And again:
"Before the statute, as now, the foreclosure of the property
reduced the obligation by the value of the property. By the
statute this value is to be ascertained by an appraisal, and it
is conclusively presumed to equal the obligation, unless the
maker of the note is given an opportunity to be heard as to
this appraisal. This gives him no interest in the property, no
equity of redemption to be extinguished, no right .whateverexcept the right to have ar appraisal. And the appraisal, and
only the appraisal, is made final and conclusive in the future
action on the obligation."
This is a suit brought to foreclose under the statute, that is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

to get the property without releasing the debtor from liability
for the debt over the value of the property, and in so doing to
fix the value. It is true there is not in the bill a prayer for
appraisal, but that is not necessary. Any party to the suit can
call for an appraisement by simply making a motion to that effect. The appraisement is one of the incidents of a suit for
foreclosure when the person liable for the payment of the debt
is a party. As in this case Carll, the mortgagor, conveyed the
land to Coney after the mortgage was made, Winchell in foret
closing had his election to sue Coney alone, or Coney and Carll

together. If he sued Coney alone, he would get the land, in
case it should not be redeemed, but Carli, upon the foreclosure,
would be discharged from all liability for the debt. If, however, he sued both Coney and Carll he *ould not only get
the land, 'out hold Carll for the full amount of the debt over
its value. He did elect to sue both. He has but a single
cause of action and that his mortgage. The relief he seeks is
a decree which shall give the foreclosure, and at the same time
save the liability of Caril for what may remain due on the
debt. This he cannot do unless he makes Carli a party, because
in such a suit the mortgage debtor has the right to have it determined to what extent the mortgage debt is paid by the foreclosure. To use again the argument of counsel, he is entitled
to an opportunity to obtain an appraisal and to be heard as to
the value of the foreclosed property. True, there can be no
recovery against him in the foreclosure suit for the balance
that may remain due, but the value of the mortgaged property
can be determined in a way that will conclude him when he is
sued for the debt. This being the case, he is not only a necessary but an indispensable party to a suit for the relief which is
asked in this case. The mere fact that he is made a party determines the character of the suit to be for foreclosure and the
saving of his liability for the debt. An adjudication of value
binding on him is within the scope of the bill, and as it may be
had upon mere motion as an incident to the decree of foreclosure which is prayed for, the suit is to be looked upon as
brought for that purpose with the rest. We can see no difference, so far as a right to removal is concerned, between a suit

SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD CO. v. WRIGHT. 231
Opinion of the Court.

for foreclosure which seeks a money decree against the mortgagor for a balance 6f the mortgage debt, and one in which
his liability for the debt is to be saved, and the value of the
mortgaged property .aplied in payment to be conclusively set-

tled against him.
.The order remanding t~w

8&it 'i8aJirmed.

SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. WRIGHT.
SAME v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

Argued December 16, 1.--Dec'ded Janary 4, 188.

The Southwestern Railroad Company of Georgia as to those parts of its road
which extend from Americus to Albany ; from Albany to Arlington; and
from Cuthbert to Eufaula, is subject to the general laws of the State for
the taxation of railroads, without regard to the exemption in its original
charter.
It is again decided that the surrender of the power to tax, when claimed, must
be shown by clear and unambiguous language, admitting of no reasonable
construction consistent with the reservation of the power.

These were suits in equity to restrain the collection of taxes.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Richard F. Lyon and ,r. A. _B. Lawton for plaintiff
inerror.
.Mr.Samuel Barnett and AMr. Olifford Ander8on for defendants in error.
delivered.theopinion of the court.
These suitsrelate to the liability of the Southwestern Railroad Company, a Georgia corporation, for taxes on different
parts of its railroad, and the Federal question involved arises
MR. C=F JUSTIcE WArr

