OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued December 8, 1884.-Decided January 18, 1886.

A tax imposed by a statute of a State upon an occupation, which necessarily
discriminates against the introduction and sale of the products of another
State or against the citizens of another State, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The police power of a State to regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors and
preserve the public health and morals does not warrant the enactment of
laws infringing positive provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
A State statute which imposes a tax upon persons who, not residing or having
their principal place of business within the State, engage there in the business of selling or soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors to be shipped
into the State from plc, s without it, but does not impose a similar tax
upon persons selling or soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors manufactured in the State. is a regulation in restraint of commerce repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States: and the defect is not cured by a subsequent enactment, imposing a greater tax upon all persons within the State
engaged in the business of manufacturing or selling such liquors therein.

In 1875 the legislature of the State of Michigan passed an
act relating to the sale of liquors in that State to be shipped
into the State by persons not residing therein, known as Act
No. 226 of the Session Laws of 1875, of which the following is

a copy:
"AN AcT to impose a tax on the business of selling spirituous
and intoxicating, malt, brewed, and fermented liquors in
the State of Michigan to be shipped from without this
state.
"SE TION 1. Te Peole of the State of Michiga, enact:
That every person who shall come into, or being in this state,
shall engage in the business of selling spirituous and intoxicating, malt, brewed, or fermented liquors to citizens or residents
of this state, at wholesale, or of soliciting or taking orders from
citizens or residents of. this state for any such liquors, to be
shipped into this state, or furnished, or supplied at wholesale
to any person within this state, not having his, their, or its

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.
Statement of Facts.

principal place of business within this state, shall, on or before
the fourth Friday of June in each year, pay a tax of three
hundred dollars if engaged in selling, or soliciting, or taking
orders for the sale of such spirituous and intoxicating liquors,
and one hundred dollars for malt, brewed, or fermented liquors.
Such tax shall be paid to the Auditor General and be by him
paid into the state treasury, to the credit of the general fund.
"SEc. 2. Upon the payment of such tax, the Auditor General
shall issue to such person a receipt therefor, and in case of loss
thereof, a duplicate, when required by the person to whom the
original receipt was issued. Every person making sales, or
soliciting, or taking orders, as in the first section of this act
provided, shall exhibit such receipt to every person to whom he
makes sale, or from whom he takes or solicits orders for such
liquors, and shall exhibit such receipt to any supervisor, justice
of the peace, sheriff,, under sheriff or deputy sheriff, city or
village marshal, chief of police, policeman, or constable, when
required so to do, during business hours.
"1SEc. 3. Any person liable to pay any tax under this act,
who shall sell any liquors, or solicit, or take orders for liquors
to be shipped from without this state to any person within this
state, furnished or stfpplied by a person, copartnership, association, or corporation, not resident in, or having his, their, or its
principal place of business within this state, without the tax
herein provided for having been paid, and having in his possession and exhibiting the receipt therefor, or a duplicate thereof;
and any person residing or being in this state who shall purchase liquors from a person liable to pay a tax under this act,
who has not paid such tax, or shall give an order for liquors to
such person liable to pay a tax under this act, which order is
to be filled, and such liquors are to be shipped from without
this state to a person within this state, furnished or supplied by
a person, copartnership, association, or corporation, not resident
in or having his, their, or its principal place of business within
this state, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars; and in
default of payment thereof, shall be imprisoned not less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Stat~ment of Facts.

ten nor more than ninety days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
"SEC. 4. Selling at wholesale shall be deemed to mean and
include all sales of such spirituous and intoxicating, malt,
brewed or fermented liquors in quantities of five gallons or
over, or one dozen quart bottles or more, or soliciting orders
therefor at any one time of any person."
In addition to the foregoing act there was another independent law in operation in Michigan in :1883, being an act passed
May 31, 1879, entitled "An act to provide for the taxation of
the business of manufacturing and selling spirituous and intoxicating, malt, brewed, or fermented liquors," and to repeal a
previous act for the same purpose, passed in 1875. Sess. Laws
of 1879, 293. The act of 1879 was amended by an act
passed May 19th, 1881. Howell's Annotated Statutes, § 1281.
As amended it reads as follows:
"§ 1281. See. 1.In all townships, cities, and villages of this
state there shall be paid annually the following tax upon the
business of manufacturing, selling, or keeping for sale, by all
persons whose business, in whole or in part, consists in selling
or keeping for sale or manufacturing distilled or malt liquors,
or mixed liquors, as follows: Upon the business of selling or
offering for sale spirituous or intoxicating liquors, or mixed
liquors, by retail, or any mixture or compound, excepting proprietary patent medicines, which in whole or in part consists of
spirituous or intoxicating liquors, the sum of three hundred
dollars per annum; upon the business of selling or offering for
sale, by retail, any malt, brewed, or fermented liquors, two
hundred dollars per annum; upoti the business of selling
brewed or malt liquors at wholesale, or at wholesale and retail, two hundred dollars per, annum; upon the business of
selling spirituous or intoxicating liquors at wholesale, or at
wholesale and retail, five hundred dollars per annum; upon
the business of manufacturing brewed or malt liquors for sale,
if the quantity manufactured be less than fifteen hundred barrels, sixty-five dollars per annum, and twenity-five dollars upon
each additional thousand barrels, or part thereof; upop. the
business of manufacturing for sale spirituous or intoxicating

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.
Statement of Facts.

liquors, five hundred dollars per annum. No person paying a
tax on spirituous or intoxicating liquors, under this act, shall
be liable to pay any tax on the sale of malt, brewed, or fermented liquors. No person payifig a manufacturer's tax on
brewed or malt liquors, under this act, shall be liable to pay awhole'ale dealer's tax on the same." Howell's Annotated Statutes of Mich., 378.
It was not contended that this act altered or affected the act
of 1875, on which the prosecution against Walling was based, except so far as it might have the effect of removing the discrimination against the citizens or products of other States, which
would be produced by the act of 1875 standing alone. The
counsel for the State contended that the effect of the act of
1881 was, not only to annul any such discrimination, but to
create a discrimination against the citizens and products of
Michigan in favor of the citizens and products of other States.
Whether this was so is a question discussed in the opinion.
In June, 1883, Walling, the plaintiff in error, was prosecuted
under the act of 1875, No. 226, being charged in one count of
the complaint with selling at wholesale without license, and in
another count with soliciting and taking orders for the sale,
without license, and at wholesale, of spirituous and intoxicating
liquors, to be shipped from out of the State, to wit, from Chicago, in the State of Illinois, into the State of Michigan, and
furnished and supplied to citizens and residents of said State by
Cavanaugh & Co., a firm doing business in Chicago, not residents of Michigan and not having its principal place of business
therein. The prosecution was instituted in the Police Court of
Grand Rapids, and Walling was convicted and sentenced to
pay a fine, and to be imp'risoned in default of payment. :He
appealed to the county Cicuit Court, in which the case was
tried by a jury, who, under the charge of the court, rendered a
verdict of guilty. Exceptipns being taken, the case was carried
'to the Supreme Court of Michigan, which adjudged that there'
was no error in the proceedings, and directed judgment to be
entered against the respondent. The decision of the Supreme
Court was brought here by writ of error.
By the bill of exceptions it appeared that one Chapin Pease was
voL. cxvx-29

OCTOBER TERM. 185.
Statement of Facts.

called as a witness for the prosecution, and was asked what business the respondent (Walling) was engaged in. The respondent objected to the giving of testimony under the complaint, on
the ground that the act of 1875 was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and therefore void; that it was in colflict with paragraph 3 of Section 8, Article 1, giving Congress
power to regulate commerce, &c.; paragraph 2 of Section 10,
Article 1, prohibiting ex

2

08t fceato laws and laws impairing

the obligation of contracts; and paragraph 1 of Section 2,
Article 4, which declares that "the citizens of each state shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several states." The defendant also objected to the admission
of any testimony, because the law referred to is in conflict with
the State constitution. All the objections' were overruled, and
exceptions were duly taken. The witness then testified that
Walling, on June 1, 1883, and before and since that time, was
engaged as a traveling salesman for the firm of Cavanaugh &
Co., of Chicago, Illinois, (shown to be wholesale liquor merchants residing in Chicago,) and that his business was that of
selling liquor at wholesale for that firm; that the place of business of Cavanaugh & Co. was in Chicago, and that the firm
had no place of business in Michigan; that on the first of June,
1883, Walling solicited the witness's order for a barrel of whiskey to be shipped to him by Cavanaugh & Co. from the city of
Chicago, and from without the State of Michigan; that witness gave his order for a barrel of whiskey, and the same was
shipped to him by said firm from Chicago, and he paid for the
same, and that Walling exhibited to witness no receipt from
the Auditor-General of Michigan to shove.that he bad paid the
tax required by the statute. It was also shown that Walling
had never paid any such tax nor received any such receipt.
The evidence being closed, the respbndent, on the ground of
the alleged conflict of the law with the Constitution of the United
States, made various distinct applications to the court: first, to
strike out the evidence and grant him a discharge; secondly,
to charge the jury that the statute of 1875 was in conflict with
fhe Constitution of the United States and therefore void, and,
therefore, that their verdict should be not guilty; thirdly to

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

charge that, under the facts disclosed, the jury should find the
respondent not guilty. These applications were severally refused
and exceptions taken. The court then charged the jury that
the act in question must be regarded as within the power of
the legislature, and as being a valid statute; and that if they
should find that the evidence sustained the allegations of the
complaint they must find the respondent guilty; to which
charge the respondent excepted.
XAfr. 0. TV. Powers for plaintiff in error.
2r. J. J *FanRiper, Attorney-General of the State of
Michigan, for defendant in error.
I. The statute in question does not conflict with the provision in the Constitution which grants to Congress the power to
regulate commerce among the several States. Art. I., sec. 8,
Par. 3. It is well settled that a statute taxing or prohibiting
the sale of intoxicating liquors is not a regulation of commerce,
but an exercise of police power. Commonwealth v. Kimball,
24 Pick. 359, 363; -Bartemeyei,v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; License
Cases, 5 How. 504; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 205; _Pas8enger Cases, 5 How. 283. In the License Cases almost every
phase of the liquor question, and the power of States to legislate on it was fully discussed, and their absolute control over
it was settled. In considering the questions raised in this case
it is important to remark that the tax is not to be levied solely
upon non-residents, but upon every person coming into or being in the State, and engaging in the business. There is no
unjust discrimination against citizens of other States. It is
true that in order to be liable under the statute, the person
soliciting orders or selling must do so for persons or corporations non-resident and not having their principal place of business in the State. But the tax is not upon the non-resident
party who ships the goods, but upon the person soliciting
whether resident or non-resident, and is therefore not a tax
upon commerce, within the decisions cited above. It is a tax
upon occupations, not upon commerce. The essential right of
the State to levy and collect such a tax is xecognized in the

OCTOBER TERM, i885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

following cases: AfcCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,428;

Brown v. Mfaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444; Lwcene Cases, 5
How. 504, 593; NVathan v. Louisiana,8 How. 73, 80; Hiln
v. Zott, 8 Wall. 1.48; .Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676.
It may be claimed that in this case it is a tax upon the business and not upon the individual, and is therefore an attempt
to regulate commerce among the several States; and that
Brown v. .Jaryland, above cited.settles the point that taxation
upon the individual is a tax upon the business; but upon examination of this case it will be found that the facts are not similar. The State of Maryland required every impo 'ter of goods
to pay a 1icense fee of fifty dollars before he should be permitted to sell a package of in~orted goods. This was held to
be a tax upon importation. It cannot be maintained that a
tax like that imposed by Michigan upon persons soliciting
orders for liquors to be shipped into the State by non-residents,
stands upon the same footing as the 'tax declared unconstitutional in Brown v. Maryland. We tax neither importer'nor
imports. It is well settled that the terms "ilnports" and "exports" do not refer to goods brought from one State into
another. Woodruz " v. Parham,$ Wall. 123; Zicense Cases,
above cited. The latter cases even settle that a State may
require a license to sell spirits of foreign manufacture, and that
a State statute imposing a tax for such license is not a regulation of commerce; but an exercise of the reserved police power.
See the remarks-of McLean, T., in the PasengerCases on page
283, 7 How.; and of Marshal, 0. J., in Gi3bon8 v. Ogden, on
page 208, 9 Wheat.
In Pierce v. NYew Ha sire,5 How.593, the third of the
license cases, the power of a State to tax goods brought from,
and manufactured in another State, was fully discussed and
settled. The defendants in that case imported a barrel of gin
from the State of -Massachusetts to the State of New Hampshire, and there sold it in the same barrel, and claimed that
they could not be required to" pay a license tax upon such sale.
The court, however, sustained the law of New Hampshire, and
held that the statute imposing the tax was not in conflict with
the constitution, distinguishing the case from Brown v. MAary-

WALLING v.

ICHIGAN.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

land. In the latter case there was a discrimination against the
persons taxed. In the present case the diserimination is in
favor of the non-resident, and against the- resident citizen engaged in the business of selling liquors at wholesale, within the
State. In every case in which there has been no unjust diselimination between the tax or license imposed upon goods
within the State imposing it, and goods brought into it from
other States, the tax has been upheld as constitutional. Woodruf v. Parham,8 Wall. 123; lTebber v. Virginia,103 U. S.
34; WYard v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; People v. W~aring,
3 Keyes, 374 ; Gibbons v., Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 199 ; Nathan v.
Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 82; Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148, 151;
Connor v. Elliott, 18 How. 591, 593; State v. .Yorth, 27 Missouri, 464, 467; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 177; ®rzy
v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; 3fachine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S.
676.
II. The Michigan statute does not'conflict with that provision
of the Constitution which prohibits States, without the consent
of Congress, from laying imposts or duties on imports or exports. Art. I., sec. .10, par. 2. It has been held by this court,
that the terms "imposts" and "duties," refer solely to the
duties upon foreign and imported articles, and do not refer to
taxes in the nature of license taxes, or special taxes which grow
out of the internal police regulations'of tfie State; and that the
terms" imports" and "exports" do not refer to goods brought
from one State into anothe-, but only to articles imported from,
or exported to, foreign countries. Brown v. .faryland; Woodruf v. Parham; License .Cases; all cited above.
III. Nor does it conflict with the provision of the Constitution that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
Art. IV., sec. 2, par. 1. It will be seen by reference to the act
in question, that the person selling, or soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors at wholesale, to be shipped into this State by
non-resident dealers, is required to pay a tax of $300 ; and for
selling malt, brewed, or fermented liquors, the sum of $100,
while the resident wholesale dealer is, by the above section,
required to pay a tax of $500; and for malt, brewed, or fer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cort.

mented liquors, a tax of $200, from which it will be found that
the non-resident may sell intoxicating liquors at wholesale, by
paying only three-fifths of what is required of the resident
dealer, and may sell malt and fermented liquors by paying onehalf of that required of the resident dealer. This discrimination
is all in favor of the non-resident, and so long as the non-resident does not pay a greater sum than the resident, there is no
unjust discrimination against him. He has no cause for coinplaint, and is not deprived of the privileges and immunities of
citizens of this State. Guy v. Baltimore; Ward v. -Yaryland' both cited above.
MR. Jusricn BnADLL- delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued :
The single question, now before us for consideration is,
whether the statute of 1875 is repugnant to -theConstitution of
the United States. Taken by itself, and without having reference to the act of 1881, it is very difficult to find a plausible
reason for holding that it is not repugnant to the Constitution.
It certainly does impose a tax or duty on persons who, not having their principal place of business within the State, engage in
the business of selling, or of soliciting the sale of, certain described liquors, to be shipped into the State. If this is not a
discriminating tax levelled against persons for selling goods
brought into the State from other States or countries, it is difficult to conceive of a tax that would be discriminating. It is
clearly within the decision of WFelton v. .Miesouri, 91 U. S.
275, where we held a law of the State of Missouri to be void
which laid a peddler's license tax upon persons going from place
to place to sell patent and other medicines, goods, wares, or
merchandise, not the growth, product; or manufacture of that
State, and which did not lay a like tax upon the sale of similar
articles, .the growth, product, or manufacture of Missouri. The
same principle is announced in Hio8On v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148;
Ward v. . aryland, 12 Wall.418; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U.
S.434, 438; County of fMobile v. Eimball, 102 U. S.691, 697;
Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.344.

WALLING v. MICHIGAT.
Opinion of the Court.

A discriminating tax imposed by a State operating to the
disadvantage of the products of other States when introduced
into the first mentioned State, is, in effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States, and as such is a usurpation of the power conferred by the Constitution upon the Congress of the United States.
We have so often held that the power given to Congress to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the several
States and with the Indian tribes, is exclusive in all matters
which require, or only admit of, general and uniform rules,
and especially as regards any impediment or restriction upon
such commerce, that we deem it necessary merely to refer
to our- previous decisions on the subject, the most important
of which are collected in Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622,
631, and need not be cited here. We have also repeatedly
held that so long as Congress does not pass any law to regulate commerce among the several States, it thereby indicates
its will that such commerce shall be free and untrammelled;
and that any regulation of the subject by the States, except in
matters of local concern only, is repugnant to such freedom.
Welton v. .ff.ouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282; County of fobile v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Brown v. iouston, 114 U. S.622,
631. In Mr. Justice Johnson's concurring opinion-in the case
of Gibbon8 v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1, 222, his whole argument
(which is a very able one) is based on the idea that the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States 'as by the Constitution surrendered by the States to the
United States, and therefore, mnist necessarily be exclusive, and
that where Congress has failed to restrict such commerce, it
must necessarily be free. He says: "Of all the endless variety
of branches of foreign commerce, now carried on to every quarter of the world, I know of no one that is permitted by act of
Congress, any otherwise than by not being forbidden." "The
grant to Livingston and Fulton interferes with the freedom
of intercourse among the states." The same sentiment was
expressed by Mr. Justice Grier in his opinion in the Passenger Oa8e8, '7 How. 283, 462, where he says: "And to what
weight is that argument entitled, which assumes, that because

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

it is the policy of Congress to leave this intercourse free, therefore it has not been regulated, and each state may put as many
restrictions upon it as she pleases?" And one of the four propo-.
sitions with which the opinion concludes is as follows, to wit:
'4th. That Congress has regulated commerce and intercourse
with foreign nations and between the several states, by willing that it shall be free, and it is, therefore, not left to the discretion of each state in the Union either to refuse a right of
passage to persons or property through her territory, or to
exact
duty for permission to exercise it."
Theaargument
of these eminent judges, that where Congress
has exclusive power to regulate commerce, its non-action is
equivalent to a declaration that commerce shall-be free, (and
wequote their opinions for no other purpose,) seems to beirrefragable. Of course the broad conclusions to which dahey arrve, that the power is exclusive in all cases, are subject to the
modifications established by subsequent decisions, such as Cooley
v. The Board of Wardeno, 12 How. 299, and others.
The law is well summarized in the opinion of this court
delivered by Mr. Justice Field in County of -Mobile v. Ei ball,
102 U. S. 691, 697, where it is said: "The subjects indeed upon
which Congress can act under this power are of infinite variety,
requiring for their successful management different plans or
modes of treatment. Some of them are national in their charaoter, and admit and require uniformity of regulation, affecting alike all the states; others are local, or are mere aids to
commerce, and can only be properly regulated by provisions
adapted to their special circumstances and localities. Of the
former class may be mentioned all that portion of commerce
with foreign countries or between the states which consists
in the transportation, purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities. Here there can of necessity be only one system or-plan
of regulation, and that Congress alone can prescribe. Its nonaction in such cases with respect to any particular' commodity
or mode of transportation is a declaration of its purpose that
the commerce in that commodity or by that means of transportati6n shall be free. , There would otherwise be no security
:against conflicting regul.tions of different states, each discrim-

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

inating in favor of its own products and citizens, and against
the products and citizens of othei states. And it is a matter of
public history that the object of vesting in Congress the power
to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the
states was to insure uniformity of regulation against conflicting
and discriminating state legislation."
Many State decisions might also be cited in which the same
doctrine is announced. Thus in the case ofHiggin8 v. Three
Hundred Caa8k of Lime, 130 Mass. 1, 3, it is said: "The result
6f all the decisions is, that the several states have no authority
to prescribe different regulations in relation to the commerce
in certain articles, dependent upon the state from which they
are brought. This rule in no manner controls or limits the
power of a state to enact appropriate health or inspection'
laws; for such laws are necessarily uniform, and are not dependent upon place." In State v. Turbuh, 72 Maine, 493,
495, construing a statute of Maine, the Supreme Court of that
State says: "The act is unconstitutional. It allows goods
manufactured in this state to be peddled free, and exacts
a license fee from those who peddle similar goods which are
manufactured out of the state. Suchi a discrimination in favor
of goods manufactured in this state, and against goods manufactured in other states, vidlates the federal constitution."
In State v. -Torth & Scott, 27 "Missouri, 464, 471, 476, where
an act of Missouri imposed a tax upon merchants for all goods
purchased by them, except such as might be the growth, produce, or manufacture of that State, and manufactured articles the growth or produce o! other States, it was held by
the Supreme Court of that State that the law was unconstitutional and void. The court say: "From the foregoing
statement of the law and facts of this case it will be seen
that it presents the question of the power of the states, in
the exercise of the right of taxation, to discriminate between
products of this state and those manufactured in our sister
states." And after an examination of the causes which led to
the adoption of the Federal Constitution, one of the principal
of which *as the necessity for the regulation of commerce and
the laying of imposts and duties by a single government, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

court say: "But, whatever may be the motive for the tax,
whether revenue, restriction, retaliation, or protection of domestic manufactures, it is equally a regulation -of commerce,
and in effect an exercise of the power of laying duties on imports, and its exercise by the states is entirely at war with the
spirit of the constitution, and would render vain and nugatory
the pover granted to Congress in relation to those subjects.
Can any power more destructive to the anion and harmony of
the States be exercised than that of imposing discriminating
taxes or duties on imports from other states? Whatever may
be themotive for such taxes, they cannot fail to beget irritation
and to lead to retaliation; and it is not difficult to foresee that
an indulgence in such a course of legislation must inflame and
produce a state of feeling that would seek its gratification in
any measures regardless of the consequences." See also Nor'is
v. Boston, 4 Met. (Mass.) 282, 293; S. . in error among
the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283; Oliver v. TFaakingtonitills,
11 Allen, 268; Pierce v. The State, 13 N. H. 536, 582; JMcoGuire
v. Parker,32 La. Ann. 832; TBiley v. Parmer,14 Ala. 627;
Scott v. lYatkins, 22 Ark. 556, 564; State v. 3lcGinnis,37 Ark.
362; State v. Browning, 62 Missouri, 591; -Daniel v. Rich-

mond, 78 Ky. 542.
In view of these authorities, especially the decisions of this
court on the subject, we have no hesitation in saying that the
act of 1875, under which the prosecution against Walling was
instituted, if it stood alone, without any concurrent law of
Michigan imposing a like tax to that which it imposes upon
those engaged in selling or soliciting the sale of liquors the
produce of that State, would be repugnant to that clause of the
Constitution of the United States which confers upon Congress
the power to regulate commerce among the several States.
The question then arises whether the act of 1879, as amended
by that of 1881, has removed the objection to the validity of
the act of 1875. - We have carefully examined that act, and
have come to the conclusion that it has not done so. We will
briefly state our-reasons for this conclusion.
The council for the State suppose that the act of 1881 imposes a heavier tax on Miohigaii dealers in liquors of domestic

WALLING v. MICHIGAN.

459

Opinion of the Court.
origin than that imposed by the act of 1875 on those who deal
in liquors coming from outside of the State, and, hence, that if
there is any discrimination it is against the domestic and in favor
of the foreign dealer or manufactured article. We do not think
that this position is correct. Let us compare the two acts..
Of course the act of 1875 does not assume to tax non-resident
persons or firms for doing business in another State. They
are subject to taxation in the States where they are located.
It is the business of selling for sich non-resident parties, or
soliciting orders for them for sale in Michigan of liquors imported into the State, that is the object of taxation under the
law; and any person engaged in those employments, or either
of them, is subject to the tax of three hundred dollars per
annum. Now, is such a tax, or any tax imposed upon those
who are engaged in the like employment for persons or firms
located in Michigan, selling or soliciting orders for the sale of
liquors manufactured in that State? Clearly not. The tax
imposed by the act of 1881 is a tax on the manufacturer or dealer.
He is taxed in the city, township, or village in which his distillery or principal place of business is situated. He is subject to
a single tax of five hundred dollars per annum. No tax is'imposed on his clerks, his agents, or his drummer, who sell or solicit
orders for him. They are merely his servants, and are not included in the law. It is he, and not they, whose business is
the manufacture or sale of liquors, and who is subject to taxation under the law. Whereas the drummers and agents of the
foreign manufacturer or dealer, located in Illinois or elsewhere,
are all and bach of them subjedt to the tax of three hundred
dollars per annum. In the one case it is a single tax on the
principal; in the other it is a tax, not on the principal, for he
cannot be taxed in Mfichigan, but on each and all of his servants
and agents selling or.soliciting orders for him. The tax imposed by the act of 1875 is not imposed on the same class of
persons as is the tax imposed by the act of 1881. That this
must give an immense advantage to the product manufactured
in Michigan, and to the manufacturers and dealers of that
State, is perfeQtly manifest.
It is suggested by the learned judge who delivered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigan in this case, that the
tax imposed by the act of 1875 is an exercise by the legislature
of Michigan of the police power of the State for the discouragement of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the preservation
of the health and morals of the people. This would be a perfect justification of the act if it did not discriminate against the
citizens and products of other States ih a matter of commerce
between the States, and thus usurp one of the prerogatives of
the national legislature. The police power cannot be set up to
control the inhibitions of the Federal Constitution,' or the
powers of the United States Government created, thereby.
New Orleans Ga8 Co. v. .oui8iana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650.
Another suggestion in the -opinion referred to is, that, although the tax imposed by the pct of 1875 may be'a regulation
of the introduction of spirituous liquors from another State into
the State of Michigan, yet that, regulation is not prohibition,
and that there is nothing in the act that aiounts to prohibition,
The language of the court is: "The 'statute does not prohibit
the introduction and sale of liquors made. outside of the state.
It simply taxes the person wha carries on the business here by
making sales in this state. It in no way interferes with, the
-introduction of the liquors here. It tolerates and regulates,
but seeks not to prohibit. I think in thiis case no question can
be successfully made under the clause of the constitution until
the point has been reached where regulation ceases and prohibition begins." We are unable to adopt the views of that
learned tribunal as here expressed. It is the power to "regulate" commerce among the several States which the Constitution in terms confers upon Congress ; and this power, as we
have seen, is exclusive in cases like the present, where the subject Qf regulation is one that admits and requires uniformity,
and where any regulation affects the freedom of traffic among
the States.
Another- argument used by the Supreme Court of Michigan
in favor of the validity of the tax is, that it is merely a tax on
an occupation which, it is averred, the State has an undoubted
right to imposd, and: reference Js made to Brown v. .aryland,
12 Wheat. 419, 444; Nathan v. Xo¢ui8ia, 8 How. 78, 80.;

LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENNEN. 461
Statement of Facts.
Pierce v. Yew Hamn8shire, 5 How. 593; Hinson v. Lott, 8
Wall. 148; -Machlne Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676. None of
these cases, however, sustain the doctrine that an occupation
can be taxed if the tax is so specialized as to operate as a discriminative burden against the introduction and sale of the
products of another State, or against the citizens of another
State.
We think that the act in question operates as a regulation of
commerce among the States in a matter within the exclusive
power of Congress, and that it is, for this reason repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, and void.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of .fXicigan is
and the cause remaiided,with instructionsto take
such further p roceedings as may not be inconsistent with
this opinion.
-reversed,

The C:rEF JusTiE did not sit in this case, nor take any paxt
in the decision.

LONDON ASSURANCE

COMPANY v. DREM-EN &
Others.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted January 6, 1886.-Declded January 18, 1886.

An agreement

by A. with B. that on the payment of a sum of money B. shall
participate in the profits of.A.'s business, gives B. no interest, as between
themselves, in A.'s stock in trade, when it appears that it was their intention that he should haie no such interest.

This case was before the court at the last term, 113 U. S. 51,
when the court gave a construction to the contract between
the Assurance Company and the present defendants in error,
then plaintiffs in error. That contract, and other facts in that
case which also enter into this case, will be found on pages 51,
52, 59 and 54 of vol. 113. At the new trial had in September,

