STEWART v. JEFFERSON POLICE JURY.
Opini~n of the Court.

tional provision has repealed that law, and stands in the way
of enforcing the obligation of plaintiff's contract as that obligation stood at the time the contract was made.
It is well settled that a provision in a State Constitution.
fhay be a law impairing the obligation of a contract as well as
one found in an ordinary statute. We are of opinion,, therefore, that, as it regards plaintiff's case, this restrictive provision
of the Constitution of 1880 does impair the obligation of a contract. 'Fan Hofma v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Nfelson v. t.
Xartil'8
_Parish,111 U. S. 716.
!The judgments of the Supreme Court of Louisiana are reversed, and the cases are remanded to that courtforfurther

p7roceeding8not inconsistentwith this oplion.

STEWART v. JEFFERSON POLICE JURY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November 18, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

The act of the legislature of Louisiana of 1872 prohibiting, with some exceptions, parish tax levies in excess of one hundred per centum of the State
tax for the year was the meao.ure of the taxing power of parishes in that
State in 1874, 1875, and 1876.
The' authority given-by the act of the legislature of Louisiana of 1809 to a judge

rendering a judgment against a parish to order a levy of taxes sufficient for
its payment, was taken away by the act of 1872, limiting parochial taxation
to one hundred per centum of the State tax for the year, for all amounts in.
excess of the limit fixed by the latter act.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xr. CharlesLouque and .M. A F. Jonas for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MILLER delivered the opinion of the coui't.
This, like the two cases just disposed of, is a writ of error to
a judgment denying the plaintiff a writ of mandamus.
MR.JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

0. W. Besancon was employed as an attorney, by a resolution of the police jury, passed December 11, 1874, to -defend
in certain suits about roads in the parish; and for services in
that behalf rendered during the years 1875 and 1876 he recovered against the police jury of the parish a judgment for
$1138 on April -7, 1877.
This judgment he afterwards assigned to Stewart, who procured a writ of mandamus to compel the police jury to levy
a tax to pay it. The case came by appeal into the Supreme
Court of the State, which at first affirmed this judgment, but
on a rehearing finally reversed the order of the inferior court,
and denied the writ.
The opinion rendered on the first hearing was based upon
the proposition that the limit of taxation of the parish for the
years 1875 and 1876 was 144 mills" on the hundred dollars, and
that the statute then required that when a court, in a case like
this, rendered a judgment against the police jury, it should at
the same time order the levy of a tax sufficient to pay it. And
though no such 6rder was made in plaintiff's case, the opinion
held'that the law in thisrespect became a part of the judgment, and the plaintiff was entitled to the writ to enforce the
levy and collect the tax.
On the rehearing the court decided that this act of 1869,
which had permitted a'tax on the parish to th extent of 14-4
mills, had been repealed by the act of 1872.
The first section of that act is as follows:
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted, etc., That section seven of the act
recited in the above-mentioned title and approved March 3d,
1871, be so amended and re-enacted as to read as follows:
'.That no city or other municipal corporation shall levy a tax
for any purpose which shalJ exceid two and three-quarters per
centum on the assessed cash value of-all the property therein
listed for taxation, except the city of :New Orleans, which may
levy a tax of two and three-quarters per centum; nor shall the
Police Jury of any parish levy a tax for any parish purposes,
except'to pay indebtedness incurred prior to the passage of this
act, during any year, which shall exceed one hundred per
.centum of the State tax for that year, unless such excess,

STEWART v. JEFFERSON POLICE JURY.

137

Opinion of the Court.

whether levied by village, city, or parochial authorities, shall
first be sustained by a vote of the majority, of the said-voters
of said village, city, or parish, at an election held for that purpurpose. No per capita tax, except the poll-tax authorized by
the Constitution, shall be assessed or collected in this State.'"
If this act was the measure of the taxing power of the parish
in 1874, 1875, and 1876, when the contract with Besancon was
made and the services rendered, then it is conceded that there
is no right to a mandamus in this case.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana held this to be so, and we
are not prepared to say they are wrong in a construction of
their own statutes, both of which were in existence when the
contract was made.
It is insisted, however, on the part of the plaintiff, that the.
law which required the court, when rendering a judgment
against the parish, to order the levy of a tax sufficient to pay
the judgment, was not repealed by this act of 1872, and was
unaffected by it, and therefore he should now have, by writ of
mandamus, what he ought to have had by the order of the
court as part of his judgment. To this the court in its opinion
replies, that, the act of 1872, being an absolute limit to the
power of taxation by the parish authorities,.any order 'of the
court rendering the judgment should be in subordination, to
that limit and must have been governed by it. So that,
though the power of a court to order a levy sufficient to pay
its judgment, as a part of the judgment itself, may have remained, it could levy by that order no tax beyond the limit
fixed by law at the time the contract was made, unless that
limit had been enlarged, instead of diminished, by subsequent
statutes.
In both these views of the case we concur. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is

