OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

MILLER & Others v. FOREE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued November 2,1885.-Decided December 14, 18.

The application of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject,
with no change in the manner of applying it, and no result substantially
distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result has not before been contemplated.
.Penyjlvani. RailroadCo. v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, affirmed.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.5. -ArthurSMtem and -Mr. George -arding for appellants.
[.Mr. Jame8 A. Beattie was also on appellants' brief.]
.Afr. Benjamin F. Thureton for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the appellants against the appellees,
complaining of the infringement of a certain patent granted
to Anton Miller and Christian Worley, two of the complainants,
for an alleged improvement in finishing tobacco plugs and in
marking the same. A patent was applied for September 23,
1876, and was granted on the 5th day of December, 1876. It
was subsequently surrendered and reissued on the 29th of
January, 1878. The improvement, as declared in the specification, consists in pressing in the side of the plug, during the
process of manufacture, letters or marks, so as to be ineffaceable. The description contained in the re-issued patent, which
does not differ materially from that contained in the original,
after referring to the illustrative drawings, which are not
necessary to the understanding of the invention, proceeds as
follows:
"In carrying out our process, the plugs are packed with
alternating plates in the finisher, so that they take their per-

MILLER v. FOREE.
Opinion of the Court.

manent set with the impression in them, whereby said impression is preserved ineffaceable.
"We have used the process of finishing tobacco as described
in patent No. 181,512, issued to Worley and McCabe, on the
application of Christian Worley, and dated August 22, 1876,
but this system of marking may be used in conjunction with
the ordinary finishing process by having the devices in relief,
on pressure plates used in the last pressing.
"Our preferred manner of forming the letters on the plates
A' is by stamping them therein, and then making the letters
solid by filling in the concave side of the letters with melted
metal, such as solder, so that said letters will withstand the extreme pressure to which they are subjected in the finishing box.
"In constructing said compress plate, however, any projecting surfaces in relief, either formed upon the plate or loose
from the same, would secure the same result and may be employed."
From this description it appears that the process consists
simply in attaching or placing raised characters on the metallic
plates which are interlaid between the layers of tobacco to
give it a smooth surface in its final compression, which
characters leave their imprint in the side of the plugs.
The claim of the original patent was for"The mode of simultaneously stamping and finishing
tobacco, consisting of tightly compressing the plugs between
plates having in relief letters in alternating series, substantially
in the manner described."
The claim of the re.issued patent is for"1. The described process of marking plug tobacco, which
consists in impressing letters or other marks directly into the
side of the plug during the process of manufacture, and by
the pressure employed in making the plug, substantially as described.
"2. A tobacco plug marked with an impression, substantially
as described."
The second claim of the re-issue was afterwards abandoned
and formally disclaimed in the Patent Office. The first claim
is, in its terms, broader than the claim of the original patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

It is a general claim for the described process of impressing
letters or marks directly into the side of the plug during the
process of manufacture. This embraces the application of the
process at any stage of the manufacture, either in the moulding process or the finishing process. But if it should be confined by construction to the latter, as in the claim of the
original patent, it would still apply to every kind of finishing
process, whether separate from the moulding process or not.
The question, then, will be, whether this claimed invention
was anticipated by prior invention or use in the art.
Impressions of letters, figures, and other marks have for a
long period been made by compression upon plastic substances,
such as cakes of soap and chocolate, bars of lead, balls of butter, sealing wax, the leather covers oF books, &c. It was not
strange, therefore, that the same process for producing a like
result should have been applied to tobacco when moulded and
compressed into solid plugs of definite form. An English patent was granted to Thomas and George Cope in April (specification filed October), 1868, for improvements in machinery for
moulding, pressing, and stamping Cavendish and other tobacco
into any desired form by suitable dies. These dies have any
desired form and design, and, when filled with tobacco, a powerful pressure is applied by means of a metallic die-piece, which
gives to the tobacco a durable form and solidity, with the impression of the shape and design of the dies. In describing the
machine and its operation, the patentees say: "This machine
is useful for various purposes in manufacturing tobacco; it can
be advantageously employed in stamping or forming devices of
various kinds on tobacco."
Another patent was granted to Gibson and others in April
(specification filed October), 1874, for a mode of heating, pressing, and curing roll and coil tobacco, in the course of which the
tobacco (in the case of coil) is alternated with metallic plates,
between which and the coils are placed thin wooden discs of a
size to match the plates, and between these and the coils of
tobacco a thin metal plate, bearing the manufacturer's name,
abode, trade-mark, &c. It is then heated, and afterwards submitted to great pressure. And the inventors add: "When the

MILLER v. FOREE.
Opinion of the Court.

tobacco has cooled down sufficiently it is removed, and the
sheath-pipe being withdrawn by gentle pressure, the metallic
discs, scaleboard discs, and name tablets are separated from the
tobacco, and the tobacco is found to be impressed with the
name or marks from the tablets, the rest of its surface having
the impression of the wooden disc, smooth, or. showing the
grain of the timber. The tobacco, then thoroughly cured and
pressed, is fit for sale."
Charles Siedler obtained a patent of the United States, dated
January 12, 1875, re-issued October 24, 1876, on application
filed April 26, 1875, for impressing into the body of the plugs
of tobacco metallic labels with raised letters, &c., either covered
or not covered by the outside wrapper, whereby he obtained
distinct and durable impressions. He says: "Before giving
the plug of tobacco its final pfessure the metal B b [the label]
is placed in proper position upon it by an attendant, and by
subsequent powerful pressure the label is sunk into the body of
the tobacco so that its face is about flush with the outer surface
thereof, and its points b sink quite deeply into the most dense
mass.

It adheres firmly.

.

.

.

The plugs thus impressed

with the hard labels, presenting the letters in relief, are then
wrapped in a large leaf of properly dampened tobacco, A', and
again powerfully compressed. The label appears beneath the
wrapper of the finished plug, and is not liable to be removed
by any ordinary or extraordinary cause."
In 1867 or 1868 Fisher and Harris, of St. Louis, fitted into
a mould for plug tobacco, a metallic plate, having on its face
the word "Blackberry," in raised letters, in the form of types,
which produced on the surface of the plug, as it was pressed
in the mould, the word "Blackberry." Many plugs were made
in this mould, and received the said impression, from the time
of its construction until 1876, and were sold in the market.
Boyce and Brothers bought out Fisher and Harris in 1869, and
continued to use the same mould. It is true, that this mould was
only one in a block or frame of fifteen moulds, and eleven other
frames ivere used in connection with this frame, without any
such types in them, in making up boxes of tobacco. But in
view of the fact that the mould having the types continued to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

be used for many years, and that the word "1Blackberry" was
invariably printed on the tobacco, the process, though somewhat imperfectly applied, cannot be regarded as an abandoned
experiment. The impression being made in the mould whilst
the tobacco was moist might not remain as clearly defined as
if it were made in the finishing process (when a further finishing process was used); but it continued to appear quite distinctly and remained as a permanent mark on the tobacco, as
is seen in the specimen which has been preserved, and made
an exhibit in the cause.
There is also evidence in the case of a zinc plate with raised
characters, forming the name of the maker, one "E. F. Smith,"
being used by him in the summer of 1875, both in the moulding
and in the finishing process, for the purpose of imprinting the
name upon plug tobacco which he was then manufacturing in
a small way in Evening Shade, a village in Arkansas. The
plate was used in substantially the same way as that described
in the patent of the complainants; and if the evidence is to be
believed, the fact of prior anticipation is clearly established.
The circuit judge, who decided this case in the court below,
after a careful examination of the testimony on the subject,
came to the conclusion that it was to be believed, and based
his decision principally upon it. W6 have come to the same
conclusion. It is true that a vigorous effort vas made to break
down the testimony of the principal itnesses,. Smith and his
foreman, Lee; and it was pretty clearly shown that much
could be affirmed der6gatory to their general characters. But
the complainants failed to show anything substantially affecting their characters for truth and veracity, or that they were
not to be believed under oath. Besides, the manner in which
their testimony was given, and in which they bore the test of
a somewhat rigorous cross-examination, tends to give confidence in the truth of their statements. And they are not
without a good deal of corroboration. One of the alleged
identical plates was produced; and the jeweller who made it,
beinj called as a witness, recognized it, and said that he
thought he made tyo of them; and he corroborated the date;
and testified that Smith showed him some tobacco which he

MILLER v. FOREE.
Opinion of the Court.

said had been marked with the plate, and which appeared to
have been so marked. Metcalf, one of the complainants' witnesses, also states, on cross-examination, that he had seen one
or two plugs with Smith's name impressed on it, which he
(Smith) represented to be his work, and that this was in 1875
or 1876. Huddleston, the sheriff of the county, testified that
he had purchased plug tobacco from Smith, about that time,
with Smith's name impressed upon it. The fact that the process was not used to a great extent, and not brought into more
public notice, is explained by the further facts that Smith's
manufacture was not of large extent, and that his establishment
was closed by the Internal Revenue officers in the spring of
1876, in consequence of sales charged to have been made by
him without the proper stamp.
We think that the alleged process of Smith is substantiated
by the evidence, and that the decision of the case might be
rested on his anticipation of the complainants' invention.
But it is not necessary to rely on this branch of the case
alone. Leaving the evidence in relation to Smith's process out
of the case, the state of the art at the time of Miller and Worley's application for a patent, as already pointed out, was such
as to leave no ground for its issue. What more did they do,
at most, than to apply a process of stamping tobacco, which
was already well known, to the same tobacco at a later stage
in the process of manufacture? Did this entitle them to a
patent? According to the ruling of this court in Pennylvania Railroad Co. v. -Locomotive Truck- Co., 110 U. S. 490, this
question must be answered in the negative. That case is precisely in point. The contrivance for allowing the cars, in
rounding a curve, to have a lateral motion so as to counteract
the tendency to depart from the track, had been applied to
passenger cars, but not to locomotives. Smith, the patentee
in that case, obtained a patent for applying that same device
to locomotives. We decided the patent to be void, and held,
in general terms, that "the application of an old process or
machine to a similar or analogous subject, with no change in
the manner of applying it, and no result substantially distinct
in its nature, will not sustain a patent, even if the new form of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

result has not before been contemplated." We adhere to that
ruling, and the principle involved in it is fatal to the patent
now under consideration.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
.Affirmed.

UTAH & NORTHERN RAILWAY. v. FISHER.
APPEAL FROM THE SU'REME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
Submitted October 21, 1885.-Decided December 14, 1885

The Fort Hill Indian reservation in the County of Oneida, in the Territory of
Idaho, is not excluded from the limits of the Territory by the act of March
3, 1863, creating it ; and the treaty of July 3, 1868, with the eastern band
of Shoshonees and the Bannack tribe does not necessarily except it from the
jurisdiction of the Territory.
The lands and railroad of the Utah & Nortiern Railway Company situated
within the limits of the Fort Hill Indian I-Cservqtion are subject to territorial taxation, which may be enforced within the exterior boundaries of
the reservation by proper process.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.X. John F. Dillon and JM . A. J. Poppleton for plaintiff
in error submitted on their brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
hR. JUSTicE

FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff became a corporation of Utah under an act of
the Territory of February 12, 1869, for the incorporation of

railroad companies; and by the act of Congress of June 20,
1878, it was made a railway corporation, not only of that Territory, but of Idaho and Montana also, with the same rights
and privileges it had under its original articles of incorpora-

