MILWAUKEE v. KCEFFLER.
Statement of Facts.

MILWAUKEE v. K(EFFLER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Submitted December 18, 1885.-Decided January 4,1886.

A bill in equity to set aside and restrain the collection of a personal tax, or a
tax levied upon personal property by a municipal corporation, cannot be
maintained on the sole ground of the illegality of the tax by reason of the
non-residence within the limits of the municipality of the person against
whom the tax is levied.

This was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Wisconsin.
The bill, originally filed in a State court, and afterwards removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, prayed for
an injunction to restrain the collection of a tax assessed -by the
city of Milwaukee against Kceffier. The tax was assessed
against him as a resident of that city on account of his personal property, and his complaint alleged that he did not reside
in Milwaukee in the year for which the tax was levied against
him, nor for some years before or since, and that the assessment was therefore void.
The answer of defendant, filed in the State court before the
removal of the case, denied complainant's allegation as to nonresidence, and averring his citizenship and residence there,
added:
"And for a further and separate answer and defence, the
defendant, allege and show unto the court that the plaintiff, if
he is able to prove the allegations of his complaint herein, has
a complete and sufficient remedy at law, and that for this reason this court, as a court of equity, should not and will not
interfere, assume, or take jurisdiction of this action, and the defendants object for that reason to any and all interference of
this court, as a court of equity, in the matter of which plaintiff
complains, and asks that this action be dismissed."
Replication being filed, the case was heard on these issues,
and on a considerable mass of testimony as to the question of
residence in Milwaukee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellee.

On the hearing it appeared that the judges of the Circuit
Court, assuming that complainant was not a resident of that
city, were divided in opinion on the question of the jurisdiction
of the court, as a'court of equity, to grant relief. This question they presented in the following certificate:
"The case coming on to be heard at this term upon the
pleadings and proofs, it occurred as a question whether a bill
In equity to set aside and restrain the collection of a personal
tax or a tax levied upon personal proper.y by a municipal corporation can be maintained on the sole ground of the illegality
of the tax by reason of the non-residence within the limits of
such municipality of the person against whom the tax is levied.
"On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
"Whereupon, on motion of the plaintiff, by his counsel, that
the point on which the disagreement hath happened may during
the term be stated under the direction of the judges and certified under the seal of the court to the Supreme Court to be
finally decided, it is ordered that the foregoing state of the
pleadings and the following statement of facts, which is made
under the direction of the judges, be certified according to the
request of the plaintiff by his counsel, and the law in that case
made and provided, to wit:
"That Charles A. Kceffier, the plaintiff, in 1882, when the
assessment and levy of tax against him on account of personal
property were made, was not, and for several years prior
thereto had not been, a resident of the city of Milwaukee, but
was and had been a resident of the town of Wauwatosa, in the
county of Milwaukee, Wisconsin."
The assessment was set aside, and the city restrained from
collecting the tax; from which decree an appeal was taken to
this court.
Xr. .To8Aua Stark for appellant.
Xlfr. James G. enkins for appellee. This case is a proper
subject for equitable cognizance; It might have been otherwise had the objection gone to the regularity of the proceed-

MILWAUKEE v. K(EFFLER.
Argument for Appellee.

ings, or had the tax been a State tax. But the objection goes
to the jurisdiction (this distinction is recognized in West v. Balard,32 Wise. 168, 172) ; and the tax is not a State tax, but a municipal tax; a distinction recognized in the State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 615. See also Cumming&v. National
Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Co., 114 U. S. 311, 314. As the complainant was not a resident in the municipality of Milwaukee, as his personal property
was not subject to be taxed there, as he was assessed and paid
taxes on it in another municipality, the officers of Milwauklee
had no jurisdiction over it, and a case is made for equitable
relief. Barber v. Farr, 54 Iowa, 57, and cases cited; Brandirf v. Harrison County, 50 Iowa, 164; Beverly v. Sabin, 20
Ill. 357; Ottavia v. TFalker, 1 Ill. 605, 610; Darlingv. Gunn,
50 ill. 424; .Afun8on v. .iller, 66 Ill. 380; Lebanon v. Ohio &
Xi7siJsippi Railroad Co., 77 Ill. 539; Kimball v. Loan -&
Trust Co., 89 Ill. 611; Union Trust Co. v. Weber, 96 Ill. 346,
357; Commissionera v. .arkle, 46 ind. 96, 103-105; Enight
v. Turnpike Co., 45 Ind. 134, 139; Shoemaker v. Grant County,
36 Ind. 175; Riley v. Wlestern Union Telegraph Co., 47 Ind.
511; St. Clair School Board Appeal, 74 Penn. St. 25p,; Dodge
v. Voolsey, 18 How. 331; Dorn v. Fox, 61 N. Y. 264; MWohawk & Hudson Railroad Co. v. Clute, 4 Paige, 384, 396;
Gould v. Atlanta, 55 Geo. 678; Union Pacific Co. v. Carr,
I Wyoming, 96; Horne v. Green, 52 Mississippi, 452; LaTene
v. M1Can, 28 La. Ann. 749; Robinson. v. Reid, 50 Ala. 69;
Grass v. Hes, 37 Ind. 193; Earl v. 3fatheney, 60 Ind. 202;
Smith v. Pearre,6 Baxter, 72.
The bill is also maintainable on the ground of fraud, and
preventing multiplicity of suits. Pacific Hotel Co. v. Zieb, 83
Ill. 602, 611; Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. .cZeai, 17 Ill.
291; Railroad Co. v. .Marquette, 35 Mich. 504.
It may also be sustained on the ground that the complainant
has not a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. As to
the meaning of those words see Oelrichs v. Spain, 15 Wall.
228. See also Boyce v. G6rundy, 3 Pet. 215; Parkerv. lFinnipiseogee, 2 Black, 551; Bunce v. Gallagher, 5 Blatchford,
481; Hunt v. Danforth, 2 Curtis, 603. A judgment to recover

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

back the taxes illegally collected, and mandamus to enforce a
tax to pay the judgment, would fall far short of a complete
remedy. See State v. Jennings, 56 Wise. 113; Tfe8ton v.
Ckarleston, 2 Pet. 449, 464; Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 560,
563, 565; .McBane v. People, 50 Ill. 503.
Mn. JuSTIeE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
In accordance with the opinion of the presiding justice a
decree was made setting aside the assessment of the tax and
enjoining the city and its officers from collecting it.
We are of opinion that both this court and the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin are committed to a contrary doctrine.
The case of .Dows v. The City of Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 109,
110, was a bill in equity in the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, brought by Dows, a citizen of New York,
to restrain the city of Chicago from collecting a tax upon the
shares of stock which he owned in a national bank located in
that city. He alleged that the tax was illegal because his
shares were assessed at a higher rate than other moneyed capital in the city; and because, not being a resident of Chicago,
but of Nfw York, his personal property belonged to his domicile, and any tax levied on it by the city of Chicago was void.
The bill was dismissed on demurrer, on the ground that a
court of equity had no jurisdiction to give relief, for the reasons
stated in the, bill. It will be observed that in that case, as
in this, the tax"was resisted as a tax on the person on account
of personal property, on the ground that the party assessed did
not reside within the city, and the corporation, therefore, had
no power to tax him.
The property for which the tax was assessed was in each
case hitangible property. In the first case it was bank shares,
the certificates of which were undoubtedly held at the residence
of Dows in New York, and in the present case it was for
money loaned on mortgages.
Looking at the case then made by the bill, one in which the
assessment of the tax was not only irregular but void, the
court, in the language of Mr. Justice Field, said:

MILWAUKEE v. KCEFFLER.
Opinion of the Court.

"Assuming the tax to be illegal and void, we do not think
any ground is presented by the bill justifying the interposition
of a court of equity to enjoin its collection. The illegality of
the tax and the threatened sale of the shares for its payment
constitute of themselves alone no ground for such interposition.
There must be some special circumstances attending a threatened injury of this kind, distinguishing it from a common
trespass, and bringing the case under some recognized head of
equity jurisdiction before the preventive remedy of injunction
can be invoked. It is upon taxation that the several States
chiefly rely to obtain the means to carry on their respective
governments, and it is of the utmost importance to all of them
that the modes adopted to enforce the taxes levied should be
interfered with as little as possible. Any delay in the proceedings of the officers upon whom the duty is devolved of
collecting the taxes may derange the operations of government, and thereby cause serious detriment to the public. No
court of equity will, therefore, allow its injunction to issue to
restrain their action, except where it may be necessary to protect the rights of the citizen whose property is taxed, and he
has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes Gf the law.
It must appear that the enforcement of the tax would lead to a
multiplicity of suits, or produce irreparable injury, or, where
the property is real estate, throw a cloud upon the title of the
complainant, before the aid of a court of equity can be invoked.
In the cases where equity has interfered, in the absence of
these circumstances, it will be found, upon examination, that
the question of jurisdiction was not raised, or was waived."
The opinion contains an examination of the adjudged cases,
by which the proposition is sustained, in one of which, that of
Cook County v. Okicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Co.,
35 ll 460, 465, the general principle is well stated by the
Supreme Court of Illinois, namely, "that while a court of
equity would never entertain a bill to restrain the collection of
a tax, except in cases where the tax was unauthorized by law,
or where it was assessed on property not subject to taxation, it
had never held that jurisdiction would be taken in those excepted cases, without special circumstances, showing that the

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Co~irt.

collection of the tax would be likely to produce, irreparable
injury, or cause a multiplicity of suits."
In the case of Hainnewinkle v. Georgetmon, 15 Wall. 5437 548,
the principle is thus stated: "It has been the settled law of the
countryfor a great many years that an injunction bill to restrain the collection of a tax, on the sole ground of the illegality
of the tax, cannot be maintained.. There must be an allegation
of fraud, that it creates a cloud upon the title, that there is
apprehension of a multiplicity of suits, or some cause presenting
a case of equity jurisdiction. This was decided as early as the
days of Chancellor Kent, in -Mooersv. Smedley, 6 Johns. Ch.
28, and has been so held from that time onward."
In the State .Ra{iroadTax Case8, 92 U. S. 575, 614, these
decisions are reviewed with others; and the whole question
very fully considered, as the importance of the cases and the
ability of the counsel who argued them required; and after
citing the language in Dows v. Chicago, and Hannewinkle v.
Georgetown, the court adds': "We do not propose to lay down
in these cases any absolute limitation of the powers of a court of
equity in restraining the collection of illegal taxes.; but we may
say, that, in addition to illegality, hardship, or irregularity, the
case must be brought within some of the recognized foundations
of equitable jurisdiction, and that mere errors or excess in valuation or hardship or injustice of the law, or any grievance which
can be remedied by a suit at law, either before or after payment of the taxes, will not justify a court of equity to interpose
by injunction to stay collection of a tax."
An intimation in the opinion in that case to the effect that,
in cases of taxes assessed by counties, towns, or cities, a more
liberal use of the control of courts of equity may be necessary,
has been cited in the brief in. the present case as affording
ground for'sustaining the injunction' here. -But no class of
cases was there mentioned as justifying this interference, and
it is evident that the mere facts that the tax .as levied by a
local corporate body, and was also illegal, were not in themselves supposed to be sufficient; for the cases cited in the
sentences preceding that remark, of .Dows v. Chicago and
Rannewinle v. Georgetown, were both cases of taxes by towns,

MILWAUKEE v. K(EFFLER.
Opinion of the Court.

to which the doctrine of the restricted powers of a court of
equity was applied.
The rule against the interference of a 'court of equity, and
the exceptions to the rule, are restated with careful accuracy
in the very recent case in this court of the Union Pai c Railway Co. v. Oheyenne, 113 U. S. 516, 525.
As to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, its
language, in the case of Quinney v.- The Town of Stockhidge,
33 Wisc. 505, is as emphatic as that of this court. "The complainant," says the court, "charges the seizure of certain personal
property belonging to plaintiffs by the treasurer, under and by
virtue of the warrant for the collection of the taxes; and asks
an injunction to prevent the treasurer from selling the same.
It is well settled, in this 'court at least, that the writ of injunction will not be granted for such a purpose, and that the illegal
seizure and threat of the officer to sell the goods and chattels
of the plaintiff, constitute no ground for equitable interference."
In the case of Van Colt v. uSpenisor8 of .Milwaukee County,
18 Wisc. 247, which, like the present case, was a bill to enjoin
the collection of a tax on personal property, and in nearly every
other respect is like this, except that the county of Milwaukee
was defendant there, and here it is the city, the same court
gave the reasons for tho rule adopted by it in the following
language: "Our reasons, in brief, are, that by the wrong such
as is complained of here no irreparable mischief is threatened,
no cloud is thrown over the title to real estate, which a court
of equity may be called upon to remove, and the plaintiff has
an ample remedy at law. To say nothing of the special
remedies given by statute, which, with diligence and attention
on the part of the tax-payer, will always prove effectual; and
nothing of the remedies by celtiorari,mandamu8, prohibition,
&c., as heretofore applied in such cases, it seems to us that the
remedy by action against the assessors, in cases where they exceed their jurisdiction, and the right which the party always
has to recover back the money paid for taxes illegally imposed,
if collected by distress and sale of his goods, or if, upon levying
a warrant, he pays to save his property, constitute a complete
answer to the application of a court of equity to restrain or
VOL. cxyI-15

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion -of the Court.

prevent the collection." It is then shown that the corporation,
being liable in an action to recover back the tax wrongfully
exacted, the return of this sum is, both in law and equity, full
compensation.
There is nothing to take the case before us out of the
principle here laid dowil, and'the decision of the highest court
of Wisconsin, that the remedy at law is ample, must command
our respect.
In the latest case in Michigan, YFoungblood v. Sexton; 32
Mich. 406, Cooley, J., says: "It was decided at an early day
in this State that equity had no jurisdiction to restrain the
collection of.a personal tax, even conceding it to be illegal, the
ordinary legal remedies being ample for the parties' protection,"
citing "Villizmsv. Detroit, ยง Mich. 560, and Henry v. Gregory,
29 Mich. 68. He also shows by additional citations that the
same principle has been asserted in the courts of Massachusetts,.
New Hampshire, Connecticut, California, North Carolina,
Rhode Island, Ohio, Missouri, New York, and Maryland.
In the case before us we see no reason for departing from
the settled doctrine both of this court and of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin.
There is nothing here presented which brings the case under
any of the recognized heads of equity jurisdiction, and the mischiefs which must attend the exercise of the right to contest in
the courts of equity every tax'which is asserted to be illegal or
unauthorized, are too serious to justify any such departure.
The question on which the judges of the Circuit Court divided is, therefore, answered in the negative, and as that court
has no equitable jurisdiction in the case its decree is
Ieversed and the eae remanded,wi direotion8 to diemim8
the bill.

