HIGGINS v. McCREA.
Syllabus.

tion declares that the capital stock of the company "shall be
exempt from taxation, and its roads, fixtures, workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation, and other appurtenances,.shall
be exempt from taxation, for ten years after the completion of
said road within the State." This exemption was designed to
aid the road, and was, therefore, much more needed during its
construction than when completed. It seems like a perversion
of the purpose of the statute t6 hold that it intended to impede
by its burden the progress of the desired work, and relieve it of
the burden only when finished. The enterprise is to be nursed,
according to the majority of the court, not in itis infancy, but
when successfully carried out and needs no support.
I am authorized to say that the C=nF JUSTicE, MR. JuUSrCE
ILLER and MR. Jus~ioE BRADLEY concur with me in this dissent.

HIGGINS & Another v. MicOIEA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE URITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Submitted January 8, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The rules of a Board of Trade were part of the contract sued on, dnd authorized plaintiff, who was a member of the board and, as a commission
merchant, had bought produce for future delivery on account of defendant,
to offset and settle such trade by Qther trades made by plaintiff, and to
substitute some other person for the one from whom he purchased the property. Acting under this rule plaintiff released the seller from his contract,
and, having many similar transactions in his business, proposed to himself
to substitute in the place of the contract with seller, the agreement of such
other contractor as might be available for the purpose at the time of settlement, but designated no particular contractor or contract: Held, (1) That
it was a question of law4or the court whether this was a substitution within the meaning of the rule : (2) That an instruction to the jury upon these
facts that there had been no valid substitution of other contracts for those
which were cancelled and plaintiff could not recover was correct.
In Ohio the validity in law of a counter-claim by defendant depends upon the
allegations respecting it, without regard to allegations and admissions of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.
pleadings on the other side in regard to plaintiff's cause of action, and if
defendant avers that the counter-cOrtm is founded upon a transaction which
the law forbids and makes a crime, it cannot be maintained, even if plain'tiff, in setting forth his cause ot action founded on the same thing, avers
the transaction to be legal.

The plaintiffs in error were the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court.
They brought this action to recover $31,644.31, and interest,
for ,moneys paid by them, as they alleged, in executing the
orders of the defendant for the purchase, in May, 1883, of certain lots of pork and lard in the Exchange of the Chicago
Board of Trade, to be delivered in the following August. The
petition averred that the plaintiffs were commission merchants
and members of said Board of Trade, that the transactibns out
of which the suit arose were governed by thd rules 'of the
board, and that the defendant had knowledge of said rules.
The petition then averred, as a first cause of action, that on
May' 19, 1883, the plaintiffs purchased on the order of defendant, and as his brokers and agents, and for his account, 1,000
barrels of pork and 1,000 tierces of lard,-to be delivered in
August next, on such day as the vendor might elect. That on
August 1, 1883, the property was tendered and payment demanded of the plaintiffs, and, in accordance with the defendant's instructions, and the terms and conditions of their agency,
the plaintiffs received the pork and lard, and paid therefor
$58,553.34, the price thereof, and $56 for inspection charges
thereon; all which the plaintiffs were bound and compelled to:
do by the terms of the contract and the rules and regulations
of the Board of Trade, which constituted a part of the contract
of agency between the parties, and of the contract of purchase;
that on the same day notice was given to the defendant that
the pork and lard had been received and paid for; that he
failed to give directions for the disposition of the property,
and failed to pay therefor, and plaintiffs thereupon sold the
same in the Exchange of the Board of Trade and according to
its rules, and received therefor, and credited to the account of
the defendant, $42,615.97; that they had previously received
from the defendant on that account the sum of $6,631.66, and
that the balance due from him and unpaid on account of that

HIGGINS v. McCREA. .
Statement of Facts.

transaction was $9,361.71, with interest from the date of,
sale.
For a second cause of action the plaintiffs set up transactions in all respects similar to those alleged in the first, namely,
their purchase on May 22, 1883, for defendant, on his order, of
2,000 barrels of pork and 2,000 tierces of lard, deliverable in
August following; the delivery of the produce on August 1,
and the payment therefor by the plaintiffs; its subsequent ale
by them at a loss of $21,832.60. By a third count the plaintiffs claimed $450 for commissions in said transactions.
'The petition then averred that there was due to the plaintiffs from the defendant, by reason of the premises, the sum
already stated, for which they demanded judgment.
The defendant, in an amended answer, averred that the
plaintiffs were engaged in carrying on, for themselves and
others, gambling transactions in pork, lard, and other .commodities on the Chicago Board of Trade; that, being solicited
by the plaintiffs, and being desirous himself to gamble and
speculate on the prices of pork and lard, he engaged with the
plaintiffs in such gambling transactions; that, on Ma. *19,1883,
he directed the plaintiffs to deal for him in pork ana lard options to the amounts specified in the plaintiffs' petition; that
the plaintiffs did, on or about the 19th of May, 1883, e'iter into
contracts in their own name, but, as they now claim, apon account of this defendant, with certain named persons and firms,
to wit, G. C: Eldridge & Company and others; that they did
not contract for the actual delivery of any pork or lard whatever, but the pretended purchases were mere options, and that
it was the understanding of all the parties to said transactions
that no pork or lard should be delivered on the contracts, and
that the same should be settled upon the differences between
the contract and the market price.
The answer further averred that soon after the making of
the contracts the plaintiffs disposed ol the same for their own
benefit, converted the proceeds to their own use, and released
the parties with whom they had made said contracts, and that
at no time after June 16, 1883, did the plaintiffs hold any contracts whatever for the account. of defendant, but falsely revoL. cxvi-43

OCTOBER. TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

ported -to him that they were carrying said contracts for his.
benefit, and required him, from time to time, to pay, and he
did pay, into their hands large sums of money, amounting in
the' aggregate, with a balance already in their hands due to the
defendant, to $19,895, and that in the latter part of Jime, 1883,
ihe defendant gave the plaintiffs notice that he would no longer
participate in said gambling transactions, and that he repudiated the same. The answer also denied that any pork or lard
was actually delivered to the plaintiffs on said contracts or that
-they paid any money thereon for account of defendant, and
pleaded in bar the statute of the State of Illinois, which declais
option contracts to be illegal and void.
' By way of counter-claim the defendant, in his answer,
demanded judgment against the plaintiffs for his said advances,
amounting in all to $19,895, and averred that this money was
paid by him to the plaintiffs to- promote and' carry on said
gambling transactions; that said transactions, beirg the 1urchase of option contracts, were forbidden by the statute of'
Illinois, and were illegal and void; that the said sum was so
•lost by the defendant to the plaintiffs in the said gambling
transactions and option contracts as set forth. The reply of
the plaintiffs put in issue 'the new matter set, up in the answer
and counter-claim of the defendant.
Thd issues made by the pleadings were tried by a jury. The
bill of exceptions stated that the .plaintiffs first offered in evidence section 6 of Rule 26 of the Chicago Board of Trade,
';hich was as follows:
"In case any member of the association, acting as a commis.sion merchant, shall have made purchases or sales by order and
for account of another, whether the party for whom any such
purchase or sale was made shall be a member of the Board of
Trade or otherwise, and it shall subsequently appear that such
trades may be offset and settled by other 'trades made by said
commission merchant, he shall be deemed authorized to make
stich offset and settlement, and to substitute some person or
persons for the one from or to whom he may have purchased
'or s6ld the property originally: Provided, That in case of spch
substitution the member or firm making the same shall be held

IGGI S v. McCREA.
Statement of Facts.

to guarantee to his or their principal the ultimate fulfillment
of all the contracts made for account of such principal which.
have been so transferred, and shall be held liable to such principal for all damages or loss resulting from such substitution."
'Frederick F. Gilbert, one of the plaintiffs, was put on the
stand as a witness in their behalf, and testified in substance as
follows: The plaintiffs actually bought the property, mentioned
in the petition in pursuance of orders received from the defendant; none of the transactions were roade with an understanding that the property was not to be delivered, and the property
was delivered to the plaintiffs on the 1st of August, and was
received and paid for by them; they notified the defendant of
such receipt, and that, unless he took the property and reimbursed the plaintiffs for their advances, the same would be sold
for his account; fie defendant gave no orders, and consequently
the propert'y was sold by the plaintiffs on the Board of Trade
and the proceeds of sale credited to his account. The witness
produced the checks given to Geo. W. Higgins and others, of
whom the property was -bought, and stated fhat these. checks
were given in payment for defendant's account; that the difference between the purchase and selling frice, and the consequent
loss to the plaintiffs, was the sum mentioned in their petition.
The plaintiffi having rested, the deposition of the said Frederick F. Gilbert, taken by the defendant, was offered by him in
evidence, in which the -witness testified in substance as follows:
Neither Eldridge & Co. nor any other parties with whom the
plaintiffs made contracts for the defendant, delivered any pork
or lard for him on Augpst 1, or at any time. During the latter part of the month of May and the month of June the plaintiffs cancelled all the contracts they had made for the defend-'
ant with Eldridge & Co., and others, for pork and lard, and
released them from the performance thereof, but gave the defendant no iotice of these facts. The contracts were cancelled
by offsetting them with contracts they had made with other
parties for the sale of pork and lard, and this was done for the.
advantage of the plaintiffs and to facilitate their business transactions. When the contracts for the defendant were made with
Eldridge & Co. and others, they were entered upon the books of

.676

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

the plaintiffs, and the books showed that the contracts were
made for account of the defendant. But after the contracts made
for the defendant were cancelled by the process of offsetting
them against other contracts, no contracts were substituted for
them by any mark or sign upon the books of the plaintiffs.' The
substituted contracts were afterwards cancelled by the process
:'of offsetting them against other contracts, and this process was
continued as the convenience of the plaintiffs required, but none
of the substituted contracts were at any time specially assigned
to the defendant on the books of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs,
,,however, took care to have on hand contracts for the sale of
pork and lard equal.in quantity to their contracts for the purchase of the same commodities, and it was their purpose and
practice to apply the first produce delivered"on contracts of sale
'to the oldest contract of purchase, but the plaintiffs could not
tell what produce would be applied to a contract of purchase
until it was delivered. There was no special lot in reserve for
any one customer. The plaintiffs had the produce coming in..
"They aggregated their books and balanced every few days to
see whether they had stuff enough coming to fill their contracts." 'When the produce was delivered to them it was common property, like wheat put in an elevator. Out of 7000
barrels of pork delivered to the plaintiffs on August 1, they applied a sufficient quantity to satisfy the defendant's contracts of
purchase, "It did not matter who it.came from first, whatever came there first it was reserved for" the defendant. The
plaintiffs received and paid fpr no lard on defendant's account
on August 1, or at any other time.
After the cancellation of the contracts made for the defendant by the plaintiffs the latter were the only persons to whom
the defendant could look for the pork and lard mentioned in the
cancelled contracts. He could hold xio one else liable to him
for the delivery of the produce.
The pork delivered to plaintiffs on August 1 was delivered,
not on contracts made in behalf of defendant, but made
for other persons, and all the checks for money paid by the.
plaintiffs on August 1 were on contracts of purchases made in
behalf of other persons and not for the defendant.

IGGINS v. McCREA.
Statement of Facts.

The witness further testified that on May 19, 1883, there was
standing to the credit of defendant on the books of plaintiffs $1895, and that after that date the defendant paid them
on the transactions set out in the petition the additional sum. of
$18,000.
The deposition of Edward M. Higgins, the other plaintiff,
taken in behalf of the defendant, was also introduced in evidence by the latter. So far as it went it was in substance the
same as the deposition of Gilbert.
There was conflicting evidence upon the question whether
the defendant at the time of the transactions out of which the
suit arose knew what were the rules and customs of the Board
of Trade.
The defendant, as a witness in his own behalf, testified in regard to his transactions with the plaintiffs as follows:
"I always knew it was gambling. I never bought any property for future delivery and received it, or expected to. I
never bought any property, or any pork or lard, or an option,
for future delivery and received it. I never' intended to receive it. I never intended to receive this or any portion of it.
I had no use for it; all I wanted was the difference, if it went
my way."
The foregoing is the substance of the evidence necessary to
be stated to show the bearing of the charge of the court to the
jury.
The bill of exceptions then proceeded to state, that the court,
having explained to the jury what would and what would not
constitute a gambling contract, said, among other things not
excepted to:
"It is legitimate for the parties to make a contract for the
delivery of property at some future period, provided they mean
a real and bonafde contract, and~the law recognizes the obligation and will enforce it. If the contract is void for the
reason heretofore stated, the plaintiff cannot recover anything,
nor could the defendant recover on his cross-action. The law
in that contingency would leave the parties in the situation
that they have placed themselves in, and no recovery could be
had by either plaintiffs or defendant. But if you should be of

OCTOBER, TERMg, 1885.
Statement of' Facts.

,opinion that, although 'the defendant entertained the opinion
that it was a gambling transaction, the -plaintiffs did not participate in that view of the question, but contemplated and
intended an actual purchase, and an actual sale, the contract
'Iwoldbe. binding between the parties, and it will become your
duty to go further and make an additional finding.
"Assuming that this contract was valid and enforcible, the
defendant says that he is not bound, for the reason that after
the purchases were made by these plaintiffs as his agents, and for
his account, they cancelled the contracts and released the vendors therefrom, and that they did that without authority from
himn and without his knowledge or his subsequent ratification.
Upon that state of facts, if found to be true, the plaintiffs could
not recover, anything; that cancellation of* the contracts and
release of the vendors would have absolved the defendant from
any obligation to pay the plaintiff for the property so purchased
by them for his account. But the plaintiffs in reply say that
the Board of Trade has certain rules and regulations, which the
court has .permitted to be offered in evidence t o you, and that
under and in accordance with these rules they had a right to
cancel these contracts and substitute others in place of them;
that'these rules were known to and understood by the defendant, and that he, with that knowledge, acquiesced in the cancellation of the contracts, and the alleged substitution of others
iin the place of those cancelled.
"For present purposes, and without expressing any opinion
upon this proposition, the court instructs you that you may, for
the purposes of this case, assume that the defendant did know
and did consent that these plaintiffs might act under the 6th
section of the 26th'rule, and that such knowledge and acquiescence of his authorized, the plaintiffs to cancel the first contracts
and substitute others in their place. But the coiirt instructs
you that, assuming plaintiff's contention in this regard to be
true, and assuming that the plaintiffs themselves have .told the
truth in this case, there has been no valid substitution of other
-contracts for those that were cancelled, and "thatthe plaintiffs
cannot, therefore, for that reason, upon their own testimony,
recover anything -in this action.

HIGGINS v. McCREA.

679

Opinion of the Court.
"If you find upon that question the original contract to have
been valid, and that the defendant is excused or absolved from.
liability because of this attempted substitution, which the court
instructs you was not made in accordance with said rule,.then
and in that case the defendant will be entitled to recover upon
his cross-action against the plaintiffs for all the money which he
advanced in pursuance of these contracts."
To the last two paragraphs of the charge the plaintiffs excepted.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendant, and
against the plaintiffs, upon the cause of action set forth in their'
petition, and in favor of the defendant and against the plaintiffs
upon the counter-claim set forth in defendant's answer, for the
sum of $22,662.42. In accordance with the verdict the court
rendered judgment. To reverse that judgment the plaintiffs
brought this writ of error.

21>. C. 0Bonney and Mr. 1Franis J Ting for plaintiffs in
error.
YJfr. St venon, Buzrke and Yr. William
fendant in error.

.Ander8 for de-

MR.JtsTIoE Woods delivered the opinion of the court. After stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
It is not disputed that if the transactions out of which this
suit arose were of the character described in the counter-claim
and testimony of the defendant, they fell under the ban of section 130 of chapter 38 of'the Revised Statutes of Illinois of
1885, page 405, which was in force when the transactions took
place. That section, so far as applicable to this case, was as
follows: "Whoever contracts to have or give to himself or
another the option to sell or buy at a future time any grain or
other commodity, . .
shall be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $1000, or confined in the county jail not exceeding
one year, or both, and all contracts niade in violation of this
section shall be considered gambling contracts, and shall be
void."

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The errors assigned by the plaintiffs relate exclusively to the
rendering of judgment in accordcharge of the court and the
of the jury.
ance with the verdict
The first complaint made against the charge is that the
court withdrew from the jury the question of fact whether the
plaintiffs had or had not complied with the rules of the Board
of trade in reference to the substitution of other contracts for
those made by them for the defendant, and which they subsequently offset and settle.d, and charged the jury that certain
substitutions of contracts alleged by the plaintiffs to have been
made by them were not as matter of law made in accordance
with'the rales of the Board of Trade.
We think there was no error in the charge of the court complained of. - The rule of the Board of Trade upon this subject
(see. 6, rule 26) provides that where purchases or sales shall
have been made byp. commission merchant, a member of the
board, by order or for account of another person, and it shall
subsequently appeai that such "trades" may be offset and
settled by other "trades" made by the same commission merchant, he shall be 1"authorized to make such offset and settlement and to substitute some person or persons for the one from
or to whom he may have purchased or sold the property
originally."
The qneaniug of this rule is plain,,namely, that when a com-mission merchant having made a contract for his principal with
a third person, assumes to offset or cancel the contract, he.
shall substitute therefor another equivalent contract with some
other person who shall be bound to his principal for its per..formance.
It is well settled, as a general rule, that a written contract
made by a factor in his own name for the purchase or sale of
goods for his principal will bind the principal, and he may sue
and be sued thereon exactly as-if he were named in it, for it is
treated as the contract of the principal as well as of the agent.
.figgin8 v. Senior, 8 M. & W. 834:; Etuntington v. Rnox, 7
Cush. 371; Taintor v. " rendergast,3 Hill, 72; Ford v. Wil- &&m,, 21 ilow. 281.
The ide of the Board of Trade provided, as has been seen,

HIGGINS v. McCREA.
Opinion of the Court.

that where the commission mbrchant has substituted one contradt for another he shall guarantee to his principal the performance of the substituted contract.
It follows that upon the original -contracts made by the
plaintiffs for the defendant, the latter, upon their breach, had
a right of action against the parties with whom the contracts
were made. The purpose of the rule was, therefore, plain,
namely, to provide that when contracts were cancelled and
others substituted, the commission merchant, as well as the
party bound in the substituted contract to sell or buy, should.
be liable to the other party for its performance. The rule,
therefore, does not authorize the commission merchant to release the party to the original contract unless he provides some
one else toI assume the obligation, or, as the rule states it,
"substitute some person or persons for the one from or to
whom he may have purchased or sold the pro-.erty originally."The only evidence in'the case in regard to the cancellation of
the original contracts made by the plaintiffs for the defendant
and the substitution of other contracts was the testimony of the
plaintiffs themselves. They do not contiadict each other, and
there is no contradiction or impeachment of their testimony on
this point in the record. These witnesses make it clear that,
after the contracts made by them for the defendant had been
offset against others, and thereby cancelled, no other contracts
were substituted in their place which the defendant could have
enforced. In fact there was no substitution. No contracts
were designated to take the place of those cancelled. All that
the plaintiffs say on this point is, that it was their purpose to
apply the first produce deli-ered in August on contracts of sale,
first to the oldest contract of purchase, and it was uncertain on
what contract the first delivery would be made until the
"delivery actually took place. If there was any substitution of
other contracts for the cancelled ones it was only. in the
mental operations of the plaintiffs, to which no outward expression whatever was given. The plaintiffs admit in their
evidence that after the original contracts made for the defend-.
ant were offset and released they alone were bound to the
defendant, and that there were no other persons against whom

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the -defendant could have maintained an action. It is plain,
therefore, that upon their own showing the plaintiffs did not
make the substitution required by sec. 6 of rule 26 of the
Board of Trade..
The facts of tho case being shown and not disputed, the
question whether there had been a valid substitution of contracts under the rule referred to was a question of law. It
depended on the construction of the rule, which it was the duty
of -the court to interpret. Levy v. Gadsby, 3 Cranch, 180;
WTalker v. Bank of JTashington, 3 How. 62; Goddardv.Footer,
17 Wall. 123.
When, therefore, the Circuit Court said to the jVry, that,
assuming that the plaintiffs themselves have told the truth in
'this case, there has been no valid substitution of other contracts
for those that were cancelled it was merely applying the rule
of the Board of Trade as it construed it to the plaintiffs' own
version of the facts, and, in so doing, discharged its own duty
without invading the province of the jury. It is quite clear,
also, from what has been said, that the construction put on the
,rule by the Circuit Court was correct. We do not see how the
rule could have been differently construed. The case, as shown
,by the testimony, was this: The plaintiffs had been employed
'by the defendant as his agents to make contracts in his behalf
for the purchase of pork and lard. They made contracts
under this authority and almost immediately cancelled them,
and substituted no other contracts which the defendant could
have enforced. There is nothing in the record to show that
" the plaintiffs were liable to the defendant upon the original
.contracts made by them for the latter, and there were no substituted contracts on which either the plaintiffs or other persons
were liable. The defendant, therefore, on August 1, 1883,
had no contract on which he could have demanded the delivery
of a pound of -pork or lard, or have sustained an action against
any one for failure to deliver. The money which the plaintiffs
seek to recover in this suit was not, therefore, paid out for the
,use of the defendant, and an action therefor cannot be maint~ined against him.
The court would, therefdre, have been justified in charging

HIGGINS .v. McCREA.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury, that, upon' the plaintiffs' own testimony, they were
not entitled to a verdict against the defendant upon the cause
of action set out in their petition. Plea8ants v. Pant, 22 Wall,
116; Grigg8 v. Hudon, 104 U. S. 553; Randall v. Baltimore
& Oldo Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 4'8. We are oLopinion,
therefore, that the charge of the Circuit Court, so far as it related to the right of the plaintiffs to -recover, was not open to
any of the objections urged against it by the plaintiffs.
The next objection made to the charge has reference to that
instructiori in which the court, said: "If you find the original
contract to have been valid, and that the defendant is excused or
absolved from liability because of the attempted substitutionsr
which the court instructs you were not made in accordance
with said rule, then, and in that case, the defendant will be entitled to recover upon the cross-action against the plaintiffs for
all the money which he advanced in pursuance of these contracts." This part of the charge was specifically pointed out
by an exception: taken by the plaintiffs, to the effect that it
allows the defendant to recover, notwithstanding his confession
of record that the transactions in which he was engaged with
,the plaintiffs were gambling transactions, and allows him to recover what he admits were advances made for the purpose of
carrying on the business of gambling, We think, therefore,
that the record fairly presents the question whether this instruction was right. The Ohio Code of Civil Procedure requires that a cause of action set up as a counter-claim in the
answer of the defendant "must be one

arising out of

the contract or transaction set forth in the petition as the
foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action." See. 94. The counter-claim pleaded by
the defendant was within the terms of this section.
A counter-claim under the Ohio Code is regarded as a crossaction. When it has been set up in an answer the plaintiff
will not be allowed to dismiss his suit without the defendant's
consent, Tikwell v. First Congregational C6ure, 14 Ohio St.
31; and it must state facts recognized by courts of law or
equity as constituting a cause of action, Hill v. Butler, 6 Ohio
St. 207. If a plaintiff dismiss his action against the defendant,-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion, of the Coart.

or fail to appear, that will not prevent the defendant from
prosecuting the. counter-claim set up in the suit to final judgment againt the plaintiff. Code of Procedure, § 3M3. Rev.
Stat. 1880, § 5315.
The court may at .any time before the final submission of
the cause allow a counter-claim set up in the answer-to be
withdrawn, and on inotioh of either party an action on the
same shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like cases after
process served. Code of Procedure, g 119.
The defendant's counter-claim is, therefore, to be tested by,
the same rule as if it had been the basis of an independent
action, and the question is whether under any circtinstances
the defendant should have been allowed upon the pleadings
and evidence to recover a judgment thereon. The instructi6n
of the court now under review directed the jury, if they found
the original contract to have been valid, but the defendant not
liable thereon, because the substitution was not made as required by the rules of the Board of Trade, that the defendant
was entitled to recover the money advanced by him to the
plaintiffs. The verdict of the jury for the defendant on his
counter-claim must have been based on a finding that the
original contracts were valid and not gambling contracts, and
the question is therefore whether the instruction was right,
and, if not, whether the error was cured by the verdict of the

jury.

We think the charge objected to was erroneous. The cross-action of the defendant, as an independent suit, it is clear,
could not have been maintained. His case, as stated by himself in his answer and counter-claim, was that the money was
advanced by him to carry on a gambling transaction, that
with his concurrence the money so advanced was used in such
gambling transactions, and that by the statutes of Illinois,
where the contracts were made, they were treated as gaming
contracts and declared illegal and void, and the making of
them a criminal offence. The counter-claim thus stated was
supported by the testimony of the defendant himself, given
upon the trial. There was no statute of Illinois to authorize
the recovery of money paid on such contracts. The cross-

HIGGINS v. McCREA.
, Opinion of 'the Court.

action, thevefore, of the defendant, stated in his pleading and
supported by his own deposition, was not one on which any
recovery could be had. Armstrong v. Toler, 12 Wheat. 58;
377; Davidson v. lanier, 4
.Brown v. Tarkington, 3 'all.
Wall. 447; Hanauer v. Doane, 12 Wall. 342. The court was
bound to take judicial notice of the fact that the dealings recited in the counter-claim were forbidden by law, and of its
own motion should have directed a verdict against the defendant thereon. Ocanyan v. Arms Company, 103 IT. S. 251.
If the defendant had withdrawn his counter-claim and docketed it as a separate suit against the plaintiffs, as permitted
to do by.the code, it needs no discussion to show that his action
must have failed. His rights are not changed by the fact that
the two causes go onparipamsu,and are tried at the sam, time.
We do not see on what ground a party, who says in his plead-'
ing that the money which he seeks to recover was paid out for
the accomplishment of a purpose made an offence by the law,
and who testifies and insists to the end of his suit that the contract on which he advanced his money was illegal, criminal,
and void, can recover it back in a court whose duty it is to
give effect to the law which the party admits he intended
to violate.
In the present case the plaintiffs alleged and insisted that'
their transactions with the defehdant were carried on with no.
unlawful purpose. On the other hand, the defendant alleged
and insisted that in the same transactions he intended to violate the law. We see no reason why in such a case the plaintiffs might not, if they had not cancelled the contracts, recover
the money paid by them for the defendant, while at the same
time the defendant could not recover the -money advanced to
the plaintiffs for what he intended to be an unlawful purpose.
In Holman v: Johnson, Cowper, 341, 343, it was said by
Lord Mansfield that "the objection that a contract is immoral
or illegal as between plaintiff and defendant sounds at all times
very ill in the mouth of the defendant. It is not for his sake,
however, that the objection is ever allowed; but it is founded
on general principles of policy, which the defendant has the advantage of, contrary to the real justice as between him and the

4861.

OCTOBER T]RM, 1885.
Opiuion of the Court.

plaintiff, by accident, if I may so say.

The principle of public

policy is this ex "dolo -malo non. oritur actio. 1o court will
lend its aid to a man who founds his cause of action upon an
immoral or illegal act. If from"the plaintiffs' own stating, or
otherwise, Ile gause of action appear to arise ex turpi cau8d,
or the transgressipn of a positive law of this country, there
the court says he has no right to be assisted. It is upon that
ground the court goes not for the sake of the defendant,
but because they will not lend their aid to such a plaintiff. So
if the plaintiff and defendant were to change sides and the
,defendant was to bring his action against the plaintiff, the lat
ter would then "have the advantage of it; for when both are
equally in fault potior e8t conditio defendentis."
If, therefore, the defendant intended to embark his money
in au illegal .and criminal venture, we do not see how his case
is helped by the fact that the purpo e of the plaintiffs was to
invest the money so advanced in what they understood to be
a lawful and innocent transaction.
The paragraphs of the charge of the -court excepted to
amouiated in substance to this, that if the plaintiffs, in making
the contracts for the defendant, contemplated and intended an
. actual purchase and an actual sale, but the defendant did, not,
but, on the contrary, meant to engage in a gambling venture,
'the contract would, nevertheless, be binding on both parties, and
if the plaintiffs cancelled the contracts, the defendant, notwithstanding his intention to violate the laws, could recover from
the plaintiffs the money advanced by him to carry out his unlawful purpose. We think this charge was erroneous. Upon the
case made by his counter-claim, the defendant was not entitled
to recover, and the fact that the pliintiffs wereinnocent of any
unlawful purpose did not enure to the benefit of the defendant,
who confessed that the money which he sought to recover had
been paid by-him to promote an illegal and criminal venture.
Upon t h pleadings the verdict of the jury cannot help the
defendant's case. Section 5328 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio
of 1880 provides "that wheii upon the statements in the pleadings one party is- entitled by law to judgment in his favor,
judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict
-

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Syllabus.

has been found against such party." It is clear that, upon thd
defendant's counter-claim, which showed that he had no valid
cause of action against the plaintiffs, no valid judgment could
be rendered against them. Notwithstanding the verdict, the
judgment should have been against the defendant, and for the
plaintiffs, upon the counter-claim of the former.
We are of opinion, therefore, that
The judgment infavor of the defendant on the cause of action
alleged in the plaintif' ~etition should be affhrned, an
the jtdgrnent in favor of the defendant, onethe cce of
action set up in his answer by way of counter-claim,,
should be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to enter a judgment for the plaintiffs and against the defendant on the counter-claim of the latter.

REYNOLDS & Another v. IRON SILVER MINING-.

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

'OR

THE

DISTRICr OF COLORADO.

Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.
In procuring a patent for a placer mine- claim under § 2333 of the Revised
Statutes, where the claimant is also in possession of a lode or vein included
within the boundaries of his placer claim, the patent shall cover both, if'
he makes this known, and pays $5 per acre for twenty-five feet on each side
of his vein, and $2.50 per acre for the remainder of his placer claim.

Where no such vein or lode is known to exist, the patent for a placer claim'
shall carry all such veins or lodes within its boundaries which may be after'
wards found to exist under its surface.
But where a vein or lode is knoun to exist under the surface included in such
patent, and is not in claimant's possession, and not mentioned in the claim
on which the patent issues, the title to such vein or lode remains in the
United States, unless previously conveyed to some one else, and does not
pass to the patentee, who thereby acquires no interest in such vein or lode.
The title remaining in the United States in the veins thus known to exist and
not claimed or referred to in the patent, the patentee and his gr-ntee have
no right to dispossess any one in the peaceable possession of such veins, whether the latter have any title or not.

