LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENNEN. 461
Statement of Facts.
Pierce v. Yew Hamn8shire, 5 How. 593; Hinson v. Lott, 8
Wall. 148; -Machlne Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676. None of
these cases, however, sustain the doctrine that an occupation
can be taxed if the tax is so specialized as to operate as a discriminative burden against the introduction and sale of the
products of another State, or against the citizens of another
State.
We think that the act in question operates as a regulation of
commerce among the States in a matter within the exclusive
power of Congress, and that it is, for this reason repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, and void.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of .fXicigan is
and the cause remaiided,with instructionsto take
such further p roceedings as may not be inconsistent with
this opinion.
-reversed,

The C:rEF JusTiE did not sit in this case, nor take any paxt
in the decision.

LONDON ASSURANCE

COMPANY v. DREM-EN &
Others.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted January 6, 1886.-Declded January 18, 1886.

An agreement

by A. with B. that on the payment of a sum of money B. shall
participate in the profits of.A.'s business, gives B. no interest, as between
themselves, in A.'s stock in trade, when it appears that it was their intention that he should haie no such interest.

This case was before the court at the last term, 113 U. S. 51,
when the court gave a construction to the contract between
the Assurance Company and the present defendants in error,
then plaintiffs in error. That contract, and other facts in that
case which also enter into this case, will be found on pages 51,
52, 59 and 54 of vol. 113. At the new trial had in September,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

1885, a verdict was rendered for plaintiffs for $6770, and judgment accordingly. This writ of error was sued out to review
that judgment. There was a bill of exceptions which incorporated all the evidence, including the agreement reported in
the statement of facts in vol. 113, and the evidence offered by
-the Insurance Company to show that there was a partnership
between the defendants in error and Arndt, and rebutting testimony offered by defendants in error, and then continued:
"Upon the foregoing admissions and testimony, which was
all that was received or considered on said trial, the defendant
prayed the court to charge the jury that ' On the undisputed
evidence in this case the jury are instructed that Mr. Arndt
became a copartner in the insured property with the plaintiffs,
Drennen, Starr & Everett, and was such copartner at the time
of the fire, and your verdict must be for the defendants;'
which charge the court refused to give, and the defendant then
and there duly excepted to the said ruling, and said exception
was then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The defendant prayed the court to charge the jury that
'The question is whether Arndt, in paying his money into the
firm and executing his -note to the firm, became a lender of
money to the firm, and the firm a mere borrower
from him, or
whether he acquired an interest in the business and property
of the firm itself as a member thereof. On this subject the
law is: If it was not the understanding that Arndt became.a.
lender to the concern, and if it was the understanding between
the parties that the amount of his investment was to be risked
in their business and become part of' thd capital stock, and he"
was to have a share of tle net profits, he is not a mere lender,
but a partner'; which charge the court refused to give, and the
defendant duly excepted to the said'ruling, and said exception
was then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The defendant prayed'the court to charge the jury that
'Where a person contributes a.portion of the common capital
which is iingled with.the contributions of the other parties,
and the whole is managed for the joint interests of those who
contribute, the contrfbutors-iaoh having a share of the net profits
"of he business, they become thereby parners as between them-

LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENNEN. 463
Statement of Facts.

selves in the capital stock or property of the concern ;' which
charge the court refused to give, and the defendant then and
there duly excepted to the said ruling, and said exception was
then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The court charged the jury that the making of the written
contract, Exhibit 'K; and the payment of money and giving
of note by Arndt to plaintiffs, as shown, could not be considered as proving partnership relation between the plaintiffs
and Arndt; and that the issue as to whether such partnership
relation was formed must be determined from all the other testimony and facts in the case, outside and independent of said
contract and payment under it; that said payment of money
must not be considered as evidence of such partnership, but
must be taken in connection with said contract and as part
performance thereof. The defendant then and there duly excepted to the said instruction so far as it excluded from the
consideration of the jury the payment of said money and giv.
ing of said note as evidence upon the question of partnership,
and said exception was then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The court charged the jury as follows: 'Even if you should
find from the evidence that the apparent relation between the
plaintiffs and Arndt was such as would charge them as partners at the suit of creditors or third persons, that alone would
not be sufficient to constitute them as partners as between
themselves, or to maintain the defense in this action-that is,
Arndt might have an interest in the profits without being an
actual partner.' To which chargethe defendant then and there
duly excepted, and the said exception was then and there duly
noted and allowed.
"The court charged the jury as follows: ' If you find from the
evidence that up to the time of the fire it was not the intention
of the plaintiffs and Arndt to become partners, but that it was
their intention to organize a corporation of which they should
be members and stockholders, and that the goods and property
of the plaintiffs should be transferred to said corporation when
organized, and they should take stock in said corporation to
the extent of the ascertained value thereof, and that Arndt
should take scock in said corporation to the extent of ten thou-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts. .

sand dollars contributed by him, and that no change should
take place in the name or character of the firm of Drennen,
Starr & Everett until such corporation should be organized,
then the defense fails, and the plaintiffs are entitled to a verdict
for the full amount of the policies, with interest, as claimed in
the complaint. That is another way of putting it, that if there
was no partnership-that is, if Arndt was not taken in as a
partner-then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover.' To which
charge the defendant then and there duly excepted, and the
exception was then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The court charged the jury as follows: ' If you find from the
evidence that said Arndt was to be a participant in the profits
realized, from the business of the plaintiffs, to a certain extent
from January 1st, 1883, this would not necessarily constitute
him a partner in or joint owner of the goods and property of
the plaintifts insured by these policies. He might have an
interest in such profits without having any joint title or interest with the plaintiffs in the ownership of their goods.' To
which charge the defendant then and there duly excepted and
said exception was then and there duly noted and allowed.
"The court charged the iury as follows: ' If you find from
the evidence that the plaintiffs, in consideration of Arndt's
paying in $10,000 with interest thereon from January 1st, 1883,
in advance of the formation of the contemplated corporation,
agreed that he should receive a proportionate share of the
profits of their business from said January 1st to the formation of said contemplated corporation, that fact would not
have the effect to assign or transfer to him any title or interest
in the insured goods or property of the plaintiffs in the absence
of any agreement to that effect.' To which charge the defendant then and there duly excepted, and the exception was then
and there duly noted and allowed.
"The court charged the jury as follows: I The defendant is
entitled to contradict or vary the written contract of May 24,
1883, by parol evidence; and the parol evidence which has
been received may be considered by you and is competent.
And if you find from it that, contemporaneous with the making of the written contract of May 24th the plaintiffs entered

LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENNEN. 465
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

into a verbal contract with Mr. Arndt for a present partnership, you are not precluded from finding that fact because of
said written contract.'"
Mr. C. K. Davi8 and Mr. C. W. Bunn for plaintiff in error.
I. Where the bill of exceptions is certified to contain all the
evidence, and where the court, upon all the evidence, was requested to di-ect a verdict, and the exception to the refusal so
to instruct the jury is properly preserved, this court, under the
authorities, will examine the question, and determine upon'all
the evidence whether, as a matter of law, the verdidt ought to
have been directed as requested; and if it ought to have been
directed, error has been committed. Lancasterv. Collina, 115
U. S. 222. Taking this as the rule, there can be no doubt from
the record what were the 'relations of the parties prior to the
fire, nor what relations existed at the time of the fire; nor
what legal conclusions flow from them. We admit that we
must establish a partnership inter sese. At the time of the fire
Arndt had an interest which would have entitled him to maintain a bill for a receiver and accounting in case of gross fraud
upon the partnership by one of defendants in error. Can there
be any doubt of this? He was not a mere lender of money.
There was no time fixed for repayment; no arrangement for
interest. His money went into the concern, paid for its goods,
paid its debts; he was one of the losers at the fire, and hig
remedy to recover his proportionate share was in equity, not
at law. The cases are uniform, even where a party makes no
cofitribution to the capital stock, but simply renders services, if
he shares in the the net profits as. profits, he is a partner.
Where he makes contribution to the capital, and shares in the
profits a- such in proportion to his contribution, the question
has never been one which is even open to doubt.
It will doubtless be said that if Arndt was a partner, he was
a partner in the profits only, and not in the property. Whatever plausibility this claim might have if Arndt only contrib.
uted his labor and skill, it is clearly unsound, and not supported.
by any precedent, when applied to a case like the one at bar,
where Arndt contributes ten seventy-fifths of the capital stock,
VOL. cxV-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and shares in the profits in proportion to his contribution. This
contribution per se made him jointly interested in the property
of 'the firm. When the assured all testify that Arndt added
his $10,000 to their capital as a part of it, and was to share
profits according to his contribution, they make him a partner
per se, both as to creditors and as between themselves. Berthold V. Gold& th, 24 How. 536; Beauregardv. Case, 91 U. S.
134, 140 ; Whitcomb v. Converse, 119 Mass. 38; Livingston v.
Blanchard,130 Mass. 341; Exparte Owen, 4 DeG. & Sm. 351;
Syemr v. _.$yers, 1 App. Cas. 174. Note to Traugh. v. Carve,
1 Smith'szLUd. Cas. 491; Chapline v. Conant, 3 West Virginia, 507; Fitch v. Harrington, 13 Gray, 468, 474; YVassar v.
"0amp,14 Barb. 341. It is'not necessary that community of
loss should be provided for, in order to constitute a partne:ship, nor that there should be community of loss in fact in
ordei to create a partnership property to be owned by partners
" such. Bucknam v. Barnum, 15 Conn. 67; Mfunro v. nitman, 15 N. Y. Supreme Ct. (8 Hun), 553; .Exparte Langdae,
18 Yes. 299, 301 ; .Gipin v. Enderly, 5 B. & Ald. 954; Hendrick v. Gunn, 35 Geo. 234.
,.If the assured admitted Arndt as a partner in the property, and he was a joint owner in the same with them
at the time of the fire, the policy of insurance was thereby
avoided. We do not deny that one of several joint owners
.may transfer his interest to the others without avoiding the
policy. That was the case in Lockwood v. Ins. Co., 47 Conn.
553, 564. But the theory is, that the insurance company
has the right to say with whom it will contract, and "in
whom it will rest its confidence; in whom it will repose the
*trust of bearing for it the moral hazard incident to the insurance. Any process by which a new party to the contract is
-introduced, by which the insured shifts the moral hazard from
himself to a stranger, creates a new contract and a new rela-tion which the company has not consented to assume. .A1alley
v. Ins. Co., 51 Conn. 222; Hofman v. Ins. Co., 32 N. Y. 405;
Burnett v. Ins. Co., 46 Ala. 11; Pierce v. Ins. Co., 50 N. H.
297; West v. Ins. Co., 27 Ohio St. 1; Dix v. Ins. Co., 22 Ill.
272; .Batnes v. -Ins.Co., 51 Maine, 110; Ins. Co. v. Ross, 23

LONDON ASSURANCE COM.PANY v. DRENNEN. 467
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Ind. 179; Finley v. Inm. Co., 30 Penn. St. 311; In. Co. v. Biker, 10 Mich. 279; Dey v. In8. Co., 23 Barb. '623; Wood v.
18. Co., 31 Vt. 552; Keeler v. .nI. Co., 16,Wise. 550; Ins. Co.
v. Hauslein, 60 fI. 521; Laipin v. IR8. Co., 58 Barb. 325;
Dreher v. Ins. Co., 18 Missouri, 128; Savage v. IJn. Co., 51
N. Y. 502; Pindarv. Ins. Co., 47 N. Y. 114; Briggs v. Hornu
5ns. Co., 88 Nor. Car. 141; Oake8 v. Ins. Co., 131 Mas. 164.
Mr. Justice Miller at the first trial of this cause, Drennen'v.
London A8surance Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 657.
II. The court erred in instructing the jury that the payment
of money and the giving of note by Arndt to the plaintiffs, as
shown, could not be construed as proving partnership relations
between the plaintiffs and Arndt; and that the issue as to
whether such partnership relations were formed must be determined from all the other testimony and facts in the case
outside of said contract and payment under it; that said payment of money must not be construed as evidence of such partnership, but must be taken in connection with said contract,
and as part performance thereof. tUpon the trial (this court
having decided that the written contract had sole reference to
a future corporation, and no reference to a partnership relation)
a large amount of parol testimony was taken to show that there
was a partnership relation between the parties prior to the formation of the contemplated corporation. It may well be, as
these defendants in error have positively testified, that this
$10,000 was paid in, not only to secure Mr. Arndt a share in
the corporate stock, but in order to entitle him in the meantime, and before the formation of the corporation, to a share
of the net profits in the partnership business. We were entitled to have it submitted to the jury to say whether this
money was not, as testified by the defendants in error, paid in
for this double purpose. The Circuit Court, by withdrawing
from the jury any consideration of this payment by Arndt,
deprived the plaintiff in error of a great and almost controlling part of the res gestw of the transaction.
The rule is thus laid down in Chitty on Contracts: "But
though parties and privies, as between themselves, are estopped
from contradicting a written statement by parol proof, yet the

-OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

rule does not apply to strangers who. have an interest in showing the true state of the case." I Chltty on Contracts, (11th
Am. Ed.) 141, note (e). A long list of American authorities
might be cited to sustain our position. We think the following are entirely sufficient for the purpose: Bcsrred v. Silsbee,
21 How. 146, 169 ; Dempsey v. ipp, 61 N. Y. 462, 41 ; .Aoc27faster v. Ins. Co., 55 N. Y. 222, 234; Smith v. Zloynihan, 44
Cal. 53; H~ussman v. Wilke, 50 Cal..250; Edgerley v. Emerson, 23 N. 1HI. (3 Foster), 555, 564; Erider v. Lafrety, 1 Wharton, 303; Futrbush v. Goodwin, 25 N. H. (5 Foster), 425;
Low v. Blodgett, 21 N. H. (1 Foster) 121; ReynoZds v. Afag.
Iness, 2 Iredell Law, 26; Venable v. Thompson, 11 Ala. 147.
'-Especially see the following in Minnesota: 'FanEman v.
'Stanehlfeld, 10 Minnesota, 255; Sanborn v Sturtevant, 17
'Minnesota, 200.
R RL
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been once before in this court. Drennen v.
_London Assurance Co., 113 U. S. 51. It is an action upon two
policies of fire insurance executed March 10, 1883, and covering certain goods, wares, and merchandise belonging to the
firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett. Each policy contains the
following provisions: "If the property be sold or transferred,
or any change takes place in title or possession, (except by
succession by reason of the death of the insured,) whether
by legal process, or judicial decree, or voluntary transfer or

M_. JusTicE

conveyance,

.

.

.

then, and in every such case, this policy

shall be void." "If the'interest of the assured in the property
be any other than the entire, unconditional, and sole ownership of the property for the use and benefit of the assured,
it must be so represented to the corporation and so expressed in the written part of this policy, otherwise the policy
shall be void. When property has been sold or delivered, or
otherwise disposed of, so that all interest or liability on the
part of the assured herein named has ceased, this insurance on
such property shall. immediately terminate."
The insurer contends that after the execution of the policies,
and before the loss of July 29, 1883, there was, by the

LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENrN. 469
Opinion of the Court.
voluntary act of the insured, a sale or transfer of the property;
or such a change in title or possession as rendered the policies,
by their terms, void. . This defence rests, entirely upon the
claim that, prior to the loss, one Arndt was admitted as' a
partner in the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett. The ,plaintiffs [below] deny that he ever became a partner with them, or
ever acquired an , interest in the property insured. Upon- the
re~ord as it was at the former hearing, that question depended
mainly upon the construction of the written agreement of
May 24, 1883, which is given in full in 113 U. S. 52, whe-eby
the insured agreed to receive Arndt "into their business,'" ipon
certain terms and conditions, among which are the follo. ing:
That the company should be incorporated; that Arndt should
pay into the firm for its use, on or before June 14, 1883, the
sum of $5000, and a like sum on or before January 1, 1885,
the latter amount, until paid, to be evidenced by his promissory
note, dated January 1, 1883, and each payment to bear interest at eight per cent. from the date last named; that the
business "to be carried on by the new company to be formed'
-the name of which was to be thereafter determined-should
be of the same nature as that then conducted by Dinnen,
Starr & Everett; and that "no change in the name or character" of that firm "shall be made until said corporation shall
be formed." Arndt paid to the firm, on the 18th of June, 1883,
the sum of S5000, and executed on the 3d of July of the same
year the required note for a like amount, the money and note
being entered to his individual credit on the books of Drennen,
Starr & Everett. Upon this state of facts this court, reversing
the judgment rendered for the insurer, said: " The instruction
by the court below proceeded, upon the ground that the payment by Arndt in cash and notes of the amount which he
agreed to pay, and their receipt and entry upon the books of
the firm to his credit, gave him an interest as partner in the
business; whereas such facts only establish the performance of
some, not of all, the conditions prescribed; for, by the agreement, the formation of the proposed corporation was expressly
made a condition, with the others named, to Arndt's becoming
interested in the business. In our judgment, looking at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1s85.
Opinion of the Court.

whole agreement, the parties did not contemplate a partnership,
and none was ever established between them. The agreement
looked only to a corporation, the payment and other things
specified being in preparation for its ultimate formation, which
was an adequate, as it was the actual, consideration; consequently there was, prior to the loss, and under the most
liberal interpretation of the policies, no change in the title or
possession of the propertyl nor any transfer thereof, that
%voided the policies."
At the last trial there was evidence to the effect that Arndt,
after etying the $5000 in cash, and executing his note for the
same amount, became entitled, by agreement with the insured,
to participate in the profits of their business from January 1,
1883-he paying interest on these amounts from that date.
And there was some slight proof that Drennan upon one occasion spoke of Arndt as a member of his firm.
On behalf of the insured it is contended that, even if Arndt
had become a partner in their firm, the policy would cover
their interest in the property. This results, it is claimed, from
that clause in the policy providing for the termination of the
insurance if the property be sold or delivered or otherwise disposed of) "so that all interest or liability on the part of the insured herein named has ceased." We deem it unnecessary to
consider this question, because the case can be satisfactorily
determined upon other grounds. In view of all the evidence,
the court, when delivering its charge, might well have assumed
that there was no purpose on the part of the insured, or of
Arndt, that the latter should have such an interest in the property as would belong to a partner. The court, therefore, rightfully refused to instruct the jury that upon the undisputed
evidence Arndt became a partner in the firm of Drennen,
Starr & Everett. Such an instruction could not have been
given without disregarding the interpretation which this court
at the former hearing gave to the written agreement of May
24, 1883; for, it was then said that the parties, by that agreement, appeared, x incluatria,to have excluded the possibility
of Arndt's acquiring an interest in or any control of the insured
property in advance of the formation of an incorporated corn-

LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY v. DRENNEN. 471
Opinion of the Court.
pany. That interpretation was not affected by the fact that
Arndt paid $5000 in cash and gave his note for a like amount;
for, as heretofore said, those acts were simply in execution of
the agreement and in preparation for the ultimate formation of
the proposed corporation, and were not, as the court below properly decided, evidence of a partnership. The payment of the
money and the execution of the note were plainly required'by
the agreement, and the purpose of both acts is to be ascertained

from its provisions.
The main ground upon which the defendant, at the last trial,
claimed exemption from liability on the policies, is indicated in
two of its requests for instructions to the jury: 1. That "if it
was not the understanding that Arndt became a lender of
money, and if it was the understanding between the parties
that the amount of his investment was to be risked in their
business and become part of the capital stock, and he was to
have a share of the net profits, he is not a mere lender, but a
partner;" 2. That "when a person contributes a portion of the'
common capital stock, which is mingled with the contributions
of other parties, and the whole is managed for the joint interests of those who contribute, the contributors each having a
share of the net profits of the business, They become thereby
partners as between themselves in the capital stock or property
of the concern."
We are of opinion that the court did not err in declining to
so instruct the jury. The question is not whether Arndt, by
reason of his participation in the profits of the business of
Drennen, Starr & Everett, could have been charged at the suit
of creditors as a partner in that firm. The inquiry is, whether
the insured, after the execution of the policies, and before the
loss, sold or transferred the property covered by the policies, or
whether there occurred, during that period, any change in title
or possession. If there had been a sale or transfer of the entire
property to one who had no interest in it nor any right to
control it at the time the contract of insurance was made, there
would undoubtedly have been such a change in the title as to
render the policies void. And, for the purposes of the present
case, it may be conceded that such would have been the result

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

had Aindt become a partner in the firm of Drennen, Starr &
Everett. But the ,sale or transfer to which the policies refer
was one that would pass an interest in the property itself.
Mere participation in profits would give no such interest contrary to.the real intention of the parties. Persons cannot be
made to assume the relation of partners, as between themselves,
,when their purpose is that no partnership shall exist. There is
no reason why they may. not enter into an agreement whereby
one of them shall participate in the profits arising from the
-management of particular property without his becoming a
partner with the others, or.without his acquiring an interest in
the property itself, so as to effect a change of title. As the
'charge to the jury was in accordance with these principles, and
as the evidence conclusively showed that Arndt did not, prior
to the loss, acquire an interest in, or any control of, the property insured, but was only entitled to participate in the profits
arising from its management after a named date, there is no
reason to disturb the judgment. It is, therefore,

-Afirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. ST.
LOUIS, ALTON ANhD TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ST. LOUIS, ALTON AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURtT OF THE UqITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

After argument of the cause is heard, the court of its own motion gives counsel
an opportunity to file printed arguments on a plea to the jurisdiction which
was overruled in the Circuit Court, and was not argued here.

These cases were argued on the 14th and 15th of Jahuary,
1886, by .21r. John .. Butler and Xr'. Josepk . 3feDonald
for the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company,

