SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD CO. v. WRIGHT. 231
Opinion of the Court.

for foreclosure which seeks a money decree against the mortgagor for a balance 6f the mortgage debt, and one in which
his liability for the debt is to be saved, and the value of the
mortgaged property .aplied in payment to be conclusively set-

tled against him.
.The order remanding t~w

8&it 'i8aJirmed.

SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. WRIGHT.
SAME v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

Argued December 16, 1.--Dec'ded Janary 4, 188.

The Southwestern Railroad Company of Georgia as to those parts of its road
which extend from Americus to Albany ; from Albany to Arlington; and
from Cuthbert to Eufaula, is subject to the general laws of the State for
the taxation of railroads, without regard to the exemption in its original
charter.
It is again decided that the surrender of the power to tax, when claimed, must
be shown by clear and unambiguous language, admitting of no reasonable
construction consistent with the reservation of the power.

These were suits in equity to restrain the collection of taxes.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Richard F. Lyon and ,r. A. _B. Lawton for plaintiff
inerror.
.Mr.Samuel Barnett and AMr. Olifford Ander8on for defendants in error.
delivered.theopinion of the court.
These suitsrelate to the liability of the Southwestern Railroad Company, a Georgia corporation, for taxes on different
parts of its railroad, and the Federal question involved arises
MR. C=F JUSTIcE WArr

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

qnder a claim of a charter contract of exemption from all taxation beyond "a tax of one-half of one per cent. upon its anlinual net income." The company owns and operates, 1, a road
ft 9m Macon through Fort Valley, Amdricus, Smithville, and
Ctthbert to Fort Qaines; 2, a road from Smithville to Albany;
34 a road from Albany to Arlington; 4, a road from Cuthbert
to Eufaula; and, 5, a road from Fort Valley to Columbus. The
lne of all these roads is shown on the following plat:

The road from Macon to Americus and from Smithville to
Fort Gaines was built under the original charter of the company granted December 14,1845. Section 14 of this charter
is as follows:
"ยง 14. That the said railway and. its appurtenances, and all
property therewith connected, shall ot be subject to be taxed

-)UTHWESTERN RAILROAD CO. v. WRIGHT. 233
Opinion of the Court.

higher than one-half of one per cent. upon its annual net
income."
From Americus through Smithville to Albany the building
was done by the Georgia and Florida Railroad Company, under
a charter granted January 22, 1852. Section 2 of this charter
is as follows:
"1That the Georgia and Florida Railroad Company may, at
any time, incorporate their stock with the stock of any other
company, on such terms as may be mutually agreed upon by
such companies: Provided,that the road and other property
of this company shall be subject to such taxation as the legislature may deem equitable and just."
After this part of the road was finished the Georgia and
Florida Company agreed with the Southwestern Company to
consolidate its stock with that of the Southwestern, and thereupon it delivered its road, then running from Americus to
Albany, into the possession of the Southwestern Company.
This having been done, the general assembly of Georgia, on the
19th of December, 1859, passed an act which recited what had
been done, and then enacted:
"Section 2. Be it further enacted, That the said railroad
from Americus to Albany, shall be considered part and parcel
of the road of the Southwestern Railroad Company, and be
liable to pay the State the same tax that the rest of the Southwestern Railroad Company is liable to pay, and such additional
tax as the legislature may hereafter impose."
The Southwestern Company now holds this part of its road
under this transfer.
The road from Albany to Arlington was built under an act
of the general assembly passed December 18, 1860, as follows:
"AN Acr to amend the several acts of the general assembly
relating to the Southwestern Railroad Company, and to
authorize the said company to construct a branch railroad,
and for other purposes."
"1Section 1. Be it enacted, etc., That the Southwestern Railroad Company, of this State, are hereby authorized to construct
a branch railroad frvom Albany, or Dawson, or any point west

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

-

of Dawson, on their line of road, to such place on the Chattahoochee River, or on the Florida line, as the said company may
select, and that said company shall have for these purposes
all the rights, privileges, and powers conferred by their charter of incorporation and the act amendatory thereof.
"Section 2. Be it further enacted, etc., That said company
are hereby empowered and authorized to increase their capital
stock $1,0007000.00, and said additional stock shall be subject
and liable to pay tli- same rates f tax to the State of Georgia
that is now required of the said Southwestern Railroad Company, and such additional tax as the legislature may hereafter
impose."
The road from Cuthbert to Eufaula was built under the following act, passed February 23, 1850:
"AN ACT to amend an act entitled IAn act to incorporate the
Southwestern Railroad Company, with power to extend
branches to Albany, in the county of Baker, and Fort
Gaines, in the county of Early, and to points below those
places on the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers, and to punish those who may wilfully injure the same, assented to
December 27th, 1845, and for other purposes.'
"Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate .and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, in general assembly met,
and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That
from and after the passage of this act said railroad company
shall have power and authority to constiuct a branch of said
road from some point on said road to any point on the Chattahoochee River, below the town of Florence, in the county of
Stewart, which said company may deem most advisable and
proper, under the rules and restrictions as they are now authorized to construct said Southwestern Railroad: P 'ovided, That
if said company do not build-the main trunk of said road to or
below Fort Gaines within two years from the time that the
same is completed to the point at which the said branch road,
if commenced, may intersect, then said company shall be liable
to refund to the stockholders, now residing in Early and Ran-

SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD CO. v. WRIGHT. 235
Opinion of the Court.

dolph C6unties, or their assigns, the amount of stock held by
them, with interest from the time the same was paid."
The road from Fort Valley to Columbus was built by the
Muscogee Railroad Company, under a charter'granted December 27, 1845, which contained a clause upon the subject of
taxation, substantially like ยง 14 of the charter of the Southwestern Company. The two companies were afterwards consolidated, and, when the case in which the State of Georgia
appears as defendant in error was before this court on a former
writ of error, it was decided that this road and that part of the
road of the Southwestern Company which was built under the
original charter, were exempt from taxation beyond one-half
of one per cent. upon their annual net income. Southwestern
_Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 676.
The Supreme Court of the State has decided in both these
cases that the roads from Americus to Albany, from Albany
to Arlington, and from Cuthbert to Eufaula were subject to
the general laws of the State for the taxation of railroads,
without regard to the exemption in the original charter of the
company. To reverse judgments to this effect these writs oferror were brought.
There is no question now as to the exemption from general
taxation of that part of the road built under the original
charter. 'That we have already decided, and there is no dispute about it now. The language of the exempting cla-dse is
somewhat unusual. It is not that the company or its stock
shall be taxed in a certain way and otherwise exempt, but that
the "said railway and its appurtenances, and all property
therewith connected, shall not be subject to be'taxed higher,"
&c. This clearly means the railroad specified in the charter,
and none other. Possibly, if the company had acquired the
road between Americus and Smithville from the Florida &
Georgia Company without any special limitation by the State
.upon the exemption of its own charter, that part of the Florida
& Georgia road might have been brought under the exemption. But this was not done, for the State, while recognizing
the transfer of the Florida and Georgia road, was careful to
provide that the road should be liable to pay not only the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

same tax as the rest of the road of the Southwestern Railroad
Company, "but such additional tax as the legislature may
hereafter impose." This is nothing less than an express reservation of power by the State to tax the part of the Southwestern
Company's road between Americus and Albany as other railroads in the State are taxed when there is no charter exemption.
The same is true of the road between Albany and Arlington,
for the power to build that line is coupled with a reservation
of the right to tax. Such is evidently the meaning of ยง 2 of
the act authorizing its construction.
The language of the authority to build the road from Cuthbert to Eufaula is somewhat different. There nothing is said
about taxation; but that the original charter of the company
did not give the right to build this part of the road is shown
by the fact that this amendment was deemed necessary. In
building this extension or branch the company was placed
"under the rules and restrictions" they were subjected to in
building the original road; but that did not necessarily imply
an exemption of this line from taxation to the same extent the
old road was exempted. That exemption was only for that road,
and as the amending act does not in terms or by fair implication apply the exemption to the additional road which was to be
built under it, we must presume that nothing of the kind was
intended, and that the State was left free to tax that road like
other property. No rule is better settled than that a contract
of exemption from taxation is never to be presumed. A surrender of the power to tax when claimed "must be shown by
clear and unambiguous language Ivhich will admit of no
reasonable construction consistent with the reservation of the
power." The Delaware Railroad Tax Cae, 18 Wall. 206.
This disposes of all the Federal questions in the two cases,
and as they were rightly decided in the court below, it follows
that the judgments must be affirmed without an examination
of the other errors assigned, which involve questions of State
law only. 3furdok v. City of -emphis, 20 Wall. 590. If
the roads are not exempt under their charters from the operation of the general laws of the State for the taxation of railroads, the errors, if any, of the court below in fixing the value

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

and ascertaining the amount, of tax under the law are not
ieviewable here. No complaint is made of the law itself, if
it applies tp this company, so far as the disputed portions of its
road are concerned. The administration of the law by the
officers or the courts of the State involves no questions of which
we can take jurisdiction. The law being valid, the courts of
the State have exclusive jurisdiction, appellate or otherwise, of.
all cases brought before them involving proceodings for its enforcement.
The judgment i each of the cases i8 aflimed.

BROWN & Others v. DAVIS & Others.
APPEAL FRO
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 17, 1885.-Decided January 11, 1886.
Claim 2 of reissued letters patent No. 8589, granted to Charles F. Davis and
William Allen, February 18, 1879, for an "improvement in grain drills"
(the original patent, No 74,515, having been granted to said Davis as in.
venter, February 18, 1868), namely: ",The shoes or hoes of a seed planter,
attached to the main frame, substantially as described, in combination with
a lever, or its equivalent, whereby they can be shifted at the pleasure of the
operator, from a straight to a zigzag line, or vice versa," makes the lever,
or its equivalent an essential element of the combination; and the claim is
not infringed, where the lever is dispensed with and the human hand is
substituted, although in the patent the hand is applied to work the lever.
In view of a prior invention, claims 1 and 8 of the reissue, which were not
made in the original patent, were held to be limited to the special shifting
apparatus of the patent, because, if extended to cover shifting arrangements not substantially using a rotating crank.shaft, they became claims
which could not lawfully have been granted in the original patent, and, as
claims in a reissue, were invalid, because the application for the reissue
was made nearly eleven years after the original patent was granted, and
after machines effecting the shifting by other means than a rotating crankshaft had gone into use subsequently to the date of the original, and no
sufficient excuse was given for the laches and delay.
It appeared as a fact, that new matter was introduced into the specification
of the reissue for the purpose of reaching machines which the claims of the

