WATERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
Syllabus.

has the better right. The question is not whether the company owns the lode or vein, nor whether it has the right to
take mineral therefrom,. but whether as against a mere intrader it has the better right to the possession. By the express provision of Rev. Stat. ยง 2333 the patent, under.' which
the company holds, gives it no right to the possession of any
vein or lode claim within the boundaries of the placer patent,
but as y~t no such claim exists. There is a lode or vein, but
no 'one has either claimed or attempted to claim it. Quite
different questions would arise if Reynolds or Morrissey were
attempting to locate a lode claim within the boundaries of the
placer patent upon a lode known to exist when the patent was
applied for. In my opinion the charge of the court was righti
and the judgment should be affirmed.

WATERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
ERROR TQ THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

-FOR

THE

Submitted January 25, 816.-Decided March 1, 1888.

When a case is brought here from a Circuit Court for review, in which ,the
matter in controversy is less than $5000, it will be dismissed, although ascompanied by a certificate of division of opinion by the judges holding the
court, unless that certificate presents a case proper for the consideration of

this court.
Each question so certified must present a clear and distinct proposition of law
to which the court can respond, and not a proposition of mixed law and
facts.
While such a statement must accompany the certificate as to show that the
question of law is applicable to the case, the point on which the judges differed must be a distinct question of law clearly stated.
This procedure is meant to meet a case where, two judges sitting, a clear and
distinct proposition of law, material to the decision of the case arises, on
which, differing in opinion, they may make such a certificate as will enable
this court to decide that question. If in reality more than one such question
occurs, they may be embraced in the certificate ; but where it is apparent
that the whole case is presented to this court for decision, with all its
propositions of fact and of law, the case will not be entertained. Such is
this case, and it is accordingly dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts .which make the case are stated in the opinion-of
the court.
Mr. F. r. Guthrie,and -Yr.
.21rb.
MP.

.Stillings for plaintiff in error.

. E. Br'own for defendant in error.
JusTmI.

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the. Circuit Court for the District
of Kansas.
In that court there was a judgment against the plaintiff in
error for the sum of 81282.06. The amount is too small to
give this court jurisdiction on a writ of error to a Circuit Court.
There is, however, a certificate of division of opinion between
the circuit judge and the district judge sitting at the trial without a juy.
We have decided that under the act of 1872, a case may be
brought to this court on a certificate of division, without regard
to the amount in controversy. Dow v. Joknson, 100 U. S. 158.
JVut that decision was based upon a valid certificate which presentedproerly questions material to the decision of the case.
If this were not necessary to our jurisdict'on, a form of certificate, which might present no question that this court can
consider, might be used to require of it a review of other matters than those on which the court divided, though the amount
in controversy is insignificant. It is, therefore, only where the
certificate does present, in accordance with the statute, a division of opinion in such a manner and on such a question as to
give this court jurisdiction that the amount in controversy can
be disregarded as an element of jurisdiction.
As to the character of the certificate on which this court will
act, the statute of 1872, and the Revised Statutes have made
no change, and the decisions of this court, are full on that subject. The substance of these decisions, as applicable to the
case before us, is, that each question so certified must contain a
distinct proposition of law wyhich this court can Answer negatively or affirmatively, and that the whole case cannot be presented by a recital of the evidence and interrogatories so framed

WAkTERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
Opinion of the Court.

as to require -this court to decide the whole case on rmixed
propositions of law and fact.
In short, while such a statement of facts must accompany the
certificate as to show that, the question of law is applicable to
the case, thepoint on which the judges differed must be a distinct question of law clearly stated.
In Wil8on v. Barnum, 8 How. 258, 262, the court said: "This
act has been in force for nearly half a century,

.

.

and

in the multitude of questions which have been certified, this
court has never taken jurisdiction of a question of fact. And
in a question of law it requires the precise point to be stated,
otherwise the case is remanded without an answer."
The same thing is said in Brob8t v. Brobst, 4 Wall. 2, namely,
that "it has been repeatedly determined that only questions of
law upon distinct points in a cause can be brought to this court
by certificate."
In the case of United States v. Briggs, 5 How: 208, 210, on
a demurrer to indictment, the judges certifibd a division of
opinion as to whether the demurrer was well taken ; and though
the record showed the grounds of demurrer, the court said :
"The question upon which the disagreement took place is not
certified. The difference of opinion is, indeed, stated to have
been on the point whether the demurrer should be sustained.
But such a question can hardly be called a point in the case
within the meaning of the act of Congress, for it does not
show whether the difficulty arose upon the construction of the
act of Congress on which the indictment was founded-or
upon the form of proceeding adopted to inflict the punishment
-or upon any supposed defect in the counts in the indictment.
On the contrary, the whole case is ordered to be certified upon
the indictment, demurrer, and joinder, leaving this court to
look into the record and determine for itself whether any
sufficient objection can be made in bar of the prosecution, and
without informing us what questions had been raised in the
Circuit Court upon which they differed." Having said that
the causes of the demurrer could not inform the court on that
subject, the Chief Justice added: "But we are bound to look
to the certificate alone for the question which occurred and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the point on which they differed, and, as this does not appear,
we have no jurisdiction in the case."
I A case very analogous to the one before us is that of White
v. Turk, 12 Pet. 238, in which the court says: "The intention
of Congress, in passing the act nder which this proceeding has
taken place, was that a division of the judges of the Circuit Court,
upon a single material point, in the progress of the cause,
should be certified to the court for its opinion; and not the
whole, cause." "This certificate, therefore, brings the whole
cause before this court, and if we were to decide the questions
presented, it would in effect be the exercise of original, rather
than appellate, jurisdiction."
To the same purport is, the language of Chief-Justice Marshall in United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 267, 273.
In the case of Hcvemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294, the
point is fully considered. See also Dennistoun v. Stewart, 18
How. 565; Sadler v. Hoover, 7 How. 646.
'Applying these principles to the case before us, we think it
must be dismissed.
The record shows a finding of facts upon the whole case, as
it was submitted to the court without a jury.
. This finding is stated to be made under the laws of Kansas
in such cases, and not under the act of Congress, concerning a
review when a jury is waived, nor under the act concerning
differences of opinion between the judges to be certified to this
court. The finding is,
;in fact, nothing but a recital of the
evidence on which the presiding justice rendered judgment in
favor of plaintiff. They number eleven separate findings of
fact, and were excepted to by counsel, and exception was taken
to the evidence received to support them.
This is accompanied by the following certificate:
"Be it remembered, that upon the trial of this action upon
issue joined upon petition of plaintiff, answer of defendant, and
reply of plaintiff, the cause having been duly heard and. taken
under advisement by the court, was considered by said two
judges, and thereupon the said two judges were divided in
opinion upon questions of interest and importance arising upon

WATERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
Opinion of the Court.

the conclusions of fact found and stated by the court upon the
said trial, viz.:
"1Ist. Had the defendant, as such city, power to issue such
bonds for the said purpose in the original issue thereof, 1872,
and did such want of power or such power appear upon the
face thereof ?
"2nd. Did defendant issue the said bonds sued on?
"3rd. If issued by defendant, had defendant power, as such
city, to issue such bonds sued on for the said purpose therein
expressed, and did such v ant of power, if not existing, appear,
upon the face of such bonds?
"4th. If such bonds sued on were issued by defendant and
disposed of in open market for value, without other'notice to
purchasers than such as all persons were bound to take from
the public character thereof, is the defendant- estopped from
denying its liability thereon to plaintiff ?
"5th. Upon the conclusions of fact so found and stated upon
the trial of this action is the plaintiff entitled to judgment for
said amount stated, the said circuit judge being of opinion that
such questions should be determined in favor of the plaintiff
and judgment rendered in his favor for the said amount stated,
and the said district judge differing therefrom?
"And judgment having been ordered in favor of plaintiff,
and defendant having duly excepted thereto:
"It is now here ordered that the said questions as above
stated, and upon which the said judges were divided in opinion,
as aforesaid, that same shall be forthwith stated under the
direction of said judges and certified and entered of record in
said cause for writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United
States, and which is now accordingly done in open court at
said term thereof, and writ of error from such judgment is now
allowed to said defendant, and bond fixed therefor to operate
as supersedeas in the sum of $2000.
"Done and certified this 3rd day of Mhfarch, A.D. 1885, in
open court."
We do not see that any distinct question of law is stated, on
which the judges differed. In every instance it is what infer-

OCTOBER TERM, .1885.
Opinion of the Oourt.

ence should be drawn from the facts found in the case, or
rather from the evidence.
Take the first question. Does it refer to want of legislative
action in regard to the power, or to want of constitutional
power, in the legislature? Or does it refer to the want of
proper action by the town authorities, or to want of the recital
of their action in the face of the bond.
- As to the second question, it appears to present a simple
question of fact as to the actual issue of the bonds by the defendant. The third is very much like the first.
The fourth and fifth are still less presentations of any distinct propositions of law, but are mixed propositions of law and
fact, in regard to which the court cannot know precisely where
the division of opinion arosa on a question of law alone.
And finally, it is very clear that the whole case has been
sent here for us to decide, with the aid of a few suggestions
from the circuit judges, of the difficulties they have found in
'doing so.
It presents nothing like as clear a case as that of a demurrer
to an indictment, which demurrer recited the grounds on which
it was made, but which this court held presented no statement
of the question of law on which the judges differed. United
States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208.
We repeat that this procedure is not intended to enable the
parties in the Circuit Court to bring up the entire case to be
.retried here. It is mean to meet a case where, two judges
sitting, a clear and distinct proposition of law, material to the
decision of the case, arises, on which, differing, they may make
such a certificate as will enable this court to decide that question. If in reality more than one such questioAi occurs, they
may be embraced in the certificate, but where it is apparent
that the whole case is presented to this court for decision, with
all its propositions of fact and of law, the case will not be entertained. Such a case is this, and it is accordingly

-

.Di&mirsed.

