CARRICK v. LAMAR.
Opinion of the Court.

ing claims, and that development by working is the condition
of their continued possession. Jenrnion v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453,
457; Jacmon v. Roby, 109 U. S. 440. This was the rule before Congress by its legislation sanctioned it. Four years after
the defendants had made their location the predecessors of the
plaintiffs took up the Highland Boy claim and for three years
they, or their successors, continuously worked and expended
money upon it without objection from the defendants or any
indication from them to the public that their own Omaha claim
was at all interfered with- It was too late afterwards to raise
the objection.
Jvedment aflrmed.

CARRICK v. LAVAR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued Jauuary 6, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1888.

In matters which require an executive officer of the United States to exercise
judgment or consideration, or which are dependent upon his discretion, no
rule will issue for a mandamus to control his action.
Whether the island in the Mississippi River opposite St. Louis, known as
Arsenal Island, shall be surveyed and brought into the market is a matter
within executive discretion and judgment.

This was an application to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a mandamus to require the Secretary of the
Interior to cause a survey to be made of an island in the Mississippi opposite St. Louis. 'Mandamus being refused, a writ of
error was sued out. The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. 17 Wllouglzy for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor-Gmnwralfor defendant in error.
MR. JusTicn- FrELDdelivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on writ of error to the Supreme

421/.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the District of Columbia. The petitioner applied for
a writ of mandamus against the Secretary of the Interior to
order the survey of Arsenal Island, which is situated in the
Mississippi River, opposite the City of St. Louis. He represents that he is the head of a family, over twenty-one years of
age, and a citizen of the United States; that on the first of September, 1883, he made a settlement in person on the island;
that it contains about 230 acres, is ten feet above high-water
mark, is not subject to overflow, is suitable for agricultural
parposes and subject to preemption under the laws of the
United States; that he inhabited and had improved the land
and erected a dwelling-house thereon for the purpose of obtaining a title thereto; that the land is not mineral, has not been
reserved by the government and. never been surveyed;* that
there are no improvements on it except such as have been
placed by him, and that the General Government has constructed certain embankments and walls, so that the island is
now fast and anchored, and not liable to be changed by the
action of the river.
He further states that in September, 1883, for the purpose of
obtaining a survey of the island, in order that he might avail
himself of the rights he had acquired as such settler, he made
application, in writing, according to the rules of the Interior
Department, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
for subh survey, stating that the island had never been surveyed by the government, and that he was desirous that it
should be brought into the market according to the laws of
Congress and the regulations of the General Land Office relating to the disposal of lands embraced in fragmentary surveys.
He furtlier states that upon the hearing of the application it
was claimed by the City of St. Louis that the island was
formnerly known as the Quarantine Island, and had been surveyed and sut apart to the city under the provisions of acts of
Congress of June 13, 1812, and of May 26, 1824, relating to
school lands; but that in fact the survey made was of an
island above the place now occupied by ]Arsenal Island, and
that no part of the space embraced by that survey is now
covered by the presben4island; and in support of this averment

CARRICK v. LAMAR.
Opinion of the Court.,

states that the report made to the Secretary of the Interior by
the engineer of the War Department, in charge of the government works in the vicinity, shows that the island is not embraced within that survey, and is the property not of the City
of St. Louis, but of the United States.
The. Commissioner of the General Land Office rejected the
application, but transmitted the papers to the Secretary of the
Interior for his exatnination and instructions. The immediate
predecessor of the present Secretary boncurred with the commissioner. Upon the defendant's accession to office the application was renewed and rejected. The present petition was then
laid before the Supreme Court of the District, which refused
the rule upon him. To reverse its judgment and obtain the
rule prayed, the case was brought here.
The former Secretary in his opinion adverted to the drifting
charaaer of the island, it being alleged to have changed 1700
feet from its position when surveyed; to the works of the government to stay its drifting and give it permanence; and to
the title asserted to it by the City of St. Louis. He said that
even during the time-of a survey what would be a monument
and a boundary to-day might require a change to-morrow, and
that, therefore, as long as the same causes continued to operate
and make the island a mere moving mass of alluvial deposits,
it was useless to establish corners and monuments, which would
be subject to immediate obliteration.
The application to the present Secretary was accompanied
by evidence tending to sh6w that the island was fast and anchored; a review of the previous decision being sought on the
alleged ground of error in holding the island to be a moving
mass of alluvial deposits. The Secretary declined to review
the decision, and further held that it would be improper to
order a survey, inasmuch as the War Department, under appropriations for the improvement of the .river, was operating
upon the island, and it was unknown to what extent or for
what purpose the government might require the same in connection with the great public work about which it was engaged.
Without treating the matters set forth in the opinions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Secretaries as established facts, enough appears on the face of
'the petition to show that a survey could not properly have
.been ordered, and that there was no error in refusing a rule for
a mandamus.
It appears that, under acts of Congress, an island situated
some distance above the site of the present island, was surveyed'and set apart to the City of St. Louis. It is contended
that the present island represents the one surveyed; it having
been carried down the river by the action of the current. It
certainlywould be a matter of doubt, requiring for its solution
grave consideration, how far the title of the city to the island
is affected by this movement. "Ifany doubt may rightfully
exist in the mind of the Secretary on the subject, an answer is
furnished to the application for a mandamus directing him to
order a survey to facilitate the acquisition of that title by
others.
It also appears by tie petition and the papers to which it
refers, and the legislation of Congress, that the goverment is
engaged in works connected with the improvement of the river
to stop the drifting character of the island and give it stability
and permanence. Expenditures largely exceeding any possible
return from the sale of the island would seem to indicate that
the government designs to appropriate it to special uses, and
not to open it to preemption and settlement. In the absence
of positive enactment the Secretary might, therefore, properly
withhold any actioft tending to encourage a settlement there.
This consideration alone is sufficient answer to any rule for a
mandamus.
It is settled by many decisions of this court, that in matters
which require judgment and consideration to be exercised by
an executive officer of the government, or which are dependent
upon his discretion, no rule for a mandamus to control his action will issue. - It is onlyfor ministerial acts, in the performance of which no exercise of judgment or discretion is required,
that the rule"will be granted. Decaturv. Paulding,14 Pet.
.491,499 ; United States v. Guthrie, 11 How. 284; United State8
v. 1Te Commissioner, 5 Wall. 563; Lithhfmd v. Regi ter and
Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 571'.

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

Within this principle there can be no question as to the correctness of the action of the Supreme Court of the District.
Its judgment is, therefore,
-Afflrmed.

COFFEY v. UITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued December 10, 185.-Decided January 19, 1S.

On a writ of error to review a judgment of forfeiture, entered after a trial by
a jury and a general verdict for the United States, on an information in
rem, filed in a Circuit Court of the United States, after a seizure of the
re8 on land, for a violation of the internal revenue laws, there was no bill
of exceptions, and no exception to the overruling of a motion for judgment non obstante veredicto and of a motion to set aside the verdict anAl in
arrest of judgment : Held, That questions arising on demurrers to counts
in the information, and as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, could be
reviewed.
The Circuit Court had juirisdiction of the suit.
A general verdict on several counts in such an information, which proceeds only
for the forfeiture of specific property, will be upheld, if one count is good.
An information in rem, founded on section 3257 of the Revised Statutes, is
sufficient if it follows the words of the section, and alleges that the person
named was engaged in carrying on the business of a distiller and defrauded
the United States of the tax on part of the spirits distilled by him ; and it
is not necessary it should set forth the particular means by which he defrauded the United States of the tax, or specify the particular spirits covered by the tax, or aver that the spirits seized were distilled by him, or were
the product of his distillery, or that the distillery apparatus was wrongfully
used.
Rule 22 of the Rules in Admiralty prescribes regulations for the form of informations and libels of information on seizures for the breach of the laws
of the United States, on land or water ; and the general rules of pleading
in regard to Admiralty suits in rem apply to a suit in rem for a forfeiture,
founded on a violation of the internal revenue laws, brought by the United
States, after a seizure of the re8 on land.
The answer of the claimant set up a prior judgment, and sentence to pay a fine,
on a plea of guilty by him to a criminal information founded on the same violations of law alleged in the information in this suit: Reid, That no reply

