OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ruling the act of 1869 is to be treated as an extension of the
time named in the original act for the completion of the road.
As between the company and Larmore the title passed under
the deed of 1866, which was executed to give effect to the
sale in 1861. The completion of the road within the time fixed
by the new act perfected the title of the company under the
original grant, and this title inured at once to the benefit of
Larmore. As the judgment below sustained Larmore's title
and dismissed the suit, it was right, and it is consequently

4t rAned.

KINGS COUNTY SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. BLAIR.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR TE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 15, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1880.

A suit cannot be maintained against a collector of internal revenue to recover
back taxes alleged to have been illegally exacted, when the tax-payer has
failed within two years next after the cause of action accrued to present
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue his claim for the refunding in the
manner pointed out by law.

This was an action at law to recover back taxes alleged to
have been illegally exacted by a collector of internal revenue.
The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
X. Lewis Sanders for plaintiff in error.
Sanders was with him on the brief.)

(.Afr. George ff.

21Cr. Solicitor-Gen-eralfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The Kings County Savings Institution, plaintiff in error, was
the plaintiff in the Circuit Court. It brought its action, as for
money had and received, against the defendant in error, as administrator of the estatepf James Freeland, deceased, late col-

SAVINGS INSTITUTIONv . BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

lector of internal revenue, to recover the amount of taxes illegally exacted from it, as it alleged, by the intestate of the
defendant in error.
The defence relied on was pleaded by the defendant, as follows: "That the plaintiff herein did not present to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue its alleged claim for abatement,
or for refunding the amount claimed in said complaint, within
two years after the said alleged, claim had accrued, as required
by section 3228 of the Revised Statutes of .the United States."
The bill of exceptions shows that, on the trial of the case by
the circuit judge and a jury, the plaintiff, to sustain the issue
on its part, proved that it made its return for internal revenue
taxation for the six month; ending May 3lst, 1878, on the form
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, in duplicate, and accompanying the same filed an amended return in
duplicate. The prescribed return had the following words
written upon its face:
"This return not exempting any part of accounts exceeding.
$2000-in the name of any one person, is made under protest
by compulsion, to prevent a penalty from being assessed; but
the accompanying is claimed to be the true and legal return
exempting $2000-of all deposits made in the name of any
one person; and if the assessment and collection are enforced
in accordance with this return, suit will be brought for the
excess."
The anended return showed, the tax due, according to the
construction placed upon the law by the plaintiff, to be $428.75,
and had the following words written upon its face:
"In this amended return this savings bank, under advice of
counsel, disregards as erroneous this printed form heretofore
prescribed and enforced by the Commissioner and collector of
Internal Revenue for the United States, and the amended exemption clause, 'less average amount of all deposits not exceeding $2000, made in the name of any one person,' is construed as exempting ' all deposits made in the name of any one
person not exceeding $2000' of such deposit in his name.
"This bank claims that the tax be assessed according to this
return."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

It was shown that the prescribed return and amended return
were delivered to the Commissioner of Internal. Revenue on
June 6,.1878, and to the collector of internal revenue, the intestate of the defendant, on or before that date. On June 18,
1878, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed the
am6unt of tax on the face of said prescribed return at $1796.25,
which amount the plaintiff paid to the collector on July 1,
1878, by a check which bore upon its face the words, "Paid
under protest to prevent distraint and penalty."
The bill of exceptions recites that the "plaintiff also proved
that as a matter of fact the true amount of the tax which
should have been assessed against it was the sum of $428.75,
as shown by said amended return."
Proof of similar.facts in respect to the tax due from the
plaintiff for the six months ending November 30, 1878, was
made, and that both the prescribed and amended returns for
that tax were delivered to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on December 9, 1878, and to the collector on or before
that date. . The plaintiff admitted that no other proceedings
had been taken than those above detailed.
The defendant, to sustain the issue on his part, "proved," so
the bill of exceptions states, "that for two years subsequent to
the payments of the amounts assessed against the plaintiff, respectively, no appeal had been taken from such payments or
claim made for refund to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue." He also put in evidence the treasury regulations'
prescribing the forms and procedure for the refunding of taxes
in force from January 1, 1871, tb December 31, 1878, as
follows':
"Preparations of claims for the refunding .of taxes and
penalties claimed to have been erroneously or illegally collected.
(Form 46.)
"Claims for the refunding of taxes and penalties alleged to
have been erroneously or illegally collected must be made out
upon form 46 in this case. The burden of proof rests upon
the claimant. All -the fpcts relied upon in support of the
claim should be @early set forth under oath. The claim should

SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

still further supported by the certificate of the assistant
assessor of the proper division, and by the certificate of the
assessor and collector. This form and those certificates should
be respectively in form as follows."
Then follows the form of an affidavit to be made by the
claimant, which, if observed, required him to state the business
in which he was engaged, when and by what assessor he was
assessed, the amount of the tax, and when he paid it and to
what collector, and that in the belief of the claimant the tax
was erroneous and improper, and for what reasons, and that
by reason of the, erroneous assessment and payment he was
justly entitled to have a certain sum, naming it, refunded, and
that he had not theretofore presented any claim for the refunding of said sum or any part of it. Then follows the form
of the deputy collector's certificate to be indorsed on the
claimant's affidavit, to the effect that he had carefully investigated the facts set out in the affidavit, and believed the
statements in all respects to be true. Next follows the form of
the collector's certificate, also to be indorsed on the affidavit,
to the effect that he had. careftflly investigated the facts
therein set forth and was satisfied that its statements were
in all respects just and true; that upon personal examination
he foiund a certain sum, naming the amount, reported against
the claimant, giving the page and line of the list and the
number and date of the form where it was to be found, and
that the same was paid to him on a day named, and was included. in his aggregate receipts for said list, which receipts
amounted to a certain sum, naming it, and that' the same was
delivered to the assessor to be'transmitted to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, and that no claim for the assessment
complained of had been theretofore presented.
The certificate of the clerk in charge of records in the office
of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was also required, to
the effect that, from personal examination, he found a certain
sum, naming it, reported against the claimant, on a certain page
and line, naming them, of the list in form; giving the number
and date of the form, on file in the office of the commissioner,
and that the tax was included in the collector's aggregate
Ie

OCTOBER* TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

receip-t. tor said list, transmitted by the assessor to the Commissioner Qf- Internal Revenue.
This was all the evidence.

Thereupon the court ordered the
jury to return a verdict l or the defendant, which was accordingly done. Theplaintiff excepted to tis ruling of the court.
The court entered judgment for' the.--44endant upon the
verdict, and to reverse that judgment the flaintiff brought the
present writ of error.
The regulations prescribed by the Secretary were made by
authority of section 3220 of the Revised Statutes. That section provides that "the Commissioner of Internal .Revenue,
subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary is authorized,
on appeal to him made, to remit, refund, ahd pay back all
taxes erroneously or illegally assessed or collected without authority, and all taxes that appear to be unjustly assessed or
excessive in amount, or in any manner wrongfully collected."
Section 3228, which the defendant pleaded in bar of the
suit, declares "that all claims for the refunding of any internal
tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or
collected, or of any penalty alleged to have been collected
without authority, or of any sum'alleged to have been excessiveor in any manner wrongfully collected, must be presented
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within two years
next after the cause of action accrued."
The suit of the plaintiff was to recover back taxes illegally
collected. The defence pleaded was that the claim for the
refunding of the tax so illegally collected'was not presented to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within two years after
the claim had accrued, thatis to say, after the payment of the
alleged illegal tax. There was no demurrer to this plea, and
it;is not disputed that it was good in law. The bill of exceptions recites that the defendant proved that for two years subsequent to tle payment of the tax no claim for the refunding
of the tax had been made by the plaintiff to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue.. Upon this state of the pleadings and
proof, the direction of the court to the jury to return a verdict
for ,the defendant was right, unless it is held that the facts

SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

proven by the plaintiff show a claim made for the refunding of
the tax within the meaning of the law.
These facts were the indorsement of a protest on the checks
by which the taxes were paid, and the making of the prescribed and the amended return, with the protest and claim
written thereon as above stated.
As it does not appear by the record that the protest upon
the checks was ever brought in any way to the notice of the
Commissioner, that fact may be eliminated from, the case.
The contention of the plaintiff in error, therefore, amounts to
this, that a protest upon its return for taxation against the
requirements of the form on which the return is made, accompanied by an amended return, made -out according to- the
plaintiff's construction of the law, is such a claim to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the refunding of a tax
illegally collected as is required by the law and the regulations of the Secretary, of the Treasury.
We think there is no ground, for this contention to rest on.
No claim for tho refunding of taxes can be made according to
law and the regulations until after the taxes have been paid.
It is not Pretended that since the payment of the tax by the
plaintiff any one of the steps required by the law and regulations to make an effectual claim for the refunding of the tax
has been taken. All the safeguards prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the protection of the public interests,
in his regulations respecting claims for the refunding of taxes,
have been disregarded. There has been no claim whatever .in
-the sense of the law.
In our opinion no suit can be maintained for taxes illegally
collected unless a; claim therefor has been made within the time
prescribed by the law. When the law says the claim must be
presented within two years, the implication is that, unless so
presented, the right to demand the repayment of the tax is
lost, and the Commissioner has no authority to refund it,
and,
of course, the right of suit is gone. We regard the presentation of the claims to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
for the refunding of a tax alleged to have been illegally
exacted as a condition on which alone the government con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

sents to litigate the lawfulness of the original tax. It is
clearly not the intent of the statute to allow the collector to
be sued unless the tax-payer has first applied for relief to the
Commissioner within the time and in the manner pointed out
by law and relief has been denied him. COwatham v. Unitd
Statev, 92 U. S. 85; Railroad Co. v. Mnited Statem, 101 U. S.
543; Armon v. .Aurpky, 115 U. S. 579.
As the making of such a claim was not alleged or proven,
but, on the contrary, the failure to present the claim was
pleaded and was established by the testimony, the plaintiff
failed to establish its cause of action.
But the plaintiff insists that the judgment of the Circuit
Court should be reversed, because the bill of exceptions recites
that the plaintiff "proved that the true amount of the tax
which should have been assessed against it was the sum of
$428.75, as shown by said amended return," and the defendant having allowed this proof to be made, it is now too late
for him to contend that the mere technical preliminaries to
establishing this proof were not observed. But the only
proof of what the tax should have been, according to the
plaintiff's theory, was his amended return, and this raised a
question of law which could be presented, but could not be
concluded by the bill of exceptions. Besides, it was shown by
the record that the defendant insisted to the end of the case
and proved that no claim had been made to the Commissioner
within two years after its payment, for the refunding of the
tax sued'for. If, therefore, it be conqeded that the tax exacted
was illegal, the failure to make claim for its repayment is a
bar to the suit.
Upon the whole case, therefore, the Circuit Court was right
in directing the verdict for the defendant.
Judgment afflmwd.

