OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

got without the money being actually" paid over; that there
had been great delay in advising him of the errors in his accounts; and things of a like character. These are fa6ts proper
for the consideration of Congress on an application by McClure
for legislative action in his favor, but, under the. most liberal
construction of the rules which govern courts of justice in determining the rights of parties, they fall far short of what is
necessary for affording him judicial relief.
The motion is denied.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CASE PENDING IN THIS COURT ON APPEAL
FROM THE COURT OF CLA MS.
Argued December 7, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

There is nothing in Rev. Stat. 5261, authorizing certain railroad companies
to bring suits against the United States in the Court of Claims to recover
the price of freight or transportation, which takes those suits out of the

operation of the general rules of this court regulating appeals from the
Court of Claims, or which makes it proper for this court to require the
Court of Claims to send up with its findings of facts the evidence in regard
to them.
When the Court of Claims, on being requested by a party in a cause there
pending to find .specifically upon several facts which are only incidental
facts and amount only to evidence touching the main facts in issue, and
the court disregards the requests and finds the facts at issue generally, and
judgment is entered, and the party whose request was denied appeals, this
court will not remand the case to the Court of Claims, with directions to
specifically pass upon each of said requests, or to make a finding of facts on
the subject embraced in each of said requests.

This was a motion made in a case appealed from the Court

of Claims, to require that court to send up the evidence, or to
specifically find on certain requests for findings made by one
of the parties, and not passed upon specifically and in detail
by. the court.
court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

155

Opinion of the Court.

.'r.John F. -Mon.for-the motion.

.Mr. Solicitor-GeneraZ opposing.
N. CHIEF JusTio W rp delivbred the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the Union Pacific Railway Company against the United States under Rev. Stat. ยง 5260 and
5261, to recover among other things the price of the transportation of mails by the company in accordance with the requirements of its charter. These sections are as follows:
"SEc. 5260. The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to
withhold all payments to any railroad company and its assigns
on account of freights or transportation over their respective
roads of any kind,.to the amount of payments made by the
United States for interest upon bonds of the United States
issued to any such company, and which shall not have been
reimbursed, together with the five per centum of net earnings
due and unapplied, as provided by law.'
"SEc. 5261. Any such company may bring suit in the
Court of Claims to recover the price of such freight and transportation; and in such suit the right of such company to
. recover the same upon the law and the facts of the case shall
be determined, and also the rights of the United States upon
the merits of all the points presented by it in answer thereto
by them; and either party to such suit may appeal to the
Supreme Court; and both said courts shall give such cause or
causes precedence of all other business."
One of the principal controversies in the case was as to
what would be "fair and reasonable rates of compensation"
for such transportation, "not to exceed the amount paid by
private parties for the same kind of service." When the case
was here on a former appeal, this court, adopting the ruling
of the Court of Claims, said that it would be proper "to look
over the entire field of service in determining what was a fair
and reasonable charge for a kind which was similar to, but
not identical with, any other. For instance, if it should
appear that the receipts of passenger cars were less than the
receipts of postal cars, and the costs and running expenses no

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cohrt.

greater, we are inclined to think that. that fact might be a
proper element in the problem of estimating the amount of
fair and reasonable rates of compensation." And we also said
that, "upon a.retrial, if the parties do not agree upon the
amount or upon the rule of computation, the compensation, at
fair and reasonable rates, must be determined upon a consideration of all facts material to the issue, not to exceed the
amounts paid by private parties for the same kind of service."
Union Pacfto Railroad Co. v. Urnited. State8, 104 U. S. 662,
667. Accordingly, when the case went back, evidence was
offered to show:
1. What the public paid for express service, and the simi]ar.ity of this service in its nature and cost to the mail service;
2. The earnings per car of the cars employed in the passenger service;
3. What the company charged and the public paid per
pound for carrying extra baggage;
4. What the company charged and the public paid for
carrying first-class freight on passenger trains, and how much
more it was worth to carry the same-class of matter in passenger trains; and
5. That connecting roads allowed the company on throughbusiness fifty per cent. more than they themselves received,
and the reason for such allowance.
The motion papers also show that, before the first trial of
the cause, a stipulation was entered into by the parties agreeing on the amount due the company for mail service, in case
one or another of several proposed rules for estimating the
price should be adopted by the court.
Before the trial began the court was requested to find specifically the facts as to the several kinds of service about which
evidence had been furnished, and the nature, extent, and
character of the mail service. The court did not comply with
this request, but found generally that "the amounts allowed
and retained by the Treasury Department for transportation
of mails

.

.

.

are a fair and reasonable compensation for

the service, and not in excess of the rates paid by private
parties for the same kind of service," and gave judgment ac-

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

157

Opinion of the Court.

cordingly. The case is now here on appeal by both parties,
and the railroad company has moved that the Court of Claims
be directed "to send up to this court the entire record in said
case, including the interlocutory rulings, and all the evidence
on which the case was heard," or, if that cannot be done, that
the case be remanded with instructions to "specifically pass
upon, affirmatively or negatively, each of said requests, or
make a finding of facts on thesubject embraced in each of said
requests," and that the court be directed to incorporate in the
record the stipulation already referred to, and a certain letter
mentioned and set out in the motion papers.
So far as the first branch of the motion is concerned, it must
be denied on the authority of 3fcClure v. United &ates, just
decided, ante, 145. There is nothing in the statute under which
this suit was brought to show an intention by Congress to allow
any other appeal to this court than such an one as is given by the
statute conferring general jurisdiction on the Court of Claims.
The suit is to be at law and not in equity. The recovery is to be
"upon the law and the facts of the case," but that is no more
than is required in every suit at law or in equity. Under our
rule the facts are to be settled by the Court of Claims, and an
appeal brings up for review only the decisions of that court
upon questions of law arising in the course of the trial or in
the application of the law to the facts as finally found. There
is nothing unusual in this. In an ordinary suit at law the
facts are settled in the trial court, and only questions of law
are carried to the appellate court for review. Upon writs of
error we hear the case only on findings of fact or exceptions to
rulings df the court in the progress of the trial. Generally, in
suits at law there-is but one trial upon questions of fact.
The second branch of the motion is also covered by the decision in .McOlure'8case. The special findings which were requested and refused related to mere incidental facts which
amounted only to evidence, and were therefore inadmissible as
part of the record to be sent here. The Francis Wright, 105
U. S. 381. They were in reality nothing more than requests
for a finding of what the evidence was. The parties seem to
have followed the suggestion on the former appeal, and, after

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

looking over the entire field of service, they brought in everything which, in their opinion, could be of use to the court in
determining what would be a reasonable compensation for the
service rendered, subject to the requirement of the statute that
it should not be more than was paid to private parties for the
same kind of service. The question to be determined was one
of fact, as much so as the amount of recovery in any action
quantum meruit. A conclusion could only be reached by considering all the testimony, weighing the facts, and estimating
their comparative value as evidence. This presented in no
just sense a question of law. Every fact that was proven according to the motion was simply evidence, and as evidence
had performed its entire office when the facts were found. It
has no place in the record which is to come here for review.
The motion i8 denied.

BURNETT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROMt THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 93, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

The pension which widows are entitled to receive under the provision of Rev.
Stat. ' 4702, is the pension for total disability which is granted to those en;
titled to receive it by Rev. Stat. ยง 4695.

This was an appeal from the Court of Claims. The facts are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. A. Z. -ferriam for appellant.
.AXr. Solicitor-Generaland Xir. John . Blair for appellee.
MRi.

JusncE HA.&AN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of Congress of March 3, 1879, 20 Stat. 665, ch.
290, the Secretary of the Interior was directed to place on the
pension-roll the name of Ward B. Burnett, and pay him a pension of $50 per month in lieu of the pension then received by

