FIELD v. DE COMfEAU.
Opinion of the Court.

FIELD v. DE COMEAU & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW TORE.
Submitted December 7, 1885.-Decided January 4, 18986.

The patent issued to appellant, September 15, 1874. for an improved fastening
in gloves is not infringed by the appellees' mode of using springs for the
same purpose.

This was a bill in equity brought by appellant as complainant below to restrain appellees from an alleged infringement
of a patent for an improved glove fastening. The facts are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Eugene NW.Ellot for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
Mm. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, who was complainant below, filed his bill in
equity to restrain an alleged infringement by the appellees of
letters patent Nqo. 155,077, for an improvement in glove fastenings issued-to him September 15, 1874.
The bill was dismissed at the hearing on the ground that
the defendants had not infringed.
The material part of the specification forming part of the
letters patent is as follows:
"The object of my invention is to cause a glove to fit closely
to the hand and wrist of the wearer without the-use of buttons
or other fastenings; and I attain this object by extending a
spring A, entirely around the split portion B of the glove, in
the manner plainly shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying
drawing, so that when released the ends a a of the said spring
shall overlap, as shown in Fig. 2, and thus close. the glove
upon the wrist.
"The spring is entirely concealed within the material of the

OCTOBER TERM,

ss.

Opinion of the Court.

glove, and may be secured to the latter in any suitable manner;
but I prefer to simply stitch it in place, as indicated by the
dotted lines x in Fig. 1.
"The spring may also be variously shaped; but I prefer to
construct it of a single piece of -wire, bent to the form shown,
as I have ascertained, by experiment, that a spring of this
form is most suitable for the purpose, while it possesses the
further advantage of presenting no sharp or abrupt ends,
which would be apt to force their way through the material of
the glove.
"The edge view, Fig. 3, shows the method of bending the
spring to conform to the shape of the hand of the wearer of
the glove.
"I am aware that springs have been combined with the
wristlets of gloves; but they have always extended entirely
around the latter, thus rendering it impossible to fold the
glove, which was consequently clumsy and inconvenient to
carry in the pocket. This objection it will be evident is entirely overcome by my invention.
"I claim"The combination, substantially as described, of a spring, A,
with the split portion B of a glove, for the purpose specified."
The drawings referred to are annexed.
Judge Wheeler holding the Circuit Court, in deciding the
case, stated the grounds of his action in dismissing the bill, in
an opinion contained in the transcript, as follows:
"The orator has a patent, No. 155,077 dated September 15,
1874, for an improvement in glove fastenings, consisting of the
combination of a spring inserted in the material of the glove,
and extending around the edges of the slit, which permits
drawing the wrist of the glove over the hand, and adjusted so
as to spring open by the insertion of the hand and to close
automatically and overlap itself, and cause the edges of the
slit to overlap each other when the glove is on. The defendants deny infringement. They make and sell for use springs
for gloves to be inserted into the material, and with arms extending along each edge of the slit, jointed at the apex, working together like the blade and handle of a jack-knife. The

FIELD v. DE COMEAU.
Opinion of the Court.

only question is, whether the use of such springs is an infringement. The plaintiff stated in the specification of his patent
that springs had been combined before with the wrists of
gloves, but of a different form. So his patent is not, and could
not be maintained as a patent for the combination of springs
in every form with the wrists of gloves to close them. It proposes to be and is a*patent of his style of spring combined
with the wrists of gloves for that purpose. The question is,
whether the defendants' spring is substantially like his. His is

a spring throughout, and pulls constantly upon the parts of
the material until they come together and overlap. The defendants' has stiff arms, and pulls the parts together only when
closed far enough to have the spring on one arm operate in
the opposite direction upon the cam-shaped end of the other,
and it pulls the edges apart until the arms are at right angles
to each other when opened far enough to cause the spring to
act the other way on the cam. When so opened it will not
close itself as the orator's will, but has as much tendency to

.190

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

remain open as it has to remain closed after being closed. It
is said by an expert called by the orator that if the edge of the
cam, which throws the arms apart, was removed, the spring
would become more like the orator's- in its operation; but he
probably failed to notice that the spring operates on the same
edge of the cam, altthough on different sides of its pivot, both
in opening and closing the spring, and that if this edge was
removed the spring would not move arms together or either
way at all. The form of the defendants' spring is different from
the orator's; its mode of operation is different, and the result

r3

of its operation is somewhat different. It cannot be said to be
the same as the orator's, or to be substantially like the orator's.
Each got the idea of closing the wrists of gloves by means of
springs from others; the orator carries out the idea in his mode
and the defendants in theirs, and as neither has control of anything but the particular mode, neither can justly say that the
other uses his mode."
For these reasons which we cannot restate in a more satisfactory manner, the decree of the Circuit Court is
AffrMed.

