MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
Statement of Facts.

to be brought to recover back the money, the conclusive presumption is, that there was no mistake, and that Price is under
no obligation to pay back what he has received.
Jv~dment affirmwd.

MACKALL v. RICHARDS & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted December 8, 1885.-Decided December 14,1885.

An appeal will not be entertained by this court from a decree entered in a
Circuit or other inferior court in exact accordance with the mandate of this
court upon a previous appeal. Stewart v. Salamon, 97 U. S. 361, affirmed.
In an appeal from the execution of a mandate of this court the appellant cannot object to an order in the original decree which was not objected to on
the former appeal.
A defence, growing out of matter which happens after a mandate is sent down,
can only be availed of by an original proceeding appropriate to the relief
sought.

This was a motion to dismiss an appeal from the execution
of a mandate of this court, 112 U. S. 369, 377, "for the reason
that the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, from which said appeal was taken, was by that court en.tered in accordance with, and in execution of, the mandate of
this court, issued on a previous appeal and directed to that
court; or if the said appeal shall not be dimissed, that the
said decree of the said Supreme Court of the District of Columbia be affirmed, on the ground that, although in the opinion
of this court, the record may show that this court has jurisdiction, it is manifest that said appeal was taken for delay only,
and that the said question on which the jurisdiction depends, is
so frivolous as not to need further argument."
.Mr. Milliam B. Webb and Mr6. Enoch Totten for the motion.
Mr. W. Willoughby opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court;

MR. O=rs'
court.

JUSTIoE WArr

delivered the opinion of the

This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia entered at general term upon a mandate
from this court. In Stewiart v. Salaman, 97 U. S. 361, this rule
was promulgated: "An appeal will not be entertained by this
court from a decree entered in a Circuit Court or other inferior
court in exact accordance with our mandate upon a previous
appeal. Such a decree, when entered, is in effect our decree,
and the appeal would be from ourselves to ourselves. If such
an appeal is taken, however, we will, upon the application of
the appellee, examine the decree entered, and if it conforms to
the mandate dismiss the case with costs. If it does not, the
case will be remanded, with appropriate directions for the correction of the error."
This suit was begun in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, Mly. 2, 1871, to subject to the payment of certain
judgments so much of lot 7, in square 223 of the city of Washin gton, as had not been conveyed by the marshal of the District of Columbia to Alfred Richards by deed bearing date
October 7, 1870. A decree was entered in favor of the complainants, at special term, on the 23d of May, 1873. This decre6 was affirmed at general term, October 16, 1873, and by
this court, March 19, 1877. Under the decree, a sale was
made and reported to the court below, but upon the return
Mackall filed exceptions because the property sold bad not been.
sufficiently described. Upon hearing, these exceptions were
sustained, and the sale set aside. The court then took steps to
fix the boundaries of the property, and on the 11th of December, 1879, a decree was entered at special term directing that
the sale. be made according to a certain description. From this
an appeal was taken to the general term, where the decree was
affirmed, April 5, 1881, in all respects, except that one of the
two trustees who had been appointed to make the sale was removed at his own request, and the other directed to proceed
alone. An appeal was thereupon taken to this court, where the
only error assigned was that the boundaries of the property
had been erroneously fixed. At the last term this appeal was

MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

heard and the cause remajided, with directions "to set aside
the decree from which this appeal is prosecuted, and to order
the sale in satisfaction of complainant's demands, and in such
mode as may be consistent with the practice of the court and
with law, of all of lot seven (7) outside of that on which the
building known as Palace Market stands." XafaxZ v. Richard8, 112 U. S. 369. On the production of this mandate, the
court below entered a decree at general term in all material
respects like that appealed from, except in the description of
the property, which was made to conform exactly to the order
of this court.
Upon examination, therefore, we are satisfied that the decree
as entered is in accordance with the mandate. As no complaints were made on the second appeal about the terms of sale
or the manner in which the sale was to be made, it was quite
right in the court to follow the old decree in those particulars,
which has been substantially done. As the appeal was taken
for the sole purpose of correcting the description, it was proper
to construe the mandate as in effect nothing more than an order
for such a correction, leaving the remainder of the decree to
stand.
The decree upon the mandate, although rendered at general
term, was still the decree of the Supreme Court of the District,
(Richard v. Afackall, 113 U. S. 540,) and the order on the
trustee to report his sale to "this court" can work no injury.
The order to take possession was part of the original decree,
and as no objection was taken to it on the former appeals it
ought not to be permitted now.
A motion was made by Mackall in the court below after the
mandate was received for leave to file what was called a
"supplemental bill," but which was in reality a supplemental
answer to the original bill, setting up new defences growing
out of matters occurring since the original decrees. This was
properly denied. No discretion was left in that court to grant
such a motion. The order of this court was in effect to enter
the precise decree which has been made. If, since th.e original
decree, the debts have been paid, or anything else has happened
which makes it improper to carry the decree into execution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

resort must be had to some form of original proceeding appropriate to relief on that account. It cannot be done by way of
defence before decree upon our mandate. The order of this

court places the case where it would be if the original decree
had been what it is now.
It follows that
The appeal mu t be dismissed under the rule, with cots; and
it is 80

ordered.

LEE v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF EMMET COUNTY=, STATE OF
MICHIGAN.

Argued' December4, 1885.-Deided December .1, 1885.

One seeking in equity to have the holder of a patent of public land declared a
trustee for his benefit on the ground that the patent was improperly issued,
must clearly establish that there was a mistake or fraud in the issue of the
patent, which affected the decision of the Land Office, and but for which he
would be entitled to the patent.
In the absence of fraud, the findings of the Secretary of the Interior are conclusive upon questions of fact as to land claims submitted to him for his
decision.
When it clearly appears in a proceeding that a claim set up is against public
policy, and that in no event could it be sustained, the tribunal should
dismiss it. whether-the allegations of the parties have or have not raised
the question.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xr. Memy E. -Davi8for plaintiff in error.
2fr. Jamre8 Blair for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MRt. JUSTICu FrEma delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes from the Circuit Court of Emmet County,
Michigan. It was originally commenbed in that court, where

