WEBB v. BARNWALL.
Statement of Facts.

WEBB & Another v. BARNWALL & Another.
CMCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

APPEAL FROM TE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAA.
Argued December 17 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

The cause of action in a suit in equity by the holder of an equitable title to
real estate to restrain the owner of the legal title from enforcing a judgment in ejectment against him, and to compel the conveyance of the legal
title to the owner of .the equitable title, accrues on the entry of final judgment in the suit at law.

This bill of complaint brought by Amanda Sterling and her
four sons against Barnwall and Gaynor, as assignees in bankruptcy, was dismissed on demurrer, solely, as appeared from
the opinion of the circuit judge, because the suit was barred by
the limitation of suits by or against assignees in bankruptcy
found in section 5057 of the Revised Statutes, to wit:
"No suit, either at law or in equity, shall be maintainable in
any court, between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person
claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights
of property transferable to or vested in such assignee unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued for or against such assignee."
The bill set out that on the 5th day of February, 1873,
:Robert W. Smith was the owner of certain real estate in the
town of Selna, in the bill fully described, and on that day he
and his wife, Sarah, conveyed the same to Cary T. Butt in
trust.for the use and benefit of said Robert W. Smith and
Charles Walsh; that afterwards said Walsh and"Smith, being
indebted to Edwin A. Glover, in the sum of $20,000, caused the
trustee, Butt, to convey this real estate, in which they had the
sole beneficial interest, to said Glover, who received the same
in satisfaction of the debt August 31, 1873 ; that Glover thereupon entered into possession of said property, and that he and
his devisees have retained such possession ever since; that, by
the will of Glover, who died in 1874, the real estate in question
was devised to Amanda Sterling and her sons, the complainants.
VT. cXVI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellees.

The bill then alleged that Walsh and Smith were members
of a copartnership With others under the name of Walsh,
Smith & Co., which owed the debt to Glover already mentioned
as the consideration of the conveyance to him by Butt, the
trustee that said partnership and the individual members
thereof, including Walsh and Smith, were declared bankrupts
by the proper court on June 12, 1874, and that Henry W.
Barnwall and William E. Gaynor were appointed assignees in
said proceeding, and all the estate, both real and personal, of said
bankrupts, was by the register duly assigned to them. The bill
proceeded to show that these assignees instituted an action of
ejectment against complainants, who were in possession of the
land under the will of Glover, to recover that possession.
This suit was begun in the District Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama in October, 1876. A
judgment was rendered against complainants, which was
affied on appeal to the Circuit Court, December 19, 187.
Complainants alleged that the plaintiffs in that suit recovered
on the ground that the legal title, which controls in a court of
law, never was in Butt, the trustee, but by the statute of uses
vested immediately in the said Walsh and Smith.
The bill then alleged that while the complainants might not
have had the legal title, and so could not successfully defend the
action at law, they had a perfect and just title in equity, which,
in this suit, they asked the court to protect. They, therefore,
prayed for a decree to cQonpel defendants to convey to them
the strict legal title which they held, and for an injunction
against them in regard to the judgment, which they asked
might be perpetual.
The bill was filed August 1, 1881, within fifteen months
after final judgment in the action of ejectment.
Yr. William E. Earl (2fr. H. A. Herber't was with him)
for appellants.
Xr&. D. S. Troy and X1r. . C. Tompkim for appellees, submitted on their brief. The words of the statute set up by the

WEBB v. BARNWALL.
Argument for Appellees.

demurrers are plain: "1N o suit at law or in equity shall in any
case be maintainable by or against such assignee, or by or
against any person claiming an adverse interest touching the
property and rights of property aforesaid in any court whatsoever, unless the same shall be brought within two years from
the time the cause of action shall have accrued for or against
such assignee." As applicable to the case at bar, the statute
expressly bars all suits in equity against the assignee, by any
person claiming an adverse interest in or to the property or
rights of property of the bankrupt, unless such suit is brought
within two years from the time the cause of action shall have
accrued. That which is barred is any suit touching the property, or rights of property, of the bankrupt; the time after
which such suit is barred is two years after the cause of action
accrues. There can be no doubt that this is a suit in equity
touching the rights of property of the bankrupts, and it is by
one claiming an adverse interest. It is for specific performance
of a contract and to enjoin proceedings at law; the first might
have been instituted over eight and the latter nearly five years
prior to the filing of the bill in this cause, so, in no aspect of
the case can the cause of action be said to have accrued within
two years before its commencement. Goodlet v. Hansell, 66
Ala. 151; Brewer v. Brewer, 19 Ala. 481; Pollack v. Gilbert,
16 Geo. 398.
The purpose of the statute was to speedily quiet all titles to
the property passing to the assignee, to enable him to sell it
relieved of all doubt about the soundness of such title, and
thereby realize its full value, and without delay distribute the
proceeds among the creditors. To accomplish these ends this
court has always given to the statute a liberal construction in
favor of the bar. By this, no injustice is done to claimants of
property, only a little greater diligence is required of them;
ample time is given them in which to assert their rights; if
they fail to do so they themselves are alone to blame. The
policy of a law cannot be disregarded because apparent injustice may be done those who negligently fail to assert their
rights within the time allowed by law. Jenkins v. International Bank, 106 U. S. 571 ; Doe v. Hyde, 114 U. S. 24:7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jusmo Mm.LP.s delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
The Circuit Court treating the bill as an original bill, and as
the conimencement of a new and independent suit, held that
the period of limitation of such suits against the assignees began
to run at the date of their 'appointment in 1874. The two
years had, therefore, long been passed and the claim was
barred.
But if we assume, as appellants argue, that the occasion for
a suit in equity did not arise until the final judgment at law,
then the bill in this case was in time.
We think the latter is the sound rule. Complainants were
in possession under what they supposed to be a good title, until
.they were evicted, or their title held to be insufficient; they
had no occasion to seek to establish their title by a suit in
equity, and such a suit they brought within the time of the
statute after they ascertained that it was necessary to protect
their possession.
But if this were not so clear, it must be held in the courts of
the United States, under-previous decisions of this court, that
the present bill in equity to enjoin the judgment at law, obtained on the mere legal title, while the equity is in the other
party, is a continuation of that suit, and, therefore, the proceeding was commenced when the action of ejectment was
'brought.
In the case of Simnin v. G.utrAe, 9 Cranch, 19, Simms had
obtained judgment in an action of ejectment in the Circuit
Court on a patent from the State of Virginia against Guthrie.
Thereupon Guthrie filed his bill in chancery in the same court
setting up a superior equitable title by a prior entry to that on
which Simms' patent had issued; and asking an injunction and
a decree for the legal title. It was urged as an objection to
this bill that there were necessary parties who could not be made
defendants in, the Circuit Court. But this court said that for
omitting to bring in these parties an original bill might be dismissed. That, however, was a bill to enjoin a judgment in the
Circuit Court, and the bill must be brought in the same court,

WEBB v. BARNWALL.
Opinion of the Court.

and the court would dispense with the parties who could not
be brought in. In Dunn v. Clar'etal., 8 Pet. 1, where an
equitable title was set up by bill in chancery against a judgment at law recovered in a Circuit Court of the United States,
the court said: "The injunction bill is not considered an
original bill between the same parties as at law." It also said if
Graham, the successful party in the judgment at law, had lived,
the court might have issued an injunction to his judgment at
law without a personal service of process except on his attorney, and it is now the settled practice to order such substituted
service on the attorney when the plaintiff in the judgment does
not reside within the jurisdiction of the court.
In the case of Dunlap v. Stetson, 4 Mason, 349, Mr. Justice
Story said: "I believe the general, if not the universal, practice
has been to consider bills of injunction upon judgments in the
courts of the United States, not as original but auxiliary and
dependent suits, and properly sustainable in that court which
gave the original judgment, and has it completely under control." This language is cited with approval and the point
illustrated in the case of Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wall. 327, and
in Christnas v. Rus,,el, 14 Wall. 69.
The case before us comes precisely within the principle of
these decisions.
The bill in chancery is a continuation of the litigation commenced by the actiorn at law, and its object is to enjoin the
judgment in that suit and to correct its injustice by an equity
proceeding in the same court.
The bar of the statute as to this relief cannot become perfect
until two years of inaction have justified a plea of that kind.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case re"manded to that court, with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for such further proceeding as to ejuity belongs.

