CHAFFIN v..TAYLOR.
Statement of Facts.

CHAFFIN v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREfE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
Argued January 7, 8, 1886.-Decided February 1, 1886.

At the former hearing of this case, Chaffin v. Taylor, 114 U. S. 809, every
question of law was decided which is raised by the pleadings' filed below
after the judgment of reversal at that hearing.
Whatever has been decided on one writ of error cannot be re-examined, on a
subsequent writ of error brought in thd same suit.
Su, rvi8ors v. .KEnnicot, 94 U. S. 498, again affirmed.

A former judgment in this case rendered against
the plaintiff in error by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia was reversed by this court, a report of which will be
found in 114 U. S. 309.
The record at that time showed the state of the pleadings as
follows:
The declaration was in trespass de bonig aqjo'tati8; the
defendant justified the taking, &c., as treasurer of Henrico
County, charged by law with the duty of collecting taxes due
the State of Virginia on property and persons in said county,
alleging that the property was lawfully seized and taken for
taxes due from the plaintiff to the State, which, on demand, he
had refused to pay.
To this plea the plaintiff replied a tender in payment of the
taxes, when demanded and before the trespass complained of,
of the amount due in coupons cut from bonds of the State of
Virginia, r~ceivable in payment of taxes by virtue of the act
of the General Assembly of that State, passed March 30, 1871.
To this replication the defendant demurred, specially on the
ground, first, that, by the act of January 26, 1882, he was forbidden to receive coupons in payment of taxes; and, second,
that, by the act of March 13, 18841, an action of trespass would
not lie in such a case; the two acts referred to being set out i;
the report of the opinion of this court in the case of Poinde4ter
v. Grernhow, 114 U. S. 270, 275.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
StAtement of Facts.

On this demurrer judgment was rehdered for the defendant,
which was reversed by this court, for the reasons set out in the
PM on
opinion in the case of Poindexter v. Gieenhow, u .upra,
the ground that the statutes referred to were unconstitutional,
,null and void, as impairing the obligation of the contract
entered into by the State with the holders of its bonds in the
act of March 30, 1811.
The cause was remanded, with directions to proceed therein
in conformity with law and the opinion of this court. Themandate being received and entered of record in the Circuit
Court of ilenrico County, that court, against the objection of
the plaintiff, on motion of the defendant, permitted the latter
to file a rejoinder to the replication, as follows:
"And the said defendant, by his attorney, as to the replication of the plaintiff, says: That the said plaintiff ought not to,
have or maintain his aforesaid action against him, because he
says that at the time the said plaintiff offered to the defendant,
as treasurer and collector of taxes for the county of ]:enrico, in
payment of the taxes of the said plaintiff for the year 1883 due
to the State of Virginia, a paper or instrument in print, writing, or engraving purporting to be a coupon.detached from a
bond of the Commonwealth of Virginia, issued under the act
of assembly of 1871, entitled 'An act to fund the public debt,'
he, the said plaintiff, demanded that the said defendant should
receive the same, together with a small sum of national bank
currency, in full for said taxes due by the plaintiff for the year
1883, and gave him, the said plaintiff, a receipt in full discharge
of said taxes, notwithstanding the act of the General Assembly,
approved January 14, 1882, which provides that, whenever any
tax-payer or his agent shall tender to any person whose duty it
is to collect or receive taxes, debts, or demands, due'the Commonwealth any papers or instruments in print, writing, or engraving purporting to be coupons detached from bonds of the
Commonwealth issued under the act of 1871, entitled 'An act
to fund the public debt,' in payment of any such taxes, debts,
and demands, the person to whom such papers are tendered
shall receive the same, giving the party tendering a receipt,
stating that he has received the same for the purpose of identi-

CItAFFIN v. TAYLOR°
Statement of Facts.

fication and verification; he shall at the same time require such
tax-payer to pay his taxes in coin, legal-tender notes, or
national bank bills, and upon payment give him a receipt for
the same; in case of refusal to pay, the taxes due shall be col-'
lected as all other delinquent taxes are collected. The said defendant, as treasurer and tax collector for the county of
Renrico, as was his duty, did, on account of said act of January
14, 1882, refuse to comply with the demands of the said plaintiff, but was willing and ready to receive, and is still ready to
receive, the said paper or instrument in print, writing, or eiigraving purporting to be a coupon detached from a bond of the
Commonwealth, issued under the act of 1871, entitled 'An act
to fund the public debt,' and give said plaintiff a receipt for
the same, for the purpose of identification and verification, at
the same time receiving from the said plaintiff his taxes in
coin, legal-tender notes, or national bank bills, giving hiu a
receipt for the same, as required by said act of January 14,
1882, and for the purpose herein set forth. But the said plaintiff was not willing to comply with said act of January 14,
1882, and did not comply with the same, as by law be was required to do; and he refusing to pay his taxes aforesaid, the
defendant, as treasurer and tax collector for the county of
ilenrico, as was his duty under the law, proceeded to collect
the taxes from the said plaintiff in the manner set forth in the
plea of the defendant heretofore filed, and -as provided for in
said act of January 14, 1882, and this he is ready to verify."
The cause was finally submitted on a demurrer to this rejoinder, when the court being of opinion, as the record recites, that
the judgment and opinion of this court in this cause did not
preclude and forbid the defendant from pleading in bar the
act of assembly of January 14, 1882, set forth by him in his
rejoinder, and that the Constitution of the United States did
not make said act of assembly null and void as, a defence to the
defendant in this action, rendered judgment on the demurrer in
favor of the defendant. A petition to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia for a writ of error to that judgment was
denied, and the cause is now brought here again for review.
This case was argued with Barry v. Edmunds, ante, 550;

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
]?oyall v. Tirginia,post, 572; and Sands v. Edmund,
585.
tr.Willian Z. Royall and -Y. DanielT
plaintiff in error.

post,

Ohamberlainfor

Mr. R. A. Ayres and -Yr. Wazler R?. Sta2les for defendant
in error.
Mm. JUSTICE

MTTiEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the above reported language, he continued
The :rejoinder which the Circuit Court of
Henrico County
permitted the defendant to file tendered no issue of fact, but
one of law merely; and every question of law in the case had
been covered by the former judgment of this court in this case.
The proper action of the Circuit Court of ilenrico County upon
the mandate of this court would have been to have entered
judgment on the pleadings in favor of the plaintiff, and proceeded to an assessment of his damages.
The act of January 14, 1882, set up in the rejoinder; is the
same that was considered by this court in Antoni v. 6ieenlow,
107 U. S. 769, where it was adjudged that, as an amendment
to the law regulating the proceeding by nmandamus to compel
the acceptance by the officers of the State of tax-receivable
coupons in payment of taxes, it was not a law which impaired
the obligation of the contract under the act of March 30, 1871.
The same act was necessarily considered in the opinion of
the court in rPoi;deeterv. Greenlow, 114 U. S. 270, as it was
claimed in argument on the part of the defendant in error that
the case then under consideration ought to be governed by the
decision in the case of Antoni v. Greenhow, ubi supra, on the
ground that the remedies provided by the subsequent acts of
January 26, 1882, and of March 13, 1884, were, like that provided by the act of June 14, 1882, adeqiate, and therefore exclusive.
But we expressly pointed out that the last-named act of June
14, 1882, the one set up and relied on in the rejoinder of the

CHAFFIN v. TAYLOR.

571

Opinion of'tbe Court.

defendant, had no application to the case, so far as the decision
in Antoni v. Greenhow, vub supra, upheld it, because the present action was not one to specifically compel the tax collectors
to receive coupons in payment of faxes, but proceeded on the
ground that after the tender of coupons, in pursuance of the law
of March 30, 1871, the tax collector in distraining property for
the payment of the tax as still delinquent was guilty of a trespass.
In Antani v. Greenhow that question was not decided. The
court there said: "The question we are now to consider is not
whether, if the coupon tendered is in fact genuine and such as
ought, under the contract, to be received, and the tender is kept
good, the treasurer can proceed to collect the tax by distraint or
such other process as the law allows, without making himself
personally responsible for any trespass he may commit, but
whether the act of 1882 violates any implied obligation of the
State in respect to the remedies that may be employed for the
enforcement of its contract if the collector refuses to take the
coupon." p. 774. And again: "In conclusion, we repeat that
the question presented by the record is not whether the tax collector is bound in law to receive the coupon, notwithstanding
the legislation which, on its face, prohibits him from doing so,
nor whether, if he refuses to take the coupon and proceeds with
the collection of the tax by force, he can be made personally
responsible in damages for what he does, but whether the obligation of the contract has been impaired by the changes which
have been made in the remedies for its enforcement in case he
refuses to accept the coupons." p. 782.
The question that was not decided in Antani v. Greenhow
was the very question decided in the present case, and in the
case of Poindexter v. Greenlow, -here the grounds of the
judgment are set out in full. It was there decided that the
tax-payer had a contract right to pay his taxes in coupons, that
a tender of them for that purpose, as to subsequent steps to collect the tax as delinquent, was equivalent to payment, and that
a seizure of property under a levy thereafter for their non-pay
ment was a trespass, notwithstanding any act of the General
Assembly to the contrary, for such an act, being in brleach of

OCTOBER.TERM, 1885.

5,72

Syllabus.
the obligation of the contract 'of the State, is unconstitutional,
and therefore null and void.
The'rejoinder of the defendant allowed t'obe filed after the
judgment of reversal, therefore, sought again-to draw in question the very matter which had been already finally adjudged
by this court in the same case. It did not deny the genuineness
of the coupons tendered, nor the fact of tender, and the question of law broadly decided on the demurrer to the replication
.necessarily involved every defence, arising as matter of law, that
could be made upon any existing acts of the General Assembly
of Virginia, for the whole law of the case, as to the plaintiff's
legal right to recover on his cause of action, was presented by
the pleadings, and was concluded by the judgment of reversal.
S. 464-, "that question
As was said in Clark v. -eith, 106 T11.
is no longer open in this case, for the reason that it has long
been settled that whatever has been decided here on one writ
of error cannot be re-examined on a subsequent writ brought in
the same suit. This rule was distinctly stated in Suqervisors v.
Xennicott, 94 U. S. 498, where numerous authorities are citedi
beginning as early as Himely v. Rose, 5 Oranch, 313."
Te judogment8 of the Svpreme Court of .Apeals and o the
Circuit Court of Henrico County, 'irginia,are therefore
reversed, and the cause 8 remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with instructionsto takefurtherproceedings in accordance with law, and in conformity with this opinion.

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
ER O

TO

THE SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
Argued January 7,8, 1886.-Decided February 1, 18W.

An assessment made by a statute of Virginia a condition precedent to obtaining a license for pursuing a business or profession within the State, is a tax,
debt, or demand within the meaning of the act of that State of March S0.,

