VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. DENNIS.

665

Statement of Facts.
-VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT & PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY v. DENNIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE OF LOUISIAN2A.

Argued January 20, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

A provision in a charter granted by a State to a railroad'company, by which
"the capital stock of said company shall be exempt from taxation, and its,
road, fixtures, workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation and other
appurtenances, shall be exempt from taxation for ten years after the corn-,
pletion of said road within the limits of this State," does not exempt the
road, fixtures and appurtenances from taxation before such completion of the

road.
The omission of taxing officers to assess certain property cannot control the
duty imposed by law upon their successors, or the power of the legislature
to tax the property, or the legal construction of a statute under which its
exemption from taxation is claimed.

offco
The original suit was brought by the sheriff, and ex o
collector of taxes, of the parish of Madison in the State of
Louisiana, to recover the amount of taxes assessed, under general laws of the State, in 1877 and 1878 to the Vicksburg
Shreveport and Texas Railroad Company, and in 1880 to the
Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific Railroad Company, upon
thirty-four miles of railroad, with fixtures and appurtenances,
in that parish.
The Vicksburg, Shreveport and Texas Railroad Company
was incorporated on April 28, 1853, by a statute of Louisiana,
to construct and maintain a railroad from a point in the parish
of Madison on the Mississippi River opposite Vicksburg, westward by way of Monroe and Shreveport, to the line of the
State of Texas..
Section 2 of that statute was as follows: "The capital stock
of said company shall be exempt from taxation, and its road,
fixtures, workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation, and
other appurtenances, shall be exempt from taxation for.ten
years after the completion of said road within the limits of this
State."
The eastern part of the railroad, from Vicksburg to Monroe,

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1885.
Statement of YFacts.

about seventy-five miles, was completed before January 1,1861;
'and the western part, from Shreveport to the Texas line, about
twenty-five miles, was completed before January .1, 1862;
leaving the central part, from Monroe to Shreveport, about one
hundred miles, uncompleted. The further construction of the
road was prevented and suspended during the civil war, and
much of the track, bridges, stations and workshops was destroyed by the hostile armies.
Soon after the return of peace, a holder of four out of a large
number of bonds secured by a mortgage executed by the corpor4tion on September 1, 1857, of its railroad, property and
franchises, commenced a suit in a court of the State of Louisiana; and obtained a decree for the sale of the whole mortgaged
Property, and it was sold under that decree.
Upon a suit afterwards brought'by a very large number of
the bondholders, in behalf of all, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, that Sale was, by a decree of this court at October term, 1874, annulled as fraudulent and illegal, and the rail-road, property and franchises ordered to be sold for the benefit
of the bondholders and other creditors of the corporation.
Jqcksonr v. Iudeling, 21 Wall. 616.
On December 1, 1879, they were sold pursuant to this
decree, and purchased by a committee of the bondholders, who
on the next day organized themselves with their associates into
a corporatiori under the general statute of Louisiana of March
8, 1877, by the name of the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific
Railroad Company, and now claimed to be entitled under this
statute to all the rights, powers, privileges and immunities of
the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Texas Railroad Company, includin- its exemption from taxation.
In 1881 and 1882 the new corporation made contracts for the
-completion of the railroad between Monroe and Shreveport, and
began to complete it; but it has not yet been completed.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana held, that the provision of
the statute of 1853, exempting the railroad, fixtures and appurtenances "from taxation for ten years after the completion of
said road," did not relieve the old corporation from taxation
before the road was completed; and therefore gave judgment

VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. DENNIS.

667

Opinion of the Court.

for the plaintiff, without determining whether the new corporation had succeeded to the rights of the old one in this respect.
34 La. Ann. 954.
A writ of error was sued out by the defendant, and allowea
by the Chief Justice of that court, because there was drawn in
question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised
under, the State; on the ground of its being repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, as impairing the obligation
of contracts, and the decision was in favor of its validity.
-Yr. Edgar X Johnson for plaintiff in error. .Xr. George
Hoadly, and .21fr. Edward Colston were with him on the brief.
-Yr.Thomas 0. Benton for defendant in error.
Young was with him on the brief.

:MfR.

JUSTiE. Gn

Yr. Johin S.

y delivered the opinion of the court. After

stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
In determining whether a statute of a State impairs the obligation of a contract, this court doubtless must decide for itself
the existence and effect of the original contract (although in
the form of a statute) as well as whether its obligation has
been impaired. Louisville c _Nashville Railroad v. Palmes,
109 U. S. 244, 256, 257, and cases cited; Wright v. agle, 101
U. S. 791, 794. But the construction given by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana to the contract relied on in the present case
accords not only with its own decision in the earlier case of
Baton Rouge Railroad v. ifirdand,33 La. Ann. 622, but with
the principles often affirmed by this court.
In the leading case of Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet.
511, Chief-Justice Marshall, speaking of a partial release of the
power of taxation by a State in a charter to a corporation, said:
"That the taxing power is of vital importance; that it is essential to the existence of government; are truths which it cannot
be necessary to reaffirm." "As the whole community is interested in retaining it undiminished; that community has a right
to insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a
case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
'Opinion of the Court.

does not appear." "We must look for the exemption iA the
language of the instrument; ant if we do not find it there, it
would be going very far to insert it by construction." 4 Pet.
561-563.
In Philadepki c Wilmington Railrod v. .Mfaryland, 10
How. 376, Chief-Justice Taney said: "This court *on several
occasions has .held, that the taxing power of a State is never
presumed to be relinquishe4, unless the intention to relinquish
is declared in clear and unambiguous terms." 10 How. 393.
. In the subsequent decisions, the same rule has been strictly
upheld and constantly reaffirmed, in every variety of expression. It has been said that "neither the right of taxation, nor
any other power of sovereignty, will be held by this court to
have been surrendered, unless such surrender is expressed in
terms too plain to be mistaken;" that exemption from taxation
"should neve be assumed unless the language used is too clear
to admit of doubt;" that "nothing can be taken against the
State by presumption or inference; the surrender, when
claimed, must be shown by clear, unambiguous language,
which will admit of no reasonable construction consistent with
the reservation of the power; if a doubt arise as to the intent
of the legislature, that doubi must be solved in' favor of the
State;" that a State "cannot by ambiguous language be deprived of this highest attribute of sovereignty;" that any contract of exemption "is to be rigidly scrutinized, and never
permitted to extend,*either in scope or duration, beyond what
the terms of the concession clearly require;" and that such exemptions are regarded "as in derogation of the sovereign authority and of common right, and therefore not to be extended
beyond the exfct and express requirement of the grants, construed strictissimijuris." Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly,
1 Black, 436, 446; Gilman v. Sheboygan, 2 Black, 510, 513;
DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 225, 226 ; Hoge v. Railroad Co. 99 U. S. 348, 355; Southwestern Railroad v. Wright,
116 U. S. 231, 236; EBrie Railway v. Pennsylvania,21 Wall.
492, 499; temphis Gaslight Co. v. Shelby Taxing District,
109 U. S. 398, 401; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, 575;
'.Fest Wisconsin. Railway v. Supervisors, 93 U. S. 595, 597;

VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. DENNIS.

669

Opinion of the Court.

HenpU8 & Little Rock Railroad v. Railroad Commi8&ionera,
112 U. S. 609, 617, 618.
It is argued in support of this writ of error, that as the exemption from taxation of the capital stock was unqualified and
perpetual, and began at the very moment of the creation of the
corporation the further exemption of the railroad and its appurtenances, conferred in the same section, was intended to begin
at the same moment, although limited in duration to ten years
after the completion of the road; and that the legislature, while
exempting the railroad from taxation for ten years after its completion, could not have intended to subject it to taxation before
its completion and while its earnings were little or nothing
-On the other hand, it is argued that the consideration of the
exemption from taxation, as of all the franchises and privileges
granted by the State to the corporation, was the undertaking.
of the corporation to prosecute to completion within a reasonable time the work of building the whole railroad from the iMlississippi to the Texas line; that one reason for defining the ex,
emption of the railroad and its appurtenances from taxation as
"for ten years after the completion of said road," without iicluding any time before its completion, was to secure a prompt
execution of the work, and to prevent the corporation from
defeating the principal object of the grant, and prolonging its
own immunity from taxation, by postponing or omitting the
completion of a portion of the road; and that the State had
never allowed a similar exemption to take place, except after a
railroad had been entirely finished; and this argument is supported by the opinions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in
State v. Morgan, 2S La. Ann. 482, 491i and in the case at bar,
34 La. Ann. 954, 958.
Each of these arguments rests too much on inference and
conjecture to afford a safe ground of decision, where the words
of the statute creating the exemption are plain, definite and
unambiguous.
In their natural and their legal meaning, the words "for ten
years after the completion of said road" as distinctly exclude
the time preceding the completion of the road, as the time succeeding the ten years after its completion. If the legislature

OCTO3ER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, 0.J., Miller,-Field, Bradley, JJ.

had intended to limit the end only, and not the beginning, of
-the exemption, its purpose could have been easily expressed by
saying "until" instead of "for," so as to read "until ten years
after the completion," leavifig the exemption to begin immediately upon the granting of the charter.
To hold that the words of exemption actually used by the
legislature include the time before the completion of the road
would be to insert by construction what is not to be found in
the language of the contract; to presume an intention, which
-the legislature has not manifested in clear and unmistakable
terms, to surrender the taxing power; and to go against the
uniform current of the decisions of this court upon the subject,
as shown by the cases above referred to.
The omission of the taxing officers of the State in previous
years to assess this property cannot control the duty imposed
by law upon their successors, or the power of the legislature,
or-'the legal construction of the statute under which the exemption is claimed.
In the case of ..Morgan v. -Louisiana,93 U. S. 217, affirming
the decision in 28 La. Ann. 482, neither this court nor the
Supreme Court of Louisiana expressed any opinion upon the
question now before us, because both courts held that, the sale
of the railroad in that case having taken place before the
passage of the statute of 1877,-whatever rights were conferred by-a similar clause of exemption had not passed to the
purchasers.
Judgment aflrmed.
with whom concurred THE CHrEF Jusnon,
dissenting.
I am obliged to dissent from the judgment in this case. I
agree with the majority of the court in all that is said in the
opinion as to the construction of statutes, which are alleged to
exempt from the taxing power of the State property within its
jurisdiction. Where there is a reasonable doubt as to their
construction, whether or not they create the exemption, it
should be solved in favor of the State. But here it does not
seem to me there can be any such doubt. The statute in quesMr. JusTioE

Fmr,

MR.JusTnO MLLEE, and MR. JusTioE BEADLEY,

HIGGINS v. McCREA.
Syllabus.

tion declares that the capital stock of the company "shall be
exempt from taxation, and its roads, fixtures, workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation, and other appurtenances,.shall
be exempt from taxation, for ten years after the completion of
said road within the State." This exemption was designed to
aid the road, and was, therefore, much more needed during its
construction than when completed. It seems like a perversion
of the purpose of the statute t6 hold that it intended to impede
by its burden the progress of the desired work, and relieve it of
the burden only when finished. The enterprise is to be nursed,
according to the majority of the court, not in itis infancy, but
when successfully carried out and needs no support.
I am authorized to say that the C=nF JUSTicE, MR. JuUSrCE
ILLER and MR. Jus~ioE BRADLEY concur with me in this dissent.

HIGGINS & Another v. MicOIEA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE URITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Submitted January 8, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The rules of a Board of Trade were part of the contract sued on, dnd authorized plaintiff, who was a member of the board and, as a commission
merchant, had bought produce for future delivery on account of defendant,
to offset and settle such trade by Qther trades made by plaintiff, and to
substitute some other person for the one from whom he purchased the property. Acting under this rule plaintiff released the seller from his contract,
and, having many similar transactions in his business, proposed to himself
to substitute in the place of the contract with seller, the agreement of such
other contractor as might be available for the purpose at the time of settlement, but designated no particular contractor or contract: Held, (1) That
it was a question of law4or the court whether this was a substitution within the meaning of the rule : (2) That an instruction to the jury upon these
facts that there had been no valid substitution of other contracts for those
which were cancelled and plaintiff could not recover was correct.
In Ohio the validity in law of a counter-claim by defendant depends upon the
allegations respecting it, without regard to allegations and admissions of the

