REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Syllabus.

has been found against such party." It is clear that, upon thd
defendant's counter-claim, which showed that he had no valid
cause of action against the plaintiffs, no valid judgment could
be rendered against them. Notwithstanding the verdict, the
judgment should have been against the defendant, and for the
plaintiffs, upon the counter-claim of the former.
We are of opinion, therefore, that
The judgment infavor of the defendant on the cause of action
alleged in the plaintif' ~etition should be affhrned, an
the jtdgrnent in favor of the defendant, onethe cce of
action set up in his answer by way of counter-claim,,
should be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to enter a judgment for the plaintiffs and against the defendant on the counter-claim of the latter.

REYNOLDS & Another v. IRON SILVER MINING-.

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

'OR

THE

DISTRICr OF COLORADO.

Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.
In procuring a patent for a placer mine- claim under § 2333 of the Revised
Statutes, where the claimant is also in possession of a lode or vein included
within the boundaries of his placer claim, the patent shall cover both, if'
he makes this known, and pays $5 per acre for twenty-five feet on each side
of his vein, and $2.50 per acre for the remainder of his placer claim.

Where no such vein or lode is known to exist, the patent for a placer claim'
shall carry all such veins or lodes within its boundaries which may be after'
wards found to exist under its surface.
But where a vein or lode is knoun to exist under the surface included in such
patent, and is not in claimant's possession, and not mentioned in the claim
on which the patent issues, the title to such vein or lode remains in the
United States, unless previously conveyed to some one else, and does not
pass to the patentee, who thereby acquires no interest in such vein or lode.
The title remaining in the United States in the veins thus known to exist and
not claimed or referred to in the patent, the patentee and his gr-ntee have
no right to dispossess any one in the peaceable possession of such veins, whether the latter have any title or not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

In such case the rule whiclh applies to actions of 'ejectment, and to all actions
to recover possession of real estate applies, namely, that the plaintiff can
only recover on the strength of his own title, and not on the weakness of
defendant's title.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
3X. T. 2f.Patteson, Xr. . S. Thoma8 and .Xr. R. S
ion for plaintiffs in error.

for-

.21r. G. 6. Symes and Mr. Hugh Butler for defendant in
error.
Mi.

JUSTICE MILLEE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the District
of Colorado, which brings here for review a judgment of that
court in an action to recover possession of a part of a vein or
lode of mineral deposit.
The plaintiff below, the Iron Silver Mining Company, alleges
that it was-the owner of one hundred and ninety-three and -'
acres, of land, conveyed by the United States by patent to its
grantors, and seeks to recover of defendants a part of the land
thus patented. It is described in the petition as mining laud
and a mining claim. The patent under which plaintiff claims,
which was introduced in evidence, purports to be for placer
mines, and it takes two pages of printed matter to describe
the courses, distances, and corners. As the law does not permit any one claim to cover more than twenty acres in locating
placer mining claims, it is obvious that under the ruling of this
court in Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, a number of
these claims, amounting at least to ten, have been consolidated
into one patent, which was issued to Wells and Moyer. the
patentees.
The defendants below asserted a right to the vein or deposit
in which they were working under lode claims called the
Crown Point and Pinnacle claims, which were older than that
of plaintiff.

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Opinion of'the Court.

Defendants also set out another defence in- the following
language:
"That at the time of the survey, entry, and patenting of the
said Wells and Moyer placer claim, a certain lode, vein, or deposit
of quartzor other rock in place, carrying carbonates of lead and
silver-bearing ore, and of great value, called the Pinnacle lode,.
and a certain lode, vein, or deposit, carrying like minerals of
great value, were known and claimed to exist within the
boundaries and underneath the surface of said placer clair,
survey lot No. 281, and that the fact that such vein or v~ins
were claimed to exist and did exist as aforesaid within said
premises was lcnown to the patentees of said claim at all tie
times hereinbefore mentioned, and that in the application -for
patent for said plier claim the said vein or veins so known, to
exist were not included, and were, in the patent issued upon
such application, expressly excluded therefrom. And further,'
in the said patent ft was expressly and in termsreserved, that
the premises in and by such patent conveyed might, by the
proprietor of any such vein or lode of quartz or other rock in
place, bearing mineral or ore as aforesaid, be entered for the purpose of extracting and removing the ore from such lode, vein,
or deposit, should the same or any part thereof be found to
penetrate, intersect, pass through, or dip into the premises by
such patent granted."
The case was tried by a jury; and a verdict rendered lor
plaintiff, under a charge from the court, which required such a
verd~ct at their hands.
The case here must be decided on the correctness of the
action of the court in giving that charge, and in refusing to
give instructions asked by defendants.
The full charge of the court, which was duly excepted to, is
as follows:
"The evidence tends to prove that the lode in controversy was
known to Wells and Moyer, grantees of the United States, at
the time they made application -for the placer patent, under
which plaintiff claims title; also that William H. Stevens, one
of the grantees of Wells and Moyer, and a grantor of the plaintiff, knew of the existence of the lode at the time application
voL. cxvi--44

OCTOBER TERM; 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

was made by Wells and Moyer for the placer patent, procured
such application.to be made with a view to acquiring title to
himself -and his associates to the territory described, and probably with a view and intention to acquire title to the lode now
in dispute in this action. Assumiig the placer patent to have
been obtained with "mowledge and intention on the part of the
patentees, as stated, the -question is, whether any right or interest in the lode in controversy was conveyed by the patent.
That is a question of some difficulty when presented by or oA
behalf of one who has shown some right or interest in the lode,
or an intention to claim the same according to local law and
the acts of Congress. But here the defendants show no right
or title in the lode at the place in controversy. They assume
the right to follow the lode on its dip without the side line of
the Pinnacle location, and, under the Wells and Moyer placer
location. To that it is essential that they have the top and apex
of the lode within their location in the general direction of the
location. A small segment of the top and apex of the lode is
shown within the Crown Point location, but it extends not with
the length of the location, but across it, so as to convert the side
lines of the claim into the end lines, and to limit the direction
in which it may be pursued to the space enclosed by those lines.
Tle place in controversy is not, within the side lines of either
of defendants' locations, nor within the extensions of those
lines. No other ground is perceived upon which defendants
may assert title or right -of possession to the place in controversy, and therefore they are to be regarded as naked intruders,
and as to such intruders, the*plaintiff's placer title may give a
right of possession and recovery. - The .jury is advised to find
for plaintiff, with the value of the ore removed from the placer
ground by defendants." '
This charge was delivered to the jury after a rc asal to give
any of the following instructions asked by defendants:
"1. A patent to a placer claim does not pass title to any vein
or lode then known or claimed to exist.
"2. If the Pinnacle and Crown Point lodes, or their vein
upon which it is alleged defendants have followed into the
-ground of the Wells and Moyer placer, were known at time of

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER MENTITG "CO.
Opinion of the Court.

issue of Wells and Moyer patent, then the vein was not granted
ii (or was excepted from) the Wells and Moyer patent, and the
plaintiff is not entitled to. recover.
"4. The plaintiff must recover on strength of .his own title-'
If the vein is not conveyed to plaintiff by the placer patent
under which they claim, then it makes no difference whether
defendants have any title or not; the plaintiff cannot recover
on the weakness of defendants' title.
"5. If the jury believe from the evidence that the plaintiff's
grantors, at.the time of the locations and entry of the Wells
and Moyer placer claim, knew or had reason to piesume that
underneath it was a deposit or vein of ore carrying precious
metals in rock in place, then the same was specially excepted
from the grant of their patent, and never was the property of
the plaintiff or any of its grantors, having been excluded from
the grant of the government; no trespass can be committed
thereon as against the plaintiff, and they cannot recover, and if
the vein upon which the trespass is alleged was the vein so
known, then plaintiff cannot recover.
"6. It was not the intention of the federal government to
permit owners of placer mining claims to obtain title to knowh
lodes or veins of mineral ore by embracing the same in applications for patents to such placer claims unless specially designated as lode veins in such applications. The exceptions in, a
patent are to be construed most 'strongly against the patentees,
and the exceptions include not only lodes known, but also those
claimed to exist within the placer at the date of the patent; if,
therefore, you believe from the evidence that the lode deposit
within the boundaries of the Wells and Moyer placer claims was
known, or upon valid and subsisting grounds was claimed to
exist therein at time of application, entry, or date of patent,
then whether it is the property of the defendants or of the
government is immaterial, for in either e "ent there has been no
ousting or injury to the plaintiff as to its property, and you
should find for the defendants."
The conflict in principle between the instructions asked and
refused and those given by the court is marked and easily discerned, and presents the only question in the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

Its primary form is presented by the fourth of the defenda'nts'
requests, namely, "that plaintiff must recover on the strength
of his own title." This is the fundamental principle on which
all actions of ejectment or actions to recover possession of real
estate rest. Even where the plaintiff recovers on proof of
-priority of possession, it is because in the absence of any title
in any one else this is evidence of a title in plaintiff. If there
is any exception to the rule that in an action to recover possession of land the plaintiff must recover on the strength of his
own title, and that the defendant in possession can lawfully say
until you show some title, you have no right to disturb me, it
has not been pointed out to us.
, The remainder of this fourth prayer was a further statement
of the same rule as applied to the case in hand. "If the vein
is not conveyed to plaintiff by the placer patent under which
they claim, then it makes no difference whether defendants
have any title or not; the plaintiff cannot recover on the
weakness of defendants' title."
There is not in the record any pretence or claim of title in
plaiptiffs except that growing out of the placer ptent to Wells
and Moyer. If. that gave no title to the vein in controversy
plaintiffs had none. There is no assertion by them of prior
possession, discovery, or claim to that vein, nor of any other
right to it, than that it is found beneath the surface of this
placer patent.
While the court refused to give this instruction, he did instruct the jury that the defendants were naked trespassers, and
added that, "as to such intruders the plaintiff's placer title might
give a right of possession and recovery." He had previously
said that this would be a question of some difficulty in a case
where defendants had shown some right or interest in the lode
or an intention to claim the same according to local laws and
the acts of Congress. If this made any difference in defendants' right as against the placer patent, then it appears to us
that they did "show an intention to claim the locus in quo according to local laws and the acts of Congress," for they were
working under the Crown Point and Pinnacle claims, which
were legally established, and were pursuing the vein on which

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

one claim, the maximum of which is i500 feet along its length
and 300 feet in width on each side of it, subject to further limitation. unAder acts of the State legislatures, and the mining rules
of the district. The price for this when a patent is sought is
five dollars per acre, as measured by the surface lines of the
patent, and these lines must necessarily conform to the course
of the vein and not to Congressional surveys. The owner of
one of these veins may follow it outside of the perpendicular
extension of the side lines of the claim, but not outside of its
end lines.
Placer claims, beginning with § 2329, are declared to include
all' other forms of mineral deposits, except veins of quartz or
other rock in place, and may be entered on similar proceedings
as those provided for vein or lode claims. The surveys for'
these shall conform as near as may be to Congressional surveys,
and may include in each claim twenty acres of superficial area,
but when the location cannot be made to conform.to legal subdivision, it may be made as upon unsurveyed lands.
The most important part of the law in reference to the matter in hand is found in § 2333 of the Revised Statutes, which
is as follows:
"S~c. 2333. Where the same person, association or corporation is in possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode
included within the boundaries thereof, application shall be
made for a patent for the placer claim, with the statement
that it includes such vein or lode, and in such case a patent
shall issue for the placer claim, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five
dollars per acre for such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five
feet of surface on each side thereof. The remainder of the
placer claim, or any placer claim not embracing any vein or
lode claim, shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and
fifty cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings;
and where a vein or lode such as is described in section twentythree hundred and twenty is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an application for a patent for such
placer c) hn which does not include an application for the vein
or lode claim, shall be construed as a conclusive declaration

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

these claims were located. But the court held that the evidence showed that they were pursuing it when it passed out of
the end lines of the claim instead of the side lines. It would
seem that such possession as this ought to be sufficient to enable
them to put the plaintiff upon proof of its title.
It is fair, however, to say that the court in effect affirms the
doctrine that the patent for a placer mine (this patent) gives
title to a vein or lode under its surface, though known to the
original claimant or patentee at the time of the assertion of the
claim and issue of the patent, and not disclosed to the land
officers, or mentioned in the patent, or in the original claim, as
against one not having a superior title.
The court says the evidence tends to prove that the lode in
controversy was known to Wells and Moyer, grantees of the
United States, at the time tley made application for the placer
patent under which plaintiff claims title, also that Stevens, a
grantee of Wells and Moyer and grantor of plaintiff, knew of'
the existence of the lode at the time the application was made
for the patent, and procured the application to be made, with
the intention to acquire title to the lode now in dispute.
Yet, while the lode is not mentioned in the patent, the court
held that for the purposes of this suit the title to it was conferred
by that instrument.
It appears to us that such a proposition is opposed to the
policy of the acts of Congress ia the different rules which it
applies to granting titles to placer mines, and to vein, lode, and
fissure mines; to the express language of the statute; and to
the reservations in the patent itself.
It is not necessary to go further than an examination of
Chapter 6 of the Revised Statutes concerning the public lands
to see this difference. An act of Congress of May. 10, 1872, is
the foundation of the existing system by which thle citizen acquires right to the lands of the United States containing the
precious metals, and its provisions are found in §§ 9318 to 2336
inclusive.
These sections, up to § 2328, relate mainly, if not exclusively,
to mineral lodes or veins, and, among other.things, they fix the
amount or quantity of land which may be acquired under any

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILYER MINING CO.

695

.Opinion of the Court.
that the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession of the vein or lode claim; but where the existence of a
vein or lode in a placer claim is not known, a patent for the
placer claim shall convey 'all valuable mineral and other deposits within the boundaries thereof."
These varying provisions of the act of Congress as regards
the two classes of mineral deposits and their surroundings are
founded on the well known difference in their character. The
veins, loads or fissures mentioned in § 2320 are found in the.surrounding rock, and are described and defined in the case of the
Iron Silver -afining Co. v. C/eesman and others, recently decided
in this court, ante, 529. Placer mines, though said by the statute to include all other deposits of mineral matter, are those in
which this mineral is generally found in the softer material
which covers the earth's surface, and not among the rocks beneath. The one is only made available by following this vein
into its stony case ii the bowels of the earth, detaching and
bringing it to the surface, and subjecting it to crushing, melting, and other processes by which the precious metal is separated
from the ore of which it is a part. In the other, the more usual
way is to take the soft earthy matter in which the particles of
mineral are loosely ihingled, and by filtration separate the one
from the other. It is very clear that Congress considered that
the vein of mineral-bearing quartz was more valuable than the
surface or placer deposit, and it accordingly, when a patent
was asked, fixed the price of the former at $5 and of the latter
at $2.50 per acre, as represented by the superficial area of the
survey. It also for the same reason limited the quantity of the
former, which any single claimant could obtain from the government in some cases, to less than half of what he could obtain of the latter.
This was not done, as suggested by counsel, in special regard to the revenue of the government from this source, but
to prevent too much of this rich public mineral falling into
the hands of one successful explorer, to the exclusion of others.
But experience had shown that both these classes of mineral
deposits might be found within the same survey of superficial
area; and section 2333 makes specific provision for such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

case. There was no difficulty in tzase of a patent for a lode or
vein, for this necessarily must include both the surface by
'which it was measured, and the vein beneath it. But in the
case of a placer mine whose deposits were superficial, there
might be under it a vein of far more value than the twenty
acres of surface mineral.
A man cognizant of the existence of such a vein, who-could,
if he established his right to it as a lode, secure only a limited
part of it, if he could cover it with a placer claim, would thereby increase the quantity of this vein over what he could get by
making a lode claim, in double the amount, and in some cases,
regulated by State or local mining laws, he might quadruple
it. Congress also had to deal with the possibility that a vein
might be discovered under the surface of a placer claim after
the claimant had received his patent.
What Congress did, and intended to do, in the presence of
these suggestiQns, is, we think, very plaiif. It made provision
for three distinct classes of cases:
1. When the applicant for a placer patent is at the time in
possession of a vein or lode included within the boundaries of
his placer claim, he shall state that fact, and on payment of
the sum required for a vein claim and twenty-five feet on each
side of it, at $5 per acre, and $2.50 for the remainder of the
placer claim, his patent shall cover both.
2. It enacted that where no such vein or lode is known to exist at the time the patent is applied for, the patent for a placer
claim shall carry all valuable mineral and other deposits which
may be found within the boundaries thereof.
3. But in case where the applicant for the placer patent is
not in possession of such lode or vein within the boundaries of
his claim, but such a vein is known, to exist, and it is not referred
to or mentioned in the claim or patent, then the application
shall be constrwed as a conelusive declaration that the claimant
of the placer mine has no rigit to the possession of the vein or
lode claim.
It is this latter class of cases to which the one before us belongs.
It may not be easy to define the words "known to exist" in

REYNOLDS v. IRON SILVER -MINING CO.

697

Opinion of the Court.

this act. Whether this knowledge must be traced to the applicant for the patent, or whether it is sufficient that it was
generally known, and what kind of evidence is necessary to
prove this knowledge, we need not here inquire. It is perhaps
better that these questions should be decided as they arise.
They do not arise here, because the court t6ok all this kind of
evidence from the jury on the ground that defendants were
trespassers.
It said, in the charge, not only was there evidence that the
vein was known to exist when the application was made by
Wells and Moyer, but that they knew it, and that one of the
parties in interest,. Stevens, knew it, and procured the application to be made for the placer patent with the intent to secure
this lode. There was here no question of sufficiency or
character of the testimony as to the knowledge of the existence
of this vein, but the jury was told that it was all immaterial because in any event the patent carried the lode as against the
defendants.
The patent itself declares that it is subject to the following
conditions:
1. That it is restricted to any lodes, veins, or other mineralbearing quartz, which are not claimed or known to exist at the
date of the patent.
2. That should any such vein or lode be claimed or kn6wn
to exist within the described premises at the date of the patent,
the same is expressly excluded from it.
It is said that this part of the patent is void because there
was no law which authorized its insertion, and because it is in
conflict with the rights of the claimant of a placer mine under
the acts of Congress.
Without deciding on the effect of the acceptance without
protest of a patent with such exceptions in the granting clause,
where their insertion is the voluntary act of the officers who
execute the instrument, it is sufficient to say that these conditions but give expression to the intent of the statute.
We are of opinion that Congress meant that lodes and veins
known to exist when the patent was asked for should be excluded from the grant as much as if they were described in

OCTOB§ER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

clear terms.' It was not intended to remit the question of their
title to be raised by. some one who had or might get a better
title, but to assert that no title passed by the patent in such
case from the United States: It remains in the United States
at -the time of the issuing of the patent, and in such case, it
does not pass to the patentee. He takes his surface land and
his placer mine, and 'such lodes or veins of mineral matter
within it as were unknown, but to such as were knowbn to exist
.he gets by that patent no right whatever. The title remaining
in his grantor, the United States, to this vein, the existence of
which was known, he has no such interest in it as authorizes
hiu to disturb any one else in the peaceable possession and
mining of that vein. When it is once shown tbat the vein was
k~nown to exist at the time he acquired title to the placer, it is
shown that he acquired no title or interest in that vein by his
patent.
Whether the defendant has title, or is a mere trespasser, it
is certain that he is in possession, and that is a sufficient defence
against one who has no title at all, and never had any.
Tkejudgment of the Circu'it Court i8 reversed, and. the case
remanded to that court, with insructions to set aaide the
verdict and grant a new tril.
YR.C

i?-JusncE WXA'rrI
dissenting.

I am unable to agree to this judgment. The facts briefly
stated are these: The Mining Company holds titl6 under a
patent for a placer claim. Within the boundaries of this claim,
as located on the surface and extended vertically downwards,
is a vein or lode. The existence of this vein or lode was known
when the patent under which the Mining Company holds was
issued, but it had not then, nor has it now, been located as a
vein or lode claim. Neither Reynolds nor Morrissey has any
titl6 to or claim upon the lode within the boundaries of the
placer claim. They are mere intruders, having wrongfully,
and without any authority of law, worked from an adjoining
claim under the surface of the placer claim of the Mining
Company and taken possession of the mineral in the lode.
Under these circumstances it seems to me the Mining Company

WATERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
Syllabus.

has the better right. The question is not whether the company owns the lode or vein, nor whether it has the right to
take mineral therefrom,. but whether as against a mere intrader it has the better right to the possession. By the express provision of Rev. Stat. § 2333 the patent, under.' which
the company holds, gives it no right to the possession of any
vein or lode claim within the boundaries of the placer patent,
but as y~t no such claim exists. There is a lode or vein, but
no 'one has either claimed or attempted to claim it. Quite
different questions would arise if Reynolds or Morrissey were
attempting to locate a lode claim within the boundaries of the
placer patent upon a lode known to exist when the patent was
applied for. In my opinion the charge of the court was righti
and the judgment should be affirmed.

WATERVILLE v. VAN SLYKE.
ERROR TQ THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

-FOR

THE

Submitted January 25, 816.-Decided March 1, 1888.

When a case is brought here from a Circuit Court for review, in which ,the
matter in controversy is less than $5000, it will be dismissed, although ascompanied by a certificate of division of opinion by the judges holding the
court, unless that certificate presents a case proper for the consideration of

this court.
Each question so certified must present a clear and distinct proposition of law
to which the court can respond, and not a proposition of mixed law and
facts.
While such a statement must accompany the certificate as to show that the
question of law is applicable to the case, the point on which the judges differed must be a distinct question of law clearly stated.
This procedure is meant to meet a case where, two judges sitting, a clear and
distinct proposition of law, material to the decision of the case arises, on
which, differing in opinion, they may make such a certificate as will enable
this court to decide that question. If in reality more than one such question
occurs, they may be embraced in the certificate ; but where it is apparent
that the whole case is presented to this court for decision, with all its
propositions of fact and of law, the case will not be entertained. Such is
this case, and it is accordingly dismissed.

