OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

been promoted if an opportunity for examination had been given
him. In our opinion this recommendation was based on a cbrrect construction of the statute.
We see no reason why a practice unwarranted either by law
or the regulations of the navy, and which had been discontinued.
for eight years, should be revived and given effect.in this case.
Judgment afjilmed.

UITED STATES v. WALLACE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1886.

Under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 847 and 828, a commissioner 6f a Cir.
cuit Court who, by direction of the court, keeps a docket with entries of
each warrant issued and subsequent proceedings thereon made on the day
of occurrence, is entitled to a fee like that allowed to the-cierk of the court
for dockets, indexes, &c., although his docket entries may differ from those
made by the clerk.

The judgment appealed from in this case was rendered in
favor of the appellee, who was plaintiff below, for the sum of
$1032, upon the following finding of facts .reported by the
.Court of Claims:
I. The claimant, John H. Wallace, was a commissioner of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Di~trict of
Alabama from January 16, 1882, to Noverhber 22, 1883.
H. October 4,1881, theGC:rcuit Court of the.United States for
said district, in complianqe.with a request by the AttorneyGeneral, made an order requiring, among other things, that
each of the commissioners of said court should keep a docket,
in which he should enter on the day the transaction should occur the issuance of each warrant, the name of the person upon
whose complaint and request the same was issued, the .nature
of the offence, and the name of the office# to whom the warrant was delivered for service, together with the proceedings
had under said warrant; that there should also be entered

UNITED STATES v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

therein the names of the witnesses present and examined and
their fees, the name of the guard, if any, and his fees, and also
the marshal's and deputy marshal's fees, together with the.
mileage and expenses allowed by law, and the said order was
continued of force.
III. From the said January 16, 1882, to tovember 22, 1883,
petitioner, as such commissioner, issued warrants in three
hundred and seventy-six cases, in three hundred and twentyeight of which issue was joined and testimony taken, and in
forty-eight of which issue was not joined, the defendant was
discharged, and no testimony taken, and he duly made his
docket entries in each and in all of said cases as required by
said order.
IV. His accounts for fees for keeping said docket were duly
verified by oath, and presented to the said court, in presenc'e of
the district attorney, and approved by the court, and an order
approving the same as being in accordance to law and just duly
entered upon the records of the said court. In said accounts,
as approved by the court, he was allowed a fee of $3 in each
case where issue was joined and testimony taken, and $1 where
issue was not joined and the defendant was discharged.
V. His accounts therefor were duly presented for payment to
the accounting officers of the Treasury, together with the
order of court approving the same, and payment thereof was'
refused by them.
.Ar. Solicitor-GeneraZfor appellant.
Mfr. Charles . Lancaster and .Xr. Caarle8 E. Yfayer for
appellee.
MR. JusTrcE MATTrws delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
It is provided in § 847 Rev. Stat. regulating the fees of commissioners:
"For issuing any warrant or writ, and for any other service,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the same compensation as is allowed to clerks for like services."
§ 828 Rev. Stat. provides that the clerk be allowed:
"For making dockets and indexes, taxing costs, and all other
services on the trial or argument of a cause where issue is joined
and testimony given, $3." And-" For making dockets and
indexes, taxing costs and other services in a cause which is
dismissed or discontinued, or where judgment or decree is made
without issue, $1."
It was not disputed by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department nor by the Solicitor-General in argument,
that the commissioner was legally bound under the order of
the Circuit Court to render the services charged for in keeping
the dockets required, nor that he is entitled to compensation
therefor. But it is insisted that he ought not to be allowed
the compensation demanded, because the services rendered in
keeping his docket are not in all particulars like services to
those rendered by clerks in keeping dockets, and that, consesequently, his compensation is fully covered by paragraph 8 of
§ 828, which allows for making entries "for each folio fifteen
cents."
This view is met by the Court of Claims in the following extract from its opinion:
"The phrase 'like services' does not necessarily mean identical with, for by such a construction the compensation allowed
to commissioner 'for any other service' would be defeated
because of the subject-matter of the duties of the commissioner
and the clerk being somewhat different; but the statute must
receive a reasonable construction, and where the service of the
c'lerk bears a substantial resemblance to the duty performed by
the commissioner, then, under § 84:7, the commissioner would
be entitled to the compensation allowed by law to the clerk, it
being, in legal substance a ' like service.
The compensation of fifteen cents for each folio, supposed
to embrace this service, is given "for entering any return,
rule, order, continuance, judgment, decree, or recognizance, or
drawing any bond, or making any record certificate, return, or
report." - Clearly this service has no likeness to that of keep-

EX PARTE BROWN.
Statement of Facts.

ing a d6cket, while the keeping of a docket by the commissioner is a like service to the keeping of a docket by the clerk,
although the docket entries to be made by each may differ.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Afflr'med.

EX PARTE BROWN & Another.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 13, 18W.-Declded January 18, 1886.

The dismissal of a cause by the Supreme Court of a Territory, because errors
had not been assigned according to the rules of practice applicable to the
form of action, is a judgment which can only be reviewed by writ of error
or appeal, as the ease may be.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus. The petition, which accompanied the motion,
showed that the petitioners commenced a suit in ejectment
in the Territory of Washington on the 10th of Jby, 1884;
that the defendant answered, denying the plaintiff's right to
recover, and setting up various separate defences; that the
plaintiffs demurred; that the court ,overruled the demurrer;
that the plaintiffs having elected to stand upon the ruling of
the court on the demurrer, the case was dismissed; Lhat the
llaintiffs thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory; that transcripts of the record were duly filed in the
Supreme Court and the causes removed and docketed there;
that a motion was made by defendant to dismiss the appeal
because the action was at law and could be reexamined only
on writ of error; that the motion was sustained and judgment
entered accordingly; and that the amount in controversy was
largely in excess of .$5000. The prayer of the petition was for
a writ of mandamusi to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
directing it to set aside the judgment, to reinstate the case, and
to decide it on the merits.
VOL. CXVi-26

