OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

PINKERTON v. LEDOUX.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO.
No. 114. Argued December 7, 1888. -Decided

February 4, 1889.

The report upon a Spanish or Mexican grant by the surveyor general of
New Mexico under the act of July 22, 1854, ยง 8, 10 Stat. 308, which required such report to be "laid before Congress for such action thereon
as may be deemed just and proper, with a view to confirm bon& fide
grants," is no evidence of title or right to possession.
In ejectment, the question whether the tract in dispute is within the boundaries of a grant of public land, is to be determined by the jury on the
evidence, as explained by the court.
When the description in the petition and grant of a Mexican grant differs
from the description in the act of possession the former must prevail.
If, from the description and words in the petition and writ of possession of
a Mexican grant the jury cannot definitely locate the boundaries of the
grant, they must find for the defendant.
Whether the Nolan title has any validity without confirmation by Congress,
qu~ere.
Whether the proviso in the act of July 1, 1870, 16 Stat. 646, that when the
grants to Nolan to which it related " are so confirmed, surveyed and
patented, they shall be held and taken to be in full satisfaction of all
further claims or demands against the United States," was not intended
to affect the entire claim of Nolan for any grant of lands in New Mexico,
quasre.

EJEcTrNT.

Judgment for defendant.

this writ of error.

Plaintiff sued out

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr F IF Clancy for plaintiff in error.
Xlr Henry F Damis for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTcCE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought by Pinkerton, the
plaintiff in error, to recover from the defendants, Julian Ledoux and Epifanio Ledoux, the possession of a quarter section
of land claimed to be within the tract known as the Nolan
grant in Colfax and Mora counties in New Mexico, under

PINKERTON v. LEDOUX.
Opinion of the Court.

which grant the plaintiff claims title, and the main question
in the case is, whether the Nolan grant extends far enough
westerly and northerly to embrace the lot in question. The
action was commenced in July, 1881, in Colfax County, and
was afterwards removed to M ora County The property'
claned is described in the declaration as follows, to wit
"that certain tract and parcel of land lying and being situated
in the county of Colfax, in the Territory of New Mexico, and
being a portion of that larger tract of land commonly known
as and called the 'Nolan grant,' (and which said grant was, on
or about the eighteenth day of November, A.D. 1845, made by
Manuel Armijo, then Governor of the Territory of New
Mexico, to Gervacio Nolan and two others,) being the same
one hundred and sixty acres of land upon which the said
defendants now reside and occupy, and upon which they -have
a dwelling-house wherein the said defendants or one of them
reside, situated on the northwest third of the above-mentioned
grant and bounded upon all sides by lands of the plaintiff."
The defendants pleaded not guilty and three special pleas.
First, title in themselves by virtue of an entry and a grant
from the United States, under which they have erected and
placed upon the premises certain valuable improvements, consisting of dwelling-houses, barns, fences, ditches, etc., of the
value of $5000, which value they give notice that they will
prove at the trial, if the plaintiff shall maintain his title. Secondly, that they built the valuable improvements on the land
before the commencement of the action, and that the plaintiff
cannot deprive them of possession until such improvements
are paid for. Third, not guilty within ten years.
The plaintiff took issue on those pleas, and entered a nolle
proseqvu as to Julian Ledoux. On the trial of the cause the
plaintiff gave in evidence, 1st, the original Nolan grant, consisting of the petition for a concession, dated November 15, 1845,
the grant upon the same, indorsed thereon and dated Santa
F6, November 18, 1845, and the act of juridical possession,
dated November 30, 1845. The petition was made by Gervacio Nolan, Juan Antonio Aragon, and Antonio Maria Lucero,
soliciting a grant for a piece of land in the little caion of Red

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

river, bounded "on the north by the possession of -Messrs.
Miranda and Beaubien, on the south one league in a direct
line, including the Sapello river, according to its current, on
the west another league from Red river and its current, and
on the southeast the little hills of Santa Clara with their range
to the little caion of the Ocate." The grant was made as
desired, with the boundaries and limits asked for. The act of
juridical possession describes the boundaries as follows: "They
are, on the north, the lands of Don Gaudalupe Miranda and
Don Carlos Beaubien, on the south, one league south of the
Sapello river, following the same range, on the east, one
league east of the Red river, with the same range of the river,
and on the west, the little cafion of Ocate and five hundred
varas west of the little hills of Santa Clara in a direct line."
No plat or desifio was shown to have been annexed to the act
of juridical possession. If there'had been one, it was not given
in evidence.
It must be acknowledged that these descriptions are somewhat vague. It would seem that, from the northern boundary, adjoining Miranda and Beaubien, (or the Maxwell grant,)
to the southern boundary along the Sapello river, the distance
is about forty miles, and if the grant extends westerly from
the Red river far enough to embrace the land in question, as
claimed by the plaintiff, the general width is from twenty-one
to twenty-five miles, the whole tract thus embracing an area
of nearly one thousand square miles, whilst, if it is confined
to one league west of the Red river, as would seem to be the
meaning of the original petition and grant, the quantity would
still be over one hundred square miles.
The plaintiff then gave in evidence, without objection on
the part of the defendant, the opinion of the Surveyor General,
dated July 10, 1860, reporting on the grant in question, and
stating that he believed the documents of title to be genuine,
and the grant to be good and valid, and that the land embraced within the boundaries set forth in the petition and
juridical possession were severed from the public domain, and
that the title therefor was vested in the heirs and legal representatives of Gervacio Nolan, he therefore approved said title,

PINKERTON v. LEDOIJ .
Opinion of the Court.

and transmitted it for the action of Congress, in accordance
with the 8th section of the act of July 22, 1854, entitled "An

act to establish the offices of Surveyor General of New Mexico,
etc." 10 Stat. 308, c. 103. The act says, "which report shall
be laid before Congress for such action thereon as may be
deemed just and proper, with a view to confirm bona fide
grants, and give full effect to the treaty of 1848, between the
United States and Mexico." It does not appear that this title
was ever approved or confirmed by Congress. The plaintiff
then offered in evidence (but the court rejected) the petition of
the claimants of the grant,; addressed to the Surveyor General,
in order to show what boundaries they claimed on that occasion. It is unnecessary to recite the contents, of this petition,
as we think the court rightly rejected it. The Surveyor General, when referring in his report to the boundaries set forth
in the petition and juridical possession, evidently referred to
the boundaries contained in the original petition of Nolan and
his associates for the grant, and not to the petition addressed
to himself.
The plaintiff then introduced in evidence a map from the
Surveyor General's office, which was not admitted as evidence
of the boundaries of the grant in question, nor to show any
survey thereof, but only to inform the jury as to the location
and position of natural objects and course of streams referred
to in other documents. The material part of the map was as
follows, to wit-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

",,COLFAX CO.

. ....
.....

SAN M111

Scale:_6.Mile

'to an

. . .

. ... .

CO.

A.

It shows the Nolan grant to be about 40 miles in length,
north and south, and 25 miles in width, extending across the
the whole of Mora County, and five or six miles into Colfax
County on the north and San Miguel County on the south.
In the northwestern part of the Nolan grant, as marked on
the map, on Ocate creek, some 16 miles west of the Red river,
is shown a ranch. On the west side of the grant, about midway between the north and south bounds, are situated the
little hills of Santa Clara. No proof was offered with regard
to the authenticity or accuracy of this map, except that it
was brought from the Surveyor General's office. Very little
testimony was offered. Mary McKellar testified that she
lived in Colfax County in the ranch noted on the map, that
Ledoux's place (the land in question) was about a mile and a
half to the northeast of her ranch, two or three miles south
of Beaubien and Miranda's grant, that she knew where the
stones were put by Mr. Shaw, as the western boundary of the
Nolan grant. He was the surveyor sent up from Santa F6 to
survey the land. Mr. Ledoux's house is to the east of that line,
as surveyed by Mr. Shaw She also testified about the little hills

PINKERTON v. LEDOUX.
Opinion of the Court.

of Santa Clara, and the location of the canoncito of the Ocate.
Ledoux was examined to show that he was in possession of the
lot clauned in the suit. The plaintiff was examined to identify
the locality of the little hills of Santa Clara, and the canoncito
of the Ocate, and where a line would run, beginmng 500 varas
west of the hills and running a straight line through the
canoncito, and that the defendant lives to the east of that
line. He did not know how many canoncitos were on the
Ocate. There might be one near Red river, he never was
there. He also located the county line between Mora and
Colfax Counties. He had only known the counlry since 1875.
The defendant's counsel admitted that the plaintiff had
acquired all the title of the original grantees, in and to the
western half of the grant to the north of the Santa Clara
hills. The defendant also introduced in evidence a map to
show the various localities, position of natural objects, streams,
etc., which showed substantially the same state of facts as the
map introduced by the plaintiff. This was all the evidence in
the cause.
The plaintiff then requested the court to instruct the jury
as follows
"That when a claim to a Spanish or Mexican grant has
been favorably reported by the Surveyor General of New
Mexico, as the one here in question has been, the grantees, or
their heirs or assigns, are entitled to the absolute and exclusive possession of the land embraced within the limits of such
grant, and in this case it is admitted that the plaintiff has all
the right, title and interest of the original grantees to all that
portion of said grant -north of an east-and-west line running
through the Serritos de Santa Clara and west of a northwest
and southeast line half way between the east and west boundaries of said grant."
And the court refused to give said instruction, and the
plaintiff excepted.
We think the refusal was right. The Surveyor General's
report is no evidence of title or right to possession. His duties
were prescribed by .the act of July 22d, 1854, before referred
to, and consisted merely in making inquiries and reporting to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress for its action. If Congress confirmed a title reported
favorably by him it became a valid title, if not, not. So with
regard to the boundaries of a grant, until his report was confirmed by Congress, it had no effect to establish such boundaries, or anything else subservient to the title.
The judge charged the jury that they must be satisfied
from a preponderance of evidence that the defendant was
within the boundaries petitioned for by Nolan, and into which
he was inducted by the writ of possession, and if not so satisfied, they must find the defendant not guilty, that they must
determine what the boundaries are from the words used in the
petition and in the writ of possession, that if, from the description thus given, and from the extraneous evidence furnished by plaintiff, they were not convinced that the defendant
was upon the land petitioned for and given by writ of possession to the said Nolan, they must find defendant not guilty
If, upon the other hand, they were satisfied from all the evidence that the defendant was upon said land, they must find
him guilty
The judge then compared the words of boundary and description contained in the petition with those contained in the
writ or act of possession, and added
"If, upon comparing these descriptions, you cannot make
them agree, you must give the greater weight to the words
and descriptions of the petition, for the petition must control
the writ. In other words, the writ of possession must conform to the petition, for the grant was made according to the
boundaries prayed for in the petition. You would not be justified in going 500 varas west of Los Serritos de Santa Clara
for the western boundary of the grant, unless you find some
authority for doing so in the words and descriptions of the
petition. If, from the descriptions and words-in the petition
and writ of possession, you find yourselves unable definitely
to locate the boundaries of the grant, you must find defendant
not guilty"
Then, at the request of the plaintiff, the judge charged
"2. That if they believe from the evidence that the land of
which the defendant is in possession is within the limits of the

PINKERTON v. LEDOUX.
Opinion of the Court.

grant, which has been favorably reported by the Surveyor
General, they must find the defendant guilty"
"8. The plaintiff can only
He then charged as follows
on
the
strength
of
his own title or right of
recover, if at all,
possession, and not on the defects of any title or right of possession of defendant.
"4. The plaintiff must establish his right to the possession
of the land described in the petition or declaration by competent evidence in order for him to recover.
"5. In order to find the defendant guilty, you must find
that the defendant did enter upon the land described in the
petition or declaration, that the same is within the boundaries of the portion of the grant claimed by plaintiff, and&
that the defendant was, at the time this suit was instituted, in
possession of the same wrongfully, withholding and detainingthe same from the plaintiff."
The plaintiff excepted to the giving of each of said mstructions, with the exception of the one numbered 2.
The jury, under this charge, rendered a verdi6t for thedefendant, and judgment was entered accordingly , whereupon,
the plaintiff brought this writ of error. The assignment of
errors corresponds to the exceptions. The plaintiff in error,
in his brief, discusses two points upon which he insists upon a
reversal of the judgment 1. That there is nothing in theevidence to support the verdict, 2. That the instructions of'
the court did not properly submit to the jury the only point
to be determined, to wit Was the defendant within the
boundaries of the portion of the grant claimed by the plaintiff 9
We do not see how the judge who tried the cause couldL
have more clearly stated, than he did in his charge, the real
question to be determined by the jury, namely, the question
whether the land in dispute was included within- the boundaries of the grant, as applied to and sought for, in the actual
condition of the country, its surface .and mountains and
streams. In order to locate a grant of land upon the surface.
of the earth there must be evidence to show that the place of
location agrees with the description in the grant, and that
VOL. cxxix-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence is for the jurv The plaintiff alleges that it was error
in the judge to leave this question to the jury We think not.
The judge may properly explain to the jury the effect of different portions of the evidence, and, of course, if the jury find
a verdict against plain evidence, their verdict will be set aside.
The plaintiff complains, however, that the judge laid down
an erroneous rule in charging that if the description contained
in the petition and grant differed from that contained in the
act of possession, the former must prevail, because it was the
grant which conferred title. We think there was no error in
this charge. If the officer assigned to deliver possession does
not follow the grant his acts are not valid.
Where the original grant does not locate the subject of the
grant, as where a certain number of square leagues is granted
to be located within a certain district, the delivery of possession within the district renders the title complete, and defines
the location of the grant.
The cases referred to by the plaintiff were grants of specific
ranches, plantations or places, having well known names, and
the boundaries designated in the acts of possession ascertained
their actual extent and limits, and hence were controlling
when the question of title arose. "The judicial possession
was conclusive as to the boundaries and extent of the land
granted."
United States v Pico, 5 Wall. 536, 540.
The instruction given, that if from the descriptions and
words in the petition and writ of possession the jury could not
definitely locate the boundaries of the grant, they must find
for the defendant, is supported by several explicit authorities.
In Carpentherv
ofantgomery, 13 Wall. 480, it was held that
where one of the boundaries was so uncertain that it could not
be defined or designated, the grant was void. The same rule
was followed in Scull v Unzted States, 98 U. S. 410, where the
description was so vague that, as sought to be interpreted by
the claimant, it would embrace over seven millions of acres,
and it was evident to the court that the surveyor was never
actually -on the ground, and was mistaken as to the locality of
the natural objects on which he relied for description. The
claim was rejected for uncertainty of description.

WALWORTH v. HARRIS.
Syllabus.

We see nothing in the charge of which the plaintiff can
properly complain.
This case seems to have been very perfunctorily tried and
discussed. There is a question which may be entitled to much
consideration, whether the Nolan title has any validity at all
without confirmation by Congress. The act of July 22, 1854,
before referred to, seems to imply that this was necessary
There is also another act of Congress which may have a bearing on the case. We refer to the act of July 1, 1870, 16 Stat.
646, c. 202, by which another grant to Nolan was confirmed
to the extent of eleven leagues. After various provisions with
regard to the exterior lines of those eleven leagues, the 4th
section declares "that upon the adjustment of said claim of the
heirs of Gervacio Nolan, according to the provisions of this
act, it shall be the duty of the Surveyor General of the district
to furnish properly approved plats to said claimants, etc. Prornded, that when said lands are so confirmed, surveyed and patented, they shall be held and taken to be in full satisfaction of
all further claims or demands against the United States."
Whether this provision was not intended to affect the entire
claim of Nolan for any grant of lands in New Mexico may be
a serious question. Without expressing any opinion on the
subject, it suffices to say that we see no error in the judgment
of the Supreme Court of New Mexico, and it is therefore

-Aflrme&

WALWORTH v. HARRIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 148. Submitted January 7,1889.-Decided February 4, 1889.

The lien upon a crop of cotton, created by a statute of Arkansas whch
gives a lien to a landlord upon the crop grown on demised premises to
secure accruing rent, is, when the cotton comes into the hands of a
broker in New Orleans, under consignment from the lessee, and without
knowledge of the lien on the consignee's part, subordinated to the consignee's lien for advances, arising under the laws of Louisiana.

