OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

very ably enforced in an opinion of the Court of Appeals
delivered by Judge Rapallo, in the case of Baker v -Drake,
53 N. Y 211, which was subsequently followed in the same
case m 66 N. Y 518, and in Grumn v Smth, 81 N. Y 25,
Colt v Owens, 90 N. Y 368, and Trtght v Bank of .Metro2polis,

110 N. Y 237.
It would be a herculean task to review all the various and
conflicting opinions that have been delivered on this subject.
On tne whole it seems to us that the New York rule, as finally
settled by the Court of Appeals, has the most reasons in its
favor, and we adopt it as a correct view of the law
1T]e judgment -s reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Supreme Court of Utah, wth 'instructions to enter ydgment ,n conofority with ths optnton.

WADE v. METCALF
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ITLASACHUSETTS.
No. 163.

Argued January 10, 1889.-Decided January 21, 1889.

Tnder Rev Stat. ยง 4899, a specific patentable machine, constructed with
the knowledge and consent of the inventor, before his application for
a patent. is set free from the monopoly of the patent in the hands of
every one; and therefore, if constructed with the inventor's knowledge
and consent, before his application for a patent, by a partnership of
which he is a member, may be used by his copartners after the dissolution of the partnership, although the agreement of dissolution provides that nothing therein contained shall operate as an assent to such
use, or shall lessen or impair any rights which they may have to such use.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed December 4, 1880, by William
W Wade, a citizen of Massachusetts, against Henry B. Metcalf, a citizen of Rhode Island, and William McCleery, a citizen of Massachusetts, alleging that letters patent, numbered
228,233, granted to the plaintiff June 1. 1880, upon his application filed July 26, 1879, for improvements in machines

WADE v. METCALF
Statement of the Case.

for making buttons, had been infringed by the defendants'
use of forty-eight machines embodying such improvements.
At the hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the case, so far as
it is material to be stated, appeared to be.as follows
The parties to this suit, owning earlier patents for improvements in buttons, were in partnership in the business of
making and selling buttons, under the name of the Boston
Button Company, from. anuary, 18T5, until the dissolution
of the partnership in October, 1880. By the copartnership
agreement, certain salaries were to be paid to the plaintiff for
improving and developing the machinery, to the defendant
Metcalf for assistance in financial matters, and to the defendant McOleery for general superintendence, and the profits of
the business were to belong one half to Metcalf and one fourth
each to the plaintiff and McCleery The forty-eight machines,
with the improvements in question, were constructed by the
partnership, with the knowledge and consent of the plaintiff,
before the application for the patent sued on, and were used
by the partnership during its continuance, and by the defendants after its dissolution. The partnership was dissolved
October 30, 1880, by an agreement in writing executed by
the three partners, the terms of which were as follows.
"First. It is agreed that the firm composed of said Metcalf,
McCleery and Wade, and doing business under the style of
the Boston Button Company, shall be this day dissolved.
"Second. The said William W Wade, in consideration of
the payment to him of the sum of twelve thousand dollars by
the said Metcalf and McCleery, receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, hereby sells and conveys to the said Metcalf
and McCleery all his interest in the property and assets of
every name and nature of said firm of the Boston Button Company, together with the good will of the same, with authority
t6 use his name if necessary in the premises, saving him harmless from all cost in the same.
"And whereas certain machines, forty-eight in number, with
a certain improvement thereon, manufactured by said firm,
have been and are now in use by said firm, and the same
M etcalf and McCleery claim the right as members of said

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

firm, by virtue of the manufacture and use by said firm of said
machines with said nnprovements, to continue such use, and
the said Wade reserves the right to deny such claim
"Therefore nothing in this sale and conveyance shall operate as an assent on the part of said Wade to the right to use
said improvements upon said machines, or as granting any
rights for such use, other than said Metcalf and McCleery now
have, whatever they may be, and nothing in this reservation
shall be construed to lessen or impair any rights which the
said Metcalf and McCleery may have to such use.
"It being further understood that each party shall have
the right to manufacture and use machines under patents
for improvements in buttons, one dated March 23, 1869, and
numbered 88,099, and one dated April 27, 1869, and numbered 89,450, but neither party shall vend to others the right
to use or manufacture under said patents without mutual consent, except as the same may be necessary in the reorganization
or liquidation of their own business.
"The said M etcalf and McCleery hereby assume the payment of the debts of said Boston Button Company, and agree
to indemnify and save harmless the said Wade therefrom."
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill. 16 Fed. Rep. 130.
The plaintiff appealed to this court.
JIr George F Betts for appellant.
ir Ecdward IF Hutchns (with whom was hir Heny
Wheeler on the brief) for appellees.
IR. JvSTicE GiAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of this case turns upon ยง 4899 of the Revised
Statutes, by which it is enacted that "every person who pfdrchases of the inventor or discoverer, or with his knowledge
and consent constructs any newly invented or discovered
machine or other patentable article, prior to the application
by the inventor or discoverer for a patent, or who sells or uses
one so constructed, shall have the right to use and vend to

WADE v. METCALF
Opinion of the Court.

others to be used the specific thing so made or purchased,
without liability therefor."
This section clearly defines four classes of persons who shall
have the right to usc, and to vend to others to be used. a specific patentable machine
First. Every person "who purchases of the inventor" the
machine before his application for a patent.
Second. Every person who "with his knowledge and consent constructs" the machine before the application.
Third. Every person "who sells" a machine "so constructed," that is to say, which has been constructed with
the knowledge and consent of the inventor by another person.
Fourth. Every person who "uses one so constructed," that
is to say, constructed with the inventor's knowledge and consent by another person.
In order to entitle a person of any of these four classes to
use and vend the machine, under this section, the machine
must originally have been either purchased from the inventor,
or else constructed with his knowledge and consent, before his
application for a patent, and it may well be that a fraudulent or surreptitious purchase or construction is insufficient.
.endall v lWinsor, 21 H=ow 322, Andrews v Tovey, 124: U. S.
694, 708.
But after a machine has been constructed by any person
with the inventor's knowledge and consent before the application for a patent, every other person who either sells or uses
that machine is within the protection of the section, and needs
no new consent or permission of the inventor.
If the first two clauses of the section. taken by themselves,
leave the matter in any doubt, the succeeding clause, including
every person "who sells or uses one so constructed," makes it
perfectly clear that the implied license conferred by the section
sets the specific machine free from the monopoly of the patent
in the hands of any person, just as if that person were the lawful assignee of one holding the machine under a purchase or
an express and unrestricted license from the inventor. ifoOClurg
v JZingsand,1 How 202, Bloomer v XtAfQuewan, 14 How
539, 549, Bloomer v 3fillinger, 1 Wall. 340, Adam v
Burke, 1'( Wall. 453, Btrd.ell v Shaliol, 112 U. S.485, 487.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

In the case at bar, the machines of the plaintiff's invention
were not purchased from him by the defendants. But they
were constructed with his knowledge and consent by a partnership of which he and the defendants were the members. It
was strongly argued for the defendants, that a sale or -a license
from the inventor to two or more partners or tenants in common confers upon each a right to use and to sell the subject of
the sale or license, and that the defendants, therefore, come
within the second class of persons defined in the statute. But
it is unnecessary to determine whether that is so or not, because, if it is not, the defendants clearly come within the fourth
class, being persons who use machines which have been constructed with the knowledge and consent of the inventor before
his application for a patent.
The peculiar provisions of the agreement by which the partnership between the plaintiff and the defendants was dissolved
did not, in terms or in legal effect, enlarge or diminish the
rights of either party, independently of that agreement, in the
machines in question.
.Decree afirmed.
THE

FARMERS'

LOAN AND TRUST
PETITIONER.

COMPANY

ORIGINAL.

No. 4. Original. Argued December 17, 18, 15S'..-Decided January 21,',1889.
An order of a Circuit Court of the United States, in a suit in equity for the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon the property of a railroad company
that the receiver of the mortgaged property may borrow money and issue
certificates therefor to be a first lien upon it, made after final decree of
foreclosure, and after appeal therefrom to this court, and after the filing
of a supersedeas bond, establishes, if unreversed, the right of the holders
of the certificates to priorit3 of payment over the mortgage bondholders,
and is a final decree from which an appeal may be taken to this court.

Tis was a petition for a writ of mandamus. The motion
for leave to file the petition was presented October 22, 1888,

