OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA v.
GUARDIOLA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 159. Argued January 9, 189.-Decided Mareh 5, 1889.

Letters of a shipping agent to his principal are incompetent evidence,
either in themselves, or in corroboration of the agent's testimony, of the
quantity of goods slupped, against third persons.

THIS was an action on a policy of insurance upon a cargo of
sugar shipped at Sagua in Cuba for New York. After verdict
and judgment for the plaintiffs, the defendant sued out this
writ of error.
MXr John L. Cadwaladerfor plaintiff in error.
.Afr George F Edmunds and .Xr William W Goodmok
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal controversy at the trial was whether the cargo
shipped consisted of 531 hogsheads, or of 368 hogsheads only
Upon this question there was much conflicting evidence,
and the plaintiffs introduced a number of depositions, taken
under commission at Sagua, including those of the plaintiffs
themselves as to what took place at their warehouse, and
those of their shipping agents as to what took place at the
port some twenty miles below Annexed to the deposition of
one of the plaintiffs were letters written to them by their shipping agents, at the time of the successive shipments, stating
the number of hogsheads shipped. Upon these letters being
offered in evidence by the plaintiffs, the defendant objected
that they were irrelevant and incompetent, and duly excepted
to the ruling of the court admitting them.
It is too clear for discussion, that these letters, written to

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.
Syllabus.

the plaintiffs by their own agents, were no part of the transaction of shipping the sugar, but were mere reports by the
agents to their principals, and were incompetent, either in
themselves, or in corroboration of the testimony of the agents,
to prove the facts recited in the letters, against third persons.
Freeborn v Smsth, 2 Wall. 160, 176, Dwyer v Dunbar, 5
Wall. 318, United States v Corwmn, ante, 381.
Upon the exceptions to other rulings we give no opinion,
because they may be presented in a different aspect upon
another trial. To avoid misapprehension, it may be added
that, according to the rule heretofore laid down by this court,
objections to copies of documents or memoranda, embodied in
or annexed to the depositions, might perhaps more properly
have been made by motion to suppress them before the trial,
so as to afford opportunity to produce the originals, when
those would be competent evidence. YTork County v Central
Railroad, 3 Wall. 107, Blackburn v Crawfords, 3 Wall. 175,
191.
But the letters to the plaintiffs from their own agents were
absolutely incompetent, and their admission in evidence clearly
tended to prejudice the defendant with the jury Upon this
ground
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded wiat directons to set aside the verdict and
to order a new trzal.

WOODSTOCK IRON COMPANY v. RICHMOND AND
DANVILLE EXTENSION COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALANfA.
No. 180. Argued February 1, 1889.- Decided March 5, 1889.

The Richmond and Danville Extension Company contracted with the Georgia
Pacific Railway Company to construct that company's road by the nearest,
cheapest and most suitable route from Atlanta to Columbus, for a con-

