OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

SHOTWELL v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 1030.

Argued January 30, 1889.-Decided Mardh a, 1889.

A State may make the ownership of property subject to taxation, relate to
any day or days or period of the year which it may think proper- and
the selection of a particular day on which returns of their property for
the purpose of assessment are to be made by taxpayers does not preclude the making of assessments as of other periods of the year.
Section 2737 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, which requires the taxpayer
to return to the assessor, as of the day preceding the second 'Monday in
April in each year, among other things a statement of " the monthly
average, amount or value, for the time he held or controlled the same,
within the preceding year, of all moneys, credits, or other effects, within
that time invested in or converted into, bonds or other securities of the
United States or of this State, not taxed, to the extent he may hold or
control such bonds or securities on said day preceding the second Ionday of April, and any indebtedness created in the purchase of such
bonds or securities shall not be deducted from the credits under the
fourteenth item of this section" does not tax the citizen for the greenbacks or other United States securities which he may have held at any
time during the year, but taxes him upon the money, credits, or other
capital which he has had and used, according to the average monthly
amount so held, and is not in conflict with ยง 3701 of the Revised Statutes of the United States exempting the obligations of the United States
from taxation under State, municipal or local authority.

THis was an action brought by the defendant in error as
treasurer of Harrison County, Ohio, against the plaintiff in
error in the Court of Common Pleas for that county to recover
the amount of a tax assessed against him. Judgment in the
Common Pleas for the defendant, which was reversed by the
Circuit Court, and the judgment of reversal was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State. This writ of error was sued
out to the latter judgment. The case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr 1?chaidA. Harrsonand Hr T D Lincoln for plaintiff in error cited. Otis v Boston, 12 Cush. 44, Ogden v
Walker, 59 Indiana, 460, Montgomery Cownty v Piston, 32
Indiana, 27, Stillwell v Corwm, 55 Indiana, 433, .3fcCulloch

SHOTWELL v. MOORE.
Opmion of the Court.

v. faryland,4 Wheat. 316, Bank of Commerce v New York,
2 Black, 620, Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200, Banks v New
York, 7 Wall. 16, Weston v Charleston,2 Pet. 449, Bank v
Suipermsors, 7 Wall. 26, People v Ryan, 88 N. Y 142, Savary
v Georgetown, 12 Met. (Mass.) 178, Greene v _umford, 5
R. I. 472, ,S.
C. 73 Am. Dec. 79, Kfellogg v Ely, 15 Ohio St.
64, Exchange Bank qf Columbus v Hines, 3 Ohio St. 1,
Latimer v .lorgan,6 Ohio St. 279, Champaign County Bank
v Smith, 7 Ohio St. 42, Payne v Watterson, 37 Ohio St. 121.
.Ar .DavidE. Watson, Attorney General of Ohio, and .Mr
D A. Hollingswarth (with whom was Xjrr John -M. Garven on
the brief) for defendant in error cited Bank of Commerce v
New York, 2 Black, 620, Banks v -New York, 7 Wall. 16,
Bank v Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, JXitchell v Leavenworth
County, 91 U. S. 206, Holly Springs Co. v 7tarshall County,
52 Mississippi, 281, Jones v Seward County, 10 Nebraska,
151, Dixon County v Halstead, 23 Nebraska, 697, -xchange
Bank v Hines, 3 Ohio St. 1, People v. Ryan, 88 N. Y 142,
Withermpoon v Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S.575, Games v Dunn, 14 Pet. 322, Pelton v
Nfatwnal Bank, 101 U. S.143, Cummings v. -NationalBank,
101 U. S. 153, .NationalBank v fimball, 103 U. S. 732,
Corwall v Todd, 38 Connecticut, 443, Olmsted v Barber, 31
Minnesota, 256, Poppleton v Yamhill County, 8 Oregon, 337.
MR. JvsTIcE

MILLER

delivered the opimon of the court.

This writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio brings up for review a judgment of that court concerning the taxation by the state authorities imposed upon the
plamtiff in error, Stewart B. Shotwell, as the owner of a cer
tam amount of United States legal-tender Treasury notes,
commonly called "greenbacks."
The case was tried in the
Court of Common Pleas of Harrison County, Ohio, by the
court, without a jury, by consent of parties, and that court
found the following conclusions of fact and law, under the
provision of the state statute, upon which all the subsequent
proceedings have been based

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opunon of the Court.

"The parties to this cause having waived a jury, the same
came on for trial to the court, and the parties with a view of
excepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of
the law involved in the trial, having requested the court to
state in writing the conclusions of fact found separately from
the conclusions of law, and the testimony having been heard,
the court finds as conclusions of fact as follows
"That the defendant is and for many years has been a resident of Harrison County, Ohio, that on the Saturday preceding the second Monday of April, in the years 1881, '82, '83,
'84, and '85, the defendant had on deposit in bank, at the town
of Cadiz, in said county, to his credit as a general depositor,
the following sums In 1881, $30,900, in '82, $26,900; in '83,
$29,550, in '84, $18,560, in '85, $4'(00, that on said Saturday in each of said years he checked out the said balance so
standing to his credit and at his request the same was paid to
him in United States securities commonly called ' greenbacks,'
that on each occasion after counting the money so paid to him
he enclosed the same in a package, wrote his name thereon,
and returned the same to the officer of the bank, requesting
him to place the same in the bank's safe for him, which was
done. On no occasion did the defendant carry the money out
of the bank building; and in the early part of the next week
in each of said years he returned to the bank and demanded
his package, which was given him, and he opened the same
and delivered it to an officer of the bank, asking that the
amount should be placed to his credit as a general depositor,
which was done, that on each occasion the defendant drew out
the balance due him with intent to obtain non-taxable securities, and thereby evade taxation on such balance, but that on
each occasion during the time which intervened between the
withdrawal and the subsequent deposit as a general depositor
he was bona fide the absolute owner of the money so withdrawn, and the same was subject to his disposal, that he dial
not in either of said years list for taxation any part of the
money so paid to him nor did he list the monthly average
amount of value, for the time he held or controlled the same
within the preceding year, of any moneys, credits, or other

SHOTWELL v.

MIOORE.

Opinion of the Court.

effects within that time invested m or converted into the said
securities so by him drawn out of bank, and that said monthly
average amount so invested by the defendant in such securities
within the years, respectively, preceding the drawing out of
said moneys was the amount so drawn out at the end of the
year, that the auditor of said county placed said several sums
upon the duplicate of said county for the year 1885, except
for the year '85 he erroneously placed $4949, with fifty per
cent added thereto, making $7420, whereas the data before
him and by which he should have been controlled authorized
only $:700, which with fifty per cent added, would make
$17050, and the court further finds that the amount of taxes
chargeable upon the aggregate of said. several sums, if the
same are subject to taxation, is $2317.05, and that said duplicate was delivered to the treasurer of said county for collection.
"And the court being of opinion that, upon the facts so
found, the law of this case is with the defendant, it is thereupon considered that the defendant recover of the plaintiff his
costs herein expended, taxed at $20.60, to which ruling of
the court as to the law- of the case and to the judgment so
rendered the plaintiff excepts."
The case was taken by appeal to the Circuit Court of the
State, where the decision of the Court of Common Pleas was
reversed, and judgment rendered for the amount of the tax
sued for against Shotwell. This was carried to the SupremeCourt of the State, in which the decision of the Circuit Court
was affirmed. To review that judgment this writ of error is
prosecuted.
The error assigned is that the tax levied and enforced. by
this judgment was upon notes of the United States, which is.
forbidden by the Revised Statutes of the United States in the.
following language:
"SEC. 3701. All stocks, bonds, Treasury notes and otherobligations of the United States shall be exempt from taxation
by or under state or municipal or local authority"
And that the Supreme Court of Ohio erred in holding that
ยง 2737 of the Revised Statutes of the State, passed June 20,
VOL. cxxi-38

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

1879, to take effect January 1, 1880, is not in violation of, nor
repugnant to, the section above quoted.'
It is not controverted by counsel for defendant in error that
under the United States law the greenbacks were not subject
to taxation, or that if the Ohio statute, when properly construed, authorizes such taxation it is to that extent invalid. But

I Sections 2736

and 2737 are as follows
" SEC. 2736. Each person required to list property shall, annually, upon
receiving a blank for that purpose from the assessor, or, within ten days
thereafter, make out and deliver to the assessor, a statement, verified by
his oath, of all the personal property moneys, credits, investments in bonds,
stocks, joint stock companies, annuities, or otherwise, in his possession, or
under his control, on the day preceding the second Monday of April of that
year, which he is required to list for taxation, either as owner or holder
thereof, or as parent, husband, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator,
receiver, accounting officer, partner, agent, factor, or otherwise.
" SEC. 2737 Such statement shall truly and distinctly set forth, first,
the number of horses, and the value thereof, second, the number of neat
cattle, and the value thereof; third, the number of mules and asses, and the
value thereof fourth, the number of sheep, and the value thereof fifth,
the number of hogs, and the value thereof sixth, the number of pleasure
carriages (of whatever kind), and the value thereof, seventh, the total
value of all articles of personal property not included in the preceding or
succeeding classes; eighth, the number of watches, and the value thereof
ninth, the number of piano-fortes and organs, and the value thereof
tenth, the average value of the goods and merchandise, which such person
is required to list as a merchant, eleventh, the value of the property which
such person is required to list as a banker, broker, or stock-jobber- twelfth,
the average value of the materials and manufactured articles which such
person is required to list as a manufacturer - thirteenth, moneys on hand or
on deposit subject to order- fourteenth, the amount of credits as hereinbefore defined, fifteenth, the amount of all moneys invested in bonds,
stocks, joint stock companies, annuities, or otherwise; sixteenth, the
monthly average amount or value, for the time he held or controlled the
same, within the preceding year, of all moneys, credits, or other effects,
within that time invested in, or converted into, bonds or other securities of
the United States or of this State, not taxed, to the extent he may hold or
control such bonds or securities on said day preceding the second Monday
of April, and any indebtedness created in the purchase of such bonds or
securities shall not be deducted from the credits under the fourteenth item
of this section, but the person making such statement may exhibit to the
assessor the property covered by the first nine items of this section, and
allow the assessor to affix the value thereof, and in such case the oath of
the person making the statement shall be in that regard only that he has
fully exhibited the property covered by said nine items."

SHOTWELL v.

- OORE.

Opinion of the Court.

the question presented to us for consideration is whether the
tax levied in this case by the authorities of the State was a tax
upon the legal-tender notes issued by the government m the
hands of Shotwell.
It is conclusively shown by the finding of facts that prior
to the day to which the assessment of property for taxation
relates by the laws of Ohio, Shotwell had in his bank, on general deposit, subject to his order, at the town of Cadiz, in the
county of Harrison, in the previous years of 1881, 1882, 1883,
1884, and 1885, the sums of money on which the taxes here in
controversy were assessed, but it is claimed by him that, a
day or two previous to that fixed by statute, he had, in each
of those years, drawn out the balance of his general deposit
account on a check, and, in each case receiving the amount of
it in legal-tender notes, had put them into a package, which
he enclosed in an envelope, and placed with the bank as a special deposit, writing his name thereon, and requesting the bank
to put it in its safe for him, which was done.
Arguing from the proposition that the assessment for an entire year, under the laws of Ohio, must be made on the particular day mentioned in the statute, and that these greenbacks
were his property on that day, it is insisted, with great earnestness by counsel, that the amount of the package thus on special deposit on that day could not be taxed by the state authorities. To this general proposition there does not appear to be
any valid objection if the thing done had been in the ordinary
course of business, and the conversion of his general deposit in
the bank into a private package of greenbacks, exempt from
taxation, were free from illegal purpose or fraudulent motive.
But since it is found as a matter of fact that the whole transaction was made for the purpose of evading taxation on the
amount of his general deposit on the day it was exchanged
for greenbacks, and that there was no purpose of permanently
changing the amount of the deposit in the.bank subject to his
order, and, as such, liable to taxation, it is argued by counsel
that it was a fraud upon the revenue laws of the State of
Ohio.
For all of the years mentioned the same process was gone

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

through with, and in every instance, within a week after the
assessment, the plaintiff in error took the same greenbacks
which he had placed on special deposit and immediately restored them to the bank as a general deposit, subject to his
order, in other words, he remanded the amount to the condition in which it would have been liable to taxation if the
period of assessment were not limited to the particular day
mentioned in the statute.
It does not need the finding of the court below as a fact to
show that this was an evasion, and a discreditable one, of the
taxing laws of the State, if it could be made successful. It is,
therefore, urged that on this ground alone -the illegal purpose for which the transactions were made in the bank -the
court should hold the plaintiff in error liable to taxation for
the amount thus converted. Several decisions on this subject
by state courts, holding this view, are cited in the brief of
counsel. They are directly in point, and relate to attempts of
precisely the same character to effect a similar evasion of taxation on property otherwise liable thereto. Among these are
-Holly Syrzngs Savqngs and Ins. Co. v Aamrshall County, 52
Mississippi, 281, Jones v Seward County, 10 Nebraska, 154,
and Pojpleton v Yamhill County, 8 Oregon, 337. From the
latter case we quote the following language.
"If a taxpayer, having a large amount of notes and mortgages, in order to escape the payment of taxes on the same,
borrows a sum of money of a person residing out of the
county, and deposits with his creditor such notes and mortgages, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of taxes on
the same, such notes are taxable in the county where such
taxpayer resides; and such deposit or transfer is a fraud on
the revenues of the county"
And this court in Mitchell v Commisswners of Leavenworth
County, 91 U. S. 206, denounces conduct precisely similar to
that of the plaintiff in error in this case, in the following language.
"United States notes are exempt from taxation by or under
state or municipal authority, but a court of equity will not
knowingly use its extraordinary powers to promote any such

SHOTWELL v. MOORE.
Opimon of the Court.

scheme as this plaintiff devised to escape his proportionate
share of the burdens of taxation. His remedy, if he has any,
is in a court of law"

The circumstances of that case are precisely like those in
the case before us. The taxpayer converted, in the same
manner as Shotwell did, about nineteen thousand dollars in

current funds on general deposit in his bank into the same
value in greenbacks, and placed them in a package which he
put in the vault of the bank for safekeeping. This was on
February 28. On Mlarch 3, following, he withdrew this package, and deposited the notes to his. general credit. This was
done for the sole purpose of escaping taxation upon his money
on deposit in the bank. That case only differs from the one
at bar in the fact that the revenue officer proceeded to collect

the tax assessed by distress, which compelled the defendant to
resort to a court of equity to enjoin the proceedings, but this
court held that the transaction was so inequitable that it
would not be sustained in a court of chancery
Instead of pursuing that method of collecting the tax in the
present case, as'the treasurer of the county had a right to do
under the laws of Ohio, he brought an action at law against
the taxpayer. It is now asserted that although the opinion
of this court in .fitell v. Comm'ssszoners of Leavenwortk
County holds that the party assessed can have no relief in a
court of equity, still he might have, when sued at law, or in
any manner where the issue could be heard in a court of law
as distinguished from a court of equity
All these decisions show that the courts look upon this
transaction as indefensible, and consider it an improper evasion of the duty of the citizen to pay his share of the taxes
necessary to support the government which is justly due on
his property
Waiving the question whether these equitable considerations would constitute a defence in an action at law to collect
the tax -in suit, we proceed to inquire whether the statute of
Ohio made all assessments for taxes relate by an iron rule to
the day preceding the second Monday in April, and to property possessed on that particular day, and that only Is such
a construction of the law of the State of Ohio a proper one2

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opmlon of the Court.

It ] to be conceded that a State may make the ownership
of property subject to taxation relate to any day, or days, or
period of the year, it may think proper, and that the selection
of a particular day on which returns are to be made by taxpayers of their property for the purposes of assessment does
not necessarily preclude the making of assessments as of other
periods of the year. The State of Ohio, like many and perhaps most of the other States, collects from the business and
property subject to taxation for the year preceding the specified date, the elements of an assessment of a tax to be paid by
the taxpayer for the year succeeding that date, and it has in
several instances recognized the fact that an assessment which
assumed that all property should only be assessed to those
who were the owners of it on the precise date named was not
a just apportionment. Assessments of land are made once in
ten years, with such additions every year as the value of improvements justifies. So in the case of merchants engaged in
buying and selling goods, the stock on hand on that day might
be either the largest or the smallest of any period during the
year preceding. If it were either, a tax intelded to be governed by the amount of property owned or held by them during such year would be evidently unjust either to them or to
the State.
To avoid this evil the statute in Ohio provides for the ascertainment of the monthly average amount or value of the
property or goods in which such parties were dealing, and for
the assessment for taxation on that basis. Alany kinds of
business must be of this character.
The legislature, perceiving the facility with which negotiable securities and other rights and credits which were liable to
taxation might be exchanged for greenbacks at the tne the
assessment for taxation was made, and after the assessment
was over replaced in the form in which they had been, applied
this principle, by special provision of the statute, to that form
of property In this they showed a wise forecast. So far as
we can see, the statute which does this does not tax the citizen
for the greenbacks which he may have held at any time during the year, but taxes him upon the money, credits, or other

SHOTWELL v.

MIOORE.

Opmon of the Court.

capital which he has had and used, according to the average
monthly amount he has so held.
Such we understand to be the purpose and effect of the section complained of by counsel, to wit, subdivision sixteen of
ยง 2737 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio. We do not see any
objection to that State endeavoring to arrive at the average
monthly amount or value of the moneys, credits, or other
effects of the citizen subject to taxation within the preceding
year, and ascertaining in a similar manner the average amount
of his securities, either state or national, for the same period,
not subject to taxation, m order to fix a basis for assessment.
It is certainly a much more equitable mode of determining
how much of his property for the year preceding the assessment is liable to taxation, and how much is exempt, and more
nearly effects the purpose of the Federal statute as well as
that of the State of Ohio, to exempt the one and to tax the
other, than a rule which assumes that the condition of the
means and property of the taxpayer at a certain hour of a
particular day in the year shall constitute the basis of his
taxation for the entire year.
It needs no other evidence that the rule adopted by the
State of Ohio is the better one than the case before us, by
which a possessor of large means subject to taxation during
every day in the year but one may escape the payment of any
tax on all of his property if the trick resorted to in the present
case be successful, and the cases which we have cited from the
other state courts, as well as the opinion referred to of this
court, clearly show the wisdom of the legislature of Ohio in
protecting itself against the effects of the rule here contended
for.
Section 2737 of the Ohio statutes, which prescribes the
character of the statement to be made by persons holding
moneys, credits, or investments, such as are described, and
which are subject to taxation, declares that such statement
shall truly and distinctly set forth, among other things,
"moneys on band or on deposit subject to order," and "the
amount of credits as hereinbefore defined." Subdivision 16
requires a statement of "the monthly average amount or value,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Dissenting Opinion. Bradley, J.

for the time he held or controlled the same, within the preceding year, of all moneys, credits, or other effects within that
time invested in, or converted into, bonds or other securities
of the United States or of this State, not taxed, to the extent
he may hold or control such bonds or securities, on said day
preceding the second Monday of April, and any indebtedness
created in the purchase of such bonds or securities shall not be
deducted from the credits under the fourteenth item of this
section."
Of the right of the State of Ohio to make this provision we
have no doubt. Its purpose is not to enable that State to tax
the securities of the United States, but to permit it to tax
other investments, moneys on hand and on deposit subject to
order, while it combines in the same exemption the securities
of the general government and those of the State. We know
of no principle which forbids that State from taking the whole
period of a business year already past as the best means of ascertaining how much the taxpayer shall be required to pay on
property which is admitted to be taxable, and how much he
shall deduct for the non-taxable securities of the State and of
the United States.
As this was the method under which the plaintiff in error in
this case was taxed, and as he was charged with no more than
he was liable to pay under a wise and equitable law, we do not
see any error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
and it is accordingly
Afirmed.
MR. JuswicE BRADLEY I dissent from the judgment. I do
not defend Mr. Shotwell, but it is a question of law, and the
law of Ohio seems to me repugnant to the act of Congress
which exempts the securities of the United States from taxation.
The law is this The property that a man has on the second
Monday m April is the amount of property which he is to
return for taxation that year. Now, if a man chooses to buy
United States securities one month or one day before that
time, he has a perfect right to do it, and as the act of Con-

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Syllabus.

gress declares that United States securities shall not be taxed,
the State has no right to tax him for them. But the legislature
of the State of Ohio undertook to get around that law in this
way, they say that a man shall be exempted from taxation
for United States securities owned by him on the second
Monday in April, only in proportion to the time that he has
held them, so that if he has held them only one day he would
be exempted only one 365th part of the amount, whilst, if
the man of whom the taxpayer bought them, held them 364
days, he would get no exemption at all, he would be taxable
for the consideration which he received for the securities and
which he held on the second Monday in April. Therefore, in
Ohio United States securities are only exempted from taxation
in a limited manner, that is, in proportion to the time they
have been held. All other property is treated differently If
anything is unconstitutional, it seems to me that this is.

GOODWII
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

v. FOX.
OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 168. Argued January 18, 21, 1889. -Decided

March 5, 1889.

By a written agreement between two parties, one acknowledged that he was
indebted to the other in the sum of $70,000, "over.and above all discounts
and set-offs of every name and nature;" and it was stated that the latter
was to take up and satisfy certain other indebtedness of the former, and
that the former had conveyed to the latter a stock of goods, and storefixtures, notes, books and accounts, and a piece of land, "with power
forthwith, at such times and in such manner as" the latter should "deem
best, to convert the said goods," "fixtures, notes, accounts and premises
into money, and apply the proceeds to the payment of said indebtedness,"
with interest, and also a certain farm, and it was agreed that if the former should, within six months from date, pay said indebtedness, the latter would reconvey the farm, but, in default of such payment, ight
foreclose "the certain mortgage comprised in " the conveyance of the farm
and the agreement. The conveyances mentioned in the agreement were
made, and the title to the piece of land and the farm and the right to the
indebtedness, came into the hands of the plaintiff, who sold the land, and

