NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

NORTON v. BOARD OF OOMMISSIO.E RS OF THE
TAXING DISTRICT OF BROWNSVILLE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENINESSEE.
No. 1442.

Submitted January 4,1889.-Decided March 5, 1889.

A valid power to issue its bonds in aid of railroads, conferred upon a municipal corporation of Tennessee by a statute of that State enacted while
the constitution of 1831-a was in force, not having been accepted and
acted upon by the corporation at the time when the constitution of 1870
came into operation, became subject to the conditions and prohibitions
of article 2, § 29 of that instrument, and could not be exercised without
further legislation in conformity therewith.
The substitution of a new state constitution for an old one abrogates the
latter, and if the former contains provisions from the old constitution,
with changes and additions, such provisions are not to be treated as
ordinary legislation in amendment of prior statutes.
A clause in a new state constitution, designed to keep in force all laws not
inconsistent with the instrument will not perpetuate a previous law,
enabling a municipality to do, under certain circumstances, that which the
new constitution forbids to be done, except under other circumstances.

Tim case as stated by the court was as follows
Plaintiff in error brought suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Tennessee against
the Board of Commissioners of the Taxing District of the
City of Brownsville, Tennessee, and the president, treasurer,
secretary and financial agent of that board, upon certain interest coupons annexed to bonds issued by the city of Brownsville, July 1, 1870. The cause was tried upon an agreed
statement of facts, as follows
The city of Brownsville was incorporated by act of the
General Assembly of Tennessee passed on February 21, 1870.
The records of the board of mayor and aldermen show the
following proceedings had May 12, 1870
" BROWNSVLLE, TENNESSEE,

-May 12, 1870.

"A call-meeting of the board of mayor and aldermen met
at the mayor's office. Members being all present, the board

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

was called to order. Reading the minutes of the last meeting
was dispensed with. Upon application of J D. Smith, president of Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company, and in
pursuance of authority in us vested by the act of General
Assembly of State of Tennessee passed February 8, A.D. 1870,
the board of mayor and aldermen of the city of Brownsville hereby order and direct that an election be held in our
said city on Saturday, the 11th day of June next, at which
election the qualified voters of our said city will vote upon
the proposition to issue the bonds of the corporation to be
subscribed as stock in aid of the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad, and in accordance with the provisions of said act, said
bonds to have twenty years to run, and be payable in city of
St. Louis, Missouri, and bear interest at the rate of eight per
cent per annum, said interest payable annually in said city,
and said bonds to be issued to amount to the sum of fifty
thousand dollars, and be known as Brownsville railroad bonds.
Said election is to be advertised in the Brownsville Bee, the
county newspaper of ilaywood County, for twenty days before said election. Said bonds are to be issued to and taken
by the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company in lieu of the
sum of fifty thousand dollars heretofore voted and subscribed
by this corporation to the said company in pursuance of § 6
of said act of General Assembly of State of Tennessee of
February 8, 1870. In voting at said election those voters
who are in favor of the issuance of said bonds in lieu of said
subscription shall have written or printed upon their ballots
'bonds,' and those who are opposed to the issuance of said
bonds shall have written or printed oil their ballots 'no bonds.'
It is ordered that the sheriff of Haywood County give notice
by advertisement in the Brownsville Bee for twenty days of
the time, place, and purpose of holding said election, and shall
open and hold the same at the usual voting place or places in
the city of Brownsville on Saturday, June 11, 1870, and shall,
as soon thereafter as practicable, certify the result of said election to this board. Full power and authority is hereby given
hin to appoint judges and other officers of said election, and
to do all things else necessary and proper to carry into effect
this order."

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

On the 13th day of June, 18'TO, the sheriff of Haywood
County, Tennessee, certified to the mayor and aldermen of the
city of Brownsville that he did hold the election thus ordered
in conformity to the terms of the order on the 11th of June,
1870, and that at said election one hundred and thirty-nine
votes were polled, and the result was one hundred and thirtynine votes were cast for "bonds" and none for "no bonds."
And on the said 13th day of June, 1810, the said mayor and
aldermen of the city of Brownsville did ordain as follows:
"On motion, the following ordinance was adopted, to wit
"Whereas it appears from the certificate of Jno. L. Sherman,
sheriff of Haywood County, that in pursuance of an ordinance
of this board passed 12th of May, 1870, that he did, on the
11th of June, 1810, open and hold an election within the city
of Brofnsville upon the. proposition to issue fifty thousand
dollars corporation bonds runmng twenty years, bearing interest from date at eight per cent per annum, payable in the city
of St. Louis, Missouri, said bonds to be known as the Brownsville IRailroad bonds, and to be issued m aid of the construction
of the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad, and that at said election
one hundred and thirty-nine votes were cast in favor of said
bonds and none against, it is therefore ordained by the board of
mayor and aldermen of the city of Brownsville that the mayor,
T. W Tyus, subscribe to the Brownsville and Ohio IRailroad
Company the sum of fifty thousand dollars as stock, and that in
payment of said subscription he sign and issue to said Brownsville and Ohio, Railroad Company fifty thousand dollars corporation bonds, said bonds bearing interest from date at the rate
of eight per cent per annum, payable in the city of St. Louis,
Missouri, twenty years from date, saad interest to be paid annually, said bonds to be issued in aid of the construction of
said Brownsville and Ohio Railroad, and to be known as the
Brownsville Railroad bonds."
On the first day of July, 1870, fifty thousand dollars of the
bonds of the city of Brownsville were issued under and in pursuance of the foregoing proceedings, payable July 1, 1890, and
the same were by said city of Brownsville paid and delivered
to the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company in payment of
VOL. Cxxx-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

a subscription theretofore made by said city of Brownsville for
fifty thousand dollars of the capital stock of said railroad company, and said stock so paid for was delivered by said railroad
company to said city of Brownsville and has ever since been
held and owned by said city
The following is a correct copy of one of the said fifty thousand dollars of bonds, and the others are like unto it
"$500.

United States of America.
$500.
"City of Brownsville, State of Tennessee.
"Brownsville Railroad Bond.
"Interest at eight per cent, payable annually

"Know all men by these presents, that the corporation of
the city of Brownsville, Tennessee, is indebted to the bearer
of this bond in the sum of five hundred dollars, for value
received, which the said corporation hereby promises to pay
on the first day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety, at the office or agency of said corporation, in
the city of St. Louis, Missouri, with interest thereon from the
first day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy, at the rate of
(8) eight per centum per annum, payable annually, at the said
office or agency, on the first day of July of each year, on the
presentation and surrender of the annexed coupons as they
severally become due. This bond is one of a series of one
hundred bonds for five hundred dollars each, numbered from
one to one hundred, inclusive, amounting in the aggregate
to fifty thousand dollars, and issued by authority of an act
of the legislature of the State of Tennessee, passed February 8,
1870.
"In witness whereof the city of Brownsville has caused
these presents to be signed by its mayor and recorder this
first day of July, 1870.
"T. W Tyus, Mayor.
"JoHN- CLINTON, Recorder."
G. W Norton became the holder and owner for value before
maturity, and without notice of any infirmity in said bonds
other than that given him on the face of the bonds and by

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

the constitution and laws of Tennessee, of the interest coupons
which matured July 1, 1874, taken from said bonds numbered
5, 7, 27 and 41, and the interest coupons which matured on
July 1, 1883, 1884, 1885 and 1886, taken from said bonds
numbered 27, 35, 41, 44, 62, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 48, 49, 55, 57,
58, 60, 90, 91, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 and 100 being four coupons
which matured July 1, 1874, for $40 each, and 24 coupons
which matured July 1, 1883, and 24 which matured July 1,
1884, aid 24 which matured July 1, 1885, and 24 which
matured July 1, 1886, aggregating 100 coupons of $40 each,
and upon these 100 interest coupons the said G. W iNorton,
on the 20th of May, 1887, instituted his said suit against the
Board of Commissioners of the Taxing District of the city of
Brownsville in said Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee, being No. 2933 on the law
docket of said court, which is the cause recited in the caption,
hereof, to be submitted to said court upon the pleadings and
this agreement of facts.
The mayor and, aldermen of the city of Brownsville, at a
meeting of said board, held on March 18, 1871, took action,
which is thus shown on the minutes of said board.
"On motion, the following ordinance was made and adopted:
"Be it ordained by the Board of Mayor and Aldermen of
the city of Brownsville, Tennessee, That the Exchange Bank
of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, is hereby constituted and
made the agency of the corporation of the said city of Brownsville, Tennessee, for the purpose of paying the principal and
interest, as the same shall become due, of fifty thousand of
eight per cent bonds issued by said corporation of Brownsville on the first day of July, 1870, and falling due on the first
day of July, 1890, and the mayor is hereby authorized and
instructed to collect promptly the taxes levied for the purpose
of paying the interest on said bonds and for the purpose of
establishing a sinking fund for the redemption of the same,
and to place on deposit at the said Exchange Bank of the
city of St. Louis by the 1st day of July of each and every year
a sufficient amount in currency to redeem all of the coupons
of said bonds falling due at that time and not otherwise
redeemed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The city of Brownsville paid the interest on said bonds for
the years 1871 and 1872, and has paid the interest on some of
them, matured since, for the years 1873, 1874, 1875, 1876 and
1877, but the coupons sued on as aforesaid by G. W Norton
in the case cited in the caption hereof have not been paid.
It is admitted that at an election for mayor of Brownsville,
on January 7, 1871, there were 546 votes cast for mayor, and
that on June 11, 1870, the citizens of Brownsville entitled to
vote in the election held on that day were at least 546 in
number. It is also admitted that the Brownsville and Ohio
Railroad was never built, and has been abandoned.
It is also admitted that by an act of 1879 the charter of the
city of Brownsville was repealed, and that a government was
afterwards organized under the act of April 1, 1881. All of
these acts and others thought applicable may be read from the
books containing the acts of Tennessee.
It is also admitted that there was no subscrIption by the
authorities of Brownsville to the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad or to the corporation which preceded it, called the
Brownsville and Dyer County Railroad, otherwise than is
shown in the paper immediately following this agreement,
before the passage of the act of February 8, 1870, and it is
also admitted that no election was held as contemplated in the
ordinance set out in said paper.
Paperannexed to Agreement.
"BROWNSvILLE, TEN., .May11, 1869.

"At a called meeting of the board of mayor and aldermen,
held in the mayor's office, members were all present except
Recorder Clinton. The board was called to order and Alderman B. J Lea appointed recorder pro tern. The minutes of
the last meeting were read and adopted. A communication
was received from Messrs. R. S. Thomas (chairman), J P
Wood, Jno. R. Watkins, J ]M. Rutledge, W W Vaughn, D.
A. Nunn, and J P Parker, praying the board to order an
election to vote a tax on the property in the corporation, for
the purpose of aiding in building the Brownsville and Dyer

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

County Railroad, which was received and ordered to be filed,
and, on motion, the following ordinance was passed
"'Be it ordained by the board of mayor and aldermen, That
the proposition for the board of mayor and aldermen to levy
a tax of one per cent per annum for five years on the taxable
property of Brownsville, to aid in the construction of the
Brownsville and Dyer County Railroad, for which said tax the
said railroad company is, after the last payment, to issue certificate of stock for the amount which is paid by the town of
Brownsville, be submitted to the legal voters of Brownsville
on the 18th day of May, 1869. Those in favor of said appropriation will vote "for railroad tax," those opposed to said
appropriation will vote "against railroad tax." '"
The court instructed the jury that the bonds from which
the coupons sued on were clipped were issued without the
authority of law, and were void, and that the new constitution, which went into effect on the 6th day of May, 1870, did
not amend, but repealed and abrogated the act of February 8,
1870, so far as said act authorized the issuing of bonds by
municipal corporations upon an election held after said new
constitution went into effect, and directed the jury to return
a verdict for the defendants and agaanst the plaintiff. To the
giving of this instruction plaintiff then and there excepted.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendants under this
charge of the court.
Plaintiff then moved m arrest of judgment, and for a new
trial, which motions were overruled, to all which holdings
and rulings the plaintiff excepted and tendered his bill of exceptions, which was duly signed, sealed and made part of the
record:
Judgment was rendered m favor of the defendants and
against the plaintiff for costs, and he thereupon sued out this
writ of error.
The act of the General Assembly of Tennessee of February
8th, 1870, so far as in any way relating to the city of Brownsville, is as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"As ACT to confer upon the town of Brownsville, in the
county of laywood, the authority to issue corporation
bonds in aid of railroads, and for other purposes.
"SECTION 1. Be st enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Tennessee, That section 71 of an act passed the 15th day
of February, 1869, or so much thereof as to change the name
and style of the Brownsville and Dyer County Railroad to
the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad which road shall run from
Brownsville ma Friendship, instead of Chestnut Bluff and
Dyersburg, to some point in the State of Kentucky west of
the Tennessee River, to be determined by said railroad company
"SEC. 2. Be -t further enacted, That the corporate authorities of the city of Brownsville, in Haywood County, are
hereby authorized to issue corporate bonds to the amount of
two hundred thousand dollars, for railroad purposes, to be
called Brownsville Railroad Bonds, running not exceeding
twenty years, and bearing interest, payable annually, not exceeding the rate of interest at the place where said bonds are
made payable.
"SEC. 3. Be 'zt further enacted, That the bonds authorized
to be issued by this act, or any part thereof, may be subscribed
as stock in the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company, said
bonds to be taken by said company at par, and to issue to the
corporation of Brownsville certificates of stock of said railroad company, equal to the amount of bonds received from
said corporation.
"SEC. 4. Be 'd further enacted, That upon the application
of the president of the Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company to the corporate authorities of the city of Brownsville,
said authorities shall publish or cause to be published in the
county newspaper, not less than twenty days, for the purpose
of holding an election, to be held in the usual way, in said
city of Brownsville, at which election all the legal voters shall
have the privilege of voting for or against the issuance of
said railroad bonds, and, unless a majority of the votes cast
at such election be in favor of the proposed issuance of rail-

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

road bonds, no authority shall be given by this act to issue the
same, but, in case a majority of the votes cast be in favor of
the issuance of said bonds, the mayor of the city shall sub-

scribe to the stock of said railroad company the amount so
voted, said stock to be paid in bonds, as provided for by this
act.
"SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the corporate authorities of the city of Brownsville shall levy annually an assessment upon all the taxable property within the limits of the
corporation, sufficient to pay the annual interest on the bonds
that may be issued under the provisions of tins act, and also to
establish a sinking fund for the ultimate redemption of said
bonds.
"SEC. 6. Be stfuv"ther enacted, That a subscription in bonds
made by the corporation of the city of Brownsville to the
Brownsville and Ohio Railroad Company, under the provisions
of this act, may be received in lieu of -any other subscription
heretofore made by said corporation to said railroad company,
and that the provisions of the foregoing sections of this act
shall apply to the towns of Troy and Union City, in Obion
County, to the same extent as the same applies to the city of
Brownsville.
"SEC. 18. Be itfu'ther enacted, That stock which has been
subscribed, or may hereafter be subscribed, by any county,
city, or incorporation, to said railroad companies, may' be payable in six annual payments, and it shall be lawful for county
courts and the corporate authorities of any city or town, making such subscription, to issue short bonds bearing interest at
the rate of six per cent per annum, to said railroad companies,
in anticipation of the collection of annual levies, if thereby
the construction of the roads can be facilitated.
"SEC. 22. Be st further enacted, That this act shall take
effect from and after its passage.
"Passed February 8, 1870, c. 50, Statutes of Tennessee,
1869-0, 360, 361."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Afr Sparrell Hill, XP ltenry Craft and -Mr L. P Cooper
for plaintiff in error.
.Mr T TV Rutledge and MP Wilkam -M.Smth for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE FuLLEE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question to be determined in this case is whether the act
of February 8, 1870, set forth in the foregoing statement,
could be availed of under the provisions of the constitution of
Tennessee, which was adopted by vote of the people March 26,
1870, and went into effect on the 5th day of May of that year.
By that act the corporate authorities of the city of Brownsville, in Haywood County, Tennessee, were authorized to issue
corporate bonds to the amount of two hundred thousand dollars for railroad purposes, to be subscribed as stock in the
iBrownsville and Ohio Railroad Company, certificates of stock
in the latter to be issued to the municipality to the amount of
the bonds received, and an election was provided for, to be
held upon twenty days' notice, "at which election all the legal
voters shall have the privilege of voting for or against the issuance of said railroad bonds; and unless a majority of the votes
cast at such election be in favor of the proposed issuance of
railroad bonds, no authority shall be given by this act to issue
the same, but in case a majority of the votes cast be in favor
of the issuance of said bonds, the mayor of the city shall subscribe to the stock of said railroad company the amount so
voted, said stock to be paid in bonds, as provided for by this
act."
The 29th section of article 2 of the state constitution of
1834-1835 was as follows:
"The General Assembly shall have power to authorize the
several counties and incorporated towns in this State to impose
taxes for county and corporation purposes respectively, in such
manner as shall be prescribed by law, and all property shall
be taxed according to its value, upon the principles established
in regard to state taxation."

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

This language was retained in § 29 of article 2 of the constitution of 1870, which then proceeded thus:
"But the credit of no county, city, or town shall be given or
loaned to or in aid of any person, company, association, or corporation, except upon an election to be first held by the qualified voters of such county, city, or town, and the assent of
three-fourths of the votes cast at said election. iNor shall any
county, city, or town become a stockholder, with others, in
any company, association, or corporation, except upon a like
election, and the assent of a like majority"
Then came an exception of certain enumerated counties from
the operation of the restriction, until 1880. Sections 1 and 2
of article 11 provided
"Section 1. All laws and ordinances now m force and in use
in this State, not inconsistent with this constitution, shall continue in force and use until they shall expire, or be altered or
repealed by the legislature. But ordinances contained in any
former constitution, or schedule thereto, are hereby abrogated.
"Section 2. Nothng contained in this constitution shall
impair the validity of any debts or contracts, or affect any
rights of property, or- any suits, actions, rights of action, or
other proceedings in courts of justice."
It is clear that the inhibition imposed by § 29 of the constitution of 1870 operates directly upon the municipalities themselves, and is absolute and self-executing, and although power
is reserved to the legislature to enable them to give or loan
their credit, and to become stockholders, upon the assent of
three-fourths of the votes cast at an election to be held by the
qualified voters, the county, city or town is destitute of the
power to do so until legislation authorizing such election and
action thereupon is had.
The prohibition of the gift or loan of credit or the subscription to stock without a three-fourths vote, is not an affirmative
grant of authority to give or loan credit or to become a stockholder upon a tnree-fourths vote.
Prior to the constitution of 1870, the legislature could have
conferred on a municipal corporation the power to give or loan
its credit, or to subscribe for stock, on such terms and condi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

tions as the legislature chose to impose, but after that constitution went into effect, the municipality was deprived of any
power previously conferred, and could thereafter do none of
these things save by an act of the legislature imparting the
power as limited by the constitution.
In Asswpnwall v Thte Commzsswners, 22 How 364, the
provision in the state constitution of Indiana, forbidding counties from loaning their credit to any incorporated company,
or loaning money for the purpose of taking stock in any
such company, and from subscribing for stock, unless paid for
when subscribed, was held to have withdrawn all authority to
make subscriptions to .the stock of incorporated companies,
except in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by
that instrument, and that consequently a subscription made,
and bonds issued after the constitution took effect, under an
act of the legislature previously passed, were without authority
and void. See Wadsworth v Supervnsorm, 102 U S. 534, 537.
The same view was held in Concord v Pormiouth Savings
Bannk, 92 U S. 625, as to a similar provision in the constitution of Illinois, which went into effect July 2, 1870, and in
Falconer v Railroad Co., 69 N. Y 491, arising under the
amendments of 1874-1875 to the constitution of New York.
Railroad Co. v Falconer, 103 U S. 821.
These cases sufficiently illustrate the distinction between the
operation of a constitutional limitation upon the power of the
legislature, and of a constitutional inhibition upon the municipality itself. In the former case, past legislative action is
not necessarily affected, while in the latter it is annulled. Of
course, if an entirely new organic law is adopted, provision in
the schedule or some other part of the instrument must be
made for keeping in force all laws not inconsistent therewith,
and this was furnished in this instance by the first section of
article 11, but such a provision does not perpetuate any
previous law enabling a municipality to do that which it is
subsequently forbidden to do by the constitution.
The inhibition being self-executing and operating directly
upon the municipality, and not in itself enabling the latter to
proceed in accordance with the prescribed limitation, further
legislation is necessary before the municipality can act.

NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

Thus, m Jarrolt v .Moberky, 103 U. S. 580, an act of the
General Assembly of Missouri, approved March 18, 1870,
which provided that it should be lawful for the council of any
city, or the trustees of any incorporated town, to purchase
lands, and to donate, lease or sell the same to any railroad
company, and, for the purposes of assisting and inducing such
railroad company to locate and build machine shops on such
lands, and, for such purposes, to levy taxes, borrow money,
and issue bonds, upon the assent of a majority of the qualified
voters, was held void, as m conflict with a provision of the
state constitution of 1865, declaring that the General Assembly
should not authorize any county, city, or town to become a
stockholder in, or loan its credit to, any company, association,
or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city or town, at a regular or special election, should
assent thereto. On the 16th of February, 1872, another act
was passed providing that "no county court of any county,
city council of any city, nor any board of trustees of any
incorporated town, shall hereafter have the right to donate,
take, or subscribe stock for such county, city, or incorporated
town in, or loan the credit thereof to, any railroad company,
or other company, corporation, or association, unless authorized
to do so by a vote of two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city or incorporated town." The election authorizing
the issue of bonds was held on the 26th day of March, 1872.
On the 29th of March, 1872, the legislature passed another act,
so amending the 6th section of the act of March 18th, 1870, as
to provide for the assent of two-tlrds of the qualified voters
of such town or city, at a regular or special election to be held
theren. And this court further held that the act of the legislature of February 16, 1872, was merely prohibitory in its
character, forbidding the officers of counties, cities, and towns
to loan the credit thereof or donate or subscribe stock in any
railroad or other company, without the previous assent of twothirds of their qualified voters, and in itself conferred no
authority on those officers when such assent was given, and
Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion, says "Further
legislation was needed. Such was the evident opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opunon of the Court.

legislature of the State, for, by an additional act, passed on
the 29th of March, 1872, the authority was given in terms."
The rule thus laid down is decisive of the case at bar. The
constitutional provision prohibited all municipal gifts, loans,
or subscriptions, except when authorized upon certain conditions, but it did not, in itself, operate to confer authority
Further legislation was needed, and such was the evident
opinion of the legislature of the State, for, on the 16th of
January, 1871, it passed an act entitled "An act to enforce
article II, Section 29, of the constitution, to authorize the
several counties and incorporated towns in this State to impose taxes for county and corporation purposes," thus giving
a practical construction immediately after the adoption of
the constitution.
"This act," says the court in Helley v ftfilan, 127 U. S.
139, 154, "was manifestly passed for the object stated in its
title, to carry into effect the provisions of § 29 of article 2,
of the constitution of 1870, and to prescribe the manner and
the conditions, in conformity with the provisions of that
section, in and upon which the several counties and incorporated towns in the State should have the right to impose taxes
for county and corporation purposes," and as to the second
clause of the first section of the act, which repeats the language of the constitution, it is remarked. "The enactments
in that clause are entirely inhibitory and negative in their
character. They do not confer any"authority for the giving
or loaning of credit upon any municipality, nor confer the
right upon any municipality to become a stockholder with
others in any corporation, but they only prescribe the condition, that no credit shall be given or loaned, and no ownership of stock be created, unless the prescribed election be first
held and the assent of three-fourths of the votes cast at it be
first given. But the authority to give or loan credit, and to
become a stockholder, under the conditions prescribed in the
act of 1871, must be found in an independent grant of authority, in sole other statutory provision, either general or special." Pulask? v Gilnore, 21 Fed. Rep. 870, Taxpayers of
2Milan v. Tennessee Central Railroad,11 Lea, 330.

BROWNSVILLE v. LOAGUE.
Syllabus.

It will be perceived that we do not assent to the view that
when the state government commenced under the new constitution, the act of February 8th, 1870, was amended by § 29
of article 2, so as to substitute a vote of three-fourths for
that of a majority, and re-enacted, so to speak, by the first
section of article 11, above quoted.
The power of ordinary legislation is vested, under all our constitutions, in the legislatures, and the constitutional convention
of Tennessee did not assume to exercise such power. The
amendment of a law is usually accomplished according to a
prescribed course, and there is nothing here to justify the
conclusion that § 29 of article 2 was designed to operate by
way of amendment to prior laws, nor can it so operate, nor
the act of 1870 be held to have been kept in force, for the
reasons already indicated.
The proceedings resulting in the issue of the bonds whose
validity is under consideration were initiated May 11, 1870,
five days after the constitution went into effect, and the election was held on the 11th day of June following.
In our opinion there was no authority to hold the election
and to issue the bonds, and their holders consequently cannot
recover.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be

COMMISSIONERS OF THE TAXING DISTRICT
BROWNSVILLE v. LOAGUE.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 1445. Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided March 5, 1889.
Mandamus lies to compel a party to do that which it is his duty to do; but
it confers no new authority, and the party to be compelled must have
the power to perform the act.
If a petitioner for a writ of mandamus to compel the levy of a tax to pay
a debt evidenced by a judgment recovered on coupons of municipal

