OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

it shall expire with the patent obtained by the patentee in
Canada, No. 6938, dated January 9, 1877, for the same invention, that the proper entries and corrections have been made
m the files and records of the Patent Office, that it had been
shown that the original patent had been lost, and that the
certificate is made because that patent was issued without
limitation, as required by ยง 4887 of the Revised Statutes.
While it may be proper, in a case where the date of a foreign
patent issued prior to the granting of a United States patent
to the same patentee for the same invention is made known
to the Patent Office prior to the granting of the United States
patent, to insert in that patent a statement of the limitation
of its duration, in accordance with the duration of the foreign
patent, it does not affect the validity of the United States
patent, if such limitation is not contained on its face.
It results from these views, that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
ease be remanded to that court, wzth a direction to take
such further proceedings as shall be in accordance with
above
law and with the sthpulafton between the yarts,
referred to, and not znconsistent wzth this omnwn.

HILL v. CHICAGO AND EVANSTON RAILROAD
COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 866. Submitted December 20, 1888.-

Decided January 21, 1889.

This court has no jurisdiction of an appeal unless the transcript of the
record is filed here at the next term after the taking of the appeal.
It is not proper, on a motion to dismiss an appeal from a decree, to decide
whether a prior decree was a final decree, or what orders and decrees
made by the court below in the cause prior to the making of the decree
appealed from can be reviewed here on the appeal.
Where the decree appealed from awarded a money decree against one defendant, and the plaintiff appealed, and the obligees named in the appeal

HILL v. CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.
bond included that defendant and other defendants, and that defendant
and some of the others moved to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that
that defendant should be the sole obligee, and that the only matter for
review was as to the amount awarded against that defendant : Held, that
the bond was in proper form, and that the motion must be demed.

MOTIONS TO Dismsss.
-p

The case is stated in the opinion.

.E. Walker and .Y"

W C. Goudy for the motions.

A& Gordon E. Cole opposing.
M_.

JusTiCE BLA.TCHiFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case, on the 8th of June, 1885, a decree was made
by the court below in the following language
"This cause coming on for final hearing upon the pleadings,
depositions, and documentary evidence produced before the
.court, and the cause having been argued by counsel, and the
court being sufficiently advised in the premises, It is ordered
and decreed, that the complainant's bill be dismissed for want
of equity as against the defendants William C. Goudy, Volney
C. Turner, George Chandler, Samuel B. Chase, Ebenezer Buckingham, John DeKoven, John J Johnson, S. S. Merrill, The
North Chicago City Railway Company, and the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, with their costs to be
taxed by the clerk. It is further ordered and decreed, that so
much of the complainant's bill as relates to the certificate of
one hundred and ten and two-thirds shares of the capital stock,
issued to A. B. Stickney & Company, dated September thirtieth, 1881, be dismissed for want of equity
"It is further ordered and decreed, that all relief be demed
to the complainant upon all matters and things in controversy
herein, except as to the amount of money paid by the defendant William C. Gondy for right of way, in execution of the
contract between him and A. B. Stickney & Company, of May
twenty-eighth, 1880, and, for the purpose of ascertaining said
amount of money, it is ordered, that this cause be retained as
to the other defendants, and that it be and is hereby referred
to Henry W Bishop, one of the masters in chancery of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court, to take additional testimony as to such amount, and
that he make report of the amount so paid, and that, on the
making of such report, such further decree will be rendered
as may be equitable.
"It is further ordered, that, for the better discovery of the
matters aforesaid, the parties are to produce before the said
master, upon oath, all deeds or books, papers and writings in
their custody or power relating thereto, and are to be examned on oath as the said master shall direct.
"And thereupon the complainant prays an appeal to the
Supreme Court, which is allowed upon his filing a bond in the
penal sum of five hundred dollars. with provisions required by
law, and with security to be approved by the Court."
The bond thus referred to was not given, nor was the appeal
perfected, nor was the record filed in this court at its October
term, 1885.
On the 14th of July, 1887, the master in chancery having
made a report in pursuance of the directions of the decree of
June 8, 1885, and exceptions having been taken thereto by both
parties, the court made the following decree
"It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows, viz. That
the exceptions of both the complainant and the defendant the
Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company, to the report of
the master in chancery filed herein on the thirty-first day of
January, 1887, be and the same are hereby overruled, and
the said report approved and affirmed, that said Chicago and
Evanston Railroad Company do forthwith pay unto said complainant the sum of sixty-five hundred and thirteen dollars,
($6513,) together with interest upon the same from the
thirtieth day of January, 1887, at the rate of six per cent per
annum, and also costs of said reference to the master, .to be
taxed by the clerk of this court, and also the costs of this suit,
for which plaintiff may have execution.
"It is further ordered and decreed, that all other relief
prayed in the complainant's bill be denied as against said
defendant the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company, and
that the complainant's bill be dismissed out of court for want
of equity as against the remaining defendants, T. W Wads-

HILL v. CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opmion of the Court.

worth, Edwin Walker, Elijah K. Hubbard, J C. Easton, Julius
Wadsworth, Hugh T. Dickey, J :ilbank, James Stillman,
James T. Woodward, E. L.Frank, William Rockefeller, Selah
Chamberlain, and George Smith, with their reasonable costs,
to be taxed by the clerk, and that they have execution therefor
against the said complaint.
"And thereupon the complainant prays an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States, which is allowed upon
his filing a bond in the penal sum of five hundred dollars, with
provisions required by law, and with security to be approved
by the court."
This appeal was perfected, an appeal bond was given, and
the record was filed in this court on the 17th of October, 1887.
The obligors in that appeal bond are James J Hill, W P
Clough, and E. Sawyer, the obligees are the Chicago and
Evanston Railroad Company, the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company, the North Chicago City Railway
Company, William C. Goudy, Volney C. Turner, John DeKoven, George Chandler, T. W Wadsworth, Edwin Walker,
Elijah K. Hubbard, Samuel B. Chase, Ebenezer Buckingham,
John J Johnson, J C. Easton, S. S. Merrill, Julius Wadsworth, Hugh T. Dickey, J Millbank, James Stillman, James
T. Woodward, E. L. Frank, William Rockefeller, Selah Chamberlain, and George Smith. The condition of the bond is as
follows:
"Whereas, lately, at the July, 1887, term of the United
States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in
a suit depending in said court, wherein said James J Hill was
complainant and the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company
and the other above-named obligees of this bond were defendants, a decree was rendered from which the said James J Hill
has taken an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, now, the condition of the above obligation is such,
that if the said James J Hill shall prosecute his appeal with
effect, and answer all costs if he fails to make his plea good,
then the above obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in
full force and virtue."
Four motions are now made. One is a motion by the Chi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

cago and Evanston Railroad Company, T. W Wadsworth,
Edwin Walker, Elijah K. Hubbard, and J C. Easton, to dismiss, as to each of them, the appeal from the decree of June
8, 1885, on the ground, among others, that the transcript of
the record was not filed in this court at October term, 1885.
This motion must prevail. It is well settled, by repeated
decisions of this court, that it has no jurisdiction of an appeal
unless the transcript of the record is filed here at the next
term after the taking, of the appeal. The appeal in the
present case was prayed in open court on the 8th of June,
1885. Credit Co. v Arkansas Central Railway Company,
128 U. S. 258, and cases there cited.
The second motion is by the North Chicago City Railway
Company, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, William C. Goudy, Volney C. Turner, George Chandler,
Samuel 13. Chase, Ebenezer Buckingham, John DeKoven,
John J Johnson, and S. S. Merrill, to dismiss as to each of
them, the appeal from the decree of June 8, 1885, on the
ground, among others, that the transcript of the record was
not filed here at October term, 1885. This motion is granted,
for the reason before stated.
The third motion is by the North Chicago City Railway
Company, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company, William C. Goudy, Yolney C. Turner, George Chandler,*Samuel 3. Chase, Ebenezer Buckingham, John DeKoven.
John J Johnson, and S. S. M errill, to dismiss, as to each of
them, the appeal from the decree of July 14, 1887, on the
following grounds (1) that the decree of June 8, 1885, was a
final decree as to them, and (2) that the bond filed on the
appeal from the decree of July 14, 1887, does not show that
it was filed in pursuance of the decree of June 8. 1885, but
recites only an appeal from the decree of July 14, 1887.
It is not proper, on a motion to dismiss the appeal from the
decree of July 14, 1887, to decide whether the decree of June
8, 1885, was a final decree, or what orders and decrees made
by the Circuit Court prior to the making of the decree of
July 14, 1887, can be reviewed here on the appeal from the
latter decree. Those questions can only be considered when
that appeal shall come up for hearing on its merits.

HILL v. CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The fourth motion is by the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company, T. W Wadsworth, Edwin Walker, Elijah K.
:Hubbard, and J. C. Easton, to dismiss the appeal as to the
decree of July 14, 1887, on the ground that the Chicago and
Evanston Railroad Company, being the sole party against
whom the decree of July 14, 1887, was rendered, ought to be
the sole obligee in the appeal bond, the other persons named
in the bond as obligees not being parties to the appeal, that
the only matter which can be brought before this court for
review is as to the amount fixed by the decree of July 14, 188-7,
and which the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company was
adjudged to pay, that the decree of June 8, 1885, was final as
to the other questions, and that the appeal from the decree
of July 14, 1887, should be limited to that decree, and proper
orders, as to bond and otherwise, to that end, should be made.
We see no objection to the terms of the appeal bond, in
respect of the parties named in it as obligees. It may very
well be that the appellant will seek, on the hearing of the
appeal from the decree of July 14, 1887, to obtain a decree
against the persons making this motion, and it cannot affect
the validity of the bond or the integrity of the appeal, either
as respects the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company or
the other parties making the motion, that the bond runs to
the obligees named in it. The motion must, therefore, be
demed in that respect, as it must, also, in regard to the other
grounds alleged for the motion, for the reason before stated,
that it is not proper, on a motion to dismiss the appeal from
the decree of July 14, 1887, to decide what questions may
properly be involved on the hearing of that appeal.
Ordered accordingly.

