UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.

579

Syllabus.

total balance of the indebtedness due from that estate, after
all payments and money realized were applied, would be the
same, irrespective of the proportion of such balance found due
to each of the two creditors. The decree was severable in
fact and in law, and the bank and Dawson were entitled to
prosecute their appeal without joining their codefendant, who
did not think proper to question the judgment.
And while, in order to a correct distribution of the fund, it
becomes necessary to find the indebtedness of O'Neal to
Hunter, Evans & Co. and to the bank, this is not a determination of the amount remaining due after the distribution is
made, with intent to a decree over against O'Neal's estate
therefor, as the decree originally entered, so far as relates to
that, stands unappealed from by either of the parties concerned.
The decree of the Circuit Court ss reversed, with costs, and
the cause remanded wtth directions to proceed m conformisty with this omnwn.

UNITED

STATES v. MARSHALL
COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE CIROCIT cOURT

OF THE

SILVER MINING

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 17. Argued November 20,1888.-Deeided March 5,1889.

When the United States retires from the prosecution of a suit instituted to
vacate a patent of public land, without causing the appeal to be disnnssed,
and another party, claiming the same land under another patent, is in
court to prosecute the appeal, this court will not dismiss it on the motion
of the appellee as of right, but will look into the case, and if the circumstances require it, will hear argument on the case and decide it.
Errors and irregularities in the process of entering and procuring title to
public lands should be corrected in the Land Department, so long as
there are means for revising the proceedings and correcting the errors.
Silence for more than eight years after a party has abandoned a contest
for a patent of mineral land, and has submitted to a decision of the
question by the Land Department, however erroneous, is such laches as

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
amounts to acquiescence in the proceedings and precludes a court of
equity from interfering to annul them.
When the officers of the Land Department act within the general scope of
their powers in issuing a patent for public land, and without fraud, the
patent is a valid instrument, and the court will not interfere, unless
there is gross mistake or violation of law.
A bill in chancery brought by the United States to set aside and vacate a
patent issued under its authority is not to be treated as a writ of error,
or as a petition for a rehearing in chancery or as if it were a mere retrial of the case before the land office.
The holder of a patent from the United States cannot be called upon to
prove that everything has been done that is usual in the proceedings in
the land office before its issue; nor can he be called upon to explain
every irregularity, or even impropriety in the process by which the
patent was procured.

IN EQUITY. The bill was filed by the Attorney General of
the United States to vacate letters patent for a tract of mineral land in Colorado. The case was reached on the calendar,
October 12, 1888, when -Mr Assistant Attorney General.Maiu y
stated to the court, that the United States had no interest in
the suit, and did not prosecute the appeal.
r Simon Sterne,
on behalf of the appellees, then moved in open court to dismiss the appeal. Air James -. 1eddington appeared for
parties claiming a portion of the same tract under other letters
patent, and objected to the dismissal, whereupon the case was
passed.
On the following Monday, the 15th of October X9 Assistant Attorney General laury on behalf of the Attorney General presented the following statement, entitled in the cause.
"And now comes the Attorney General of the United States
and gives the court to be informed that the United States has
no interest in the subject matter of this suit, and that the controversy involved therein is one between private parties only,
but the Attorney General makes no objection to the prosecution of this appeal in the name of the United States by the
parties in whose interest it was taken, if, in the opinion of the
court, the United States was under an obligation to such parties to bring this suit, or is under an obligation to them to
prosecute this appeal."

UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.

581

Statement of the Case.

"LETTER

OF COMMISSIONER OF THE LAND OFFICE.
"DEPARTIMNT

OF TE

INTERIOR,

GENEmAL LAxND OFFICE,

Washngton, D. C., March 17, 1888.

"Hon.

WLLiAm F ViLes,
Secretary of the Intemor
"Sm. In the matter of the inquiry made in letter of the
15th instant from the honorable Attorney General whether
the United States have any substantial interest in the matter
involved in the case of The United States v The .Marfshall
Silver .Min ng Company and the Colorado Central Consolidated .finng Company, I have the honor to -submit the foliowing report in compliance with your instructions indorsed
on said Attorney General's letter, which was received by your
reference of the 16th instant.
"Patent for the Tunnel No. 5 lode claim, Central City,
Colo., mineral entry No. 358, was erroneously issued June 8,
1874, and included the ground in conflict with the survey of
the Cayuga lode claim.
"Patent for the Cayuga lode claim, Central City, Colo.,
mineral entry No. 1778, was issued January 31, 1882, and
also included said ground in conflict.
"The ground in conflict rightly belongs to the Cayuga
claimants, and is fully covered by their said patent.
"The government has no pecuniary interest in the ground
in controversy
"It is believed, however, (see report to your office in the case
dated February 3, 1883,) that the Department is under obligation to inquire into the matter and see that the Cayuga claimants have a patent clear from interference and unclouded with
controversy arising through official acts.
"The Attorney General's letter of the 15th instant is herewith returned. Letter from same referred to this office by
you on the 8th instant, if received has been mislaid.
"Very respectfully,
"S. X. STOCKSLAGER,
Acting Cornmssoner"

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon a motion to dismiss the appeal was presented
and filed, and argument heard thereon, XA&R. S. lormson
for the motion, and KJfr James K. Peddington opposing. On
the 22d day of October, the court denied the motion, and
ordered the case set down for hearing at the foot of the call
on the 15th November.
The case was reached and argued on the 20th November.
_Xr James Z Jieddington for appellant. -Hr J -t. lickcox, Jr., was with him on the brief.
Mr Simon Sterne and Mr 1?. S. M orrson for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case before us originated in a bill in equity brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado, in the name of the United States of America, by its
Attorney General, and the District Attorney of the United
States for that district, against the Marshall Silver Mining
Company and the Colorado Central Consolidated Mining
Company, defendants.
The purpose of the bill was to set aside and vacate a patent
issued by the government to the Marshall Silver Mining Company, for a vein or lode of mineral deposit, lying in the Griffith Minmg District, in the county of Clear Creek, Colorado,
known as the "Tunnel Lode, No. 5," dated on the 8th day of
June, 1874. Afterwards another patent, including a part of
the same land covered by the one just referred to, was issued
to McClellan, IRist and Webster, upon what was called the
"Cayuga Lode," on the 31st day of January, 1882.
The grounds which are set up in the bill for vacating the
first-mentioned patent are mainly such as go to show that its
issue fraudulently deprived the holders of the second instrument of the right to the title of so much of the land as is covered by the conflicting boundaries described therein, so that
the result of a decree annulling the first patent would be to
give to the claimants under the second the paramount title.

UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court, after hearing the case on the bill, two different demurrers, answers, replication, and a large amount of
testimony, dismissed the suit. From that decree the present
appeal was taken by the United States.
At the beginning of this term the attorney for the government filed in this court a statement that the United States
had no pecuniary interest in the suit, and the officers charged
with the conduct of such matters on the part of the government declined to take any farther part in the argument of the
case. They did not, however, dismiss the appeal, and made no
objection to its prosecution by the private parties interested in
the matter, who had conducted the case from its inception.
Thereupon a motion was made by the appellees and argued
before the court to dismiss the appeal, which was resisted by
the counsel interested in the second, patent. Under all the
circumstances, the court determined to hear it, refused the
motion, and, after thorough argument, the case is now before
us for decision.
The charges which are made the basis for the 'relief sought
here may be comprehended under two heads, although they
are so mingled together in the bill that it seems doubtful
whether they were intended to be considered and treated as
separate propositions. The main ground is an allegation of
fraud, practised upon the parties claiming the Cayuga Lode,
by collusion between those having the management of the
claim to Tunnel Lode, No. 5, and certain officers of the Land
Department, and particularly the register and receiver of the
land office located at Central City
The material facts are, that the claimants to both of these
lodes seem to have been prospecting in that vicinity, and discovered mineral in their different claims about the same time.
They each had their claims staked out and surveyed by deputy
surveyors of the United States, and about the same tune they
each made application to the land office for their entry, with a
view of obtaining patents therefor.. Upon the applications
being made for a patent upon the Cayuga lode, the Marshall
Silver Mining Company, discovering that it interfered with a
portion of their claim, brought a suit in the local court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

State, under the act of Congress on that subject, Rev Stat.
ยง 2326, against McClellan, Rist and Webster, asserting the superiority of their claun to a patent for the land in controversy
The statute provides that the judgment in such a suit shall
govern the rights of the parties in the land office. This suit
was on the docket of the court for some time, perhaps a year
or more. In the mean time Rist, one of the parties in interest
under the claim to the Cayuga lode, made a disclaimer in the
local land office of the proceedings taken by his partners, in
the name of McClellan, Rist and Webster, and, so far as he
was interested in that claim, directed the proceedings to be dismissed. Accordingly, the register and receiver of that office
made an entry dismissing the claim to the Cayuga lode and
the application for a patent thereon, under the belief, as they
expressed it, that such was the necessary result of the action
of Rist.
One of the questions of fact which is disputed in this case is,
whether McClellan and Webster had notice of these proceedt
ings, which resulted in the dismissal of the application for a
patent upon the Cayuga claim. This will be considered
presently
Not long after this order was made in the local land office
the owners of the Tunnel lode, who had assumed the name,
either by incorporation or as partners, of the Marshall Silver
Mining Company, dismissed the suit which they had brought
in the state court, contesting the right of the Cayuga claimants to a patent for the property in controversy They obtained from the clerk of the court a certificate of such dismissal,
and thereupon proceeded in the prosecution of their claim m
the land office, expar'te. They procured from the surveyor of
the United States, by his deputy, an amended survey of their
claim, and it was then allowed by the local officials. It was
forwarded by them to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, who, after a full consideration of the subject, occupying
nearly a year, issued to the Marshall Silver Mining Company
the patent which is now assailed by the bill of complaint in
this case. They had before taken possession of the property,
and they worked the lode now in dispute for about eight years

UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.

585

Opinion of the Court.

and a half, without any complaint being made by the claunants of the Cayuga lode. At the end of that time these parties
appeared before the Land Department, denied the validity of
the order dismissing their claim, and proceeding themselves
exp arte, without notice, to the Mharshall Silver Mining Company, procured the patent already referred to, dated January
31, 1882.
The main controversy arising out of this condition -of affairs
is upon the allegation that Rist was corruptly induced to apply to the register and receiver of the local land office for the
dismissal of the claim in which he was an interested party,
and that these officers were in collusion with hn and the claimants of the Tunnel lode m making the order which they did.
It must be conceded that there is a total failure to establish
any such corrupt motive or action on the part of either the
officers or IRist. What the motives were which induced Rist
to make his application to the officers of the land office is not
very plain, but he acted through Mr. Butler, a lawyer of character and reputation, and no evidence is introduced showing
that he was imposed upon, misled, or bought up. Still less is
there any evidence that the register or receiver were bribed or
influenced by any improper motives in the action which they
took.
It is alleged in the answer that the legal view which these
officers took of the matter, that a withdrawal on the part
of one of the claimants who had a real interest in the claim
required the dismissal of the whole claim, may have been the
law of the case. We do not consider it necessary ilow to
inquire whether such was the law
It is also alleged m the answer that such had been the
course of proceeding m similar cases before that time in the
Land Department. We do not know that there is any evidence that such had been the ruling or that a contrary decision had ever been made. At all events, as the case presents
itself to us, there is no corrupt or fraudulent motive on the
part of these officers shown as a foundation for setting aside
this patent. Whether or not there was a mistake made by
them in regard to the law of the subject, we do not think it

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary to decide now, nor are we satisfied that, if it was a
clear mistake of law by these officers, it was so far an essential element in the final determination of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office of the rights of the parties as to
invalidate the patent issued as the result of those proceedings.
This point, in our opinion, is relieved of anv difficulty by
the subsequent -conduct of McClellan, Rist and Webster, in
regard to the matter, which amounted to an acceptance of the
decision of the register and receiver, and an acquiescence in it,
that forbids an assertion by them now of a claim which they
might have asserted at a previous stage of the transaction.
McClellan, and perhaps another of the claimants, lived at
Georgetown, Colorado, about twenty miles from the land
office at Central City, where all these proceedings were conducted, and some twenty-two miles from the locality where
the lodes in question were situated. Although there is some
dispute as to whether they received notice of the order dismissing their claim, we are of opinion that the evidence
clearly preponderates in favor of the conclusion that they did
receive such notice immediately after the order was made.
It appears from the testimony of Arnold, the receiver of
the land office at Central City, which is supported by a press
copy of a letter, that he notified McClellan and Webster, on
April 30, 1873, of the dismissal of the Cayuga claim, and that
this notice was given by mail, in conformity with the usual
practice of the office at that time. Arnold also testifies that
he knows that McClellan received the letter.
The suit in the state court was dismissed by the Marshall
Silver Mining Company shortly after the order was made by
the local land office dismissing the Cayuga claim. That was
a suit in which McClellan and Webster were defendants, it
had been progressing for some time, and it is impossible to
believe they did not have notice of its dismissal, for ordinary
attention to their own interests would have required them to
know what was going on in regard to it.
The Marshall Silver Mining Company and the Colorado
Central Consolidated Mining Company, to which the former
conveyed their interest, continued working the mine upon

UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.

587

Opinion of the Court.

their lode from 1873 until 1882, without any interference on
the part of Mclellan or Webster, and the former admits that
he knew those companies were so working; yet, durmg all
this time, a period of some eight years and a half, they made
no objection to such working, although they must have known
all that was going on in regard to it. They acquiesced in the
proceedings, and made no effort to set aside the patent, or to
correct any injustice which had been done them in the proceedings upon which the patent had been issued, while the
other parties had full and undisputed possession of the land.
It may be said that they could not help themselves, and
that this silence and inaction on their part did not imply
acquiescence. But they had the right to appeal to the Commssioner of the General Land Office from the order of the
register and receiver dismissing their application. This was
not done, and it never has been done. When parties are
engaged in a contest, both before the courts and in the land
office, with regard to their rights in a deposit of mineral or a
lode, in both of which tribunals action has been taken, putting
one party entirely out of court in the pending suit, and dismissing the same party's application for a patent, and there is
a right of appeal, it would be a most inequitable rule to hold
that, after he has acquiesced and remained silent for more
than eight years, while the successful party is in possession of
the lode m controversy, working out its mineral, right in the
face of the unsuccessful party, the latter can resume the contest after this long interval, and after the legal title has passed
from the United States. Under the decisions made by this
court there is no doubt that the legal title to this mineral land
did pass from the United States by the first patent. United
States v. Schrz, 102 U S. 378.
All the errors and irregularities which occur in the process
of entering and procuring title to the public lands of the
United States ought to be corrected within the Land Department, which includes the authority vested in the Secretary of
the Interior, so long as there are means of revising the proceedings and correcting these errors. A party cannot be permitted to remain silent for more than eight years after he has

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

abandoned a contest submitted to the decision o the matter
at issue, although it may have been erroneous, and then come
forward in a court of equity, after the title has passed from
the United States, and seek to correct the errors which may
have occurred during the progress of the proceedings in the
land office. If the officers of that department of the government have acted within the general scope of their power, and
without fraud, the patent which has issued after such proceedings must remain a valid instrument, and the court will not
interfere, unless there is such a gross mistake or violation of
the law which confers their authority, as to demand a cancellation of the instrument.
We see no such gross mistake in the present case, but do
think there is such laches as amounts to acquiescence in regard
to the proceedings before the Land Department, as to which
error is charged, and precludes the interference of a court of
equity to annul or set aside the patent issued m 1874.
We have recently had before us a number of this class of
cases, in which the attempt has been made to invalidate by a
decree of the court patents whiqh have been issued by the
government of the United States to private parties. There
has been such frequent occasion to consider the subject that it
would be only a repetition to go over the ground again. This
whole question was very fully reviewed during the present
term of the court in the case of Unzted States v Iron Silver
.M2inqng Company, 128 U S. 673,in the opinion delivered by
Mr. Justice Field, in which the various decisions were re-exammed with care.
The more important of these cases are Mtfaxwell -LalndCrant
Case, 121 U. S. 325, and Colorado Coal and Iron Co. v Undted
States, 123 U S. 307. To these may be added Vnzted States
v San facznto Ti- Co., 125 U S. 273, and United States v
Beebe, 127 U S. 338.
Some point is made, in the bill and in the argument, concerning the amended survey of the Tunnel Lode claim, and
the manner of its presentation to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, with other irregularities which are suggested and pointed out, but we think it must be taken to be

UNITED STATES v. M1ARSHALL MINING CO.

589

Opinion of the Court.

the settled doctrine of this court that a bill in chancery,
brought by the United States to set aside and vacate a patent
issued under its authority, is not to be treated as a writ of
error, or as a petition for a rehearing in chancery, or as if it
were a mere re-trial of the case as it was before the land office,
with such additional proof as the parties may be able to
produce.
The dignity and character of a patent from the United
States is such that the holder of it cannot be called upon to
prove that everything has been done that is usual in the proceedings had in the Land Department before its issue, nor can
he be called upon to explain every irregularity or even impropriety in the process by which the patent is procured. Especially
is it true that where the United States has not recelved any
damage or injury, and can obtain no advantage from the suit
instituted by it, the conduct of the parties themselves, for
whose benefit such action may be brought, must itself be so
free from fault or neglect as to authorize them to come, with
clean hands, to ask the use of the name of the government to
redress any wrong which may have been done to them.
One matter which has been much discussed before us is,
whether the Colorado Central Consolidated Mlining Company,
one of the defendants m this suit, and the present owner of
such title as passed to the Marshall Silver MKinmg Company
by the patent sought to be vacated, is an innocent purchaser of
the property in ignorance of any of the matters set up by the
complainants. While it is not necessary to pass upon this subject m the view we have taken of the case, it is not improper
to say that, as presented to us, the claim of that company to
be an innocent purchaser presents a very formidable objection
to the granting of the relief asked for in a coulrt of equity
The decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Colorado

Affimed.

