STOUTENBURGH v. HENNICK.
Syllabus.

the order of ultimate liability, that of the carrier is in legal
effect primary and that of the insurer secondary, yet the
insured can, m the absence of provisions otherwise controlling
the subject, insist upon proceeding, under his contract, first,
against the party secondarily liable, and when he does so is
bound m conscience to give to the latter the benefit of the
remedy against the party principal, but these insurers could,
under their contracts, require the owners to pursue the carrier
in the first instanceand decline to indemnify them until the
question and the measure of the latter's liability were determined. This they did, and to their action in that regard the
defendant is not so situated as to be entitled to object.
In our judgment the second defence, in any aspect in wich it
may be considered upon this record, cannot be maitained, and
it follows that the action of the Circuit Court was erroneous.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause rema'nded, wtth
directions to the ircutt Court to award a new trzal.

STOUTENBURGH v.H NE-NICK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE DISTRICT

OF COLU3BIA.

No. 722. Submitted December 1S, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

Under the authority conferred upon Congress by § 8, Article I, of the Constitution, "to make all laws which shall be necessary or proper for carrymg into execution" the power "to exercise exclusive legislation in all
cases whatsoever over" the District of Columbia, Congress may constitute the District "a body corporate for municipal purposes," but can
only authorize it to exercise municipal powers.
The Act of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia of August
23, 1871, as amended June 20, 1872, relating to license taxes on persons
engaging in trade, business or profession within the District, was intended to be a regulation of a purely mumcipal character; but nevertheless the provision in clause 3, of § 21, which required commercial agents,
engaged in dffering merchandise for sale by sample, to take out and pay
for such a license, is a regulation of interstate commerce, so far as applicable to persons soliciting the sale of goods on behalf of individuals or
firms doing business outside of the District, and it was not i-ithin the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
constitutional power of Congress to delegate to that legislature authority
to enact a clause with such a provision, nor did it in fact do so in a
grant of power for municipal purposes.
Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, and Asher v Texas,
128 U. S. 129, affirmed.
The repeal or modification by Congress of clauses in a legislative act of the
District of Columbia, which are separable and separably operative, is no
ratification of another clause in it, equally separable and separably operative, which it -was beyond the delegated or constitutional power of the
Legislature of the District to enact.

HENNICK, the defendant in error, was convicted in the Police
Court of the District of Columbia, upon an information stating
that he, in April, 1887, "1did engage in the business of a commercial agent, to wit, the business of offering for sale, as agent
of Lyons, Conklin & Co., a firm doing business in the city of
Baltimore, State of Maryland, certain goods, wares, and merchandise by sample, catalogue, and otherwise, without having
first obtained a license to do so, contrary to and in violation
of an act of the late Legislative Assembly of the District of
Columbia, entitled ' An act imposing a license on trades, business, and professions practised or carried on in the District of
Columbia,' and providing for the enforcement and collection
of fines and penalties for carrying on business m the said District without license, approved August 23, A.D. 1871, and the
amendments to the said act, approved June 20, A.D. 1872,"
and sentenced "to pay a fine of five dollars, in addition to the
license tax of two hundred dollars, and in default to be committed to the workhouse for the term of sixty days," and
being in default was so committed. He applied to one of
the Justices of the Supreme Court of the District for, and
obtaaned, a writ of habeas corpus, which was certified to be
heard in the first instance in the general term of that court,
and, upon hearing, it was held "that the law for the violation
of which the petitioner is held is not a valid law," and his
discharge from custody was ordered accordingly, whereupon
this writ of error was sued out.
The act in question was passed by the then Legislative
Assembly of the District, August 23, 1871, and amended June
20, 1872 (Laws District Columbia, Acts First Session, p. 87,

STOUTENBURGH v. HEiNNICK.
Statement of the Case.

Acts Second Session, p. 60), and by its first section it was
provided "That no person shall be engaged in any trade,
business, or profession hereinafter mentioned, until he shall
have obtained a license therefor as hereinafter provided."
Then followed twenty-three sections of which the twentyfirst is subdivided into forty-eight clauses. Clause 3 was so
amended as to read " Commercial agents shall pay two hundred dollars annually Every person whose business it. is, as
agent, to offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise by sample,
catalogue or otherwise, shall be regarded as a commercial
agent."
Section 4 of the act is in these words, "That every person
liable for license tax, who, failing to pay the same within
thirty days after the same has become due and payable, for
such neglect shall, in addition to the license tax imposed, pay
a fine or penalty of not less than five nor more than fifty
dollars, .and a like fine or penalty for every subsequent
offence."
And then follows a proviso not material here.
A part of the act was repealed by Congress, February 17,
1873, 17 Stat. 464, the 23d section and clauses 20 and 35 of
the 21st section, and clause 16 of the 21st section as amended,
were repealed and modified July 12, 1876, 19 Stat. 88, as were
also, on January 26, 1887, parts of clause 38 of § 21 as amended,
and of § 15.
Sections 1 and 18 of the act of Congress of February 21,
1871, entitled "An act to provide a government for the District of Columbia," 16 Stat. 419, are as follows
"SEc. 1. That all that part of the territory of the United
States included within the limits of the District of Colimbia
be, and the same is hereby, created into a government by the
name of the District of Columbia, by which name it is hereby
constituted a body corporate for municipal purposes, and may
contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, have a seal, and exercise all other powers of
a municipal corporation not inconsistent with the Constitution
and laws of the United States and the provisions of this act."
"SEc. 18. That 'the legislative power of the District shall

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

extend to all rightful subjects of legislation within said District, consistent with the Constitution of the United States
and the provisions of this act, subject, nevertheless, to all the
restrictions and limitations imposed upon States by the tenth
section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States, but all acts of the legislative assembly shall at all
times be subject to repeal or modification by the Congress of
the United States, and nothing herein shall be construed to
deprive Congress of the power of legislation over said District
in as ample manner as if this law had not been enacted."
These sections are carried forward into the act of Congress
of June 22, 1S74, entitled "An act to revise and consolidate
the statutes of the United States, general and permanent in
their nature, relating to the District of Columbia, in force
on the first day of December, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-three," as sections 2, 49
and 50.
XPb Henry E. -Dansfor plaintiff in error.
i. The power of the Legislative Assembly, which emanated
from Congress, extended "to all rightful subjects of legislation within the District consistent with the Constitution of
the United States
subject to all the restrictions and
limitations imposed upon States by the tenth section of the
first article of the Constitution of the United States," and all
acts of the Assembly were "subject to repeal or modification
by the Congress of the United States." Rev Stat. Dist. Col.

§§ 49, 50.
The extent of the power thus conferred upon the Legislative C ssembly was considered by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in Roach v Van Ri-swick, McArthur &
Mackay, 171, Cooper v Dqstrct of Columbna, M,cArthur
& Mackay, 250, and Dqstr ct of Golumbta v WVaggaman,
4 Mackay, 328, and in the last-mentioned case the very license
act under consideration was held as within the power, and
in Distrwt of Columnbi v Oyster, 4 Mackay, 285, the act
was administered by the same court without any question
or expression of doubt as to its being properly within the

STOUTENBURGH v. HENNICK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

power -granted and properly grantable by Congress to the
Assembly
The effect of tins is that tins legislation, being that of a
duly authorized agent of Congress, is that of Congress itself.
And even if that were not so, Congress has adopted it in the
several acts of February 17, 1873, c. 148, 17 Stat. 464, July
12, 1876, c. 180, § 19, 19 Stat. 83, and January 26, 1887, c. 48,
24 Stat. 368, m part amending and in part repealing the act
of the Assembly, whereby, by the clearest inplication, the
rest of the act is adopted.
II. The question raised by the petition is supposed to find
support in Art. 1, § 8, of the Constitution of the United
States, clauses 1 and 3, and in § 9 of the same article, clause 6.
As to the first of these provisions, it is enough to say that
the license tax in question is not a duty, an impost, or an
excise, and is not, therefore, within that provision requiring
uniformity throughout the United States. As to the last, the
license law for the District of Columbia gives no preference
to the ports of any State, or even of the District, over those of
any other State, and it is not easily conceived how that clause
can be thought to have any relevancy to the subject in hand.
A question seems, however, to be presented by the remaining of the three clauses above enumerated, viz., whether, as a
regulation of commerce, the license law for the District is
invalid, as obnoxious to the Constitution of the United States.
a. Whether the law regulates -commerce, in the sense of the
Constitution, is immaterial. Whether it does so regulate commerce may be determined by the following cases _?obbns v
S1elby Tawing ]Dstrtct, 120 U S. 489, Corson v Aaryland,
120 U. S. 502; Fargo v .Miohsgan,121 U. S. 230, Ouachita
Packet Co. v Aiken, 121 U S. 444, Philadephia &c. Steamhsp Co. v Pennsylvanta, 122 U. S. 326, TFestern, Unson Telegraph Co. v Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, Bowman v. Chkeago
&c. Railway Co., 125 U S. 465, Ratterman v. Western Jnzon
Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, Leloup v Part of .Mobile, 127
U. S. 640.
b. In any event it is certain that, as above pointed out, the
law is, in effect, an enactment ot Congress.
VOL. cxXIX-10

OCTOBER TERAM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

c. The question, then, becomes has Congress power under
the Constitution to pass such a law 9 As to the extent of its
power to legislate over the District of Columbia, it is sufficient
to refer to Chief Tustice AMarshalPs opinion in LougdhorougA v
Blake, 5 Wheat. 317, 324, and, touching the power to regulate
commerce, to what is said in Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
196, 197.
What limitations then exist on the power of Congress in
regulating commerce? Seemingly none, except those distinctly
prescribed by the Constitution, none of which apply to this
case. And this legislation both emanated from Congress,
and has been adopted by it, and has the same validity as if
its provisions had been specifically made by it.
d. The recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States in Roblnns v Taxng Distrzct, etc., ubb szpra, in reality
do not affect the question under consideration.
In those cases it was held only that given laws of the States
concerned were invalid, as dealing with the subject of commerce, which, by the Constitution, was committed to Congress. The power of Congress, its extent and its limitations
in the premises, were not under consideration.
e. The petitioner has no right to complain of the District
license law ie is not a member of a foreign nation or an
Indian tribe, and the law does not affect commerce "among
the several States."
The District of Columbia is not a State, in the meaning of
the Constitution. Repburn v Ellzey, 2 Cranch, 445, iXe-m
Orleans v Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, Scott v Jones, 5 How 342,
377, Barney v Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 287, Railroad Go. v
Harrzs, 12 Wall. 65, 86.
And in respect of regulating commerce there is in the Constitution no prohibition upon either Congress or any State to
discriminate for or against the District, as between it and such
or any State. "The sole restraints" against abuse in this
respect are those mentioned by Chief Justice Marshall in
Gibbons v Ogden, and disregard of those restraints can only
be reached by counter-legislation, they cannot be affected by
any action of the judiciary

STOUTENBURGH v.

IENNICK.

Opinion of the Court.

JYr Fancts .-.. Darby, 23,
Skzwith ilrner, .M John
Henry KYeene, J'., .Mr Archibald Sthrling, 2r Henry Wise
Garnett, and .M' Guon .Miller for defendant in error.
IRh.

CHIEF

JUsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court
It is a cardinal principle of our system of government, that
local affairs shall be managed by local authorities, and general
affairs by the central authority, and hence, while the rule is
also fundamental that the power to make laws cannot be
delegated, the creation of municipalities exercising local selfgovernment has never been held to trench upon that rule.
Such legislation is not regarded as a transfer of general legislative power, but rather as the grant of the authority to prescribe local regulations, according to immemorial practice,
subject of course to the interposition of the superior in cases
of necessity
Congress has express power "to exercise exclusive legislation
in all cases whatsoever" over the District of Columbia, thus
possessing the combined powers of a general and of a State
government in all cases where legislation is possible. But as
the repository of the legislative power of the United States,
Congress in creating the District of Columbia "a body corporate for municipal purposes" could only authorize it to exercise municipal powers, and this is all that Congress attempted
to do.
The act of the Legislative Assembly under which Henmck
was convicted, imposed, as stated in its title, "a license on
trades, business, and professions practiced or carried on in the
District of Columbia," and required by clause three of section
twenty-one, among other persons in trade, commercial agents,
whose business it was to offer merchandise for sale by sample,
to take out and pay for such license. This provision was
manifestly regarded as a regulation of a purely municipal
character, as is perfectly obvious, upon the principle of
noscitur a sociis, if the clause be taken as it should be, in
connection with the other clauses and parts of the act. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

it is indistinguishable from that held void in Pobbzns v Shelby
Tamng'Dstrzet, 120 U S. 489, and Asher v Texa8, 128 U S.
129, as being a regulation of interstate commerce, so far as
applicable to persons soliciting, as IHennick was, the sale of
goods on behalf of individuals or firms doing business outside
the District.
The conclusions announced in the case of Robbins were that
the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce is nec
essarily exclusive whenever the subjects of it are national or
admit only of one uniform system or plan of regulation
throughout the country, and in such case the failure of Congress to make express regulations is equivalent to indicating
its will that the subject shall be left free, that in the matter
of interstate commerce the United States are but one country,
and are and must be subject to one system of regulations,
and not to a multitude of systems, and that a State statute
requiring persons soliciting the sale of goods on behalf of
individuals or firms doing business in another State to pay
license fees for permission to do so, is, in the absence of congressional action, a regulation of commerce in violation of the
Constitution. The business referred to is thus definitively
assigned to that class of subjects which calls for uniform rules
and national legislation, and is excluded from that class which
can be best regulated by rules and provisions suggested by the
varying circumstances of different localities, and limited in
their operation to such localities respectively Cooley v Boa'rd
of Tardens, 12 How 299, Gilman v PhiladelphuI, 3 Wall.
713. It falls, therefore, within the domain of the great, distrnct, substantive power to regulate commerce, the exercise of
which cannot be treated as a mere matter of local concern, and
committed to those immediately interested in the affairs of a
particular locality
It is forcibly argued that it is beyond the power of Congress
to pass a law of the character in question solely for the District of Columbia, because whenever Congress acts upon the
subject, the regulations it establishes must constitute a system
applicable to the whole country, but the disposition of this
case calls for no expression of opinion upon that point.

STOUTENBURGH v. HENNICK.
Dissenting Opinion. Miller, J.

In our judgment Congress, for the reasons given, could not
have delegated the power to enact the 3d clause of the 21st
section of the act of- assembly, construed to include business
agents such as Hennick, and there is nothing m tins record to
justify the assumption that it endeavored' to do so, for the
powers granted to the District were municipal merely, and
although by several acts, Congress repealed or modified parts
of tins particular by-law, these parts were separably operative
and such as were within the scope of municipal action, so that
this congressional legislation cannot be resorted to as ratifying the objectionable clause, irrespective of the inability to
ratify that which could not originally have been authorized.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District is
Affirmed.
Am. JusTICE

Mo!LLEn

dissenting.

I do not find myself able to agree with the court in its judgment in this case.
The act of Congress creating a territorial government for
the District of Columbia declared that the legislative power
of the District should "extend to all rightful subjects of legislation within said District," which undoubtedly was intended
to authorize the District to exercise the usual municipal powers.
The act of the Legislative Assembly -of the District, under
which Henmck was convicted, imposed "a license on trades,
business, and professions practised or carried on in the District
of Columbia," and a penalty on all persons engaging in such
trades, business, or profession without obtaining that license.
As the court says in its opimon, this was "1manifestly regarded
as a regulation of a purely municipal character."
The taxing of persons engaged in the business of selling by
sample, commonly called drummers, is one of this class, and
the only thing urged against the validity of tins law is that
it is a regulation of interstate commerce, and, therefore, an
exercise of a power winch rests exclusively in Congress. I
pass the question, which is a very important one, whether
this act of the Legislature of the District of Columbia, being
one exercised under the power conferred on it by Congress, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Dissenting Opmon

Miller, J.

coming, as I think, strictly within the limit of the power thus
conferred, is not so far as this question is concerned, sustained
by the authority of Congress itself, and is substantially the
action of that body
The cases of ]obbnns v. Slhelby Taxzng District, 120 U S.
489, and Ashzer v Texas, 128 U S. 129, hold the regulations
requiring drummers to be licensed to be regulations of commerce, and invasions of the power conferred upon Congress
on that subject by the Constitution of the United States. In
those cases I concurred m the judgment, because, as applied
to commerce between citizens of one State and those of another
State, it was a regulation of interstate commerce, or, in the
language of the Constitution, of commerce "among the several States," being a prosecution of a citizen of a State other
than Tennessee, in the first case, for selling goods without
a license to citizens of Tennessee, and in the other case to citizens of Texas.
But the constitutional provision is not that Congress shall
have power to regulate all commerce. It has been repeatedly
held that there is a commerce entirely within a State, and
among its own citizens, which Congress has no power to regulate. The language of the constitutional provision points out
three distinct classes of cases in which Congress may regulate
commerce, and no others. The language is that "Congress
to regulate commerce with foreign
shall have power
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
Unless the act for which Hennick was prosecuted in this
case was commerce with a foreign nation, among the several
States, or with an Indian tribe, it is not an act over which the
Congress of the United States had any exclusive power of
Commerce among the several States, as was
regulation.
early held by this court in Gibbons v Ogden, 6 Wheat. 448.
means commerce between citizens of the several States, and
had no reference to transactions by a State, as such, with
another State, in their corporate or public capacities. Indeed,
it would be of very little value if that was the limitation or the
meaning to be placed upon it. I take it for granted, therefore,

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMDIOND.

-151

Syllabus.

that its practical utility is in the power to regulate commerce
between the citizens of the different States.
Commerce between a citizen of Baltimore, which llenmck
is alleged to be in the prosecution in this case, and citizens of
Washington, or of the District of Columbia, is not commerce
"among the several States," and is not commerce between
citizens of different States, m any sense. Commerce by a
,citizen of one State, in order to come within the constitutional
-provision, must be commerce with a citizen of another iState,
:and where one of the parties is a citizen of a Territory, or of
the District of Columbia, or of any other place out of a State
,of the Union, it is not commerce among the citizens of the
several States.
As the license law under which E:enmck was prosecuted
made it necessary for hin to take out a license to do his business in the city of Washington, or the District of Columbia,
which was not a State, nor a foreign nation, nor within the
domain of an Indian tribe, the act upon the subject does not
-infrmgethe Constitution of the United States.
For these reasons I di sept fo..m the judgment of the court.

BATE REFRIGERATING COMPANY v. HAMMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UJ ITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
o. 862. Argued January 2, 3, 4, 1889.-Decided January 21,1889.

A United States patent was granted November 20, 1877, for seventeen years,
on an application filed December 1, 1876. A patent for the same invention
had been granted in Canada, January 9, 1877, to the same patentee, for
five years from that day, on an application made December 19, 1876. On
a petition filed in Canada by the patentee, December 5, 1881, the Canada
patent was, on December 12, 1881,extended for five years from Sanuary
9, 1882, and, on December 13, 1881, for five years from January 9, 1887,
under § 17 of the Canada act assented to June 14, 1872 (35 Victoria,
c. 26)
Held, under § 4887 of the Rev. Stat., that, as the Canada act
'was m force when the United States patent was applied for and issued,

