NORTON v. BROWNSVILLE.
Syllabus.

acts fully authorized the issue and gave the power to tax to
pay But in the case at bar it appeared from the judgment
records, or if not, from relator's petition, that the bonds were

issued under an abrogated statute, and were consequently void,
and that the respondents possessed no power to tax to pay
them, because that power was given only by the statute winch
had so ceased to exist.
The power invoked is not the power to tax to pay judgments, but the power to tax to pay bonds, considered as distinct and independent, and therefore, when the relator is
obliged to go behind his judgments as money judgments
merely, to obtain the remedy pertaining to the bonds, the
court cannot decline to take-cognizance of the fact that the
bonds are utterly void and that no such remedy exists. Res
judicatamay render straight that which is crooked, and black
that winch is white, facdt ex curvo 'ectu.m, eo albo ntgrum,
(Jeterv ZHewat, 22 How 352, 364;) but where application is
made to collect judgments by process not contained in themselves, and requiring, to be sustained, reference to the alleged
cause of action upon which they are founded, the aid of the
court should not be granted when upon the face of the record
it appears, not that mere error supervened in the rendition

of such judgments, but that they rest upon no cause of action
whatever.
ie judgment qs reversed and the case remanded, w th a
to dismwss the pettion.
direction&

NORTON v. COMMISSION ERS OF THE TAXING
DISTRICT OF BROWNSVILLE.
ERROR TO THE

CIRcuIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1455.

Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided

March 5,1889.

The writ of error belng brought December 28th, 1886, to review a judgment rendered November 29, 1886, the citation being returnable October
Term, 1887, and the record being filed in this court December 20, 1888,
Held, that the court was without jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

Tr

case is stated in the opinion.

Jb Sparrel Hill, Air ienry Craft and -Mr L. P Cooper
for plaintiffs in error.
Xr IF F Rutledge and -Mr William . Smith for defendants in error.
AR.

CmEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Judgment was rendered against the plaintiffs in error in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee on the 29th of November, 1886, and writ of
error brought December 28th, 1886, accompanied by a citation
to the adverse party, duly returnable to the October Term,
1887, and served in January and March of the latter year.
But the record was not filed herein until December 20th, 1888,
and the rule is settled that under such circumstances we do
not entertain jurisdiction. Grigsby v Purcell, 99 U S. 505,

Credit Company v Arkansas Central Railway Co., 128 U S.
258, ilill v Chwago & Evanston Railroad Co., ante, 170,
.Edmonsonv Bloom shire, 7 Wall. 306.
The writ of error is

Dsmissed.

McKENNA v. SIMPSON'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 767.

Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided

March 5, 1889.

A state court has jurisdiction of an action brought by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside, as made to defraud creditors, conveyances made by
the bankrupt before the bankruptcy
When an assignee in bankruptcy resorts to a state court to set aside a conveyance by the bankrupt as made to defraud creditors, and no question
is raised there as to his power under the acts of Congress, or as to
the rights vested in him as assignee, the judgment of the state court is
subject to review here in the same manner and to the same extent as

