PETERS v. HANSON.
Syllabus.

You was familiar at that tne with the mode employed by
them for putting moldings on combs, was you 9 A. I was."

This testimony of Knopp is very inconclusive. He merely
testifies, thirteen years after he had left Noyes's establishment,
that he does not remember that he made, fifteen years before
the time when he was testifying, a machine like that described
in question 6 put to him. The drawing produced by Noyes
was not shown to Knopp.
The testimony of Newman, Coyle and McAuley amounts to
nothing. Although they were employed in the comb factory
of Noyes at the time they gave ther testimony, in December,
1882, and had been employed there, Newman from 1862, Coyle
for 14 or 15 years, and IMcAuley for about 30 years, neither of
them was shown the comb A, nor the molding B, nor the
drawing 0, above mentioned, nor was a distinct question put
to either of them as to the use of a machine like that described
in question 6 put to the witness Knopp.
The only difference between Noyes's device and that of the
plaintiff is, that in Noyes's the stop holds the molding stationary while the comb is forced into the molding by the action of
the follower. 1But its action is substantially the same as that
of the stop in the plaintiff's patent, which prevents the molding from slipping through the groove.
The case falls within the principle applied in Pennsylvarna
.Railroadv Locomot'e Truck Co., 110 U S. 490, and cases
there cited.
As to the third claim, it is not infringed, because, in the
defendant's apparatus, no washers are used for adjustment.
The decree of the Circuit Court s affirmed.

PETERS v. HANSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 66. Argued January 25, 28, I8S9.- Decided Marcb 5, 1889.

Claims 1, 2 and 3 of letters patent No. 213,529, granted to George M1.
Peters, Mlarch 25, 1879, for an improvement in vehicle dashes, namely,

,OCTOBER

TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.
"1. The combination of a dash and laterally adjustable attachments,
whereby the same may be connected to vehicles of different widths, substantially as set forth. 2. A dash or dash-frame having slots or openings,
whereby attachments may be made at different points, substantially as
and for the purposes set forth. 3. 4 dash provided with bearings having
slots or openings, substantially as and for the purpose specified," are for
improvements which are merely applications of old devices to new uses,
not involving invention.
Claim 4 of that patent, namely, " (4). A dash-frame provided with bearings, arranged to strengthen the frame in those parts whereby the dash
is to be connected to the laterally adjustable feet or to the vehicle," sets
forth no patentable invention.
Claims 1, 2, 3 and 11 of reissued letters patent No. 9891, granted to George
M. Peters, October 11, 1881, for improvements in vehicle dash-frames,
on the surrender of original letters patent Np. 224,792, granted February
24, 1880, on an application filed May 5, 1879, the reissue having been
applied for June 15, 1881, namely, "1. A vehicle dash whose lever bar is
provided exteriorly with a channel or recess, the metal on either side of the
channel or recess affording a bearing for the dash-foot or other portion of
the vehicle to which the dash is connected, for the purposes specified.
2. A dash whose lower rail is composed near or at the ends of two thick
portions united by an easily perforated web, for the purposes specified.
3. A dash provided with a rail having vertically flat sides, one or both of
said sides being exteriorly channelled, substantially as and for the purposes
specified." "11. The foot channelled on either or both sides, substantially
as and for the purposes specified" are for improvements which amount
only to applications of old devices to new uses, not involving invention.

IN EQUrTY, to restrain an alleged infringement of letters
patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr Tflliam Hubbell Fisher and Mr Beyam?.n Butter-

worth for appellant.
AZr A thur Stem for appellees.
MR. JUSTcE BLATcOHroD delivered the opimon of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought by George M. Peters, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, against Julius A. Hanson and Cortland C. Van Camp,
for the alleged infringement of two letters patent granted to
George MT. Peters, the plaintiff, namely, letters patent No.

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinon of the Court.

213,529, granted March 25, 1879, for an improvement in
vehicle dashes, on an application filed June 19, 1875, and
reissued letters patent No. 9891, for improvements m vehicle
dash-frames, granted October 11, 1881, on the surrender of
original letters patent No. 224,792, granted February 24, 1880,
on an application filed May 5, 1879, the reissue having been
applied for June 15, 1881.
The answer sets up as to both patents want of novelty and
patentability, non-infringement, and the invalidity of the reissue, because it has been expanded beyond the invention
disclosed in the original patent, and contains new matter not
found in that patent, and is for a different invention.
There was a replication to the answer, proofs were taken
and the Circuit Court dismissed the bill. The plaintiff has
appealed from the decree. We are not furnished with any
opinion given by the Circuit Court stating the ground for its
action, but it said, in the brief for the appellant, that the
ground was that the inventions were not patentable.
So much of the specification of No. 213,529 as is material,
and the drawings referred to in it, are as follows
secondly, to the attach"My invention relates,
ment of the dash to the vehicle, and this part of my invention renders the dash capable of attachment to vehicles of
different widths, so that it can be sold as an article of manufacture, for application to the vehicle by the purchaser. These
features of my invention render the construction easy, expeditious. and economical. Another feature of my invention
consists in such a novel construction of the dash as that there
shall be at the part of the frame thereof to which the laterallyadjustable foot is to be attached a proper bearing surface for
the support and bracing of the dash.
"In the accompanying drawings, which form a part of this
specification, figure 1 is a perspective view of sufficient of a
vehicle to illustrate my invention, Fig. 2, a sectional detached
view; Figs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, detached views illustrating modifications, and Fig. 7, a detached perspective view
"One mode of making the dash-frame is shown in the
drawings, in which G F are parallel uprights at each end, C

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

D E parallel cross-rods, and 2A L short continuations of the
rods G F
In order to connect the frame to the vehicle, and further to permit a frame to be applied to vehicles of
different sizes, I construct the frame and the foot H so that,
by a lateral adjustment in relation to each other, the desired
connection to bodies of different widths may be effected. The
frames may be varied in construction to effect this result.
Thus, in Figs. 1 and 2 the frame has a wide bearing piece N,
of any desired length, with a slot to receive the fastenings of
the foot or attachment HI, by which the dash and the body
of the vehicle are connected adjustably, so that, within the
limits of the adjustment, the foot secured to the dash may
find its bearings on bodies of various widths. The foot may
be of any desired shape, being shown with two branches b d,
one bolted or otherwise secured to the dash, and the other to
the body I of the vehicle. By the above-described means the
dashes may be furnished to the trade as independent articles
of manufacture, as the foot may be fitted to vehicles in the
process of construction or afterward, and the dash secured
without altering or moving it. For the like reason the feet
adapted to the vehicles and dashes may be sold separately
"The bearing N for the attachment or foot may be within
the frame, as shown in Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 8, or it may be in
an extension outside of the frame, the result being the same
-. e., the frame being adapted to be secured without change
to bodies of different widths. This bearing portion N may be
secured permanently or detachably to the frame bars. Thus in
Figs. l and 2 it is provided with sockets for the reception of
studs at the ends of the bars. In any case it affords a strong
and rigid connection between the foot and the frame, so that
the latter cannot be bent over under anything less than destructive pressure. This is especially the case when both uprights,
F and G, are secured to the bearing piece N, whether within or
without the frame proper, but when within the frame, and
extending up between the uprights, it stiffens and braces the
latter.
"The adjustment of the dash and foot is not necessarily
limited to the mode described. For instance, it may be

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Fiq,.6.
B LE
p

F.8.

VOL. CXXI-35

2

0

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

effected by means of a series of holes, affording a means of
adjusting the foot at different points. When the foot is not
required, the dash may be connected directly to the body with
like advantage. as the points of connection may be varied to
suit bodies of different widths.
"The feature of lateral adjustability set forth therein is applicable to dashes and feet, or equivalent laterally adjustable
attachments, other than those particularly herein described."
There are eight claims in the patent, the first four of which
alone are alleged to have been infringed, namely"
"Without confining myself to any special mode of connecting the foot and dash adjustably, I claim "1. The combination of a dash and laterally adjustable
attachments, whereby the same may be connected to vehicles
of different widths, substantially as set forth.
"2. A dash or dash-frame having slots or openings, whereby
attachments may be made at different points, substantially as
and for the purposes set forth.
"3. A dash provided with bearings having slots or openings,
substantially as and for the purpose specified.
"4. A dash-frame provided with bearings, arranged to
strengthen the frame in those parts whereby the dash is to be
connected to the laterally adjustable feet or to the vehicle."
So much of the specification of reissue No. 9891 as is material, and the drawings referred to in it, are as follows
" One object of my invention is a novel construction of the
dash-frame whereby the latter is rendered light and strong,
can be manufactured with little expense, and whereby the
various portions of the frame are cheaply, readily and firmly
secured together, and also whereby the dash is cheaply, quickly
and firmly connected to a permanent or detachable portion of
the vehicle. Another object of my invention is a formation
of a dash-foot for connecting a dash to a vehicle whereby the
foot is at once strong and light and can be cheaply manufactured.
"Referring to the drawings forming part of this specification, Figure 1, A, B, 0, and D represent a dash-frame constructed in accordance with my improvements, a section

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

through the channelled lower rail of dash, and a sectional and
perspective view of my special form of bar. Fig. 2, E and F
are a perspective and sectional view of a modification of the
mode of attaching the bar to the lower rail of the dash where
said lower rail is channelled only on one side, and G is a perspective view showing a portion of the lower rail channelled
only on one side and a channelled foot of my invention attached
thereto, showing manner of attaching the foot to the lower
rail by a T-headed bolt. Fig. 3, IL, I, Fig. 4, J, K, and Fig.
5, L, M, are sectional views, showing different modes of attaching the foot to the lower rail of the dash. Fig. 6 is a perspective view showing how the extension el of the upper bar may
be riveted to the thin web or channelled portion of the lower
rail. HI, Fig. 1, represents the lower rail of a dash-frame,
channelled as shown at B. This rail is provided at either end
with the slot a or the holes a' for attaching the feet to the
dash-frame. The lower ends of the upright bars of the frame
are split and each half provided with a T head. (Shown at
D, Fig. 1.) These T heads are made of the same width as the
channel in the lower rail into which they fit. The two halves
of this split end are separated from each other to admit the
lower rail between them. The upper ends of the upright bar
are provided with notches d, for the reception of the upper
rail of the dash-frame.
"By constructing dash-frames in the manner described much
of the expense incurred m the ordinary mode of manufacture
is saved. The lower rail is made broad and fiat, so that the
slot a or holes a' can be made therein and leave a strong bearing for the attachment of the feet.
"The wide vertical flat faces of the lower rail afford a desirable bearing for the dash-foot or vehicle body, (as the rail can
be readily perforated for bolts or rivets, and the thick edges
left above and below the perforations are first-rate bearings
for said foot or body,) and possess great advantages over the
customary convex or oval rails, the central portion of which,
being thick, renders them hard to punch, and the edges afford
no flat surface for said foot or body to press against. The
rail, therefore, when more or less flat on one or both sides,

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

D

mlE
d

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

becomes a modification of the forms of rails shown herein and
possesses some of their advantages.

"Irrespective of the comparative advantages derived from
the bearings being fiat over being otherwise shaped, the following, among other advantages, obtains, viz., that the web
allows the rail or bar to be readily and quickly perforated, the
thick parts, however shaped, connecting said web, serving as
supports or bearings for the attachment of the foot or other
portion of the vehicle to which the dash is connected.
"G, Fig. 2, is a perspective view of the under side of my
channelled or concave foot.
The foot may be channelled or concaved on the opposite side to that shown and
described herein, or on both sides, these forms of construction
being both obvious equivalents of the one shown and described.
The depth and the length of the channel or concavity in the
dash-rail or foot may be varied to suit the requirements of the
manufacturer. Another advantage of that portion of my invention which relates to channelling or recessing the foot is
that the same may be readily cast 9f malleable iron, the channelling obviating the injurious effects arising from the presence
of shrunken corners in thick malleable iron castings. The
channelling or recessing of the foot enables the latter to be
made light and thin and to be better annealed."
There are thirteen claims in the reissue, but only claims 1, 2
3 and 11 are alleged to have been infringed. Those claims
are as follows
"1. A vehicle dash whose lower bar is provided exteriorly
with a channel or recess, the metal on-either side of the channel or recess affording a bearing for the dash-foot or other portion of the vehicle to which the dash is connected, for the
purposes specified.
"2. A dash whose lower rail is composed near or at the
ends of two thick portions united by an easily perforated web,
for the purposes specified.
"3. A dash provided with a rail having vertically flat sides,
one or both of said sides being exteriorly channelled, substantially as and for the purposes specified."
"11. The foot channelled on either or both sides, substantially as and for the purposes specified."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

We will first consider claims 1, 2, 3 and 4, of No. 213,529.
Claims 1, 2 and 3 relate to the means of adjusting laterally
the feet of a dash. Formerly, the feet which connected the
dash to the body were welded to the frame of the dash and
made solid with it. When a manufacturer made both the dash
and the body, he welded the feet of the dash to the frame at
such points as were proper for the particular body for which
the dash was designed. In the course of business, it came to
pass that dashes were made by other persons than the manufacturer of the carriage, who either made his carriage-body, or
bought it from some person other than the manufacturer of
the dash. Under such a course of business, if the feet of the
dash were welded to and made solid with the dash-frame, they
might not fit the various sizes of carriage bodies. Hence
arose the idea of making the feet separate and not welding
them to the dash, but attaching them thereto by a bolt a-ad
nut at the proper point. As the dash is covered with patent
leather, it is not convenient to bore through its iron frame
after that frame is covered, and in the hands of the carriagemaker. Therefore, a hole was bored in the lower rail of the
frame of the dash, before it was covered, to receive the bolt
by which the foot was to be attached to the frame. But, as
vehicles varied in width and shape, it was necessary to place
the feet sometimes nearer together, and sometimes farther
apart from each other. Therefore, two holes, one on each
side, in the frame of the dash, for receiving each a bolt, would
not always be in the most convenient places. So it became
obvious that it would be proper to make two holes, or even
more, on each side, so that if one hole did not come at the
right point, another would. Carrying out the same idea, it
would be obvious that the bits of metal left laterally between
the holes might be cut away, and thus a slot be made, or a
long hole instead of two or more round ones, admitting of the
more perfect adjustment of the place of attachment of the
feet to the frame of the dash. It certainly required no invention to put two holes or a slot in the rail of a dash, instead of
one hole, for the purpose indicated.
The use of a bolt passing through a hole and secured by a

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nut, to fasten one article of iron to another, was a well-known
device, and so was the use for the same purpose of a slot
which admitted of the adjustability or change of position of
the bolt. The specification of. the patent states that "the
adjustment of the dash and foot is not necessarily limited to
the mode described," but that "it may be effected by means
of a series of holes, affording a means of adjusting the foot at
different points."
The testimony of Mr. Wood, an expert for the defendants,
on the subject of the state of the art in that regard, is as follows: "Q. 21. State whether or not there is anything novel in
mechanics in the use of slots for the purpose of adjustment.
Ans. 21. iNo, there is nothing novel about adjustable slots,
elongated slots, or holes bored extra large for that purpose.
Q. 22. State, if you know, how long and in what manner and
for what purposes adjustment has been accomplished by means
of slots. Ans. 22. Well, any kind of mechanical work that
has to be put together so as to be adjusted or duplicated in
case of breakage- as, for instance, railroad iron. The butt
ends are held together by bolts passing through elongated
slots, so that the expansion and contraction of the rail will
admit of self-adjustment, in fact, slots were a well-known
mechanical principle, which has been used from a mouse-trap
to a locomotive, you might say Q. 23. In the ordinary railroad iron, is or is not the T-rail channelled 2 Ans. 23. Yes,
sir; T channelled. Q. 24. Are or are not the slots of which
you speak as provided for adjustment made in the web of the
rail 2 Ans. 24. They are. Q. 25. Name some of the familiar
uses in mechanics, of slots for the purposes of adjustment, and
describe the manner of their use. Ans. 25. They are so generally used in the construction of everything that is made of
iron, or that iron is used in the construction of, that it would
be almost impossible to pick out anything they were not used
in for the purpose of adjustment. Q. 26. Well, can't you
name some of the familiar uses2 Ans. 26. Bridge-work, jailwork, vehicles, dashes, tops. Q. 27. Is it or is it not universally used on gauges for lathes, sewing-machines, grain drills,
and all classes of machinery where the feed mechanism is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

made adjustable9 Ans. 27. Yes, sir. Q. 28. How long has it
been so used 2 Ans. 28. Used, as I know of, for the last
twenty-five years."
So, also, Mr. Brackett, another expert for the defendants,
says: "Q. 11. Where it is desirable or necessary in mechanics
to provide for adjustment of parts attached to one another,
what is the most common form or manner of securing adjustability 2 Ans. 11. Where two pieces are bolted together the
general form is by an oval or slotted hole. We have always
used such a connection wherever it is possible, in frame structures or sliding parts, where difference in length or position is
required. Q. 12. Can you name a few of the applications of
this slot for the purpose of adjustment, in your own business
and outside of it ? Ans. 12. We use it in all bearing plates
where bridges are anchored to the masonry, and where rollers
are placed under one end, to allow for contraction and expansion. It is also used for roof-truss bearing plates, to allow the
roof to change its position on the wall, and for the fastening
of columns to continuous girders, where the change of temperature changes the position of the girders or the columns.
It is also. in common use in such work as slide gauges, where
the adjustment of the gauge is required. It is used on an iron
planer, where the difference of the length of the parts is
required at different times. It is also used on the ordinary
carpenter's plane, to adjust the position of the knives. It is
used on a rotary wood planer for the same purpose, and, in
fact, there is hardly an adjustable part of a machine where
two pieces come in close contact but that it is the most
common mode of adjustment, and I consider it as one of the
commonest principles of mechanics, and one that has been
used, that I know of, for fifteen years, and was an old principle at that time. Q. 13. Would any ordinarily skilled mechanic who had occasion to provide for the adjustment to
different positions of the parts of any machine or device be
able to apply this principle without suggestion or invention 2
Ans. 13. He could, for the reason that this would be the first
manner in which he would try to make the connection, when,
if it did not work, he would look for some other manner to

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opimon of the Court.

make connection, for the reason that this is one of the simplest
and easiest methods for connecting and allowing adjustment
where both parts, when two pieces are used, are made of
iron."
There is no contradiction of this testimony, and in view of
it the improvements covered by clauns 1, 2 and 3 of No.
213,529 are merely applications of old devices to new uses, not
involving invention. Penn. Pairoad v. Locomotive Tri'uck
Co., 110 U. S. 490, and cases there cited.
In regard to claim 4 of that patent, the invention is stated
in the specification to be the putting, at the part of the frame
to which the foot is to be attached, a proper bearing surface
to support the brace and dash. Claim I states that the
bearing is arranged to strengthen the frame in that part by
which the dash is to be connected to the foot of the vehicle.
There was no invention in providing such bearing, either by
an increase in the quantity of metal or otherwise, so as to
strengthen the proper part, in a proper way, for its proper
duty
As to reissue INo. 9891, claims 1, 2 and 3 relate to channelling or recessing the rail or bar, so that the metal on each
side of the channel or recess will be thicker than the metal at
the channel or recess, the necessary effect of such arrangement
being that the metal on each side of the channel or recess will
be thick enough to form a bearing, and the metal in the
channel or recess will be capable of being easily perforated.
The channelling or recessing of the foot, covered by claim
11, involves the same idea, and the specification states that
thereby 'the foot may be cast of malleable iron, and may be
made light and thin, and be better annealed.
The idea of using iron with channels or recesses in it, to
produce any result due to the existence of such channels or
recesses, was old in the state of the art of working in metals.
Air. Wood testifies as follows: "Q. 3. State whether you are
familiar with any uses to which channelled iron is applicable,
if so, what uses, and the purpose and .manner, and for how
long you have known them. Ans. 3. Channelled iron, you
might say, has been generally used in many different kinds of

OCTOBER TER-l, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

work and ways ever since I have been in the business. I first
used it about twenty years ago in putting up hand-rails and
stairs. Q. 4. How long was it used for stairs, and why 9 How
did you apply it 9 Ans. 4. We used it for a hand-rail on the
top of the rods which came from the steps, about three feet.
We punched holes in the web of the iron -in the face of the
iron - and riveted the vertical rods over, which left nice,
smooth flanges to stiffen the rail and strengthen it, and was at
the same time light and answered the purpose of a solid bar
of iron with much less work. Q. 5. Can you name other uses
to which channelled iron has been applied? Ans. 5. Yes. I
fitted up a large lot of iron for Wood Brothers & Co., of
Bridgeport, Connecticut, in 1870, for their landaus, carriages
which they were making, which they used -this channel iron
-for dropping the tops and for holding the tops up in a position in different ways. These irons were fitted up with poles,
with slots in them, for adjustable purposes. I bought the iron
from a hardware store, as it was common stock or general
stock. We had no trouble to obtain different sizes for the purpose. Since then I have seen it used in a great many different
ways and for a great many different purposes, for instance,
fire-proof buildings. The girders and beams, the laths and
roofing are all made of channelled iron. The bridges, railroad
iron, gears of vehicles, jail-work, vault-work, safes, fire and
burglar-proof safes, fences, agricultural implements-in fact,
it is used for a great variety of work which I can't call to mind
just now Q. 6. For how long has it been so used2 Ans. 6.
Ever since I have been in the business. Q. 7. What was the
shape of the channelled iron you used in 1870 for the carriages
made at Bridgeport? Ans. 7. The web of the iron was about
two and one-half inches on the face, flanges about a half inch
deep. The web was about three-sixteenths of an inch deep.
Q. 8. What part of the iron was perforated with slots for
adjustment purposes 9 Ans. 8. The web. Q. 9. Did you buy
it already channelled 2 Ans. 9. Yes, sir. Q. 10. State whether
or not you are familiar with the use of channelled iron for the
purpose of feet, for any purpose. Ans. 10. Yes, the feet of
desks, stoves, machinery of different kinds, vehicles. Q. 13.

PETERS v. HANSON.
Opinon of the Court.

Is channelled iron commonly used in carriage-work, and if so,
for what purpose 2 Ans. 13. Well, channelled iron has been
used for years, dash-feet, dashes, tops, the bows on the tops,
and for the tire on wheels. Q. 14. For how long a time have
you known it to be used for these purposes 2 Ans. 14. Twenty
years. Q. 15. What is the object in using channelled iron
instead of solid bars 2 Ans. 15. Well, it's for the purpose of
securing stiffness, lightness, and it is easy to work. It is easier
to punch a hole through a light web than through a solid bar.
It is economy to use it. Q. 16. Can you state any use to
which channelled iron could be applied in mechanics where its
use would be novel or would constitute an invention 2 Ans. 16.
I don't know of any Q. 11. Has or has not channelled iron
been used in mechanics wherever it was desirable to combine
lightness and strength 2 Ans. 17. Yes, we generally use it
wherever we want to make that combination. Q. 18. For
how long has its use in that way been common and familiar2
Ans. 18. Ever since I have been in the business. Q. 19. State
whether or not iron dealers keep in stock constantly various
forms of channelled iron. Ans. 19. We never had any trouble
to obtain channelled iron from most any of the stores. Q. 20.
How many various forms is it kept in in stock 2 Ans. 20.
Well, I could not say as to that. A great many forms -for
bridge purposes, house-building, jail-work, safe-work, vehiclework, it is generally kept constantly on hand. Parties who
generally use large lots of it for building, bridge purposes, and
other purposes, make contracts for large lots of it.and have it
rolled to order, and get it cheaper that way"
Mr. Brackett testifies as follows: " Q. 4. State whether or
not channelled iron is a common form for mechanical uses,
and, if so, some of the uses to which it is put. Ans. 4. It has
been commonly used in all frame structures where stiffness
and lightness is desired. I have known of its use since 1862,
when I first took an active part in manufacturing. We use
it in bridges, roof trusses, machine frames, floor beams, joists,
tramways-in fact, hardly a frame structure but what it is
used more or less. Then other classes of manufactories use it
in numerous places, such as fence pickets, bottom rail of fences,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

in stove manufacturing, furniture manufacturing, sewing-machine manufacturing, and in fact I hardly think there is any
class of iron structures where lightness is required but that it
could be used to advantage. Q. 5. How long have you known
of these uses you have referred to2 Ans. 5. Fifteen years or
more. Q. 6. Should it be desirable to combine lightness and
strength in the construction of vehicles or any parts of them,
would it require any invention or would it be novel to apply
channelled iron for that purpose 2 Ans. 6. INo, sir, I think
not, as channelled iron is in almost as common use as bar iron,
and hardly any framed work is made where stiffness and lightness is required but that it is used, because it is the stiffest form
in which iron can be used in carrying a load between two
points, either suspended or in the form of a -, and wherever a compressible strain occurs, or cross-strain, or any other
strain than a purely tension strain, it is the cheapest iron to
use, and it is in common use under such circumstances. Q. 7.
What other advantages or advantage, if any, is obtained by
the use of channelled iron which is also old and familiar , Ans.
7.Wherever two members running either at an angle or in the
same direction, its greatest convenience is in the easy manner
and strength with which such attachments and connections
can be made, on account of the thinness of its web, it being
readily drilled or punched, requiring a great deal less labor
and expense than flat bar iron, and on this account it is in
general use throughout the United States for the last fifteen
to twenty years, that I know of. Q. 8. Can you give any instances in which channelled iron has been used as supportsthat is, legs or feet-prior to 1875 2 Witness here asks whether
counsel means channelled on one side or both. Q. Either.
Ans. 8. Sewing-machine legs, stove legs, school-desk legs,
steam-heater legs, that's all I think of just now Q. 9. Do
you know of any use of iron for feet or supports where these
supports are not made channelled, as a rule2 Ans. 9. No,
sir, I do not, and as a question of economy of material, it
should be done in every instance where practicable."
This testimony is uncontradicted, and in view of it the improvements covered by claims 1, 2, 3 and 11 of reissue No.

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

9891, amount only to applications of old devices to new uses,
not involving invention.
The deoree of the Circuit Court ts aflrmed.

CITY NATIONAL BANK OF FORT WORTH v.

HUNTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 116.

STATES FOE

Submitted December 10, 1888.- Decided March 5, 1889.

On the proofs which are reviewed at length in the case stated by the
court, Held, that the agreements between the parties of March 20,
1880, were so far consummated that neither narty to this suit can insist
upon superiority of lien as between themselves; that no case of misrepresentation of facts as distinguished from matters of opinion is made
out to warrant declaring the agreements null and void, that the execution
and delivery of his note by Dawson and the delivery of the cattle to him,
and O'Neal's bill of sale consummated the written agreement so far as Jie
was concerned, that the action of appellants m commencing suit against
Dawson and O'Neal, and in taking possession of the cattle was unjustifiable, and that Dawson may recover his damages thereby suffered by way
of reconvention in this suit; that the original bill for foreclosure having been amended so as to be in the alternative, seeking the ascertainment of the indebtedness of O'Neal to complainants and the payment of
their share of the proceeds of the cattle, the bill should be retained and go
to decree; that the pro rata proportions of indebtedness were incorrect;
that the appellant is not so situated as to be entitled to set up an estoppel
in this respect; that the proportions in which the fund should be divided
between the parties should be determined as of the date that Dawson
paid the money into the bank, that the laws of Illinois govern as to the
rate of interest; and that, as the decree was severable in fact and in law,
and as O'Neal's estate (he having deceased) had no concern with the
matters complained of by the bank and by Dawson, they were entitled
to prosecute their appeal without joining O'Neal's admmstratrix, who
did not think proper to question the judgment.

I EQUITY. The Fort Worth Bank and Dawson, respondents, took an appeal from the final decree. The case, as stated

by the court in its opinion, was as follows.

