CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

9891, amount only to applications of old devices to new uses,
not involving invention.
The deoree of the Circuit Court ts aflrmed.

CITY NATIONAL BANK OF FORT WORTH v.

HUNTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 116.

STATES FOE

Submitted December 10, 1888.- Decided March 5, 1889.

On the proofs which are reviewed at length in the case stated by the
court, Held, that the agreements between the parties of March 20,
1880, were so far consummated that neither narty to this suit can insist
upon superiority of lien as between themselves; that no case of misrepresentation of facts as distinguished from matters of opinion is made
out to warrant declaring the agreements null and void, that the execution
and delivery of his note by Dawson and the delivery of the cattle to him,
and O'Neal's bill of sale consummated the written agreement so far as Jie
was concerned, that the action of appellants m commencing suit against
Dawson and O'Neal, and in taking possession of the cattle was unjustifiable, and that Dawson may recover his damages thereby suffered by way
of reconvention in this suit; that the original bill for foreclosure having been amended so as to be in the alternative, seeking the ascertainment of the indebtedness of O'Neal to complainants and the payment of
their share of the proceeds of the cattle, the bill should be retained and go
to decree; that the pro rata proportions of indebtedness were incorrect;
that the appellant is not so situated as to be entitled to set up an estoppel
in this respect; that the proportions in which the fund should be divided
between the parties should be determined as of the date that Dawson
paid the money into the bank, that the laws of Illinois govern as to the
rate of interest; and that, as the decree was severable in fact and in law,
and as O'Neal's estate (he having deceased) had no concern with the
matters complained of by the bank and by Dawson, they were entitled
to prosecute their appeal without joining O'Neal's admmstratrix, who
did not think proper to question the judgment.

I EQUITY. The Fort Worth Bank and Dawson, respondents, took an appeal from the final decree. The case, as stated

by the court in its opinion, was as follows.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

In February, 1879, Hunter, Evans & Co. engaged m the
live-stock commission business at East St. Louis, Illinois, made
an arrangement with John O'Neal, who resided in Van Zandt
County, Texas, and was buying and shipping cattle from
different points in that State, by which they were to furnish
O'Neal money to buy cattle during the spring and summer of
that year, to be consigned to them for sale. The dealings
between them resulted in an indebtedness to Hunter, Evans &
Co. to a considerable amount, and on the 20th day of August
O'Neal executed two notes for $11,000 each, payable to Hunter, Evans & Co., and as security for their payment gave them
a bill of sale on his 0 N brand of cattle, further described as
being his home stock of cattle, and on the same day and as
part of the same transaction, Hunter, Evans & Co. executed
and delivered to O'Neal a defeasance providing for the cancellation of the bill of sale when the notes were paid. It seems
to be conceded that this chattel mortgage was never properly
recorded in accordance with the statute of Texas, which provided that every chattel mortgage not accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by an actual and continued change
of possession of the property mortgaged or pledged, should be
absolutely void as against subsequent purchasers and mortgagees or lien holders in good faith, unless such instrument or
a true copy thereof were forthwith filed in the office of the
county clerk of the county where the property should then be
situated. While O'Neal was conducting his business with
Hunter, Evans & Co., he obtained money from the City
National Bank of Fort Worth, which was repaid by drafts
drawn on Hunter, Evans & Co. either by O'Neal or by Win.
Hunter, the agent of Hunter, Evans & Co., which were duly
honored by the latter, cxcept one draft dated November 15,
1879, for $9354.03, payment of which was refused, whereupon,
on the 10th day of December, 1879, O'Neal gave his note to
the bank for $9810.11, the amount of said draft and interest,
and executed a mortgage as security on his home stock of
cattle branded 0 N, subject to the bill of sale to Hunter,
Evans & Co., and also of his cattle branded H, and H I, and
one hundred head of horses, mares and colts branded 0 N,

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.

559

Statement of the Case.

wich mortgage was recorded by the county clerk of Van
Zandt County, December 16, 1879.
It is testified by the vice-president of the bank that the
agent of Hunter, Evans & Co. agreed with the bank that if it
would honor O'Neal's checks he would guarantee their payment, and settle O'Neal's accounts at any time by a draft on
Hunter, Evans & Co., in case O':Neal was not in Fort Worth
to give the draft himself, and that the credit was extended to
O'Neal on the strength of said guaranty, that on the day the
draft for $9354.03 was drawn he asked Hunter if it would be
paid by Hunter, Evans & Co., and whether or not witness
had better take a bill of lading, which would insure the payment of the draft, or hold the cattle, to which Hunter replied
that Hunter, Evans & Co. were obliged to pay the draft, and
would do it, and that, relying on that statement, witness did
not take a bill of lading, but allowed the draft to take its
course, and on that day left Fort Worth and was absent some
weeks, and hence was not in Fort Worth when the draft was
protested, nor present when the note and bill of sale were
executed by O'N~eal to the bank. William Hunter, the agent
of Hunter, Evans & Co., denied that they bound themselves
to pay O'Neal's indebtedness to the bank in any way whatever. Early in the year 1880, one John Dawson proposed to
purchase a part of O'Neal's cattle and drive them to a
place olitside of Texas, to fill a contract of sale he had made
with other parties to deliver cattle at the Ponca Agency in
the Indian Territory, by the 20th day of June, 1880, and
agreed with O'N~eal upon the purchase, but before this trade
could be consummated, it was necessary for Dawson to have
the consent of the lien holders, and accordingly he consulted
Hunter, Evans & Co. and the officers of the bank, who agreed
that the sale might be made.
On the 20th of March, 1880, O'Neal and his attorney, William Hunter for Hunter, Evans & Co. and tleir attorney, the
vice-president of the City National Bank and its attorney,
and Dawson met at Fort Worth, Texas, and three different
agreements in writing were executed between the parties.
One was between John M. Dawson, Hunter, Evans & Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

and the bank, and recited the existence of indebtedness and
liens, and the fact that O'Neal had contracted for the sale of
the cattle to Dawson, as shown by a written contract, by the
terms of which Dawson was to assume the payment of O'Neal's
indebtedness to Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, provided
sufficient cattle be delivered by O'Neal to Dawson for the
purpose, that in the event that the cattle sold and delivered
by O'Neal to Dawson should be insufficient to discharge the
amount of the'indebtedness in full, then Dawson assumed to
pay off and discharge the indebtedness pro rata,to the extent
of the cattle received, payment to be made by Dawson to
Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank by October 1, 1880, the
sale was stated to be subject to the liens, and the cattle were
to be held in trust for Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank,
that Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank together should select
a man to accompany Dawson from Texas to the point where
the cattle might be sold, and this man was to have the legal
possession of the cattle and receive the proceeds of the sale,
if Dawson did not sell the cattle by the first of October, 1880,
then Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank might retake the
cattle and dispose of them, and apply the proceeds thereof.
Dawson was to have the handling, control, and disposition of
the cattle, subject to the provisions of the agreement.
Another of the agreements was between Hunter, Evans &
Co., the bank, and O'Neal, whereby Hunter, Evans & Co. and
the bank agreed to the sale of the cattle by O'Neal to Dawson,
provided O'Neal should, upon the delivery of the cattle to
Dawson, surrender to Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank the
proceeds of the sale, consisting of Dawson's paper, together
with the contract of sale, and Hunter, Evans & Co. and the
bank agreed to receive such paper and contract in discharge
of their respective claims upon O'iNeal, provided such proceeds
equalled the amount of the indebtedness to Hunter, Evans & Co.
and the bank, and if such proceeds should be less than said
indebtedness, Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank agreed to
divide the same pro ata. If there should be a deficiency,
O'Neal obligated himself to make it good in cash or notes
secured to the satisfaction of Hunter Evans & Co. and the

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

bank) by giving deeds of trust on real and personal property
If there arose a dispute as to the amount O'Neal owed either
party, then the amount agreed to be due should be adjusted
and discharged, and the amount in dispute should be secured
by O'Neal as aforesaid, and when the dispute should be settled,
the amount thereof should be paid from said proceeds of sale
or said security furmshed by O'Neal. Should there be a deficiency, it was to be "carried owned and held between the
said Hunter, Evans & Co. and the said City National Bank,
according to their respective claims, and the collection arising
therefrom to be pro rated" between them. If the agreement,
"from any cause whatever, fail to be carried out and consummated, then no statement or recital herein shall be construed to
be an abandonment of any right, lien, or security held by any
of the parties hereto."
It was further agreed by O'Neal that should there be a
deficiency he would secure it in manner aforesaid, and it was
to bear interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum from
date, and to mature on or before the first day of January, 1881,
the deficiency to be secured at the time said cattle were delivered to Dawson.
The other agreement was between Dawson and O'Neal,
reciting that whereas Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank had
liens on the cattle, and whereas O'Neal, Hunter, Evans & Co.
and the bank had agreed to sell the cattle to Dawson at the
prices in said agreement mentioned, and whereas Hunter,
Evans & Co. and the bank had agreed with Dawson upon the
time and place of payment for said cattle to the amount of
their debt, or so much thereof as said cattle might bring, and
also upon the manner and amount of security for said payment by said .Daw'son, therefore. O'Neal, in consideration of
the enumerated agreements, "both of which bear even date
herewith and are made parts hereof," and the further consideration of the release of said indebtedness to Hunter, Evans &
Co. and the bank, agreed "to gather and deliver to the said
John Dawson, at or near Will's Point in Van Zandt County,
my stock of cattle, consisting of cows, calves, yearlings, and
two, three and four year olds and upwards, upon which said
VOL.

XrXix-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Hunter, Evans & Co. and said City National Bank have liens,
together with such other of my cattle as I may want to put
in said sale and as may be acceptable to said Dawson, at the
following prices," giving them. Dawson bound himself to pay
for the cattle at the rate fixed, "in such way and such manner
as the said Hunter, Evans & Co. and the said City National
Bank may require, and payable to them," as per agreement
between Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank and Dawson.
If the cattle should amount to more than the amount of the
indebtedness to Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, then Dawson for the excess agreed to give O'Neal security payable not
longer than October 1, 1880, with interest at twelve per cent.
It was further agreed that the cattle were to be delivered to
Dawson on or before May 20, 1880.
The papers having been executed, O'Neal proceeded to
gather the cattle for delivery to Dawson, and Dawson prepared to receive them, both incurring considerable expense in
so doing, and on the 22d day of May, 1880, the gathering of
the cattle was completed near Will's Point, at which place, on
that day, Dawson, O'Neal, L. W Evans, agent of Hunter,
Evans & Co., the attorney of that firm, the attorney of the
bank, and the attorney of O'Neal, and Gen. Henry E. McCulloch, the agent who had been selected and appointed by the
bank and Hunter, Evans & Co. to accompany the drive and
receive from Dawson for them the proceeds of the sale of the
cattle, assembled. The cattle consisted of 1741 head, mostly
branded 0 N, and their value at the contract price was $19,033.
Hunter, Evans & Co. claimed- that O'Neal owed them about
$18,000, O'Neal disputed all of said claim except $9915.74.
The debt of the bank on that date was admitted to be $10,
339.85. The attorney of Hunter, Evans & Co. wrote a note
for Dawson to sign for the purchase money, which he did. It
read as follows

"$19,033.

WILL'S POINT, TEx.As, 3ay 22, 1880.
"One day after date, for value received, I promise to pay
to the order of Hunter, Evans & Co. and the City National
Bank of Fort Worth, Texas, at Fort Worth, Texas, the sum

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

of nineteen thousand and thirty-three dollars, with interest at
the rate of ten per cent per annum from date until paid. This
note is to be paid according to the terms and stipulations contained in a written contract entered into by and between John
Dawson, Hunter, Evans & Co., and the City National Bank
of Fort Worth, and dated March 20, 1880.
"J. M. DAwsoN."
The note was handed, by direction of the bank and Hunter,
Evans & Co., to General IMcCulloch.
The cattle were delivered to Dawson by O'Neal with the
knowledge and consent of Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank,
and were driven by Dawson through Will's Point to a point
three miles west of the town, and on the same day Dawson
sold, for cash, cattle to the amount of $3419, which he paid
over to McCulloch, who indorsed upon the note the following
"Received on the within note three thousand four hundred
and nineteen dollars, ($3419.) May 22, 1880.
" HENRY E. McCuLLoo1 ", Agent."
Upon the basis of the undisputed claims the attorneys of
the bank and of Hunter, Evans & Co. figured out the proportions in which the amount of Dawson's note should be distributed, and ascertained that of said note the bank was entitled
to receive $9715.78 and Hunter, Evans & Co. the remainder,
$9317.22, and both of them instructed General McCulloch,
that of every one thousand dollars paid in by Dawson he
should send Hunter, Evans & Co. $482.52 and the bank
$510.48. The $3419 were then and there divided and paid
over to said parties in that proportion, and the bank's attorney
indorsed O'Neal's note to the bank with a credit of $9715.78
as "assumed by John Dawson," while a receipt was given to
O'Neal by the attorney of Hunter, Evans & Co. "showing
that cattle to the amount of $9317.50 had been delivered to
Dawson." There was no objection to the delivery of the
cattle to Dawson, although before they were delivere& there
was a wrangle between O'Neal and the agent and the attorney
of Hunter, Evans & Co. as to the true amount of the indebt-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

edness of O'Neal to that concern, but, on the contrary, the
attorneys of the parties told Dawson that the cattle were his
and he could drive them to market, and it appears to have
been understood that he was going to drive them through
Northwestern Texas and the Indian Nation to Kansas. Dawson and McCulloch went on with the cattle, getting out of
Van Zandt County on the 23d or 24th of May, 1880, and soon
after leaving Will's Point Dawson sold another lot of the
cattle for something over $2000, receiving in part payment
therefor a draft payable to Hunter, Evans & Co. for $1842,
for which McCulloch entered on Dawson's note the following
credit
"Received on the within note a draft drawn by Frank
Houstan for eighteen hundred and forty-two dollars, payable
on the 22d day of next month. May 25, 1880.
"HENRY E. MCCULLOcH, Agent."
This draft was sent by McCulloch to Hunter, Evans & Co.,
and at the same time McCulloch drew a draft upon them in
favor of the City National Bank for its pro rata part of said
payment, $939.88, but when the latter was presented to Hunter, Evans & Co. for their acceptance they declined to accept
it and appropriated the whole of this payment.
On the 31st of May, 1880, Hunter, Evans & Co. began suit
in the District Court of Montague County, Texas, by petition,
against O'Neal and Dawson, claiming to have a lien upon the
stock of cattle then in the possession of John Dawson in said
county of Montague, which lien they charged existed by virtue of a mortgage given them upon said stock of cattle by
O'Neal, and sued out a writ of sequestration by virtue of
which the sheriff of Montague County took into his possession
the property described in the petition and writ, to wit, fourteen hundred and seventy-eight head of cattle of the aggregate
value of $15,614.
The -seizure was made on the 2d day of June and the cattle
retaken by Dawson under a replevin or forthcoming bond on
the 6th day of June. The bank furnished Dawson the securi-

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

ties on his bond, and when he sold the cattle afterwards he
paid the amount of his note and interest into the bank, which
has ever since held the same to await the result of this suit.
On the 21st day of June, 1880, iunter, Evans & Co. sued
out a supplemental writ of sequestration directed to Van Zandt
County, under which about 24:7 head of cattle were seized,
and of these O'Neal replevied a few cows and calves valued at
$110. On the 28th day of December, 1880, the cause was
removed into the United States Circuit Court for the Northera District of Texas, at Dallas. O'Neal appeared first in
the state court and pleaded to the jurisdiction, which plea was
pending when the record was filed in the United States court.
In 1881 the City National Bank of Fort Worth entered its
appearance as a defendant. Both parties then, by leave of
court, amended their pleadings. Hunter, Evans & Co. in their
amended bill set up their dealings with O'Neal and the execution of the bill of sale and defeasance, and claimed that O'INeal
owed them $18,616.49, February 1, 1880, on which they
received during that month from the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company $625, and on the 22d day of May, 1880, from H.
E. McCulloch, $1668.56, that O'Neal gave a mortgage to the
bank subject to their lien, but the bank, in February, 1880,
claimed that its lien was superior to that of Hunter, Evans
& Co., and threatened to litigate said question, that at that
time the 0 N stock of cattle could not be gathered except at
ruinous expense and great trouble, and Hunter, Evans & Co.
knew that, pending litigation about them, the cattle while on
the range would become worthless by straying off and being
stolen and sold by other parties, and to avoid such litigation,
expense, and loss of said cattle, Hunter, Evans & Co. entered
into two certain agreements dated March 20, 1880, the two
being in fact but one, the substance of which they proceeded to
state. Complainants then stated the meeting at Will's Point
on May 22d, and said that, without notice to them, O'Neal
delivered to Dawson stock of the value of $19,033, of which
cattle to the amount of $3419 were sold and the proceeds
paid to McCulloch, who had been selected by Hunter, Evans
& Co. and the bank to accompany the cattle, of which

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

amount complainants received $1668.38 and the bank the
balance, that after the cattle were delivered O'Neal for the
first time disputed over $8700 of his indebtedness to complanants, that O'Neal made to Dawson a bill of sale for
said cattle, and Dawson executed his note to complainants
and the bank for $19,033, and complainants and the bank
gave O'Neal a receipt for said amount, that O'iNeal then
failed and refused to secure the disputed amount of complainants' claim against him, that "thereupon the parties to
said agreement were remitted to their original rights and
liens, and the said agreements thereby became abrogated and
were thereafter of no force or effect," and that complainants
had since "treated said agreement as abrogated, abandoned
and of no effect." They charged that O'Neal, Dawson and
the bank confederated to cheat them, and that O'Neal at the
time of the agreement in March represented that he owned
a large number of cattle included in the bank's lien but not
in complainants', and that if complainants would enter into
said agreement said cattle should be embraced therein and
included in the delivery to Dawson, that complainants, relying on the representations which were adopted by the bank,
were induced to enter into the agreement with O'Neal, Dawson and the bank, but the representations were false and
known to be so by the parties, that O'Neal frequently acknowledged that $16,300 of complainants' claim was correct,
and promised to meet complainants after said agreements and
fix the amount of the indebtedness but did not do so, and after
the cattle were delivered to Dawson, then for the first time
disputed $8500 of complainants' claim, that he proposed to
pay complainants something over $4000 in addition to the
amount assumed by Dawson, but complainants rejected that
proposition, and that complainants tried to obtain arbitration
without effect, and O'Neal finally said that he had no property
with which to secure his indebtedness to complainants, that
his property was mortgaged, etc., that O'Neal was hopelessly
insolvent when he delivered said cattle to Dawson, and after
said delivery owned no other cattle except about 300 head of
said 0 N stock, not exceeding the value of $3000, and included

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

m complainants' bill of sale, that O'Neal's acts and representations, after the delivery to Dawson, were with the view
to delay complainants while Dawson hurriedly proceeded to
drive the cattle out of Texas with fraudulent purpose, that
all the cattle delivered by O'Neal to Dawson belonged to the
O N stock and were included in the complainants' bill of sale,
and he did not deliver to Dawson any cattle of the other
marks and brands mentioned in the bank's mortgage, that
long after the execution of the bill of sale to complainants,
O'Neal, without complainants' knowledge or consent, sold

cattle to the amount of $3000 and converted the amount to
his own use, that on account of the deceit and fraud of O'Neal,
Dawson and the bank, the said agreements of March 20, 1880,
are null and void, that Dawson failed to account to McCulloch for $218, that he disposed of part of the stock and received in exchange about thirty head of yearlings, and was
proposing to dispose of them without accounting when stopped
by the levy of the writ of sequestration, and that after Dawson replevied said cattle he sold them for $16,500, and now
holds that amount.
Complainants prayed a decree against O'Neal for the full
amount of their debt against him and for a foreclosure of their
lien against O'Neal, Dawson and the bank, and, if mistaken
as to their remedy, they prayed for a decree against Dawson
and the bank for the amount of money coming to them from
the proceeds of said cattle under and by virtue of said agreements, and for general relief.
O'Neal, in addition to his plea to the jurisdiction, answered
by a general denial, and further, that the notes held by complainants were simply executed to secure a margin of credit
from complainants, and that complainants' claims were full
of incorrect items, which he specified and which amounted to
many thousand dollars.
The bank and Dawson filed joint and several answers, settmg up the execution by O'Neal to the bank, on the 10th of
December, 1879, of his note for $9810.11, secured by mortgage on his home stock of cattle, branded H and 0 N, including horses, mares and colts, that the bills of sale to Hunter,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Evans & Co. and the bank were intended to be mortgages,
that Hunter, Evans & Co. knew better than the officers of the
bank what O'Neal's financial condition was, and in all their
transactions relied on their own knowledge of him and his
property, that it was at the special instance and request of
complainants that the bank advanced O'Neal the money out of
which his indebtedness to it grew, and complainants promised
to pay thesame, that the bank did intend to institute suit for
the purpose of deciding the validity and priority of its own
and complainants' liens, that they believe the motives of Hunter, Evans & Co., in entering into said agreements, were the
knowledge that they had not in fact a debt against O'Neal of
the amount claimed by them, and knew they were primarily
liable to the bank for the payment of its debt against O'lNeal,
and because by entering into said agreements they would escape from responsibility to the bank and from a controversy
with the bank as to the validity of their lien, and obtain an
equal lien on property they had no lien upon before, and
would without surrendering the disputed amount of their debt
against O'Neal effect a collection without loss of the uncontested part, that the reservation in said agreement, that if it
should fail to be carried out and consummated, then no statement or recital therein should be construed "to be an abandonment of any right, lien, or security held by any of the parties
hereto," applied only to the consummation of the pending
transaction, and that when the sale from O'Neal to Dawson
was perfected by delivery, on the 22d of May, 1880, said agreement took final effect. The circumstances attending the execution of the agreements and the transactions at Will's Point,
the execution of Dawson's note, payments made on it, etc.,
were set out, and "defendants said that the objects of the two
agreements between O'Neal, the bank and Hunter, Evans &
Co., and Dawson, the bank and Hunter, Evans & Co., were
double -one was to sell the cattle to Dawson free from every
lien before existing against them, but charged with a new lien or
trust, to be enforced through the agency of H1. E. McCulloch,
the other to obtain a settlement between some, but not all, of
said parties, and therefore all of the provisions of one are not

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Statement of the Case.

provisions of the other agreement, that by the agreement of
March 20, 1880, and the purchase of the cattle by Dawson,
the original liens of complainants and the bank on the cattle
sold Dawson were extinguished, and said new lien substituted
therefor, that complainants knew before the delivery of the
cattle to Dawson the exact amount of their debt that was disputed by O'Neal, that Dawson used despatch m driving the
cattle, because, as was known to complainants, he purchased
them to fulfil contracts of sale previously made by him, and he
commenced with the knowledge and consent of complainants
to drive said cattle to their destination out of the State of
Texas, that at the date of the delivery to Dawson, O'Neal
owned a large number of cattle, not included in the sale and
delivery to Dawson, which he offered to deliver upon the same
terms and for the same purpose, if the time required for their
being gathered was allowed, but complainants agreed that the
cattle then gathered should be delivered, that at the time of
the delivery to Dawson, O'Neal owned of the 0 N stock on
the range in Van Zandt County, besides those delivered to
Dawson, as many as 350 head, of the value of $5250, as complainants well knew, and which were seized a few days afterwards by a writ of sequestration, wrongfully sued out by complainants, that O'Neal was solvent at the time of the sale and
delivery to Dawson, and offered to secure Hunter, Evans &
Co. by mortgage, which was not executed, because they required a power of sale for cash in ten days after the amount in
dispute had been settled, that O'Neal was always ready to
give complainants security, but they refused to take it uncoupled with the authority to foreclose at once, that the cause
of the failure of negotiations between complainants and O'Neal
was that complainants had conceived the purpose of seizing
Dawson's property under such circumstances as they believed
would lead to its being surrendered to them by Dawson rather
than suffer the damages, delays and losses which might otherwise ensue, that the officers of the bank and Dawson did
nothing at any time with the view to deceive or injure complainants in any way, and if O'Neal had any such purpose he
did not communicate it to either of them, but they believed

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

and had every reason to believe that O'Neal was acting with
the utmost good faith towards complainants. They denied
that the bank or its officers, previous to the date of the agreement, had any knowledge of the number, value, or situation of
O'N~eal's cattle other than O'Neal's statements to them. They
said they never pretended or represented to complainants, or
either of them, or any agent of theirs, that said bank, or any
of its officers, or agents, had any such knowledge, and they
denied that they, or either of them, deceived complainants, or
either of them, or caused them to be deceived in any respect.
They denied all collusion to get possession of the stock of cattle or to have said agreement executed before a final settlement between O'Neal and complainants. They denied that
Dawson ever disposed of any of the cattle otherwise than he
was authorized to do by said agreement and as the owner
thereof, and that they had deceived McCulloch in any respect.
They averred that complainants purposely failed to make the
bank a party to their suit in Montague County, and brought
said suit there in a court which had jurisdiction neither of the
property nor of the persons of the defendants.
Defendant Dawson charged that complainants, by their
wrongful seizure of said cattle by the writ of sequestration, subjected him to great expense, loss and damage, which he specified, and asked to have allowed by way of reconvention, and
that he had been damaged by reason of the malicious suing
out of said writ of sequestration in the further sum of $10,000,
for which he asked punitive damages.
On the 18th day of May, 1885, the court overruled the defendants' exceptions and O'Neal's plea to the jurisdiction and
entered a decree that Dawson's note be divided between
complainants and the bank ji.o ratc according to their actual
demands against John A. O'Neal, that on May 22, 1880,
O'Neal was indebted to the complainants in the sum of
$18,333.68 and to the bank in the sum of $10,339.85, that
complainants were entitled at said date, out of the Dawson
note,-to the sum of $12,169.64, less the sums received by them
from the proceeds of said note, to wit, the sum of $1668.69,
paid May 26, 1880, and the sum of $1842, paid June 26, 1880,

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.

Opinion of the Court.
with interest from May 22, 1880, that Hunter, Evans & Co.
recover from Dawson and his sureties the sum of $8659.15
principal and $4329.67 interest, making a total of $12,988.82,
with interest from date of decree at the rate of ten per cent,
and costs, that complainants had received the sum of $2424.56
in the value of cattle sequestered herein and replevied by complainants, of which sum the bank was entitled to $1311.50,
and that the bank recover of complainants said sum, with execution. It further appearing that O'N~eal replevied $110 worth
of cattle sequestered on the 20th of July, 1880, it was decreed
that complainants recover of Mary O'Neal, administratrix,
and the sureties of O'Neal on the replevin bond, $110, with interest at eight per cent per annum from July 20, with execution, the proceeds of said collection to be distributed -pro Pata
between complainants and the bank; that complainants recover
of and from the estate of O'Neal, to be paid in the due course
of administration, the sum of $4613.81 and costs, less any sum
or sums received by complainants from the execution to be
issued against O'I~eal's sureties, and that in the meantime
the costs of this suit be paid by complainants and the bank
.prorata.
_31r A. S. ]athrop for appellants.
Mr Sawnw _Robertson for appellees.
MR. CIEF JUsTc

Fu .LER delivered the opimon of the

court.

The action of the parties at Will's Point on the 22d day of
May, 1880, so far carried out and consummated the agreements
of March 20th, that neither the bank nor Hunter, Evans & Co.
could thereafterwards insist upon superiority of lien as between
themselves, and we are satisfied, upon a careful review of the
evidence, that Hunter, Evans & Co. were not entitled to rescind the agreements or treat them as annulled on the ground
of fraud in the obtaining of their execution.
Many circumstances are clearly made to appear which

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered it natural for Hunter, Evans & Co. to desire to make
just such agreements as they did make, and are inconsistent
with the theory that they did not act with their eyes open.
Although they claimed a first lien upon the larger part of
the cattle in question, yet this was contested by the bank on
the ground of the invalidity thereof under the statute, as
against its mortgage. And while it is denied on the part of
Hunter, Evans & Co., the evidence of the vice-president of the
bank is explicit to the effect that the line of credit extended to
O'Neal bv the bank was on the strength of the agreement of
William Hunter to guarantee the payment of O'Neal's drafts,
and that, as to the particular draft which created the indebtedness due the bank, the bank neglected to take a bill of lading because it relied on the statement of Hunter that the draft
would be honored. Questions such as these demanded solution,
and it is not to be wondered at that Hunter, Evans & Co., as
they say in their bill, to avoid "litigation, expense and loss,"
entered into these contracts. Again, a portion of his alleged
indebtedness to Hunter, Evans & Co. had always been disputed
by O'Neal. O'Neal had more cattle than those named in the
bill of sale to Hunter, Evans & Co., was believed to have other
property; and there is considerable evidence tending to show
that his financial condition need not have been rendered as
desperate as it subsequently apparently became. It was desirable that the cattle should be sold, and the sale to Dawson
was agreeable to both Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, if
an agreement could be made in respect to the proceeds.
In the light of these circumstances, it would require a strong
case of definite misrepresentation as to facts, as distinguished
from mere matters of opinion, to be made out before these
agreements could be declared null and void.
Complainants aver, in substance, that O'Neal represented
that he owned a large number of cattle not in the 0 N brand,
then running in the range in Van Zandt County, which were
not included in the bill of sale to Hunter, Evans & Co., but
were included in the bank's mortgage, and which were "quite
or very nearly sufficient in value to pay the said O'Neal',
indebtedness to the said bank," and that they were induced to

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

enter into said agreements in reliance on said representations,
which were false.
But we think the evidence fairly preponderates that no
such statements were made, and certainly not to the bank's
knowledge, and that the testimony to the contrary is given
under a nnsapprehension arising from O'Neal expressing his
belief that he had cattle enough in all to pay both debts. And
this inference is heightened by the fact that the tendency of
the evidence is to establish that William Hunter, the agent of
Hunter, Evans & Co., was acquainted with O'Neal's cattle,
and must have known that they were principally of the 0 N
brand. If the contention that O'Neal fraudulently disputed
so large a part of the claim of Hunter, Evans & Co. against
him, and then fraudulently refused to secure the disputed
amount, were sustained by the evidence, neither the bank nor
Dawson should be held bound by such conduct on his part
without convincing proof that they participated or acquiesced
in such fraud. And it would have been the duty of Hunter,
Evans & Co., if they designed to attempt to set up fraud in
these particulars, to have refused to go forward in consummation of the agreements on the 22d day of May at Will's Point.
When the parties met there on that day, O'Neal and Dawson having been -in the meantime put to a large expense on
the strength of the agreements, in gathering and caring for
the cattle when and as gathered, the amount due from O'Neal
to Hunter, Evans & Co. had not been determined, and O'Neal
insisted that their account was erroneous to the extent of
between eight and nine thousand dollars. The undisputed
portion of the claim was finally set at $9915.74. The debt
due the bank was admitted to be $10,339.85, and the price to
be paid for the cattle by Dawson, $19,033. The attorneys of
the bank and Hunter, Evans & Co. proceeded to ascertain
what the pro rata shares in the $19,033 of the bank and
Hunter, Evans & Co. would be, and placed the bank's at
$9715.78 and Hunter, Evans & Co.'s at $931.22, these being
the proportions that the undisputed debt due the bank of
$10,339.85 and the undisputed debt of $9915.74 due to Hunter,
Evans & Co. were respectively entitled to receive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

McCulloch had been selected as the party to accompany
Dawson "in driving said cattle from Texas to any point said
cattle may be sold," to "have the legal possession of said
cattle," and to "receive the proceeds of the sale of said cattle
from any and all purchasers of said cattle to the extent and
amount of said indebtedness assumed by said Dawson," namely,
inasmuch as the value of the cattle delivered to Dawson was
not equal to the amount of the indebtedness, "_po P'ata to the
extent of the cattle received." The undisputed debts due to
Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, the price of the cattle and
the proportions in which the proceeds were to be distributed,
having been arrived at, Dawson signed and delivered the note
for $19,033, O'Neal executed an absolute bill of sale to him,
the cattle were delivered, and McCulloch and Dawson started
on the drive, it being understood that the cattle were to be
driven to market beyond the boundaries of the State. On the
same day Dawson sold cattle to the amount of $3419, which
was receipted for on the note by McCulloch, and which was
dividedpro 'ata between Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank,
as agreed upon by their representatives at the time, Hunter,
Evans & Co. receiving $1668.56. On the 25th of May McCulloch received from further cattle sold a draft for $1842, payable June 22d, which, being payable to Hunter, Evans & Co.,
was remitted to them, but McCulloch at the same time drew
a draft on Hunter, Evans & Co. in favor of the bank for the
bank's share, according to the proportion agreed upon, namely,
$939.88, McCulloch having been instructed by the attorneys
that of every one thousand dollars received he should send
Hunter, Evans & Co. $482.52 and the bank $510.48.
In our judgment the execution and delivery of his note by
Dawson, and the delivery of the cattle to him, and O'Neal's
bill of sale, constituted, under the circumstances, the consummation of the written agreement so far as he was concerned.
The cattle belonged to Dawson, subject to being retaken by
Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, if Dawson did not sell them
by the first of October. All that remained for Dawson to do
was to sell the cattle and pay over the proceeds to McCulloch
until his note was extinguished.

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be conceded that Hunter, Evans & Co. supposed on
the 22d of May that O'lNeal would be able to secure the
balance due, but Dawson did not agree, as we view the transaction, that O'Neal should do so, nor was there any reason
why he should, if he paid the price agreed upon for the cattle.
The controversy, if any, between the other parties, would be
transferred to the proceeds.
What they all desired and what they all agreed upon was a
sale of the cattle for their value, and the collection of the proceeds of such sale, and this was effected in the manner stated
by the arrangement with Dawson, who, however, was under
no obligation after the cattle were delivered to him, except to
account for their proceeds to the amount of the note he had
given, or surrender them in case of failure to realize before
October 1st.
We regard the action of Hunter, Evans & Co., in commencing suit on the 31st day of May, in the District Court of Montague County, against Dawson impleaded with O'Neal, and
taking possession of Dawson's cattle by writ of sequestration,
as unjustifiable, and hold that Dawson is entitled to recover
such damages as he actually sustained, by way of reconvention, in this suit. We are asked to dismiss the bill altogether,
and if it had remained, as originally filed, a bill for the foreclosure of the chattel mortgage given Hunter, Evans & Co.,
which mortgage had been in effect disposed of by the agreements of March 20th, that course might have been proper,
but the parties repleaded, and the bill as amended being in
the alternative, and seeking the ascertainment of the indebtedness of O'Neal to complainants, and the payment of their
share of the proceeds of the cattle, we think it should be
retained and go to decree, upon being remanded, in accordance with the views herein expressed. The agreement between Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank, and O'Neal, provided that, in case of any difference or trouble about the
amount of the indebtedness of O'Neal to Hunter, Evans &
Co., or the bank, the disputed amount, when determined by
agreement, suit, arbitration or otherwise, should be paid from
the proceeds of the sale to Dawson, or from security furnished

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

by O'Neal, and the Circuit Court held that when the amount
of the claim of Hunter, Evans & Co. was determined in the
suit, they should participate Pro 'ata in the fund derived from
Dawson's note, and from property of O'Neal realized upon
outside of that.
As it is clear that O'Neal was liable for very much the
larger part of the amount disputed by him, so that the pro
i'ata proportions arrived at at Will's Point were incorrect, and
as we do not perceive that the bank is so situated as to be
equitably entitled, under all the circumstances, to insist, upon
the principles of estoppel or otherwise, that the proportions, as
then estimated, must necessarily remain unchanged, we are not
inclined to challenge the conclusion reached by the Circuit
Court in this regard.
It appears from the evidence that after Dawson replevied
the cattle he sold them, and paid the balance due upon his
note into the bank to abide the result of this suit, but at what
date this deposit was made, and the exact amount of it, does
not appear. The sums of $3419 and $1842 had already been
paid upon the note, leaving a principal sum of $13,772, but
the note bore ten per cent interest, which must be added
down to the date of the payment into the bank. Upon a
supplementary writ of sequestration, dated June 21, 1880, and
directed to the sheriff of Van Zandt County, 247 cattle belonging to O'Neal were taken, of which he replevied 21 cows and
calves, worth $110, and gave bond therefor July 17, and on
the 20th of July the remainder of said cattle were delivered
to Hunter, Evans & Co., being valued by the sheriff at
$2424.56, Hunter, Evans & Co. giving bond in the penal sum
of $5000. These cattle, it is testified to by O'Neal and Allen,
were worth $15 a head, with the exception of a few calves,
which were worth about $7 a head. Hunter, Evans & Co.
sold 196 of them for $2141.50. The Circuit Court found their
value to be that fixed by the sheriff, namely, $2424.56, and
with that we are content. In the view which we take of the
conduct of Hunter, Evans & Co. they are to be held to have
received this $2424.56 July 20, 1880, and to account also for
$110 as of July 17, 1880, leaving them to pursue for their own

CITY BANK v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

benefit the sureties on O'Neal's bond. The fund, therefore, to
be divided pro PaW consists of the amount of the Dawson
note, with such interest as accrued thereon down to the date
of the payment by Dawson into the bank, and of the $2424.56
and of the $110.
As of what date shall the proportions in winch this fund is
to be divided between Hunter, Evans & Co. and the bank be
ascertained 2 We believe it most equitable that this pro rata
division should be determined as of the date that Dawson
paid the money into the bank.
In arriving at the amount actually due from O'Neal to Hunter, Evans & Co., for the purpose of distributing the fund, we
think the account attached to the bill may be treated as sufficiently shown by the evidence to be correct, with the exception
of some of the interest charges, which are calculated at ten
per cent and which ought not to be compounded. The rate of
interest in the State of Illinois in 1819-80 was six per cent, but
in all written contracts it was lawful for the parties to stipulate or agree that eight per cent per annum should be paid,
and it was provided that any person or corporation who should
contract to receive a greater rate of interest or discount than
eight per cent should forfeit the whole of said interest so
contracted to be received, and be entitled only to recover
the principal sum. Revised Statutes Illinois, 1881, c. 74,
p. 650.
In the State of Texas the rate of interest when no specified
rate was agreed upon was eight per cent, which applied to
open accounts from the first day of January after the same
were made. The parties to any written contract might agree
to and stipulate for any rate of interest not exceeding twelve
per cent per annum. Revised Statutes of Texas, 1879, p.
433.

We agree with appellees' counsel that the statutes of Texas
do not apply, and are of opinion that Hunter, Evans & Co. are
entitled to receive interest at no greater rate than that fixed
by the laws of Illinois. As usury was not pleaded by O'Neal,
we shall not disturb in the account the discounts of his notes
and the fifty dollars interest charged as of August 20, but we
VOL. CXxx-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

are not convinced that O'Neal acquiesced in any of the charges
of interest after that. These charges up to February 20, 1880,
amounted to $875.76. The balance shown February 20, 1880,
was $17,871.34, and $875.76 being deducted, leaves $16,995.58.
Taking this as a basis, interest may be calculated on the average monthly balances after August 20, 1879, at the rate of six
per cent, down to the date at which Dawson paid the balance
due on his note into the bank, and then added to the principal
sum. This will give the amount due to Hunter, Evans & Co.
as of that date if they had received no payments thereon in
the intermediate time.
The bank's debt should be ascertained as of the same date,
namely, the date when Dawson paid the balance on his note
into the bank, by adding the interest to O'Neal's note held
by it of $9810.11, dated December 10, 1879, according to its
terms.
The proportion of the fund to go to each of the debts so
ascertained can then be arrived at. From the pro 'rata amount
to come to Hunter, Evans & Co. should be deducted the payments of $1668.56, May 22, and $1842, June 22, and the sum
of $110, July 17, and of $2424.56 as of July 20, with interest,
and the balance of the pro rata amount should be decreed to
be paid out of the money deposited by Dawson as of the date
of such deposit, the bank retaining the remainder, and at the
same time provision should be made for the production and
cancellation of Dawson's note, the discharge of the sureties
upon his forthcoming or replevin bond, and the payment of
his claim in reconvention.
While the case was pending in the Circuit Court, John
O'Neal died and the cause was revived as to Mary O'Neal, his
administratrix.
She did not appeal, and the bank and Dawson petitioned
the court to be allowed an appeal as between themselves and
Hunter, Evans and Buel, the complainants, which was ordered
by the court as to said two defendants, who perfected their
appeal accordingly
This was proper, as with the matters complained of by the
bank and by Dawson, O'Neal's estate had no concern. The

UNITED STATES v. MARSHALL MINING CO.

579

Syllabus.

total balance of the indebtedness due from that estate, after
all payments and money realized were applied, would be the
same, irrespective of the proportion of such balance found due
to each of the two creditors. The decree was severable in
fact and in law, and the bank and Dawson were entitled to
prosecute their appeal without joining their codefendant, who
did not think proper to question the judgment.
And while, in order to a correct distribution of the fund, it
becomes necessary to find the indebtedness of O'Neal to
Hunter, Evans & Co. and to the bank, this is not a determination of the amount remaining due after the distribution is
made, with intent to a decree over against O'Neal's estate
therefor, as the decree originally entered, so far as relates to
that, stands unappealed from by either of the parties concerned.
The decree of the Circuit Court ss reversed, with costs, and
the cause remanded wtth directions to proceed m conformisty with this omnwn.

UNITED

STATES v. MARSHALL
COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE CIROCIT cOURT

OF THE

SILVER MINING

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 17. Argued November 20,1888.-Deeided March 5,1889.

When the United States retires from the prosecution of a suit instituted to
vacate a patent of public land, without causing the appeal to be disnnssed,
and another party, claiming the same land under another patent, is in
court to prosecute the appeal, this court will not dismiss it on the motion
of the appellee as of right, but will look into the case, and if the circumstances require it, will hear argument on the case and decide it.
Errors and irregularities in the process of entering and procuring title to
public lands should be corrected in the Land Department, so long as
there are means for revising the proceedings and correcting the errors.
Silence for more than eight years after a party has abandoned a contest
for a patent of mineral land, and has submitted to a decision of the
question by the Land Department, however erroneous, is such laches as

