OCTOB$R TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

variety of cases, as shown by the citations in the brief of
counsel for plaintiff in error, are in accord with the construetion, by this court, of these clauses of the section in question,
and have applied it to cases of agents, factors, commission
merchants, and bailees, who have failed to account for proceeds of the sale of property committed to them for that
purpose or moneys received upon collections entrusted to them.
The finding of the jury, that the agreement of the plaintiff
m error was to collect the money and keep it until the defendants in error called for it, cannot be taken, to imply an obligation to keep and deliver to them the identical bills or coins.
Evqn if the agreement between the parties might be construed
as creating a trust in some sense, it was clearly not such a
trust as comes within the provisions of the bankrupt act.
Nor can the subsequent mingling, by the plaintiff in error,
of the money collected with his own, constitute the actual,
positve fraud contemplated by that act, but only such an
wmplied fraud as is involved in most, or all, cases of conversion
of property or of breach of contract.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Vermont is m conflict with the principles laid down by the decisions of this
court, as well as the general drift of those of the several
state courts, and is, therefore, reversed, and
The case is remanded to the court below, wit an instruction
to grant a new t'ial and to take such further proceedings
as may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

ANDERSON" v. MILLER.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT
THE EASTERN

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 135. Argued December 19, 1888.- Decided January 14,1889.

On the proofs the court holds that there has been no infrmgement of the
appellant's patent by the appellees.

ANDERSON

v. MILLER.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.& CkaraZlev S. Whqtman for appellant.
.Xr John S. WTise for appellees.
MR. JUSTmC

L&3%nA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, by the
appellant against the appellees, founded on an alleged infringement by them of letters patent INo. 265,733, granted to appellant, October 10, 1882, upon an application filed June 24,
1882, for an improvement in drawers.
The alleged infringement consisted in appellees' placing on
drawers manufactured by them a patch extending down the
front and lapping the seam of the crotch by at least half an
inch, which process of re~nforemng the garment, it was alleged,
was the invention of the appellant.
The bill avers that "the defendants, Henry T. Miller and
William Mitchell, both of the city of Richmond, in the county
of Henrico and State of Virginia, and citizens of the said
State of Virgima, constituting the firm of Henry T. Miller &
Co., doing business at Richmond, in the county, State,
and district aforesaid,
are now using said patented
improvements, or improvements in some parts thereof substantially the same in construction and operation as in the
letters patent mentioned, and, in violation of his rights, have
made, used and vended within the Eastern District of
Virginia
large quantities of drawers described and
claimed in the letters patent aforesaid," etc.
The answer of the defendants, in their own separate names,
with the firm name, precisely as they are stated by the bill, in
response to complainant's interrogatories, admits that they are
residents of Richmond, Virginia, and engaged in the business
of the manufacture and vending of drawers for the clothing
trade in that city
The averments of the answer, material to this inquiry, are,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"that drawers, as renforced as described in letters patent of
plaintiff, had been made and in public use and on sale by sundry'and divers persons for many years prior to plaintiff's application," that they, the defendants, "have been manufacturing
one particular kind, and only one particular kind, of reenforced drawers for more than five years hitherto continuously, a specimen of which drawers, manufactured by them,
is filed as 'Exhibit A,' etc., and that these are the only kind
of re~nforced drawers that have been manufactured by them,
or either of them, during the last five years;" and that,
"even if the drawers manufactured by them are either. identically or substantially the same as those manufactured by the
complainant, he is entitled to no relief whatever against them,
because these respondents are prepared to prove that Henry
T. Miller & Co. and Henry T. Miller have hitherto continuously for over five years manufactured the identical refnforced
drawers filed as ' Exhibit A,' and that for over four years
prior to the application for said patent they used and sold reenforced drawers of the pattern and design of those now
filed as 'Exhibit A,' and none other."
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and an appeal from
that decree of dismissal brings the case here.
It is contended by the appellant that the answer of the
defendants below did not contain a sufficient notice, under the
statute, of the defence of want of novelty and two years' public use, in that it did not state the names and places of residence of the persons by whom and where it was used. The
object of this statutory reqmrement is, to apprise the plaintiff
of the nature of the evidence which he must be ready to meet
at the trial. This object is substantially and fully accomplished by the pleadings in this case, and we decline to disturb
the action of the court below overruling the motion made at
the hearing to strike out the testimony of the witnesses for
the defence, who testified to the prior use of the patented
article.
We do not deem it necessary to consider the question
whether the patent of the appellant is for a new and useful
invention within the meaning of ยง 4886 et seg., Rev Stat.,

CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
Statement of the Case.

inasmuch as it is the opinion of this court that there has
been no infringement of it in this case by the appellees. It is
satisfactorily shown by the evidence in the record that for
more than two years prior to the application for the patent in
question the appellees had been manufacturing, at their place
of business at Richmond, Virginia, garments identical in pattern with those that are now alleged to infringe appellant's
patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Aflmed.

CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

STATES FOR

No. 80. Argued November 14, 15, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

When the decree of a court of equity, for the sale of a tract of land, requires
the sale to be made " upon the terms, cash in hand upon the day of sale,"
and a person bidding for it at the sale is the highest bidder, and as such
is duly declared to be the purchaser, no confirmation of the sale by the
court is necessary in order to fix liability upon him for tue deficiency
arising upon a resale, in case he refuses, without cause, to fulfil his contract; and, if the purchaser refuses to pay the amount bid, the court,
without confirming the sale, may order the tract to be resold, and that
the purchaser shall pay the expenses arising from the non-completion of
the purchase, the application and the resale, and also any deficiency in
price in the resale.
When a purchaser at a sale of real estate, under a decree of a court of
equity, refuses, without cause, to make his bid good, he may be compelled to do so by rule or attachment issuing out of the court under
whose decree the sale was had, or he may be proceeded against in the
same suit by rule, (or in any other mode devised by the court, which will
enable him to meet the issue as to his liability,) in order to make him
liable for a deficiency resulting from a resale caused by Ins refusal to
make Is bid good.

Tim court stated the case as follows
This is an appeal from a final order in the suit, in the court
below, of -Mayew, &c. v West Virgmta Oil and Oil Land

