SARGENT v. BURGESS.
Statement of the Case.

cuit Court from the defendants' patent of July, 187, we are
of opinion that the second, fifth, and seventh claims of that
patent, in speaking of the shoe as "rocking," can only refer to
its swinging on a hinge at its rear end, and that the term
" rocking" is not used in the sense in which it is used in the
plaintiff's patent, because, neither in the defendants' patent
nor in their machine has their shoe or their finger-beam any
such rocking motion as is described in the plaintiff's patent.
It results from these views that, on a proper construction of
claims 1 and 2 of the plaintiff's patent, the defendants have
not infringed it, and that
The decree of the Circmt Court must. be reversed, and the
cause be remanded wzth a direction to dismmss the bill of
complaimt, with costs.

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TME UNITED STATES FOR THg
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 127. Argued Decemb.er 12, 13, 1888.-

Decided January 1,1889.

Claim 3 of letters patent No. 223,338, granted to John M. Gorham, January
6th, 1880, for an improvement in wash-board frames, namely, "3. In
combination with a wash-board, a protector located below the crownpiece and between the side pieces of the wash-board frame, and constructed to fold down into or upon said wash-board even with or below
the general plane of said wash-board frame, substantially as and for the
purpose shown," cannot, in view of the state of the art, and of the course

of proceeding in the Patent Office on the application for the patent, be
so construed as to cover a protector which does not have the yielding,
elastic or resilient function described in the specification.
The defendant's protector, constructed in accordance with letters patent
No. 255,555, granted to Charles H. Willams, March 28th, 1882, and
having no yielding or resilient function, and not being pivoted, or folding down, after the manner of the Gorham protector, does not infringe
claim 3.

ThN EQurrY for the infringement of letters patent.
is stated in the opinion.

The case

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr George H Cliristy, with whom was X/q. .1 Snowden
Bell on the brief; for appellants.
.Hr James Parsoms and Mr Furman Slieppoard, for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE BLATCHFOiRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought by the administrators of
John H. Gorham, deceased, against Edwin K. Burgess, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, to recover for the alleged infringement of letters patent No.223,338, granted to John M. Gorham,. January
6, 1880, for an improvement in wash-board frames.
The following is a copy of the specification and drawings
of the patent "To all whom it may concern Be it known
that I, John M. Gorham, of Cleveland, in the county of
Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, have invented certain new and
useful improvements in wash-board frames, and I do hereby
declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description
oi the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art
to which it pertains to make and use it, reference being had
to the accompanying drawings, which form part of this specification.
"My invention relates to wash-boards, particularly to the
combination, with a wash-board, of a protector constructed
to bend or yield to pressure and to return to position when
said pressure is removed. This protector is to shield the
person of the washer from splashing water or suds.
" Protectors have been heretofore employed in connection
with wash-boards, and they have been of but two general
types -one wherein the protector is rigid and rigidly attached
to the wash-board frame. A protector thus constructed and
attached is not capable of yielding or moving from its position, when the body of the operator presses against it, and
it is on this account frequently objected to. The second type
is when the protector is attached to the wash-board frame by
a joint or pivot, and is allowed a swinging movement, but it

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

possesses no elastic or resilient quality or function, and, when
moved by pressure, has no power to return again to normal
position when said pressure is removed. My invention is designed to overcome the objections and defects presented in
these two old types of protectors, and, as said invention
broadly comprehends any wash-board protector constructed
to bend or yield to pressure and to return to position when
said pressure is removed, it is apparent that I am not to be
confined to any specific form or mere construction of device,
inasmuch as a variety of modified mechanical structures may
be adopted in embodying my said invention. I will, however,
illustrate and describe one or two effective forms of device
according to this invention.
"In the drawings, Fig. 1 illustrates a wash-board and its
protector made according to my invention. This figure is in
longitudinal vertical section, and it represents the protector as
laid down upon the face of the board, as packed for shipment.
Fig. 2 is a similar view of the same device, only the protector
is shown as freed and sprung out into operative position. Fig.
3 is a front view of the device as shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 4
represents a modified form of my device, wherein the protector, instead of being formed from a rigid piece and elastically pivoted to the frame, as shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3, is
made from a piece of rubber, spring metal, or equivalent
material susceptible of itself yielding and returning to position, and this is rigidly fixed to the wash-board frame, as
shown. Fig. 5 shows another modified embodiment of my
invention, merely illustrating a different spring-coupler, 0',
from that shown in Fios. 1, 2 and 3.
"A is the wash-board frame, which may be of any size,
description, or material. B is the rubbing-surface, which may
also be of any character.
"0 is the protector, and 0' a spring, which may be either
a coupler between the protector and wash-board frame, as
shown in Fig. 5 of the drawings, or the protector may be
pivoted to the frame and the spring 0' act to push or pull the
protector into the position illustrated in Figs. 2 and 3.
"The construction of the device shown in Fig. 4 I have

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
Tig.3.
-Fig.2.

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

already sufficiently specified in the preceding explanation of
the drawings.
"The operation of my device is readily understood. The
spring C, or the elastic character of the thing itself, as shown
in Fig. 4, serves always to keep the protector in operative
position. (See Figs. 2 and 3.) When the body of the operator
presses against it, it yields in such a way as at the same time to
press snugly against her person, and also to return at all times
to position when said pressure is removed. It thus becomes
very effective as a protector, while at the same time it is not
wearing to the person or clothes of the operator.
"Another peculiar feature of my wash-board is the flat
manner in which it can be packed, as shown in Fig. 1 of the
drawings. This is a great convenience and advantage in
packing for shipment, and, moreover, when thus packed, the
protector is itself protected from injury to which it would
otherwise be exposed. This is accomplished by locating the
protector, as shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3 of the drawings, below
the crown-piece and between the side pieces of the frame."
The claims of the patent are three in number, as follows
"1. In combination with a wash-board, a protector constructed
substantially as described, so as to yield to pressure and to
return to position when said pressure is relieved, substantially
as and for the purpose shown. 2. The combination, with a
wash-board, of a protector and a spring, said spring interposed
between the wash-board and protector, and constructed to
operate in retaining said protector in its open position and
to return it to that position when removed therefrom. 3. In
combination with a wash-board, a protector located below the
crown-piece and between the side pieces of the wash-board
frame, and constructed to fold down into or upon said washboard even with or below the general plane of said wash-board
frame, substantially as and for the purpose shown." Only
claim 3 is alleged to have been infringed.
The defences set up were want of novelty and non-infringement. Several prior patents were introduced in evidence, as
bearing upon the question of, the proper construction of claim
3, and upon the question of infringement. They are No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opnion of the Court.

8161, to William T. Barnes, June 17, 1851, No. 127,325, to
John Epeneter and Bernhardt Grahl, May 28, 1872, No.
146,433, to James A. Cole, January 13, 1874, No. 150,315, to
Anna Frike, April 28, 1874, and No. 222,846, to Wyatt M.
Stevens, December 23, 1879. The Circuit Court dismissed the
bill and the plaintiffs have appealed.
The specification of the Gorham patent clearly shows that
the protector whose combination with a wash-board is the
subject of the invention, is a protector constructed to bend or
yield to pressure, and to return to its position when such pressure is removed, in contradistinction to a protector which is
rigid and is rigidly attached to the wash-board frame, and
also in contradistinction to a protector which is attached to
the wash-board frame by a joint or pivot , and is allowed a
swinging movement, but possesses no elastic or resilient function, and, when moved by pressure, has no power to return
again to its normal position, when such pressure is removed.
The specification states that the invention of Gorham is designed to overcome the defects presented in those two old
types of protectors. The invention does not comprehend a
protector which is not constructed so as to bend or yield to
pressure, and to return to its position when such pressure is
removed. The description and drawings of the Gorham protector are limited to such a construction, and do not show or
indicate any other.
The operation of the device is stated in the specification to
be such, that the spring, or the elastic character of the protector itself, serves always to keep the protector in operative
position, because it yields to pressure against it in such a way
as always to press snugly against the person, and to return at
all times to position when such pressure is removed. This
feature of the protector is not claimed to have been infringed
by the defendant. The defendant's protector, constructed m
accordance with the description contained in letters patent No.
255,555, granted to Charles H. Williams, March 28, 1882, has
no spring and no elastic or resilient quality, does not yield to
pressure, and has no capacity of returning automatically to its
normal position.

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

In the defendant's structure, the ordinary cap-piece of the
wash-board has a rounded exterior surface, and its inner surface performs the function of a protector. Upon the upper
edge of such cap-piece is mounted a supplemental protector,
the two parts being locked rigidly together by a tongue-andgroove joint. From the ends of the supplemental protector
are extended rigid arms, which are slotted and connected to
the side pieces of the frame by means of pis, one of which
passes through each slot. By removing the supplemental
protector from the cap-piece, it can be placed between the side
pieces of the frame, so as to stand edgewise therein, by drawing it slightly backward, by then raising it slightly, by then
advancing it to the front, and by then dropping it and placing
it edgewise within the frame. In this latter position, the
structure is adapted for packing. Not only is the defendant's
protector without any yielding or resilient function, but it is
not pivoted after the manner of the Gorham protector, nor
does it fold down m the manner of the Gorham protector, in
the sense of the words "fold down," as used in claim 3 of the
Gorham patent.
The contention of the plaintiff is, that claim 3 of the patent
does not require, as an element of the combination covered by
it, that the protector should have any yielding, elastic, or
resilient function, or should be accompamed by a spring, but
that it is sufficient if, by any mechanism, it can be so disposed
of as to be packed away for convenience in shipment, or for
other purposes, in a flat manner, in the vacant space in which
it is packed, and that, as the defendant's protector is to a
large extent packed away in the same vacant space, claim 3
is infringed. It may be questionable whether, if the claim
were to be construed thus broadly, it would not be for merely
a new use of a device before used m many things besides
wash-boards.
But, in view of the state of the art. as shown by the patents
above referred to, and in view of the course of proceeding in
the Patent Office on the application for the Gorham patent,
we are of opinion that claim 3 of that patent cannot be so
construed as to cover a protector which does not have the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

yielding, elastic, or resilient function of the Gorham protector,
and is not accompanied by a spring or constructed substantially according to the description in the Gorham specification.
Gorham evidently had no idea of such a construction as that
of the Williams patent, found in the defendant's wash-board,
and no person could, by following the description in the Gorham specification, arrive at the defendant's structure.
Claim 3 of the Gorham patent requires that the protector
shall be "constructed to fold down," "substantially as"
"shown." The defendant's protector is not constructed to
fold down in the manner of the Gorham protector, and is
not constructed substantially as shown in the Gorham specification.
The decree of the Oircuit Court is
Affirmed.

-MIN-NEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BECKWITH.
ERROR TO THE cIRCUIT

COURT OF XOSSUTH COUNTY,

STATE

OF

IOWA.
No. 100. Argued December 3, 1888.-Decided January 7,18S9.

The provision in the Code of Iowa, ยง 1289, which authorizes the recovery of
"double the value of the stock killed or damages caused thereto" by a
railroad, when the injury took place at a point on the road where the
corporation had a right to erect a fence and failed to do so, and when it
was not "occasioned by the wilful act of the owner or his agent," is not
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, either as depriving the company of property without due
process of law or as denying to it the equal protection of the laws.
Corporations are persons within the meaning of the clauses in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution concerning the deprivation of
property and concerning the equal protection of the laws. Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 118 U. S. 394, and Pembina Minzng
Co. v. Pennsylvanza, 125 U. S. 181, followed.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution does not limit the sub3ects
in relation to which the police power of the State may be exercised for
the protection of its citizens. Barblier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, Soon

