OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tract was sunk at sea by collision, and her cargo was raised by
wreckers employed by the master, and was taken to Baltimore
in another vessel. The petitioners seek to recover from the
United States such a proportion of the expense of raising the
cargo as the value of the cutting bore to the whole value of
the granite.
But the only risk assumed by the United States under this
contract was of "damage to cutting on said stone while being
transported," which evidently looks only to injuries to the
smooth surface or the sharp edges of the cut granite in the
course of transportation, and not to a loss, by a peril of the
sea, of the granite with its cutting uninjured. Such a loss, as
well as any expenses incurred by the petitioners in recovering
the granite, fell upon them by virtue of their agreement to
deliver the granite at St. Louis.
Judgment a~ffirimed.

FARNSWORTH v. TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 93. Argued November 23, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

A writ of error does not lie from tns court to the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Montana to review a judgment of that court, affirming the
judgment of a District Court in that Territory, finding the plaintiff in
error guilty of the crime of misdemeanor, and sentencing him to pay a
fine.
The act of March 3, 1885, (23 Stat. 443,) held not to apply to a criminal case.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, in a criminal case, brought by George W
Farnsworth, who was proceeded against by an information in
the Probate Court in and for Gallatin County, in that Territory, for the crime of misdemeanor, in having, in violation
of a statute, as a commercial traveller, offered for sale in that
Territory merchandise to be delivered at a future time, without
first having obtained a license. He was arrested, and pleaded

FARNSWORTH v. MONTANA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

not guilty, and was tried by the court, no jury having been

asked for or demanded.
The court found him guilty, and its judgment was that he
pay a fine of $50, and costs of the prosecution, $17.70, and
stand committed until such fine and costs should be paid. He
took an appeal to the District Court for the county of Gallatin,
and the case was tried by that court, a jury being expressly
waived, and it found hun guilty and sentenced hn to pay a
fine of $50 and all costs of prosecution. He then took an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory That court
affirmed the judgment of the District Court, m January, 1885.
Territory v Farnsworth, 5 Montana, 303, 324. To review
that judgment the defendant brought the case to this court
by a writ of error.
.A& James Lowndes, for plaintiff in error, argued the case
when it was reached on the docket, November 23. Subsequently, on the 15th December, at the request of the court,
he filed an additional brief on the subject of jurisdiction, as
follows
Congress clearly has constitutional power to give such jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, and the only question is whether
it has m fact given it.
The following are the statutory provisions regulating the
appellate jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and
decrees of territorial courts: "The final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of any Territory, except the Territory of Washington, in cases where the value of the matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, to be ascertained by the oath of
either party or other competent witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars, may be reviewed and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court, upon writ of error or appeal, in the same
manner and under the same regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit Cburt. In the Territory of
Washington the value of the matter in dispute must exceed
two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs. And any final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of said Territory m any
cause [when] the Constitution or a statute or a treaty of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

United States is brought in question, may be reviewed in like
manner." Rev Stat. § 702.
The last two clauses of this section apply exclusively to the
Territory of Washington. Snow v United States, 118 U S.
346. By the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 442, c. 355, it was
enacted that
"SEc. 1. No appeal or writ c error shall hereafter be
allowed from any judgment or decree in the Supreme Court
of any of the Territories of the United States unless the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of
five thousand dollars.
"SEc. 2. The preceding section shall not apply to any case
wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright,
or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be brought
without regard to the sum or value in dispute."
The larger part of the appellate jurisdiction of this court
over the decisions of the territorial courts is derived from the
first clause of Rev Stat. § 702.
There is nothing in the language of this clause to restrict
its operation to civil cases. In this respect it differs from the
22d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and its substitute, Rev
Stat. § 691, giving jurisdiction over the decisions of the Circuit
Courts. That jurisdiction is expressly confined to cmvil actions
by the terms of those enactments.
In the case of Watts v The Territory of Iashmngtoa, 91
U S. 580, this court decided that the first clause of Rev
Stat. § 702, did not confer jurisdiction in criminal cases. The
grounds of the opinion are not stated.
The eighth section of the act of 1801, giving the court jurisdiction over the decisions of the courts of the District of
Columbia is as broad in its language as Rev Stat. § 702. In
United States v Mfore, 3 Cranch, 159, it was held that the lastmentioned act did not embrace criminal cases. This construction was rested on the ground that the words "value of the
matter in dispute" (which were contained in the act of 1801)
are appropriate to civil cases.

FARNSWORTH

v. MONTANA.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The first clause of Rev Stat. § 702, was considered m
Smzth v TV7tney, 116 U S. 167, and was there held to
embrace a writ of error to the final judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia refusing a writ of prohibition to a court-martial.
The latter case establishes the principle that a criminal case
-is within § 702 if the judgment is attended with pecuniary
loss. It seems, m effect, to overrule United States v Mfore.
But the construction of the first clause of Rev Stat. § 702,
is important only as throwing light on the policy of Congress
in regard to the appellate jurisdiction over the decisions of the
territorial court.
The jurisdiction in the present case is derived from the
second clause of the act of 1885. Tie first clause of the act
does not confer jurisdiction, but merely narrows that which
had been given by Rev Stat. § 702.
The second clause of the act, on the other hand, contains an
affirmative grant of jurisdiction in addition to that given by
Rev Stat. § 702. It may be paraphrased thus
"Appeals or writs of error may be brought without regard
to the sum or value in dispute in cases in which the validity
of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States is -drawn in question."
Does this enactment embrace criminal cases?
The words of the act are plain, and certainly broad enough
to include criminal cases. "In all such cases," etc., is its
language.
If the act is to be restricted to civil cases, this must be on
some principle of construction by which the natural import
of the words is to be narrowed.
The reasoning in -More v llnted States, 3 Cranch, 159, on
the construction of the act of 1801, does not apply to the act,
because the jurisdiction is given without reference to the value
of the matter in dispute. The ground of the restrictive construction given to that act is absent from the act of 1885.
Words substantially the same as those of the act of 1885
have received from this court the construction here contended
for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The act of 1867, amending the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act provides "That a final judgment or decree in
any suit in the highest court of a State
where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or a statute of, or
an authority exercised under, the United States
or
under
any State, may be re-examined," etc.
A writ of error was applied for, under this act, to the judgment of a state court in a criminal case. The court said
"Neither the act of 1789 nor the act of 1867, which, in some
particulars supersedes and replaces the act of 1789, makes any
distinction between civil and criminal cases, in respect to the
revision of the judgments of state courts by this court, nor
are we aware that it has ever been contended that any such
distinction exists. Certanly none has been recognized here.
No objection, therefore, to the allowance of the writ of error
asked for by the petition can arise from the circumstance that
the judgment which we are asked to review was rendered in a
criminal case." Twdtc/ell v PennsyZanta,7 Wall. 321, 324.
The language of the act of 1867 cannot, in effect, be distinguished from that of the act of 1885.
In Stiles v llinots, 123 U. S.131, no question was mace of
the applicability of the act of 1867 to criminal cases. Nor in
Brooks v .lfissowmri, 124 U. S. 394.
The last clause of § 702, Revised Statutes, provides that the
final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the said Territory (Washington) in any cause (when) the Constitution or a
statute or treaty of the United States is brought in question
may be reviewed in like manner (,.e., by the Supreme Court).
This language is similar to that used in the act of 1885.
In the case of Watts v The Territory of Wash'ngton, 91
U S. 580, this court said "This court can only review the
final judgments of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Washington in enbmmial cases when the Constitution or a statute or treaty of the United States is drawn in question. Rev
Stat. § 702."
Appellate jurisdiction without regard to the amount in dispute is given in cases involving constitutional questions m the
Circuit Courts, Rev Stat. § 699, in the District of Columbia,

FARNSWORTH

v. MONTANA.

Opimon of the Court.

23 Stat. 442, m the state courts, and in the territorial courts.
It is fairly to be inferred that Congress intended to restrict
the appellate jurisdiction, where only questions of municipal
law were involved, to civil cases, and to give appellate jurisdiction to cases, both civil and criminal, whenever the Constitution or the national authority were in question.
It thus appears that this court has, in several instances,.construed words similar to those used in the act of 1885 as including criminal cases. It is submitted, therefore, that the terms
of the act of 1885 were intended to embrace criminal cases,
and that the present case is within the jurisdiction of the
court.
No appearance for defendant in error.
m. TsTIcE BLATcHFOr.D, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is very clear that this is a criminal case, and the question
arises whether there is any authority for the review by this
court of the decision of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Montana, in a criminal case. We have been furnished with a
brief on this subject by the counsel for the plaintiff in error,
but we are unable to find any statutory authority for the jurisdiction of this court in this case.
Section 702 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows. "The
final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of any
Territory, except the Territory of Washington, in cases where
the value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, to be ascertained by the oath of either party, or of other competent
witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars, may be reviewed and
reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court, upon writ of error
or appeal, in the same manner and under the same regulations
as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit Court. In the
Territory of Washington, the value of the matter in dispute
must exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs. And
any final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of said
Territory in any cause [when] the Constitution or a statute or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

treaty of the United States is brought in question may be reviewed in like manner."
Section 1909 of the Revised Statutes provides, that writs of
error and appeals from the final decisions of the Supreme
Court of any one of eight named Territories, of which Montana is one, "shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, in the same manner and under the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the United States, where
the value of the property or the amount in controversy, to be
ascertained by the oath of either party, or of other competent
witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars, except that a writ of
error or appeal shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the
United States upon writs of habeas corpus involving the question of personal freedom."
Section 1911 of the Revised Statutes relates exclusively to
writs of error and appeals from Washington Territory Sec
tion 709 applies only to a writ of error to review a final judgment or decree in a suit in the highest court of a State.
In Snow v Unted States, 118 U. S. 346, these sections, 702,
709, 1909, and 1911, were considered in reference to their application to a criminal case from the Territory of Utah, other
than a capital case or a case of bigamy or polygamy, writs of
error in which were provided for by § 3 of the act of June 23,
1874, 18 Stat. 253, and the reasons there given why they did
not apply to or cover such a criminal case, show that they do
not apply to or cover a criminal case from the Territory of
Montana.
Reference is made by the plaintiff in error to the case of
Watts v Terrdtory of ~asIinngton, 91 U. S. 580, which was a
criminal case from the Territory of Washington, in which
it did not appear that the Constitution or any statute or treaty
of the United States had been brought in question. The jurisdiction of this court in the case was questioned, as not being
embraced by the last clause of § 702 of the Revised Statutes,
before quoted. This court dismissed the case for want of
jurisdiction, saying that it could only review the final judgments of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington
in criminal cases, when the Constitution or a statute or treaty

FARNSWORTH v.

-MONTANA.

Opinon of the Court.
0

of the United States was drawn in question. The decision in
the case did not uphold the jurisdiction of this court in a criminal case where ihe Constitution or a statute or treaty of the
United States was drawn in question, and the language of
the court in that respect was obter dictum.
It is sought, however, to uphold the jurisdiction in this case
under the provisions, of the act of arch 3d, 1885, 23 Stat.
443, which reads as follows "No appeal or writ of error shall
hereafter be allowed from any judgment or decree in any suit
at law or in equity in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, or in the Supreme Court of any of the Territories
of the United States, unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.
"SEc. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to any

case wherein is involved tlie validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States, but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be
brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute."
In Snow v Unsted States, supra, at p. 351, it was held that
the first section of that statute applied solely to judgments or
decrees in suits at law or in equity measured by a pecumary
value. But it is contended in the present case, that the operation of such first section is not restricted to civil cases. It is,
however, restricted to cases where the matter in dispute is
measured by a pecuniary value, and it was said by this court,
in lfrtz v .Moflitt, 115 U. S.487, 498, that "a jurisdiction,
conferred by Congress upon any court of the United States,
of suits at law or in equity in which the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of a certain number of dollars,
includes no case in which the right of neither party is capable
of being valued in money" It was further said in Snow v
Urnted States, supra, at p. 354 "As to the deprivation of
liberty, whether as a punishment for crime or otherwise, it is
settled by a long course of decisions, cited and commented on
in Kurtz v Xqfftt, ub supra, that no test of money value
can be applied to it to confer jurisdiction."
In the present case, the information was for the commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opmion of the.Court.

of a crime. The punishment inflicted by the Probate Court
was a fine of $50 and $17.0 costs, and a judgment that the
defendant stand committed until such fine and costs should
be paid. The judgment of the District Court was that the
defendant pay a fine of $50 and all costs of prosecution. The
Supreme Court affirmed, with costs, the judgment of the District Court. The judgment of the Probate Court was imprisonment until the payment of the fine and costs, and, if the
fine covered by the judgment of any one of the courts could
be called a "matter in dispute," within the first section of the
act of 1885, the pecumary value involved did not exceed
$5000. So it is plain that the first section of the act of 1885
does not cover the case.
It is claimed, however, that jurisdiction in the present case
is derived from the second section of the act of 1885, and that,
under that section, jurisdiction exists in a criminal case from
the Supreme Court of a Territory, wherein is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States. The view urged is, that, in
the present case, there is drawn in question the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States, on the ground
that the statute of Montana, under which the conviction was
had, is invalid, and that, as the legislature of Montana, which
enacted it, exists under the authority of the United States, the
question of the validity of the statute raises the question of
the validity of an authority exercised under the United .States.
But we do not find it necessary to consider this question,
for we are of opinion that the second section of the act of
1885 does not apply to any criminal case. That section contains an exception or limitation carved out of the first section.
It declares that the first section "shall not apply to any case
wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or
in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,"
and then enacts that, "in all such cases, an appeal or writ of
error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in
dispute." This clearly implies that the cases to which the
second section is to apply are to be cases where there is a

FARNSWORTH v. MONTANA.
Opinion of the Court.

pecumary matter m dispute, and where that pecuniary matter
is measurable by some sum or value, and where the case is
also one of the kind mentioned m the second section.
There is another consideration strengthening these views.
The act of 1885 relates to appeals and writs of error from
the judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and those of the Supreme Court of any of
the Territories of the United States. It was not independent
legislation, but its main purpose was merely to increase to
over $5000 the jurisdictional amount, which, by §§ 702 and
1911 of the Revised Statutes, was required to be over $2000
for the Territory of Washington, and, by §§ 702 and
1909, over $1000 for every other Territory, and, by § 705,
as amended by § 4 of the act of February 25th, 1879,
20 Stat. 321, over $2500 for the District of Columbia. In
all these prior statutes- §§ 702, 705, 1909, 1911, and the
act of 1879 -it
was said that this court was to review
the judgments and decrees "Im the same manner and under
the same regulations" provided as to the final judgments and
decrees of a Circuit Court. These prior provisions are not
repealed, and no jurisdiction ever existed in this court to
review by writ of error or appeal the judgment of a Circuit
Court in a criminal case.
In Smith v Wh]itney, 116 U. S.167, cited for the plaintiff
in error, the jurisdiction of this court was maintained, under
the first section of the act of 1885, of an appeal from, and a
writ of error to, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a case where that court, by its judgment, had dismissed
a petition for a writ of prohibition to a court-martial, convened to try an officer for an offence punishable by dismissal
from the service and the deprivation of a salary which, during
the term of his office, would exceed the sum of $5000. A
writ of prohibition is a civil remedy, given in a civil action, as
much so as a writ of habeas corpus, which this court has held
to be a civil and not a criminal proceeding, even when instituted to arrest a criminal prosecution. Ex 2arte Tom Tong,
108 U. S.556.
It would have been easy for Congress to confer upon this
VOL. CxxIX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

court jurisdiction in criminal cases from the Territories, by
plain and explicit language, and for the reason that no such

jurisdiction exists by statute in the present case,
The wrt of error medie8m

sed.

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS
WVEST

OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINKIA.

No. 119. Submitted December 11, 1888. -Decided

January 14, 1889.

The statute of West Virginia (§§ 9 and 15, chapter 93, 1882) which requires every practitioner of medicine in the State to obtain a certificate
from the State Board of Health that he is a graduate of a reputable medical college in the school of medicine to which he belongs; or that lie has
practised medicine in the State continuously for ten years prior to March
8, 1881, or that he has been found upon examination to be qualified to
practise medicine m all its departments, and wnch subjects a pekson
practising without such certificate to prosecution and punishment for a
misdemeanor, does not, when enforced against a person who had been a
practising physician in the State for a period of five years before 1881,
without a diploma of a reputable medical college in the school of medicine to which he belonged, deprive him of his estate or interest in the
profession without due process of law.
The State, in the exercise of its power to provide for the general welfare of
its people, may exact from parties before they can practise medicine a
degree of skill and learning in that profession upon which the community
employing their services may confidently rely, and, to ascertain whether
they have such qualifications, require them to obtain a certificate or license
from a Board or other authority competent to judge in that respect. If
the qualifications required are appropriate to the profession, and attainable by reasonable study or application, their validity is not subject to
objection because of their stringency or difficulty.
Legislation is not open to the charge of depriving one of his rights without
due process of law, if it be general in its operation upon the subjects to
which it relates, and is enforceable in the usual modes established in the
administration of government with respect to kindred matters; that is,
by process or proceedings adapted to the nature of the case, and such is
the legislation of West Virginia in question. Cummzngs v Missour?, 4
Wall. 277 and Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 388, examined and shown to
differ materially from this case.

