BtNl

v. JEANTET.

Opinion of the Court.

BENE v. JEANTET.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 167.

Argued January 18, 1889.-Decided March 5, 1889.

The reissued letters patent No. 8637, granted to John B6n6 March 25,
1879, for an improvement in the process of refining and bleaching hair,
is limited to the second claim and is to be construed as a patent for a
process of refining hair.1by treating it in a bath composed of a solution
of chlorine salt dissolved in an excess of muriatic acid, but within that
limit it is a pioneer invention and is entitled to receive a liberal con-

struction.
The testimony of two experts in a patent suit being conflicting, and the
evidence of one being to facts within his knowledge which tended to
show that there was no infringement, while that of the other, who was
called to establish an infringement, was largely the assertion of a theory,
and the presentation of arguments to show that facts testified to by the
other could not exist; Held, that no case of infringement was made
out.

I
EQurrY, to restrain an alleged infringement of letters
patent. Decree dismissing the bill without prejudice to the
right of complainant to bring an action at law Complainants
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

.ir Samuel T Smst for appellants.
-M.r William P S. Hfelvmn for appellee.
MR. JUSTiCE LA

R delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by John
B6ne and Adolph Grtnberg against Emile Jeantet, praying
an injunction, accounting, and damages for an alleged infringement of reissued letters patent No. 8637, granted to B6ne,
March 25, 1879, on an application filed March 4, 1879, for an
improvement in the process of refining and bleaching hair.
Counsel for complainant stated in the record that no claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

is made in this suit for the bleaching of hair except so far as
the bleaching may result incidentally from the process of
refining, and the only issue presented by the pleadings, therefore, relates to the question of infringement so far as the process of refining hair is concerned, there being no issue raised
as to the validity of the patent in any respect.
The nature and object of the invention are set forth in the
specification as follows
"This invention relates to the treatment of all kinds of
coarse hair, which, in its natural state, has little commercial
value, and is entirely unfit for toilet uses and purposes. The
said treatment serves, mainly, to refine the hair or reduce the
diameter of the hairs and to render them more pliable and
glossy, but it also serves to partially bleach the hair or lighten
its color or tint and fit it to pass through any of the ordinary
dyeing processes, whereby it may be given any shade or color
desired or possible. In carrying out my invention, for the
purpose of producing from the coarse, harsh hair above mentioned, a soft, pliable hair of fine texture, I treat the said
coarse hair to a bath composed of such chemicals or chemical
substances as will dissolve away a portion of the surface of
each hair, and thus reduce its diameter. I find that a solution
of a chlorine salt dissolved in an excess of muriatic acid serves
my purpose as a bath for this refining treatment. I claim as
my invention
"(1) The method of refining all grades of coarse hair, which
consists in subjecting it to the action of chemicals, whereby
the surface of each hair is corroded or dissolved away and its
diameter reduced, substantially as set forth.
"(2) The method of refining coarse hair, which consists in
subjecting it to the action of a bath composed of muriatic acid,
in which is dissolved a chlorine salt, substantially as set forth.
"(3) The method of refining and bleaching all kinds and
grades of coarse hair, which consists, first, in bathing and
manipulating the same in a chemical bath, composed of acid
and a chlorine salt, and then in a bleaching bath, composed
of acids and bichromate of potash, substantially as and for the
purpose set forth.

BDNf

v. JEANTET.

Opinion of the Court.

"(4) The method of refining and bleaching all kinds and
grades of coarse hair, which consists, first, nt bathing and
manipulating the same in a bath composed of acid and a
chlorine salt, which refines the hair, second, subjecting the
refined hair to a bath composed of acids and blchromate of
potash, and, third, subjecting the hair thus refined and bleached
to the proper shade to a fixing bath composed of warm water,
solution of muriate of tin, bisulphate of soda and muriatic
acid, which sets the color, substantially as set forth.
"(5) The method of refining and treating hair, which consists in first passing it through a refining bath composed of an
acid and a chlorine salt, then, if desired or necessary, through
bleaching and fixing baths, as above described, and, finally,
treating the hair so refined to a bath composed of water and
ammonia, to remove all of its impurities, substantially as specified.
"(6) As a new article of commerce and manufacture, hair of
fine texture produced from any grade of coarse hair, either
animal or human, by the method of refining, substantially as
herein described."
The court below held t] at were it not for the latter part of
this description the specification would fail to comply with the
statute, and would be void for uncertainty It therefore limited the patentee to his second .clain, and accordingly ruled
that under this specification "the patent is to be construed as
one for a process of refining hair by treating it in a bath composed of a solution of chlorine salt dissolved in an excess of
muriatic acid, and the claims are to be limited accordingly"
The court further found from the evidence produced in the
case that the alleged infringement, the sole issue presented by
the pleadings, had not been proven, and, therefore, dismissed
the bill without prejudice to the right of the complainants to
bring an action at law if they were so advised. An appeal
from this decree brings the case here.
Under ยง 4888 Rev Stat. the specification must describe the
invention and the manner and process of "makm g , constructing, compounding and using it in such full, clear, concise and
exact terms as to enable any person skilled in the art or science

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to which it appertains
to make, construct, compound
and use the same." Tested by this requirement, the patent in
suit cannot receive the broad construction for which complainants contend. Except as applicable to the second claim, the
specification is not full and clear enough to give one skilled in
chemistry such an idea of the particular kinds and character
of the chemicals, or combination of chemicals, with the relative proportions of each, as would enable him to use the invention without having to resort to experiments of his own to
discover those ingredients. The broad construction claimed
for this patent as a pioneer and foundation invention in the
art of refining hair cannot extend the rights of the patentee
beyond the compositions of matter and processes which, as
stated in'the patent, embody his real invention. It is true, as
appears upon the pleadings, that the appellant Bone was the
first discoverer of a process of refining hair, and his patent,
therefore, is entitled, within the limits just indicated, to a liberal construction. If, therefore, it was proved that the hair
dealt in by the defendant was refined by substantially the same
chemical action as that set forth in the second claim, the fact
of infringement was established, and the complainants were
entitled to the decree prayed for.
Upon the trial no direct testimony was offered by plaintiffs
to show that the articles dealt in by the defendant were
treated or refined by the patented process. The only fact
upon which the plaintiffs relied was, the correspondence of
the articles proved to have been sold by defendant, in respect
of smoothness, lustre and pliability, with the hair produced
according to the patented process, which correspondence, it
was contended, showed that both products resulted from the
same method or equivalent method of preparation, and it was
farther insisted that the court was bound from that fact to
conclude that refined hair, like that in question, could not be
produced except by treating it in a bath composed of a solution of chlorine salt dissolved m an excess of muriatic acid,
or a solution of their (chemical) equivalents.
To support this contention the plaintiff introduced an expert,
Nathaniel S. Keith, who states that, whilst he had never at-

B]tN]

v. JEANTET.

Opinion of the Court.

tended any lectures on the subject of chemistry, he had pursued his studies in the chemical laboratory of his father, a
practising physician and a manufacturing chemist. He had
given hair special consideration during three or four years
past, and had made experiments upon the processes of refining and bleaching hair with reference to this suit and another
legal controversy In his testimony he asserts, substantially,
that the defendant's article cannot be produced, except by a
treatment in a solution of chlorine salt and muriatic acid, or
their (chemical) equivalents. In response to the question,
"What other substance is there, if any, except chlorine and
its compounds, which will corrode or dissolve away the sur.
face of the hair so as to reduce the size or diameter without essentially destroying the hair2'" he answers "I have
no knowledge of any other." Again "My opinion is, that
any method under which, by the action of chemicals, the surface of hair is dissolved or corroded away so as to reduce its
diameter comes within the province, or falls within one or
more of the claims, of the said patent."
To repel this contention the defendant called as an expert
witness one Charles Marchand, who stated that he had been
engaged in chemical studies for twenty-four years, having
graduated at a school of arts and manufactures in Paris in
1871, from which time his business had been that of a manufacturing chemist, to which, after he came to this country in
1878, he added the occupation of analytical chemist. He testifies that inhis.studies and business he has had much to do with
bleaching and refining human hair, and other hair; has known
for many years oxidizing agencies for bleaching or refining
hair; first saw hair reduced in diameter by the use of chemicals twelve years ago in Paris by a chemist, and that he had
made a number of experiments in the treatment of hair by
subjecting it to a refining process entirely different from. that
described in the patent, and in corroboration of his testimony
he produced several samples of refined hair, which he stated
he had refined by the use of different chemicals from those
mentioned in the patent.
The first was treated by a chlorine gas solution in pure
water, and then by a solution of peroxide of hydrogen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

The second was a solution of permanganate of potash in
water with sulphuric acid and muriatic acid in proper proportions.
The third was a solution of sulphurous acid in water, and
also a solution of permanganate of potash.
The fourth was treated by one of the same methods. Another specimen was treated by a concentration of peroxide of
hydrogen.
To break the force of this testimony, Keith was recalled,
and, upon many points, contradicted Marchand's statements.
He testified that he had made experiments according to the
methods described by Marchand, and found them failures, and
the hair subjected to them worthless and unrefined.
The testimony of these two witnesses is conflicting. But
the testimony of Marchand relates to facts declared to be
within his knowledge and experience, whilst that of Keith is
largely the assertion of a theory and a presentation of arguments, to show that the facts testified to by Marchand cannot
exist. The experiments which Keith said he had made according to Marchand's formula, and which failed to produce refined
hair, were, as be admitted, his first experiments for that purpose, whilst those made' by Marchand were the results of
twelve years of practice, and attested themselves by the specimens produced.
We think the complainants did not make out a case of infringement. There is not a preponderance of evidence in their
favor.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.
SCHRAEDER

MINIiNG AND
MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. PACKER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 118.

Argued December 10, 11, 1888.-Decided March 5, 1889.

In Pennsylvania, after a survey of a tract of public land, whether a chamber survey or an actual one, has been returned more than twenty-one

