OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

that title." And the instruction of the court below in that
case was approved, that if "any of the defendants entered
upon and took possession of the land, without title or claim,
or color of title, such occupancy was not adverse to the title
of plaintiffs, but subservient thereto."
The fair implication in both of these cases is that where
possession is taken under claim of title it sufficiently shows
the intention of the party to hold adversely within the meaning of the law upon that subject. There is no case to be
found which holds that this adverse claim of title must be
found in some written instrument.
In the case of Bradstreet v Hunthngton, 5 Pet. 402, 439,
this court said
"The whole of this doctrine is summed up in very few
words as laid down by Lord Coke (1 Inst. 153) and recognized
in terms in the case of Blunden v Baugh, 3 Cro. [Car.] 302,
in which it underwent very great consideration. Lord Coke
says 'A disseisin is when one enters intending to usurp the
possession, and to oust another of his freehold, and therefore
querenduni est a, udice quo anmo hoc fecerit, why he entered
and intruded.' So the whole enquiry is reduced to the fact of
entering, and the intention to usurp possesszon."
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, wzth a
directon to award a new trial.

SEIBERT v. UNITED STATES ex rel. HARSHMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AISSOURI.
No. 130. Submitted December 18, 188.-Decided January 21, 1889.

Seibert v. Lewzs, 122 U. S. 284, was very carefully and elaborately considered, and is adhered to.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

GALIGHER v. JONES.
Syllabus.

.3r .. Jon, -Ellis, .Mr.. John Johns and .XP D A. .3feZnvight for plaintiff in error.
X9' Clinton Rowell for defendant in error.
MXR. JusTicE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts of this case are similar to those in Seibert v. Lewzs,
before the court at its October term, 1886, 122 U. S. 284, and
it is admitted by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
decision there, if adhered to, will control here. He, however,
asks us to reconsider our rulings and reverse our former judgment. We see no reason to justify such rconsideration and
change of position. The very elaborate argument of counsel
is but a re-presentation of the reasons originally offered against
the decision in that and analogous cases. ASeibert v Zews was
very carefully and elaborately considered, and to the doctrines
there announced we adhere. Upon its authority
The judgment of the court below must be aflrmed.

GALIHER v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 75.

Submitted November 14, 1888. -Decided

January 21, 1889.

A stock-broker received orders by telegraph from his principal to sell certain securities belonging to the principal in his hands and invest the proceeds in certain other securities, named in the order, at a fixed limit.
When the telegram arrived the order might have been executed that day,
and the securities ordered could have been bought within the limit. The
principal was in the habit of dealing with the agent in that way, the
agent executing the orders, making advances when necessary and charging the principal with commissions and interest. At the time when this
order was received the principal was indebted to the agent for advances,
commissions and interest about $4000 more than the value of the securities in his hands. The broker did not execute the order, did not notify
the principal by telegraph that he declined to do so, and made no demand
for further advances; but notified him of his refusal by a letter written
on the day when the order was received, but received by the principal
VOL. CXXLx-13

