MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.

263

Syllabus.

MORLEY SEWINTCTG MACHINE COMPANY v.
LANCASTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF, THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF VA.SACHUSETrrS.

STATES

FOR

No. 165. Argued January 11, 1889.-Decided February 4, 1889.

Claims 1,, 2, 8 and 13 of letters patent No. 236,350, granted January 4, 1881,
to James H. Morley, E. S. Fay and Henry E. Wilkins, on the invention of
said Morley, for an improvement in machines for sewing buttons on fabrics, namely, " 1. The combination, in a maclne for sewing shank-buttons to fabrics, of button-feeding mechanism, appliances for passing a
thread through the eye of the buttons and locking the loop to the fabric,
and feeding mechanism, substantially as set forth. 2. The combination,
in a machine for sewing shank-buttons to fabrics, of a needle and operating mechanism, appliances for bringing the buttons successively to positions to permit the needle to pass through the eye of each button, and
means for locking the loop of thread carried by the needle to secure the
button to the fabric, substantially as set forth." "8. The combination, in
a machine for sewing buttons to fabrics, of button-feeding and sewing
appliances, substantially as set forth, and feeding appliances and operating
mechanism whereby the feeding devices are moved alternately different
distances to alternate short button stitches with long stitches between
the buttons, as specified." " 13. The combination, with button-sewing
appliances, of a trough, appliances for carrying the buttons successively
from the trough to the sewing devices, and mechanism for operating said
appliances and sewing devices, as set forth," are valid.
The Morlev machine contains and is made up of three main groups of instrumentalities: (1) mechanism for holding the buttons in mass, and delivering them separately in proper position, over the fabric, so that they may
be attached to it by the sewing and stitching mechanism, (2) the stitching mechanism, (3) the mechanism for feeding the fabric along, so as
to space the stitches and consequently the buttons when sewed on.
A description given of the devices used by Morley which make up the three
mechanisms; and of those used in the alleged infringing machine, (the
Lancaster machine,) and making up the same three mechanisms.
The Morley machine was the first one which accomplished the result of
automatically separating buttons which have a shank from a mass of the
same, conveying them in order to a position where they can be s.elected
by the machine, one after another, and, by sewing mechanism, coupled
with suitable mechanism for feeding the fabric, be sewed thereto at
prescribed suitable distances apart from each other.
No machine existing prior to Morley's is shown to have accomplished
the operation of turning a shank button, the head of which is heavier

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.
than its shank and eye combined, into such a position that a plane passing through its eye shall be perpendicular to a plane passing through the
long axis of the sewing needle, so as to insure the passage of the -needle
through the eye.
The Lancaster machine infringes the Morley patent, although there are certain specific differences between the button-feeding mechanisms in the
two machines, and also certain specific differences between their sewing
mechanisms.
Morley, having been the first person who succeeded in producing an automatic machine for sewing buttons of the kind in question upon fabrics,
is entitled to a liberal construction of the claims of his patent.
Where an invention is one of a primary character, and the mechanical
functions performed by the machine are, as a whole, entirely new all
subsequent machines which employ substantially the same means to accomplish the same result are infringements, although the subsequent machine may contain improvements in the separate mechanisms which go
to make up the machine.
Morley having been the first inventor of an automatic button-sewing machine, by uniting in one organization mechanism for feeding buttons
from a mass, and delivering them one by one to sewing mechanism and
to the fabric to which they are to be secured, and sewing mechanism for
passing a thread through the eye of the button, and securing it to the
fabric, and feeding mechanism for moving the fabric the required distances to space the buttons, another machine is an infringement, in which
such three sets of mechanism are combined, provided each mechanism.
individually considered, is a proper equivalent for the corresponding mechanism in the Morley patent, and it makes no difference that, in the
infringing machine, the button-feeding mechanism is more simple, and
the sewing mechanism and the mechanism for feeding the fabric are
different in mechanical construction, so long as they perform each the
same function as the corresponding mechanism in the Morley machine,
in substantially the same way and are combined to produce the same
result.
The defendant employs, for the purposes of his machine, known devices,
which, in mechanics, were recognized as proper substitutes for the
devices used by Morley to effect the same results. In this sense the mechanical devices used by the defendant are known substitutes or equivalents for those employed in the Morley machine to effect the same results;
and this is the proper meaning of the term" known equivalent," in reference to a pioneer machine such as that of Morley. Otherwise, a difference
in the particular devices used to accomplish a particular result in such
a machine would always enable a defendant to escape the charge of
infringement, provided such deviceq§ were new with the defendant ill
such a machine, because, as no machine for accomplishing the result
existed before that of the plaintiff, the particular device alleged to avoid
infringement could not have existed or been known in such a machine
prior to the plaintiff's invention.

MORLEY

IACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EouiTy, for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill, from which the complainants appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.

.MrBenjamsn F Thurston for appellants.

.fr

J -. f aynadier and .X& George E. Smith for ap-

pellee.

Mn.

JusTIc. BLATOHFOim

delivered the opinion of the court.

Ths is a suit in equity, brought November 6, 1882, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, by the Morley Sewing 'Machine Company and the
Morley Button Sewing Machine Company against Charles B.
Lancaster, for the alleged infringement of letters patent No.
236,350, granted January 4, 1881, to James H. Morley, E. S.
Fay and Henry E. Wilkins, on the invention of said Morley,
on an application filed June 23, 1880, for an improvement in
machines for sewing buttons on fabrics. The machine of the
defendant is constructed in accordance with the description
contained in letters patent No. 268,369, granted November 28,
1882, to Joseph Mathison, William D. Allen, and C. B. Lancaster, on the invention of said Mathison, for improvements in
machines for securing buttons to material, on an application
filed August 1, 1882.
The specification of the Morley patent says: "My invention
consists in mechamsm for automatically sewing shank-buttons
on to fabrics, shoes, etc., and the objects of my invention are
to form a double-threaded stitch on the top side of the material
being sewed upon, transversely to the direction of feed, and on
the reverse side of the material two parallel lines of stitches at
right angles to the first named ones, to make alternately long
and short stitches, and to so feed buttons to be sewed by said
machines as to present them at the proper time and in the
proper place to be operated upon." The specification then
describes, by reference to twenty-four figures of drawings, the
mechanical means used by the patentee to perform the mechanica operations described. The specification then proceeds

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"Having thus described the machine and constructions set
forth in the drawings, I wish it to be understood that the
same is only one of different mechanisms which I have contemplated, and which may be effectually employed for carrymg out the main feature of my invention, to wit, the automatic
mechanical sewing of buttons to a fabric. Thus, different
means may be adopted for carrying the thread through the
eye of the button into the fabric, as, for instance, passing the
hooked needle through said eye to a position to seize the thread
from the straight needle, or form [from] a suitable carrier, and
then draw the loop down through the fabric to be secured
beneath by a shuttle or needle thread, or the eye pointed needle
may be used in connection with a loop-spreader and shuttle for
carrying a thread through the loop, a single thread or two
threads being used. It will further be understood that wires
may be sometimes substituted for threads, and that other feed
mechanisms may be employed, the needles moving with, but
not controlling, the fabric, as in the construction described."
There are eighteen claims in the patent, only four of which
are relied upon by the plaintiffs, namely, claims 1, 2, 8, and 13,
which are as follows "1. The combination, in a machine for
sewing shank-buttons to fabrics, of button-feeding mechanism,
apuliances for passing a thread through the eye of the outtons
and locking the loop to the fabric, and feeding mechanism,
substantially as set forth. 2. The combination, in a machine
for sewing shank-buttons to fabrics, of a needle and operating
mechanism, appliances for bringing the buttons successively to
positions to permit the needle to pass through the eye of each
button, and means for locking the loop of thread carried by
the needle to secure the button to the fabric, substantially as
set forth." "8. The combination, in a machine for sewing
buttons to fabrics, of button-feeding and sewing appliances,
substantially as set forth, and feeding appliances and operating
mechanism whereby the feeding devices are moved alternately
different distances to alternate short button stitches with long
stitches between the buttons, as specified." "13. The combination, with button-sewing appliances, of a trough, appliances for carrying the buttons successively from the trough

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of,the Court.

to the sewing devices, and mechanism for operating said appliances and sewing devices, as set forth." The defendant's
machine is known as the Lancaster machine.
The Morley machine contains and is made up of three main
groups of instrumentalities (1) mechanism for holding the
buttons in mass, and delivering them separately, in proper
position, over the fabric, so that they may be attached to it by
the sewing and stitching mechanism, (2) the stitching mechanism, (3) the mechanism for feeding the fabric along, so as to
space the stitches and consequently the buttons when sewed on.
In the button-feeding mechanism, there is a hopper containing the buttons in mass. The principal use of the machine is
to sew buttons on to the uppers of buttoned boots, and the
button designed to be used is one having a round ball affixed
to a shank, which terminates in an eye. On the bottom of
the hopper is a hopper-valve, which picks out the buttons one
This
by one and delivers them into an inclined trough.
trough has a V-shaped groove along its bottom, midway
between its sides, and the buttons enter the upper part of
the trough with their shanks in all directions, and it becomes
necessary to turn them over, so that the eyes will lie in the
groove while the bodies of the buttons occupy the trough.
The contrivance for accomplishing this consists of a flexible,
corrugated strip of metal, lying over the top of the trough,
and oscillated by proper machinery, which, by contact with
the bodies of the buttons, will roll them over so that their eyes
will lie in the groove. After the buttons are thus arranged,
they slide down the trough, being aided to do so by a jarring
motion imparted to the latter. When they arrive at its lower
end, which is bent so as to be nearly vertical, they lie with
their heads towards the front of the machine, that is, the side
farthest from the driving pulley In one modification of the
machine, the buttons are held in the trough by a button-wheel,
which is mounted on a vertical axis, and is provided with pockets, each capable of receiving a button, and admits of being
intermittently revolved at proper times. This button-wheel is
used (1) to close the bottom of the trough, (2) to receive buttons into its pockets, and (3) by its own revolution, to turn

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the buttons around, so that their eyes will lie towards the
front of the machine. In order to prevent the buttons from
falling out of the pockets, the button-wheel rests upon a
stationary table, which closes the bottoms of all of the pockets but one. When a button arrives over the notch in the
table, it has been turned around, on a vertical axis, 1800, but,
as a plane passing through its eye is then vertical, it must be
turned on a horizontal axis, through 90', so that its eye may
lie flat, in order that the needle, which ascends from beneath,
may pass through the eye. Therefore, when a button arrives
over the notch in the table, a plunger or punch descends into
the pocket and drives the button into a button-carrier, which
lies at that time immediately under the notch, and under the
pocket into which the punch enters. When the button enters
the carrier, a plane passing through its eye is still vertical, and
the carrier therefore turns around, on a horizontal axis, 900, to
bring the eye of the button into such a position that it can be
entered by the needle, and, as the carrier turns, it retracts, so
as to bring the eye into such a position that a plane passing
through it will be horizontal, and the needle will readily enter
it. The patent describes a modified form of the contrivances
for bringing the button into a position for the needle to enter
its eye, in which modification the button-wheel is dispensed
with, and a light spring is applied to the bottom of the trough,
to hold up the column of buttons, such spring operating as a
spring-gate, opened at proper intervals by mechanism, and
shutting itself automatically
This mechanism, which also
receives the button and turns it around 900 on a horizontal
axis, and transfers it to the place where it is to be sewed, is a
sort of spring mppers, one of the jaws of which is split so as
to receive the shank of the button.
The above contrivances constitute what is called in claim
1, "button-feeding mechanism," in claim 2, "appliances for
bringing the buttons successively to positions to permit the
needle to pass through the eye of each button," in claim 8,
"button-feeding appliances ," and, in claim 13, "a trough,
appliances for carrying the buttons successively from the
trough to the sewing devices, and mechanism for operating
said appliances."

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Morley patent, there is a contrivance for feeding the
fabric so as to space the stitches, and consequently to space
the buttons. The needles, while inserted in the fabric, move
in the direction of the feed, carrying the fabric with them.
The motion of the needles or feed is derived from revolving
cams, and the two needles swing like an inverted pendulum.
This kind of feed was well known in machines for sewing
leather, prior to the date of the Morley patent. This feeding
contrivance is what is called in claim 1, " feeding mechanism,"
and in claim 8, "feeding devices."
The Morley patent describes its stitch as being made by
means of two needles, one eye-pointed, like the Howe needle,
and the other a hooked or crochet needle, such as is used in
machines for sewing leather. These needles are set at an
inclination to each other, across the line of the seam, and enter
the fabric from beneath, and, when they get above it, cross
each other. The eye-pointed needle pierces the fabric and
carries a bight of thread up above it, and then retreats a little
to form a loop by causing the thread to expand away from
the needle. During this time, the hooked needle has also
penetrated the fabric from beneath, and, when the loop is
formed, passes between the eye-pointed needle and the thread,
and, as both needles descend, the hook -catches the thread supplied by the eve-pointed needle, and carries a bight of thread
across the fabric and down through it to the under side, thus
forming the transverse stitches on the button side of the fabric,
the eye-pointed needle being described as passing through the
eye of the button, although it is stated that instead the hooked
fteedle may pass through such eye. The passage of the needle
through the eye, after it has passed through the fabric, holds
the button upon the fabric. When the eye-pointed needle
retracts and forms a loop above the eye of the button, a loopspreader is employed to spread the loop, and a shuttle, carrying either one thread or two threads, is passed through the loop,
the eye-pointed needle, in its retraction, carrying, by means of
the loop, the thread or threads furnished by the shuttle, and
the stitch being the ordinary lock-stitch. The stitch described
in the Morley patent as made by eye-pointed and hooked

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

needles, both operating from the lower side of the fabric, and
making transverse stitches on its upper side and longitudinal
stitches on its lower side, is a stitch known prior to the date
of the Morley patent.
In the Lancaster machine there are found combined together the same three main groups of instrumentalities above
set forth as being found in the Morley patent. There is in the
Lancaster machine a hopper containing the buttons in mass,
and an inclined surface which supports a column of the buttons, the buttons lying with their shanks up and their bodies
down. This hopper is provided with a reciprocating brush,
which sweeps over the buttons and rolls them over so that
their shanks, pointing upward, will fall into one or another of
slits in a metal plate which covers the inclined flat surface.
These slits all converge into a single slit, so that the buttons
slide down the various slits and ultimately lie in a single
column in the single slit, with their shanks upward, upon an
inclined plane surface. This single slit, and the plane surface
which it covers, are twisted at the end, in such a manner that
a plane passing through the slit is nearly horizontal, and the surface which is in contact with the head of the button is nearly
vertical. Consequently, when the buttons reach the bottom,
they lie in such a position that a plan@ passing through the
eye of the lowermost button is horizontal, or nearly so. The
column of buttons is held up by a light spring, and this springgate is opened by the button itself, because the so-called trough
holding the column of buttons vibrates sidewise, and a thread
which passes through the eye of the lowermost but.ton prevents that button from vibrating with the contrivance, and
the button is pulled out by the thread, and, in being pulled
out, overcomes the resistance of the spring. The eye of the
lowermost button in the column lies directly under the needle.
so that the needle enters it while it is still in the column. The
contrivance containing the column then vibrates sidewise, so
as to get out of the way of the needle in a subsequent feeding
operation. The spring in the Lancaster machine, which holds
up the column of buttons, was a common device in screw
blank and eyelet machinery, to hold up a column of blanks
and permit them to be removed one by one.

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Lancaster machine, there is a contrivance for feeding
the fabric so as to space the stitches, and consequently to space
the buttons, and the machine feeds by means of a single needle
which reciprocates in a straight line, and, while it is inserted
in the fabric, moves in the direction of the feed, carrying the
fabric with it, the motion of the needle or feed being derived
from revolving cams. The expert for the defendant says that
he finds no substantial difference between the mechanisms
which feed the fabric in the two machines.
As to the stitching mechanism of the Lancaster machine,
the needle is on the upper side of the fabric, and descends
through it. It is an ordinary crochet needle, provided with a
cast-off, both the needle and cast-off being like those described
in the Morley patent, and the same which had been used for
many years in sewing leather. The machine is also provided
with a thread-carrier beneath the fabric, like that used in
machines for sewing leather. The eye of the button in the
Lancaster machine makes a part of the stitch, and the stitch
cannot be made unless a button is supplied at every alternate
perforation of the needle. It is therefore necessary that the
machine should have some contrivance for carrying some of
the loops of the thread over the bodies of the buttons, so that
the loop may be locked by the eye of the button. In making
the stitch, the needle first passes down through the eye of the
button, carrying its hook below the fabric. The thread-carrier
beneath the fabric then puts a loop of thread into the hook,
and the hook rises, pulling a loop of thread through the fabric
and through the eye of the button. The needle then descends
again, sliding through such loop and piercing the fabric, and
leaving the loop on top of the fabric. The thread-carrier then
again puts the thread into the hook of the needle, and the
needle rises again, carrying another bight of the thread through
the fabric and through the loop on top of the fabric, thus locking that loop. As the needle rises, a contrivance seizes both
parts of the loop carried up through the second hole made
by the needle, opens it wide and passes it over the body of the
button, and the part of the loop which is over the button is
then pulled down through the fabric, and consequently around

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the shank of the button, thus locking the stitch. A succession
of these operations forms the stitch, and sews a row of buttons
on the fabric, each alternate loop of the stitch being locked by
the button itself. If the buttons were removed from the
stitch, there would remain a succession of loops, and consequently no seam.
In the operation of the Lancaster machine, after the needle
has passed through the eye of the button, the end of the socalled trough and the needle move together, while the needle
is making its feeding motion. The so-called trough then
stands still until the needle has ascended and pulled a loop of
thread through the eye, and has again pierced the fabric.
When the needle has got into the fabric the second time the
button is pulled out of the end of the trough by the retreat of
the trough towards the rear of the machine, and is so pulled
out because at that time the fabric is standing still and the
button is held to it by the loop of thread which is passed
through the eye of the button. After the button is thus pulled
out of the end of the trough, the trough stands still for a while,
while a loop is passed over the body of the button, as above
described, and the trough then returns again, so as to hold the
eye of a second button in the path of the descending needle,
the button being thus released, not by the motion of the fabric,
but by the motion of the trough which carries the column of
buttons.
It satisfactorily appears, that the Morley machine was the
first one which accomplished the result of automatically separating buttons which have a shank from a mass of the
same, conveying them in order to a position where they can be
selected by the machine, one after another, and, by sewing
mechanism, coupled with suitable mechanism for feeding the
fabric, be sewed thereto at prescribed suitable distances apart
from each other. The machine performs automatically these
three functions of selecting, sewing, and spacing. The problem to be performed was to select from a. mass of buttons,
furnished with heads and with wire eyes projecting therefrom,
single buttons, and to present them in succession to the needle
of a sewing mechanism, so that the needle could pass through

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opilon of the Court.

the eye and secure it to the fabric. Mfachmery existed before
for selecting from a mass wood-screw blanks, horse nails and
pins, and delivering them to other machinery; but, in such
constructions, the shank of the article being heavier than its
head, the tendency was for the articles to arrange themselves
in the way with the shanks downward, the heads being supported on the top surface of the way With such buttons as
are used in the two machines in controversy, as the heads
are much heavier than the shanks and the eyes combined,
the buttons will not naturally arrange themselves with their
shanks downward. It is therefore necessary to have some
means for turning each button into such a position that a
plane passing through its eye shall be perpendicular to a plane
passing through the long axis of the sewing needle, so as
to insure the passage of the needle through the eye. No
machine existing prior to Morley's is shown to have accomplished that operation.
The substance of the defence in the case is, that there are
certain specific differences between the button-feeding mechanisms in the two machines, and also certain specific differences
between their sewing mechanisms, and hence that there is no
infringement. This was the view taken by the Circuit Court
in its opinion, 23 Fed. iRep. 344.
Morley, having been the first person who succeeded in producmg an automatic machine for sewing buttons of the kind in
question upon fabrics, is entitled to a liberal construction of the
claims of his patent. He was not a mere improver upon a prior
machine which was capable of accomplishing the same general
result, in which case, his claims would properly receive a narrower interpretation. This principle is well settled in the
patent law, both in this country and in England. Where an
invention is one of a primary character, and the mechanical
functions performed by the machine are, as a whole, entirely
new, all subsequent machines which employ substantially the
same means to accomplish the same result are infringements,
although the subsequent machine may contain improvements
in the separate mechanisms which go to make up the machine.
In McCormick v Talcott, 20 How 402, 405, the inquiry
VOL. cxxIx-i8

OCTOBER TERM1,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

was, whether McCormick was the first person who invented,
in a reaping machine, the apparatus called a divider, performing the required functions, or whether he had merely improved
an existing apparatus, by a combination of mechanical devices
which performed the same functions in a better manner.
This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Grier, said "If he" (the
patentee) "be the original inventor of the device or machine
called the divider, he will have a right to treat as infringers
all who make dividers operating on the same principle, and
performing the same functions by analogous means or equivalent combinations, even though the infringing machine may
be an improvement of the original, and patentable as such.
But if the invention claimed be itself but an improvement on a
known machine by a mere change of form or combination of
parts, the patentee cannot treat another as an infringer who
has improved the original machine by use of a different form
or combination, performing the same functions. The inventor
of the first improvement cannot invoke the doctrine of equivalents to suppress all other improvements which are not mere
colorable invasions of the first."
So, also, in Railway Co. v &zyles, 97 U. S. 554, 556, this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said, in regard to
brakes for eight-wheeled railroad cars "Like almost all other
inventions, that of double brakes came when, in the progress
of mechanical improvement, it was needed, and being sought
by many minds, it is not wonderful that it was developed in
different and independent forms, all original, and yet all bearing a somewhat general resemblance to each other. In such
cases, if one inventor precedes all the rest, and strikes out something which includes and underlies all that they produce, he
acquires a monopoly, and subjects them to tribute. But if the
advance towards the thing desired is gradual, and proceeds
step by step, so that no one can claim the complete whole,
then each is entitled only to the specific form of device which
he produces, and every other inventor is entitled to his own
specific form, so long as it differs from those of his competitors,
and does not include theirs. These general principles are so
obvious, that they need no argument or illustration to support
them."

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.

Opinion of'the Court.

The same view was directly applied ii Clough v Barker,
106 U. S. 166, 177, to the Clough patent for an improvement
in gas-burners. The first claim of that patent was for "the
bat-wing burner, perforated at the base, in combination with
the surrounding tube, substantially as described." The second
claim read thus "In combination with the bat-wing burner,
perforated at the base, and surrounding-tube, the tubular valve
for regulating the supply of external gas to the burner, substantially as described." It appeared that in no prior structure had a valve arrangement been applied to regulate the flow
of gas in such a combihation as that covered by the first claim
of the patent. It was, therefore, held, that the patentee was
entitled to the benefit of the doctrine of equivalents, as applied
to the combination covered by the second claim. In the defendant's burner, the regulation was made by a tubular valve
on the outside of the perforations, instead of on the inside, as
in the patent, but performing its work by being screwed up or
down, as in the patent. This court said "Although in the
Clough structure the burner and surrounding-tube revolve
together in adjusting their position in reference to that of the
tubular valve, so as to let in or turn off the supply of gas
through the perforations, and although m the Clough structure the flame revolves by the revolution of the burner, and
although in the defendant's burners the revolution of the surrounding-tube regulated the supply of gas through such perforations, and neither the burner nor the flame revolved, the
defendant's valve arrangement must be held to have been an
eqmvalent for that of Clough to the full extent to which that
of Clough goes, involving, perhaps, patentable improvements,
but still tributary or subject to the patent of Clough. It is
true that that patent describes the tubular valve as being
inside of the burner-tube. But Clough was the first person
who applied a valve regulation of any kind to the combination
to which he applied it, and the first person who made such
combination, and he is entitled, under decisions heretofore
made by this court, to hold as infringements all valve regulations, applied to such a combination, which perform the same
office in substantially the same way as, and were known

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

equivalents for, his form of valve regulation."

See, also,

Duf v Ste'ling Pump Co., 107 U S. 636, 639.
The same doctrine was applied by this court in Consolidated
alve Co. v Crosby Vralve Co., 113 U. S. 157, to the Richardson patent, the claim of which was, "A safety valve with the
circular or annular flange or lip cc, constructed in the manner,
or substantially in the manner, shown, so as to operate as and
for the purpose herein described." It appeared that Richardson was the first person who made a safety valve which, while
it automatically relieved the pressure of steam in the boiler,
did not, in effecting that result, reduce the pressure to such an
extent as to make the use of the relieving apparatus practically impossible, because of the expenditure of time and fuel
necessary to bring up the steam again to the proper working
standard, and that his valve was the first which had a strictured orifice leading from the huddling chamber to the open
air, to retard the escape of the steam, and to enable the valve
to open with increasing power against the action of the spring,
and to close suddenly, with small loss of pressure in the boiler.
It was held, that that claim covered a valve m which were combined an initial area, an additional area, a huddling chamber
beneath the additional area, and a strictured orifice such as that
above mentioned, the orifice being proportioned to the strength
of the spring. It was also held, that, under the claim of a second
patent, namely, "The combination of the surface beyond the
seat of the safety-valve, with the means herein described for
regulating or adjusting the area of the passage for the escape
of steam, substantially as and for the purpose described," the
patentee was entitled to cover the combination, with the surface of the huddling chamber and the strictured orifice, of a
screw-ring to be moved up or down to obstruct such orifice
more or less, in the manner described. It was further held,
that both of the patents were infringed by a valve which produced the same effects in operation by the means described in
Richardson's claims, although the valve proper was an annulus,
and the extended surface was a disc, inside of the annulus, the
Richardson valve proper being a disc, and the extended surface an annulus surrounding the disc, and although the valve

MORLEY M1ACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

proper of the defendant had two ground joints, and only the
steam which passed through one of them passed through the
stricture, while, in the Richardson valve, all the steam which
passed into the air passed through the stricture, and although
in the defendant's valve the huddling chamber was at the centre, instead of at the circumference, and was m the seat of the
valve, under the head, instead of in the head, and the stricture
was at the circumference of the seat of the valve, instead of
being at the circumference of the head. These conclusions
were based on the fact, stated in the opinion of the court, that
no prior structure was known or recognized as producing any
such result as that produced by Richardson's apparatus, that
the prior structures never effected the kind of result attained
by his apparatus, because they lacked the thing which gave
success, and that, taught by Richardson, and by the use of his
apparatus, it was not difficult for skilled mechanics to take the
prior structures and so arrange and use them as to produce
more or less of the beneficial results first made known by him.
The doctrine thus applicable to a machine patent is of a kindred character with that applied, in this country and in England, to a patent for a process.
In Tilghman v. Proctor,102 U. S. 707, the claim of Tilghman's patent was for "the manufacturing of fat-acids and glycerine from fatty bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure." In the opinion of this court delivered
by Mr. Justice Bradley, the claim was sustained as a claim for
a process, irrespective of the particular mode or form of apparatus for carrying it into effect, inasmuch as the patent described a practical and useful mode of carrying it into effect.
It was said in the opinion, (p. 721:) "Had the process been
known and used before, and not been Tilghman's invention,
he could not then have claimed anything more than the particular apparatus described in his patent, but being the inventor of the process, as we are satisfied was the fact, he was entitled to claim it in the manner he did." It was also held that,
in such a case, a person who subsequently discovers a new
mode of carrying out the patented process is not entitled to
use the process without the consent of the patentee.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Reference was made in the opinion in that case to the decision in .L7eilson v _Ilarford, I Webster Pat. Cas. 295, which
related to Neilson's patent for the process of applying a blast
of heated air to anthracite coal in a smelting furnace, by
forcing such blast through a vessel situated between the blowing apparatus and the furnace, and heated to a red heat, the
form of the heated vessel being stated by the patent to be
immaterial. On this question this court said "That a hot
blast is better than a cold blast for smelting iron in a furnace,
was the principle or scientific fact discovered by Ngeilson, and
yet, being nothing but a principle, he could not have a patent
for that. But having invented and practically exemplified a
process for utilizing this principle, namely, that of heating the
blast in a receptacle between the blowing apparatus and the
furnace, he was entitled to a patent for that process, although
he did not distinctly point out all the forms of apparatus
by which the process might be applied, having, nevertheless,
pointed out a particular apparatus for that purpose, and
having thus shown that the process could be practically and
usefully applied. Another person might invent a better apparatus for applying this process than that pointed out by Neilson, and might obtain a patent for such improved apparatus,
but he could not use the process without a license from Neilson. His improved apparatus would, in this respect, stand in
a relation to the process analogous to that which an improvement on a patented machine bears to the machine itself."
In regard to the case of Nireilson v Ha~ford, this court,
speaking by Chief Justice Taney, in O'Reilly v 3Morse, 15
How 62, 115, 116, said, in reference to the opinion of the
Court of Exchequer in that case, delivered by Baron Parke
"We see nothing in this opinion differing in any degree from
the familiar principles of law applicable to patent cases.
Neilson claimed no particular mode of constructing the receptacle, or of heating it. He pointed out the manner in which
it might be done, but admitted that it might also be done in
a variety of ways, -nd at a higher or lower temperature, and
that all of them would produce the effect in a greater or
less degree, provided the air was heated by passing through a

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

heated receptacle. And hence it seems that the court at first
doubted whether it was a patent for anything more than the
discovery that hot air would promote the ignition of fuel
better than cold. And if this had been the construction, the
court, it appears, would have held his patent to be void, because the discovery of a principle in natural philosophy or
physical science is not patentable. lBut after much consideration, it was finally decided that this principle must be regarded
as well known, and that the plaintiff had invented a mechanical mode of applying it to furnaces, and that his invention consisted in interposing a heated receptacle between the
blower and the furnace, and by this means heating the air
after it left the blower and before it was thrown into the fire.
Whoever, therefore, used this method of throwing hot air into
the furnace used the process he had invented, and thereby
infringed his patent, although the form of the receptacle or
the mechanical arrangements for heating it might be different
from those described by the patentee. For, whatever form was
adopted for the receptacle, or whatever mechanical arrangements were made for heating it, the effect would be produced
in a greater or less degree, if the heated receptacle was placed
between the blower and the furnace, and the current of air
passed through it. Undoubtedly, the principle that hot air
will promote the ignition of fuel better than cold, was embodied in this machine. But the patent was not supported because this principle was embodied m it. He would have been
equally entitled to a patent if he had invented an improvement in the mechanical arrangements of the blowing apparatus, or in the furnace, while a cold current of air was still
used. But his patent was supported because he had invented
a mechanical apparatus by which a current of hot air, instead
of cold, could be thrown in. And this new method was protected by his patent. The interposition of a heated receptacle,
in any form, was the novelty he invented."
This court also said, in Tilghman v Proctor,(p. 728 :) "If
the mode of applying the process is not obvious, then a
description of a particular mode by which it may be applied is
sufficient. There is, then, a description of the process and of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

one practical mode in which it may be applied. Perhaps the
process is susceptible of being applied in many modes and by
the use of many forms of apparatus. The inventor is not
bound to describe them all, in order to secure to himself the
exclusive right to the process, if he is really its inventor or discoverer. But he must describe some particular mode, or some
apparatus, by which the process can be applied with at least
some beneficial result, in order to show that it is capable of
being exhibited and performed in actual experience."
The English doctrine is to the same effect. In the case of
Curts v. Platt,before Vice-Chancellor Wood, in 1863, reported
in a note to Adie v Clark, 3 Ch. Div 134, the Vice-Chancellor said, (p. 136,) in regard to a patent for an improvement in
spinning-mules "When the thing is wholly novel, and one
which has never been achieved before, the machine itself which
is invented necessarily contains a great amount of novelty in
all its parts, and one looks very narrowly and very jealously
upon any other machines for effecting the same object, to see
whether or not they are merely colorable contrivances for
evading that which has been before done. When the object
itself is one which is not new, but the means only are new, one
is not inclined to say that a person who invents a particular
means of doing something that has been known to all the
world long before has a right to extend very largely the interpretation of those means which he has adopted for carrying it
into effect." In the same case, on appeal before the Lord
Chancellor, (Lord Westbury,) (p. 138,) the views of Vice-Chancellor Wood were concurred in.
In Bldiscie Anilin und Soda Fabrik v 1ewnstein, 24 Ch.
Div 156, 171, in regard to a patent for inprovements in the
production of coloring matters for dyeing and printing, Mr.
Justice Pearson said "Where a patent is taken out for a process for arriving at a known result, (I mean, a result known
before the patent is taken out for the process stmplicter,) any
other person may take out a patent for another process, or may
use another process without taking out a patent, without any
infringement of the process first taken out. But when a patent
is taken out for a new result not known before, and there is one

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

4

process described in the patent which is effectual for the purpose of arriving at that new result at the time when the patent
is taken out, the patentee is entitled to protection against all
other processes for the same result, and no person can, without
infringing upon his patent, adopt simply a different process for
arriving at the same result." As authority for tins view, he
cites the cases of Jupe v Pratt,1 Webster Pat. Cas. 146,
Hfousehill Co. v ]Jeilson,1 Webster Pat. Cas. 685, and Curtis
v Platt, ub?, supra, and Goodeve Pat Cas. 102. He decided in
favor of the plaintiff.
On appeal to the Court of Appeal, 29 Ch. Div 366, the
decree was reversed, Lords Justices Bowen and Fry being in
favor of a reversal, and Lord Justice Baggallay against it.
On further appeal to the House of Lords, 12 App. Cas. 710, the
decision of the Court of Appeal was reversed, and the decision
of Mr. Justice Pearson was restored, Lord Ralsbury, (Lord
Chancellor,) Lord Herschell, and Lord Macnaghten sitting in
the case and concurring. In the judgment given by Lord Herschell it is stated that all the judges of all the courts were
agreed on the question of infringement.
A recent and instructive case is that of Protor v Benns,
36 Ch.Div. '740, in regard to a patent for self-acting mechanism for supplying fuel at intervals to, and distributing it over
the surface of, a fire. The court of first instance held the
patent to be valid and to have been infringed. In the Court
of Appeal, Lords Justices Cotton, Bowen, and Fry unanimously affirmed the decision, and held that a patent for a
combination of known mechanical contrivances, producing a
new result, was infringed by a machine producing the same
result by a combination of mechanical equivalents of such contrivances, with some alterations and omissions, which did not
prevent the new machine from being one which took the substance and essence of the patented invention, but that, where
the result was old, and the novelty consisted only of improvements in a known machine for producing a known result, the
patentee must be tied down strictly to the mode which he had
described of effecting the improvements.
Lord Justice Cotton, after referring to the case of Curtis v

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Plat,3 Ch. Div 135, note, said, (p. 757:) "Where there is no
novelty in the result, and where the machine is not a new one,
but the claim is only for improvements in a known machine
for producing a known result, the patentee must be tied down
strictly to the invention which he claims, and the mode which
he points out of effecting the inprovement. But here the
throwing coal on to the furnace by the intermittent radial
action of a flap or door was new Nothing of the kind had
been done before. It is true, there had-previously been imperfect machines for feeding furnaces automatically, but that
had not, previously to this machine, been done by any intermittent radial action of a flap or door, as is done by the plaintiff. In my opinion, therefore, the opinions expressed by the
judges with reference to mere improvements in an old machine
for an old purpose cannot apply to a case like this, where there
was not only novelty in the machine, but novelty in the result
to be produced by that machine."
Lord Justice Bowen said, (p. 764:) "Now, I think it goes
to the root of this case to remember that this is, as was described by one of the counsel, really a pioneer invention, and
it is by the light of that, as it seems to me, that we ought to
consider whether there have been variations or omissions, and
additions, which prevent the machine which is complained of
from being an infringement of the plaintiff's. With regard to
the variations, I take precisely the same view that the Lord
Justice Cotton has taken, and I will not travel over the
ground again. With regard to the additions and omissions, it
is obvious that additions may be an improvement, and that
omissions may be an improvement, but the mere fact that
there is an addition, or the mere fact that there is an omission, does not enable you to take the substance of the plaintiff's patent. The question is not whether the addition is
material, or whether the omission is material, but whether
what has been taken is the substance and essence of the invention. That seems to me to be the true test, as propounded by
the House of Lords in Clark v Adie, 2 App. Cas. 315, 320."
Lord Justice Fry said, (p. t66 :) "The pith and substance of
the plaintiff's invention is, in my judgment, putting coals upon

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opimon of the Court.

a fire by an intermittent radial action, an invention which, it
may be remarked, reproduces with great exactitude the action of the human arm in placing coals upon a fire." Also,
(p. 768:) "In the present case, we have these broad features
of likeness, that in both machines the motion is a radial motion, in both machines it is an intermittent motion, in both
machines it is of course produced by means of a radius, in
both machines that radius is moved in one direction by tappets, and the same radius is moved in the opposite direction
by a spring. All those broad features of the machines are in
common, but there is this difference, that in the plaintiff's
machine a shaft is impelled by the tappets and by the spring,
whereas in the defendant's machine the radius itself is impelled by the tappets and the spring. It follows that the
radius in the plaintiff's is attached to the shaft, whereas the
radius m the defendant's works on a pin. That is the broad
distinction between them. The result, however, appears to me
to be substantially the same, by substituting the pm for the
shaft as the centre on which the radius acts, and by impelling
the radius itself instead of impelling the shaft fixed to the
radius, you have produced m substance precisely the same
radial action by the same means. You drive your radius in
one direction by tappets, and you drive it in the other direction by the spring, and you produce the same result, namely,
the feeding of coal by a radial motion made intermittent in
one direction by the operation of the tappets, and in the other
direction by the spring. I think, therefore, that we have a
new combination for a new object, and that the gist of that
combination has been taken by the defendant, and that, consequently, there is an infringement."
Applying these views to the case in hand, Morley having
been the first inventor of an automatic button-sewing machine,
by uniting in one organization mechanism for feeding buttons
from a mass, and delivering them one by one to sewing inechanism and to the fabric to which they are to be secured, and
sewing mechanism for passing a thread through the eye of the
button, and securing it to the fabric, and feeding mechanism
for movng the fabric the required distances to space the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

buttons, another machine is an infringement, in which such
three sets of mechanism are combined, provided each mechanism, individually considered, is a proper equivalent for the
corresponding mechanism in the Morley patent, and it makes
no difference that, in the infringing machine, the button-feeding
mechanism is more simple, and the sewing mechanism and the
mechanism for feeding the fabric are different in mechanical
construction, so long as they perform each the same function
as the corresponding mechanism in the Morley machine, in
substantially the same way, and are combined to produce the
same result.
The view taken on the part of the defendant, in regard to
the question of infringement, is that, inasmuch as the Lancaster
machine uses different devices in its mechanisms which correspond to those referred to in the first, second, eighth and
thirteenth claims of the patent, those claims are to be limited
to the special devices described m the patent, which make up
such combinations, although both machines contain the same
main group of instrumentalities which, when combined, make
up the machine.
But, in a pioneer patent, such as that of Morley, with the
four claims in question such as they are, the special devices set
forth by Xorlev are not necessary constituents of the claims.
The main operative features of both machines are the same.
In each there is a receptacle for shank-buttons in a mass, in
each the mass of buttons passes in order into a conveyer-way;
and in each the buttons conveyed to the sewing mechanism
are presented successively with their shanks in a horizontal
position, so as to allow of the passage of the needle through
the eye. In the Morley machine, the buttons are carried along
the raceway with their shanks downward, and are turned over
by proper devices, so that the needle can enter the eye. In
the Lancaster machine, the buttons travel along the raceway
with their shanks upward, and the twisted shape of the raceway causes the buttons to be presented properly in succession
to the needle. The only difference is, that in the Morley
machine there is an active operating device for turning tue
buttons, in the shape of a button-wheel which receives them,

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

and shuts off the column, and takes one at a time out of the
raceway, while in the Lancaster machine there is a passive
device for accomplishing the same result of turing the buttons,
and there is no button-wheel, but there is a spring-gate at the
end of the raceway, which shuts off the column and, with the
addition of other devices, allows one button at a time to be
withdrawn from the raceway But in the Morley patent a
modification is described, whereby the button-wheel is dispensed with, and a spring-gate, as in the Lancaster machine, is
employed, and an active device is used to open the spring-gate
and discharge the button, while in the Lancaster machine an
active instrumentality is used to effect the same result, in combination with the sidewise movement of the raceway and in
connection with the fact that the needle enters the eye of the
button and passes a thread through it.
As to the mechanism for feeding the fabric, it is substantially
the same in the two machines, for in each the needle operates
to feed the fabric, while inserted in it, and it makes no difference that in the Morley machine the two needles swing like an
inverted pendulum, while in the Lancaster machine the single
needle swings in a straight line.
The principal difference relied on by the defendant is in
regard to the sewing or stitching mechanism, based upon the
difference in the kind of stitch used in the two machines for
fastening the button to the fabric.
The two stitches are,
indeed, different, specifically considered. Morley uses the
chain stitch. In the Lancaster machine, the stitch is made by
looping the thread upon itself, and putting the bight of the
loop around the shank of the button, so as to prevent the loop
from pulling out, as it would otherwise do. The Morley patent,
however, is not for any particular kind of stitch, or for any
particular kind of mechanism for making such stitch. When
the form of the stitch is changed, the instrumentalities for
making it must change. Morley says, in his specification, that
different means for making a stitch may be employed, as well
as other feed mechanisms.
The contention of the defendant, in regard to the sewing
mechanism, rests upon the proposition, that the convolution

OCTOBER TERtM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or concatenation of thread which makes up the stitch in the
Lancaster machine is different from that which is found in the
Morley machine. In each machine, however, the buttons are
spaced at the proper distances apart by the feeding mechanism
which moves the fabric along, and the feeding device is moved
alternately different distances, to alternate short stitches with
long stitches between the buttons. In each machine, the button
is taken possession of by the sewing mechanism, and the needle
in each enters the eye of the button. In the Lancaster machine, however, the thread is so looped as to embrace also the
shank of the button, and thus, if the button were not present in
the Lancaster machine, the lock-stitch would not be formed, but
merely a succession of loops, which could be pulled out of the
fabric. But this convolution or concatenation of the thread to
form the fastening of the stitch, and the particular device which
forms such convolution or concatenation, are not made, by
the Morley patent, elements which enter into the claims in
question.
Those claims are not for a result or effect, irrespective of the
means by which the effect is accomplished. It is open to a
subsequent inventor to accomplish the same result., if he can,
by substantially different means. The effect of the rule before
laid down is merely to require that, in determimng whether the
means employed in the Lancaster machine are substantially the
same means as those employed in the Morley machine, the Morley patent is to receive a liberal construction, in view of the fact
that he was a pioneer in the construction of an automatic button-sewing machine, and that his patent, especially in view of
the character and terms of the four claims in question, is not
to be limited to the particular devices or instrumentalities
described by him, used in the three main elements of his machine, which, combined together, make it up. This is the principle applied by this court in Consolidated Valve Co. v Crosby
Valve Co., 113 U S. 157.
In all three of the main mechanisms used in the Lancaster
machine, the means employed in it are substantially equivalents
of those employed in the Morley machine. There is in each a
hopper containing tbe mass of buttons, and an inclined con-

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

veyer-way leading from the hopper to the sewing mechanism.
The only question in regard to the button-feeding mechanism
is, whether the means employed in the Lancaster machine for
turning the buttons so that the eyes will come into the path
of the needle, are within the means employed for the same
purpose in the Morley machine. In the Morley machine there
is a flexible, corrugated strip of metal, which is oscillated to
and fro, and operates to roll the buttons over, so that their
shanks will occupy a groove at the bottom of the trough. In
the Lancaster machine, the reciprocating brush which sweeps
over the bottom of the hopper in which the buttons lie in a
mass, operates in an equivalent way with the corrugated strip
of the forley machine, and causes the shanks, which stand
upward, of the buttons which have been rolled over by its
action, to enter slits in a metal plate, which converge in the
single conveyer-way The only difference is that, .in the Mlorley
machme, the shanks are caused to lie in one direction at one
time m their path, and in the Lancaster machine the same
result is accomplished by equivalent devices at another time.
As to the instrumentalities employed in the two machines
for bringing the buttons one by one so that their eyes will
stand in a horizontal position, ready to receive the needle, the
buttons in the Morley machine pass down the conveyer-way
with their eyes pointingdownward, and occupying the groove,
and from the conveyer-way they enter one by one into a button-wheel, which, by revolving, turns them 180', and they are
then received into a carrier which further turns them 90', so
as to get the eye into a horizontal plane. In the Lancaster
machine it is not necessary to turn the buttons more than 900,
because they have been so rolled over by the brush in the hopper that their eyes poiit upward and enter the slits, and the
conveyer-way is twisted and so turns the button that its eye
will occqpy a horizontal plane, ready to receive the needle.
Then the needle, entering the eye of the button, pulls the button out of the conveyer, and the latter moves out of the way,
leaving the button in the possession of the sewing mechanism.
These instrumentalities are the equivalents of each other,
the differences being merely formal, active instrumentalities

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

being employed in one case to turn the buttons, and in the
other that end being accomplished by the twisting of the conveyer-wav To employ a curved path to change the plane
occupied by a body passing along that path was well known
m mechanics, and is a device shown in the Morley patent for
turning the buttons from a nearly vertical position to a horizontal position, by a corresponding variation in the inclination
of the conveyer-way The only difference in the particular
devices in the two machines in this respect results from the
fact that in the Morley machine the buttons pass from the
hopper with their shanks downward, while in the Lancaster
machine they pass with their shanks upward. From this it
results that, while the means employed in the two machines
are substantially the same, to effect the same result, active
agents can be used in the one case, while passive agents are
used in the other, to effect the same turning of the button.
Indeed, in the modified form of construction suggested in the
Morley specification, there is a spring-gate for holding the buttons up, while in the Lancaster machine there is a similar
spring, the only difference being that in the Morley machine
the spring-gate is opened by a special device, while in the Lancaster machine the button itself opens the spring when the button-holding contrivance moves out of the way In that modification of the Morley arrangement, as the specification states,
the button-wheel and the plunger are dispensed with, and it is
not necessary to turn the button 180' on a vertical axis. So,
in this respect, the only difference between the two machines
is, that in the Morley machine the spring-gate is opened by an
active device, while in the Lancaster machine the conveyerway is moved sidewise by an active device, leaving the button
behind, which opens the spring-gate because the needle has
entered the eye of the button.
In regard to tlne sewing mechanism in the two machines, a
sewing needle with thread is employed in each to fasten the
buttons to the fabric. In each, the thread is continuous, and
follows the fabric as that is moved along by the mechanism
which feeds it. The Morley machine employs the common
stitch. In the Lancaster machine there is a peculiar stitch, in

MORLEY MACHINE CO. v. LANCASTER.
Opinion of the Court.

which a loop is drawn around the shank of the button and
thus the stitch is locked against being drawn out, but notwithstanding the new convolution or concatenation of thread
used m the Lancaster machine to secure the shank of the button to the fabric, the sewing mechanism of that machine is a
substantial eqmvalent for the corresponding mechanism of the
Mforley patent. The invention of Morley in that respect did
not consist in the peculiarity of the stitch, but in the combination of the needle, and the mechanism for operating it, with a
button having a shank and an eye, the eye being held in a
horizontal plane an the path of the needle, so that the thread
carried by the needle could secure the button to the fabric. It
is immaterial, in so securing the button, whether or not a loop
is passed over the head of the button. The defendant's device
and arrangement may be an improvement, and the subject of
a patent, but nevertheless the use of it involves the plaintiff's
invention.
It may be true that the defendant's peculiar form of stitch
was unknown before, and it may also be true that his arrangement for carrying the buttons with their eyes upward, and
turning the eyes into a horizontal plane by the twisting of the
conveyer-way, was not before known. Of course, they were
not before known in a machine for automatically sewing buttons to a fabric, because Morley's machine was the first to do
that. But still, the defendant employs for the above purposes
known devices, which, in mechanics, were recogmized as proper
substitutes for the devices used by Morley to effect the same
results. Thus, in the Lancaster machine, the brush for rolling
over the buttons is the obvious equivalent of the corrugated
plate in the Morley machine. The mode of operation used in
the Lancaster machine for rolling over the buttons so that
their shanks shall point in a particular direction before entering the main conveyer-way is the same mode of operation
found an the Morley machine, where the corrugated plate rolls
the buttons over during their passage to the grooved conveyerway, so that their shanks shall all point in the same direction.
In the Lancaster machine the action resulting from the twisted
way is a mechanical equivalent for the button-wheel, the
voL. CXX13-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

punch, and the carrier used in the M,[orley machine to turn the
eye into the proper plane for the needle to enter it, and
the specific difference in the devices m this respect becomes
less when the modification described in the M orley patent is
used, so that in each of the two machines the button is turned
only 90 ° on a horizontal axis, and in each of them a springgate is employed, opened in the one case by an active device,
while in the other case an active device moves the conveyer
away from the particular button which is being held by the
needle.
In this sense the mechanical devices used by the defendant
are known substitutes or equivalents for those employed in
the M,orley machine to effect the same result, and this is the
proper meaning of the term "known equivalent," in reference
to a pioneer machine such as that of Morley Otherwise, a
difference in the particular devices used to accomplish a particular result in such a machine would always enable a defendant to escape the charge of infringement, provided such devices
were new with the defendant in such a machine, because, as
no machine for accomplishing the result existed before that of
the plaintiff, the particular device alleged to avoid infringement could not have existed or been known in such a machine
prior to the plaintiff's invention.
It results from these views that the decree of the Circuit
Court must be
Reversed, and the case be remanded to that court with a direction to enter a decree in favor of the plamts,sustaning
the validity of claims 1, 2, 8, and 13 of the plantU s'
patent, and adjudging that those claims have been infringed by the defendant, and ordering a reference to a
master to take an account of profjts and damages vin
respect to such tnfrv.ngement, and awarding to the plantfs a ,perpetualtn uncion in respect to the four clazms
above mentioned, and to take such further proceedings as
shall be according to law and not imconsistent with this

opinion.

