UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McALPINE.

305

Syllabus.

embraces nothing that is not old and really nothing that is
patentable, that is, which involves invention rather than
mechanical skill.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied with the conclusions
reached by the Circuit Court, and its decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. XoALPIXE.
APPEAL FROM THE

cRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 128. Argued December 14, 15,ISS8.-Decided January 28, 1889.

In October, 1874, irs. A. owned a tract of land consisting of four acres on
Kansas River in the town of Wyandotte, Kansas, called Ferry tract, and
the Kansas Pacific Railway Company owned a tract of 25. acres lying
north of Wyandotte.
In that year negotiations were opened between
her and the company for an exchange of 2?y
4 acres of the Ferry tract,
valued at $2000, for the 25.-acre tract, valued at $1500, Mrs. A. offering
to take for the difference in value a quarter section of land estimated at
$3 an acre. N~egotiations for the exchange were had between Mrs. Al.
and officers of that company. On February 26, 1878, the president of the
company informed its general superintendent, in substance, that the exchange would be made, and directed him to proceed with the matterThe superintendent turned the matter over to the attorney of the company, who acquainted Mrs. M. with the conclusion. She, considering the
proposition for an exchange of lands accepted, took possession of the251,- acre tract with her husband, and made valuable improvements upon
it, and has remained in possession ever since. The railway company,
who had previously been permitted to lay a track across the land for temporary use, took possession of the 2,V6 acres and made improvements.
thereon. In June, 1878, at a meeting of the directors of the company,
the president presented a form of deed to Mrs. M. of 251 acres in exchange for the 21% acres at the landing, and asked for instructions. It
was then resolved that an exchange of said lands be made and the deed
executed to Mrs. M. -wheneverthe land to'be conveyed by her was released
from a tax claim thereon. A deed from her and her husband of the
2ZUO acres, had previously been executed to the company and sent to its
officers. After tiiis resolution of the board, proceedings were taken by
her for the release of the tax claim mentioned in it, which was accomplished, under the advice of the attorney of the company, by purchasing
VOL. cxxiL-20

OCTOBER TERi, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
n the property upon the sale made for such alleged tax. A deed was
then demanded of the company for the 25l-acre tract, and being refused,
the present suit was brought for the enforcement of the contract. On
the 24th of January, 1880, the Kansas Pacific Railway Company had become consolidated with the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company and the Union Pacific Railway Company under the name of the
latter. By the articles of consolidation all the property of the constituent companies was conveyed to the new company with a declaration that
the assignment and transfer were made "subject to all liens, charges
and equities pertaining thereto." Previous to tis transfer and consolidation, and in May, 1879, a mortgage was made by the Kansas Pacific
Company of its property including the 25 '-acre tract, to Gould and Sage
as trustees, field,
(1) That the resolution of the Board of Directors of June 28, 1878, was
a ratification in part of the negotiations for the exchange of the
two tracts, and Mrs. MV1.
having accepted this action, it is not valid
ground of objection by the Kansas Pacific Company to the enforcement of the contract that it called for less than was originally
agreed upon.
(2) That the taking possession of the tracts by the parties pursuant to
the contract and continmung in possession and making improvements thereon constitute part performance of such contract sufficient to take it out of the Statute of Frauds and authorize a decree
for full performance.
(3) That the obligation of the Kansas Pacific Company to execute a conveyance to Mrs. M. passed to the defendant company upon the consolidation mentioned and the transfer to it of the property of the
Kansas Pacific Company
(4) That the trustees under the mortgage of 1879 took the property with
notice of the rights of Mrs. A., and subject to their enforcement.

IN EQUITY. For the specific performance of a contract to
convey real estate. Decree for complainants. Respondent
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
2-7" J .Mi. Wilson for appellant. .Xr J P Usher, hTr
John F Dillon and DLr A. L. Williams filed briefs for same.
hZr William .M.. Spr-inger and Xir James X.

-Mason(with

whom was Xr John IF Day on the brief) for appellees.
ML

JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas. It is a suit for the specific per-

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. M oALPINE.

307

Opinion of the Court.

formance of a contract for the exchange of lands in the State
of Kansas between M aria W McAlpme, one of the complainants below and appellees here, and the Kansas.Pacific Railway
Company, alleged to have been made in 1878, her contention
being that the defendant, the Union Pacific Railway Company,
has succeeded not only to the property but to the obligations
of that company The decree of the Circuit Court was in
favor of the complainants, and the case is brought here on the
appeal of the defendants. .McApzqe v. Unwn .Pam)L%
Railway Co., 23 Fed. Rep. 168.
Nearly every fact essential to the maintenance of the suit is
controverted, and in relation to many of the facts there is a
perplexing conflict of evidence. It would serve no useful
purpose to detail and discuss the mass of testimony contained
in the record and show, out of the varying statements of
witnesses, the attendant circumstances and the accompanying
documents, where the preponderance of evidence rests' with
respect to any essential matter. We shall briefly state the
facts which seem to us to be sufficiently established. It appears
that the town of Wyandotte, in Kansas, is situated at the
junction of the Kansas and. Missouri rivers, and that on the
16th of September, 1861, the title to a small tract of land
bordering on the north side of the Kansas River, within the
town, being four acres in extent, and known as the "Ferry
Tract," was vested in one Isaiah Walker under a patent of the
United States. This tract afforded an available and convenient
landing from steamboats. On the 21st of October, 1874, the
title to it passed to Maria W MvcAlpme by conveyance of the
sheriff of Wyandotte County, under a decree of the District
Court of the Tenth Judicial District of Kansas, rendered in a
partition suit between her and parties claiming interest therein.
The other complainant and appellee, Nicholas McAlpine, is the
husband of Maria. In the early part of 1878, negotigtions
were had between the McAlpines and officers of the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company, for the exchange of two acres
and seventy one-hundredths of an acre of this Ferry tract
for a parcel of land consisting of twenty-five acres and a
quarter, lying north of Wyandotte, then owned by that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The two acres and seventy one-hundredths of
company
an acre were valued by the AMcAlpmes at $2000. The 25&
acre tract held by the railway company was valued at $1500.
For the difference in value the AlcAlpines offered to take a
quarter section of land in Pottawatomie County, Kansas,
which was estimated to be worth three dollars an acre. The
negotiations were had with the company through its president,
its general superintendent, and its attorney at law It does
not appear that any of these officers, except its president,
Robert E. Carr, acted upon any previous authority conferred
by the Board of Directors. All its members, however, were
aware of the negotiations, and no one expressed any doubt
that what was done in the matter would be finally approved
by the Board. Mr. Carr testified that whatever he did in
regard to the exchange as an officer of the railway company
was done after consultation and advice with the Board of
Directors, and that in this case he also consulted with the
receiver. The railway company was then and for some period
subsequently, in the hands of a receiver appointed in a foreclosure suit apparently of a friendly character, resulting in a
decree extending the time for paying the amount due. The
rights of the receiver were merely temporary, the title of
the property remaining in the railway company, and on the
termination of the receivership possession was restored to
the company Mr. Carr, after becoming acquainted with the
terms of the proposed exchange, and acting upon the advice
of the Board, on the 26th of February, 1878, sent to the
general superintendent of the company the following communication
"KANSAS

PACIFIC RAILwAY,

"OFFI6E OF GENERAL MANAGER FOR THE RECEIVERS.

"ST. Louis, Feb. 26, 188.
OAxiis, Gen. Supt.
" DEAR SuR Respecting the settlement for right of way
with McAlpme, I beg to say you can settle with him on the
basis of exchanging the lot of land belonging to company
above Wyandotte, about 25 acres, for his Walker Ferry tract.
"T. F

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McALPINE.

309

Opimon of the Court.

That we will also, in addition, give him one hundred and sixty
acres of 'land, to be selected by him out of the lands of the
company, the appraised price of which does not exceed five
hundred dollars, back taxes and claims on all to be satisfactorily cleared up.
":Respectfully,
ROERT E. CAUR."
This communication was turned over by the general superintendent to the attorney of the company, with an mdorsement over his initials, "Go ahead with this."
The McAlpines, considering the proposition for an exchange
of lands as accepted, and the terms of the contract as settled,
on the 25th of March following executed to the Kansas Pacific
Railway Company a deed m due form of the two acres
and seventy one-hundredths of an acre. In tins deed Isaiah
Walker and wife united, and it was then transmitted to the
officers of the railway company for delivery Soon afterwards, the McAlplnes went into possession of the 25-acre
tract, and have remained in its possession ever since. They
put valuable improvements upon the land, and there are now
many buildings upon it. The railway company had been permitted by the McAlpmes and their predecessors, to lay a railroad across the Ferry tract for temporary use m transporting
railroad material from steamboats to its mai line. After the
acceptance of the terms of the proposed exchange, the railway
company took possession of the entire tract, that is, of the
two acres and seventy one-hundredths of an acre, and kept
and used it until the consolidation of the company with the
defendant, when its possession and use passed to the latter,
which has ever since held it. But it was not until the 28th
of June, 1878, that the Board formally acted upon the subject. What was then done appears from the following extract from the minutes of its meeting
"Pursuant to call of the president, the Board of Directors
of the Kansas Pacific Railway Co. met at the office of the
company, in St. Louis, on Friday, June 28th, instant, at 2 P.M.
"Present Messrs. Perry, Meier, Edgell, Treadway, Edgerton and President Carr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"The president presented a form of deed to Maria W
McAlpine to 25J acres of land in Wyandotte County in exchange for two and seventy hundredths acres of land at the
tie landing in Wyandotte County, and asked for instructions
in regard to signing the same.
"On motion of Mr. Meier, and seconded by Mr. Perry, it
was resolved that the exchange of said lands be made, reserving the right of way therein, and the deed of the company be
properly executed and delivered to Maria W McAlpine whenever the land to be conveyed by her has been released from
the tax claim thereon and a proper deed made for the same
is delivered."
It appears that, pending the negotiations and before this
action of the Board, it was discovered that a small part of the
Ferry tract was clouded by a tax claim of some kind, and it is
to the release of that claim that reference is made in the proceedings of the Board. The McAlpines were informed by the
attorney of the company of its resolution. In accordance with
its condition they proceeded to take measures to remove the
tax claim, and they did so, upon the advice of the attorney, by
bidding in the property at the sale made for such tax, which
subjected them to an expenditure of several hundred dollars.
They then notified the attorney of the removal of the claim,
and called upon the company to execute its deed to them of
the 25-acre tract in accordance with the contract. This the
company postponed doing from time to time, under various
pretences and pretexts, apparently in the expectation of securing by delay some undue advantage over the McAlpines. In
the meantime, the Kansas Pacific Company became united and
consolidated with the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph
Company, and the Union Pacific Railway Company, under the
name of the latter, which sets up against the claim of the
McAlpines that the alleged contract for an exchange of lands
was never made with the Kansas Pacific Company, or, if
made, that nothing was ever done under it to take it out of
the Statute of Frauds, and that even if such were the case,
the contract was not enforceable against the defendant, the
Union Pacific Company We do not state the several objec-

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McALPINE.

311

Opinion of the Court.

tions urged against the demand of the complainants in the
language of the appellants, but we give the substance of them,
or at least of such of them as we deem of sufficient importance
to notice.
Some criticism is made by the appellants upon the form of
the allegations respecting the contract with the Kansas Pacific
Company
It is alleged that such contract was with the,
defendant in 1878, acting under the name and style of the
Kansas Pacific Railway Company, when the defendant company was not organized until 1880. It is true, the form of
the allegation is not apt or even accurate, but it does not
appear to have misled the defendant in any respect, and the
case was heard on its merits, as though the allegations had followed the order in which the proceedings were taken by the
original company, afterwards merged and consolidated into
the defendant company We do not, therefore, allow the
criticism to affect our decision. It was not made in the court
below, where objections to the form of averments should be
presented, if they are to be considered here.
We agree with the Circuit Court that the record of the
Board of Directors of the Kansas Pacific Railway Company
of the 28th of June, 1878, measures and fixes the limits of the
liabilities and obligations of that company It shows a ratification of the past negotiations between the McAlpines and the
company for the exchange of the two acres and seventy onehundredths of an acre of the Ferry tract for the 25k-acre tract.
It does not, it is true, make any mention of the 160 acres in
Pottawatomie County, but of that land we need not concern
ourselves, for as to it the bill was dismissed and no appeal was
taken by the complainants. If they were willing to accept
a deed of the 25&acre tract in exchange for the two acres and
seventy one-hundredths of an acre of the Ferry tract, it did not
lie with the railway company to complain that they did not
make a claim for the other land. It certainly was no ground
for the company to repudiate the contract as ratified, that it
called for less than was originally agreed upon. That land
being left out of consideration, we have the respective parcels
to be exchanged sufficiently identified, and from other docu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ments they can be described by metes and bounds. That is
certain, as the maxim obtains, which can be rendered certain.
And if the contract, for want of the signature of the corporation or of its lawfully authorized agents, is not strictly within
the Statute of Frauds, yet the possession taken of the several
parcels -of the 25-acre tract by the McAlpines, and of the
21 i0 -acre tract by the railway company-in pursuance of
such contract, and continued ever since, and their expenditures for buildings and other improvements upon the respective parcels constitute a part performance sufficient to take the
contract out of the operation of the statute, and authorize a
decree for its full performance. The fact that possession was
taken before the ratificatlon of the Board in June, 1878, did
not impair the effect of that possession as an act of part performance. The taking possession of, that is, exercising control
and dominion over the property, was referable entirely to the
contract. It was an act done with respect to the property by
the consent of the vendor, which would not have been done if
there had been no contract. This consent gave to the act,
which would otherwise have been tortious, its character as
one of part performance.
It is not perceived how the effect of this possession, taken in
behalf of Mrs. McAlpine - for it was in her interest alone
that the exchange was made, the title to the Ferry tract being
in her and not in her husband -is destroyed or weakened as
an act of part performance by the fact that, in June of the
previous year, Mr. McAlpme and one Arthur had taken a
lease of the 25+-acre tract until January 1, 1878. It does not
appear that Mr. McAlpine remained upon the land after the
termination of the lease, which was before negotiations were
opened for its acquisition, by exchanging for it the property
of Mrs. McAlpine. If Arthur remained upon the premises
after such termination, he surrendered and left them when
informed that the contract for the exchange had been made.
It is plain, in our judgment, that the subsequent possession of
Mrs. McAlpine, to whom the deed of the company was to be
executed, was taken under that contract, and that the improvements were made on the~faith that in pursuance of it the title
would be conveyed to her.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McALPINE.

313

Opinion of the Court.

Nor do we perceive that the obligation of the contract was
released or impaired by the fact that when in April, 1880, the
superintendent notified Mr. McAlpine that the company would
not make the exchange, Mrs. McAlpine wiote to him asking
when the company would be ready to remove its track from
her land and come to a settlement for its use. That inquiry
drew from the superintendent a request that she would "delay
conclusions" until he could confer with New York parties.
Her letter referred to the contract made two years before, and
stated that then an exchange of lands was considered desirable
by the railway people, as they had been using her land for
several years, for a steamboat landing and wharf, and were
still using it, without making any compensation for its use.
The inquiry which followed was intended as an intimation of
what would be expected if the contract were abandoned, not
as a consent to such abandonment, but it is seized hold of and
put forth by the defendant as an admission that no contract
was ever concluded. It does not, in our judgment, justify any
such inference. Nothing was ever heard from the New York
parties, nor does it appear that any communication was ever
made to them on the subject. And Mrs. McAlpine afterwards
called upon the company to execute its deed pursuant to its
contract. It was not until some time m December, 1880, that
the general superintendent informed her that the contract for
the exchange of the 25i-acre tract would not be carried out
under any circumstances, but.that he would take the responsibility of paying her 81500 for her land as an amicable settlement.
In January, 1881, the present suit was commenced, and if,
under the pretexts put forth by the company, the performance
of the contract could be defeated, a great wrong would be
done to the complainants. Their possession, instead of being
lawsful, might be treated as a continuing trespass upon the
property of the railway company, and the improvements
placed upon the land, and the consequent increase m its value,
would be lost to them. It is the wrong and hardship which
would be done to a purchaser under these circumstances, by
allowing the vendor to escape from the obligations of his contract for the want of some formality in its execution, that con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

stitute the ground of the jurisdiction of courts of equity in such
cases to compel performance. A principle of common justice
forbids that one shall be permitted to lead another to act upon
a contract of purchase with him, and incur expenses by reason
of it, and then, upon some pretext of a defect in a matter of
form, refuse compliance with its provisions, and thus deprive
the purchaser of the benefit of his labor and expenditures.
Courts of equity in such cases interfere and compel the vendor
to keep his engagements. Iester v Foxeroft, 1 Colles Parl.
Cas. 108, Wills v Stradhng, 3 Yes. 378, 381, Gregory v
Migliell, 18 Yes. 328, Parkhhurstv Van Cortland,14 Johns. 15.
The obligation of the Kansas Pacific Railway Company to
execute the contract by a conveyance of the 25&acre tract to
the McAlpines passed with the property to the defendant, the
Union Pacific Railway Company, upon the consolidation of
the two companies under the latter name. Whenever property charged with a trust is conveyed to a third party with
notice, he will hold it subject to that trust, which he may be
compelled to perform equally with the former owner. The
vendee in that case stands in the place of such owner. Taylor v Stibbert, 2 Yes. Jr. 437, 439, Dunbar v Yredenwtck,
2 Ball & Beatty 304, 319. Without reference, therefore, to
the articles of union and consolidation, the Union Pacific Railway Company would, on general principles, be held to complete the contract made with the Kansas Pacific Company,
and the articles in specific terms recognize this obligation.
The union and consolidation embraced three companies, the
Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company, as well as the
Kansas Pacific Company and the Union Pacific Company By
the 8th article, the three companies transferred to the consolidated company all their rights, privileges, exemptions and franchises, and all their property, real, personal and mixed, with
the appurtenances, with a declaration that the assignment
and transfer were made "subject to all liens, charges and
equities pertaining thereto." The tenth article exempted the
new company from any separate or individual liability for the
outstanding debts, obligations or liabilities of the respective
constituent companies, but it also provided that nothing there-

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Syllabus.

in contained should "prevent any valid debt, obligation or
liability of either constituent company from being enforced
against the property of the proper- constituent company,"
which by force of the articles became the property of the
consolidated company
The property transferred, which included the 25&acre tract, thus passed to the new company,
subject to all charges, liens and equities to which it was before
subject, and the obligation of the Kansas Pacific Company to
make a conveyance of that tract devolved upon the defendant.
The same principle applies also to the mortgage executed in
1879 by the Kansas Pacific Company to Gould and Sage, as
trustees covering the 251-acre tract. At that time the order of
June 28, 1878, was a matter of record in the books of the Kansas Pacific Company, and the MeAlpines were in possession of
the tract. Under these circumstances, it may be claimed that
the property was taken by the trustees with notice of the rights
of the complainants, and, therefore, subject to their enforcement. It is sufficient that the Union Pacific Company cannot
set up that mortgage as a release from its obligation to make
a conveyance in execution of the contract with the McAlpines.
Decree affirmed.

MOR:RIS v. GILMER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT

OF ALA:BANA..

No. 1150. Submitted January 2, 1889. -Decided January 28, 1889.
When the record discloses a controversy of which a Circuit Court cannot
properly take cognizance, its duty is to proceed no further, and to dismiss the suit; and its failure or refusal to do so is an error which this
court will correct of its own motion, when the case is brought before it
for review.

It appearing from the evidence in this record that the sole object of the
plaintif in removing to the State of Tennessee was to place himself m a
situation to invoke the jursdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that he had no purpose to acquire a domicil or settled home
there, and no question of a Federal nature being presented to givejurs-

