NOBLE v. HAMMOND.
Statement of the Case.

When the time fixed for the payment elapsed, Wallace's
right to repurchase became extinct, and appellees held the
lands discharged from any claim upon his part.
The decree of the court below is
AJ7-?med.

NOBLE v. llAM-OND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 101. Argued December 3, 188. - Decided January 14, 1889.

A for his own accommodation asked B to collect money for him, without
eompensation, and to keep it until A called for it. B collected the money,
and, without actual fraud or fraudulent intent, deposited the proceeds to
his own credit with his own funds. By an unexpected revulsion he was
forced into bankruptcy before he had paid it over, and made a composition with his creditors
Held, that the debt thus incurred by B to A was
not a debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or while
he was acting in a fiduciary capacity within the exception provided for
in Rev Stat. ยง 5117.
The word "fraud" as used m Rev Stat. ยง 5117 means positive fraud, or
fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and not
merely implied fraud, or fraud m law.

Ti court stated the case as follows
This is an action of general assumpsit originally brought in
the county court of Franklin County, Vermont, by the late
firm of Hammond & Burt, of which the defendant in error,
DeForest Hammond, is the survivor, against the plaintiff in
error, Sylvester C. Noble, to recover the sum of $1000 in
money alleged to have been received by him of and from them.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and also gave notice
under the statute, as a special defence, of his discharge by
composition in bankruptcy, as provided for by the United
States statutes. The case was tried by a jury, resulting in a
verdict in favor of plaintiffs for 81149.83, for which, with
costs, judgment was rendered. The Supreme Court of the
VoL. CXXIX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

State affirmed this judgment, and the defendant thereupon
sued out the writ of error which brings the case here.
The material facts in the case are as follows In October,
1877, the Central Vermont Railroad Company, having its
principal office in St. Albans, Vermont, where the plaintiff m
error also resided, was indebted to the firm of Hammond &
Burt, residents of Franklin, in that State, m about the sum of
$3600. It was the custom of that company to pay its debts of
the character of this one in instalments, and at its own convenience. Hammond & Burt, having experienced considerable
difficulty in collecting prior debts from the company, requested
the plaintiff in error, as a matter of accommodation to them, to
collect said indebtedness for them, and he consented to do so.
In pursuance of this arrangement they called at his office on
the 2d of October, 1877, he at the time being out, and left for
him an order of which the following is a copy
"ST. ALBANS, VT., Oct. 2, 1877.
"Central Vermont Railroad will please pay to S. 0. Noble or
order the whole amount due to us.
"I

LHmioiD & BURT."

Immediately after they had left his office the plaintiff in
error came in, and, the order being handed to him, he stepped
to the door of the office, called to them as they were crossing
the street on their way to the depot, and asked them what he
should do with the money when collected. They testified that
they then told him "to keep the money until they called for
it."
He testified that they told him "to keep and use the
money until they called for it," or words to that effect.
On this order the plaintiff in error collected $1000 from the
railroad company- $500 on October 3 and $500 on October
12, 1877-and deposited these sums as collected in bank, to
his own credit, as he deposited his own funds. On the 26th of
the same month he failed, and on the 6th of November, 1877,
on the petition of his creditors, was adjudged a bankrupt.
Subsequently, an offer of composition to his creditors was duly
accepted and confirmed by a majority of them, but was not
accepted by these plaintiffs.

NOBLE v. HAMOND.
Opinion, of the Court.

It appears from the bill of exceptions that "there was no
evidence tending to show any actual fraud or any fraudulent
intent m the defendant's mingling the money with his own
and using it." The jury returned a verdict for the defendants%
in error, under instructions from the court which authorized
such a verdict only if the instructions given by the defendant
in error to the plaintiff in error were to keep the money until
they demanded it.
My, Guy C.'_Yoble, (with whom was .r A. P (koss and
.Mr . Curtis Smith on the brief,) for plaintiff in error, cited
Chapman v Forsyth,2 How 202, Neal v Clark, 95 U S. 704,
Hennewuin v Clews, 111 IT. S. 676, Hammond v. _Yoble, 5T
Vermont, 193, Johnson v. TForden, 47 Vermont, 457, -Darlzng
v. Woodward, 54 Vermont, 101, Tfoolsey v Cade, 54 Alabama,
378, 3cAdoo v Lummis, 43 Texas, 227, Green v Chilton, 57
enneMississippi, 598, Upshur v Brzscoe, 37 La. Ann. 138,
qum v Clews, 77 N. Y 427, Phillips v. Russell, 42 Maine,
hizpley v Frter360, Gibson v Gorman, 44 N. J Law, 325,
ee, 90 Illinois, 371 Palmer
son, 18 Florida, 639, Psercev Shk
v HZqussey, 59 N. Y 647, S. C. 87 N. Y 303, Straoford v
Jones, 97 N. Y 586, Hayes v Nash, 129 Mass. 62, Grover &
Baker v Clinton, 8 Nat. Bank. Reg. 312, Owsley v Oobn, 15
Nat. Bank. Reg. 89, W ells v Lamprey, 16 Nat. Bank. Reg.
205, In re Shafe', 17 Nat. Bank. Reg. 116, In re Rodger, 18
Nat. Bank. Reg. 252, In re Smith, 18 Nat. Bank. Reg. 24.
.AX'r H/enry 1?. Start, for defendant in error, cited People v
Hennessey, 15 Wend. 147, Commonwealth v Foster, 107 Mass.
221, trang v B adner, 114 U S. 555, -fMackay v -Dillon,4
How 421, Hammond v Noble, 57'Vermont, 193.
Mi. JusTICE LwA-.rA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case presented upon the record, as found by the jury,
is that of a produce dealer who, having been requested by
parties to collect money for them as an accommodation, and
without compensation, and to keep it until they called for it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeded to make such collection, and, without actual fraud
or fraudulent intent, deposited the proceeds to his own credit
with his own funds, and who, before he paid 'it over was, by
an unexpected revulsion, forced into bankruptcy, and made
a composition with his creditors. The question involved is,
whether the debt thus incurred was within the exception provided for in ยง 5117 Rev Stat., which is as follows:
"KNo debt created by the fraud or embezzlement of the
bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while
acting in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged by pro"
ceedings in bankruptcy
The judge on the trial charged the jury that the money
under such circumstances was received in a fiduciary character,
and that the plaintiffs must recover. The Supreme Court of
Vermont affirmed the judgment of that court on the ground
that, though the above charge was technically erroneous, it
was harmless, because the act of the defendant, in mingling
the money with his own and using it, was, in the face of the
plaintiffs' instruction to keep it until they called for it, a
wrongful and fraudulent act, a betrayal by the defendant of
the trust reposed in him, and, therefore, a fraud which created
a debt that was not discharged by the defendant's composition
with his creditors under the provisions of the bankrupt law
The effect to be given to the phrases "while acting in a
fiduciary character" and "created by the fraud of the bankrupt," has been considered and fully settled by this court in
the following cases Chaprman v Forsyth, 2 How 202, iYeal
v. Olark7, 95 U S.70-1, Wo~f v Stx, 99 U. S.1, -Henneyun
v Clews, 111 U. S. 6T6, Strang v Bradner, 114 U S. 556,
and Palmer v Hussey, 119 U. S.96. The class of debts held
by the decisions in those cases to be excepted from the operation of bankrupt proceedings has been stated and illustrated
with a clearness and fulness, which leaves but little opening
for any controversy with regard to the application of the
clause under consideration to particular cases.
Under the bankrupt act of 1841, which excepted from discharge debts of the bankrupt, created in consequence of a
defalcation as a public officer, or as executor, administrator,

NOBLE v. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the Court.

guardian, or trustee, or while acting in any other fiduciary
capacity, this court, in Chapman v Forsyth, held that the
cases enumerated in the act are cases not of implied but
special trusts, that the phrase, "in any other fiduciary capacity," referred, not to those trusts which the law implies from
the contract, and which form an element in every agency, and
in nearly all the commercial transactions in the country, but
to technical trusts, and hence that a factor who had sold the
property of his principal, and had failed to pay over to him
the proceeds, did not owe to him a debt created in a fiduciary
capacity within the meaning of the act.
That decision is stated by Mr. Justice Bradley, in the opinion in .Hewnequn v Clews, to have been "not only followed
but approved by the highest courts of several of the States."
Under ยง 511,7, which is substantially a re-enactment of the
provision of the act of 1841, in this regard, with the single
additional provision that "no debt created by fraud shall be
discharged," etc., this court, on the line of the same reasoning,
has construed the word "fraud," as used in that section, to
mean positive fraud, or fraud in fact -involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, as does embezzlement, and not
implied fraud or fraud in law, and hence it does not apply
to a debt created by purchasing in good faith, from an
executor, bonds belonging to his decedent's estate at a discount, although such an act was held to be a constructive
fraud. Nfeal v Clark, (supra). Nor does it include such fraud
as the law implies from the purchase of property from a debtor
with intent thereby to hinder and delay creditors in the collection of their debts. TFol v &iW, (supra). Nor does it
refer to a debt arising from the conversion by a parky to his
own use of bonds held by him merely as a collateral security
for the payment of a debt, or the performance of a duty, and
which he fails to restore, after the payment of the debt or
performance of the duty, to the person who entrusted them
to his keeping. .fenneuin v Clews, (supra). In all these
cases the defendant was held to be released by the subsequent
discharge in bankruptcy

The decisions of the state courts in a great number and

OCTOB$R TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

variety of cases, as shown by the citations in the brief of
counsel for plaintiff in error, are in accord with the construetion, by this court, of these clauses of the section in question,
and have applied it to cases of agents, factors, commission
merchants, and bailees, who have failed to account for proceeds of the sale of property committed to them for that
purpose or moneys received upon collections entrusted to them.
The finding of the jury, that the agreement of the plaintiff
m error was to collect the money and keep it until the defendants in error called for it, cannot be taken, to imply an obligation to keep and deliver to them the identical bills or coins.
Evqn if the agreement between the parties might be construed
as creating a trust in some sense, it was clearly not such a
trust as comes within the provisions of the bankrupt act.
Nor can the subsequent mingling, by the plaintiff in error,
of the money collected with his own, constitute the actual,
positve fraud contemplated by that act, but only such an
wmplied fraud as is involved in most, or all, cases of conversion
of property or of breach of contract.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Vermont is m conflict with the principles laid down by the decisions of this
court, as well as the general drift of those of the several
state courts, and is, therefore, reversed, and
The case is remanded to the court below, wit an instruction
to grant a new t'ial and to take such further proceedings
as may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

ANDERSON" v. MILLER.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT
THE EASTERN

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 135. Argued December 19, 1888.- Decided January 14,1889.

On the proofs the court holds that there has been no infrmgement of the
appellant's patent by the appellees.

