OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

court jurisdiction in criminal cases from the Territories, by
plain and explicit language, and for the reason that no such

jurisdiction exists by statute in the present case,
The wrt of error medie8m

sed.

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS
WVEST

OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINKIA.

No. 119. Submitted December 11, 1888. -Decided

January 14, 1889.

The statute of West Virginia (§§ 9 and 15, chapter 93, 1882) which requires every practitioner of medicine in the State to obtain a certificate
from the State Board of Health that he is a graduate of a reputable medical college in the school of medicine to which he belongs; or that lie has
practised medicine in the State continuously for ten years prior to March
8, 1881, or that he has been found upon examination to be qualified to
practise medicine m all its departments, and wnch subjects a pekson
practising without such certificate to prosecution and punishment for a
misdemeanor, does not, when enforced against a person who had been a
practising physician in the State for a period of five years before 1881,
without a diploma of a reputable medical college in the school of medicine to which he belonged, deprive him of his estate or interest in the
profession without due process of law.
The State, in the exercise of its power to provide for the general welfare of
its people, may exact from parties before they can practise medicine a
degree of skill and learning in that profession upon which the community
employing their services may confidently rely, and, to ascertain whether
they have such qualifications, require them to obtain a certificate or license
from a Board or other authority competent to judge in that respect. If
the qualifications required are appropriate to the profession, and attainable by reasonable study or application, their validity is not subject to
objection because of their stringency or difficulty.
Legislation is not open to the charge of depriving one of his rights without
due process of law, if it be general in its operation upon the subjects to
which it relates, and is enforceable in the usual modes established in the
administration of government with respect to kindred matters; that is,
by process or proceedings adapted to the nature of the case, and such is
the legislation of West Virginia in question. Cummzngs v Missour?, 4
Wall. 277 and Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 388, examined and shown to
differ materially from this case.

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case as follows
This case comes from the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia. It involves the validity of the statute of that
State which requires every practitioner of medicine in it to
obtain a certificate from the State Board of Health that he is
a graduate of a reputable medical college in the school of
medicine to which he belongs, or that he hias practised medicine in the State continuously for the period of ten years prior
to the eighth day of March, 1881 or that he has been found,
upon examination by the Board, to be qualified to practise
medicine in all its departments, and makes the practice of, or
the attempt by any person to practise, medicine, surgery, or
obstetrics in the State without such certificate, unless called
from another State to treat a particular case, a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court. The statute in question is found in §§ 9
and 15 of an act of the State, chapter 93, passed March 15,
1882, amending a chapter of its code concerning the public
health.
Statutes of 1882, 245, 246, 248.
These sections are
as follows
"SEc. 9. The following persons, and no others, shall hereafter be permitted to practise medicine in this State, viz.
":First. All persons who are graduates of a reputable medical
college in the school of medicine to which the person desiring
to practise belongs. Every such person shall, if he has not
already done so and obtained the certificate hereinafter mentioned, present his diploma to the State Board of Health, or to
the two members thereof in his Congressional district, and if
the same is found to be genuine, and was issued by such medical college, as is hereinafter mentioned, and the person presenting the same be the graduate named therein, the said Board,
or said two members thereof, (as the case may be,) shall issue
and deliver to him a certificate to that effect, and such diploma
and certificate shall entitle the person named in such diploma
to practise medicine in all its departments in this State.
"Second. All persons who have practised medicine in this
State continuously for the period of ten years prior to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

eighth day of March, one thousand eight hundred and eightyone. Every such person shall make and file with the two
members of the State Board of Health in the Congressional district in which he resides, or if he resides out of the State in the
district nearest his residence, an affidavit of the number of
years he has continuously practised in this State, and if the
number of years therein stated be ten or more, the said Board
or said two membevs thereof, shall, unless they ascertain such
affidavit to be false, give him a certificate to that fact, and
authorizing hin to practise medicine in all its departments in
this State.
"T hird. A person who is not such graduate and who has not
so practised in this State for a period of ten years, desiring to
practise medicine in this State, shall, if he has not already
done so, present himself for examination before the State
Board of Health or before the said two members thereof in the
Congressional district in which he resides, or, if he resides out
of the State, to the said two members of the State Board of
Health in the Congressional district nearest his place of residence, who, together with a member of the local board of
health, who is a physician (if there be such member of the
local board) of the county in which the examination is held,
shall examine him as herein provided, and if, upon full examination, they find him qualified to practise medicine in all its
departments, they, or a majority of them, shall grant him a
certificate to that effect, and thereafter he shall have the right
to practise medicine in this State to the same extent as if he
had the diploma and certificate hereinbefore mentioned. The
members of the State Board of Health in each Congressional
district shall. by publication in some newspaper, printed in
the county in which their meeting is to be held, or if no such
paper is printed therein, in some newspaper of general circulation in such district, give at least twenty-one days' notice of
the time and place at which they will meet for the examination of applicants for permission to practise medicine, which
notice shall be published at least once in each week for three
successive weeks before the day of such meeting, but this
section shall not apply to a physician or surgeon who is called

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.

117

Statement of the Case.

from another State to treat a particular case or to perform a
particular surgical operation in this State, and who does not
otherwise practise in this State."
"SEc. 15. If any person shall practise, or attempt to practise,
medicine, surgery or obstetrics in this State, without having
complied with the provisions of § 9 of this chapter, except
as therein provided, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
fined for every such offence not less than fifty nor more than
five hundred dollars, or imprisoned in the county jail not less
than one month nor more than twelve months, or be pumshed
by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the
court. And if any person shall file, or attempt to file, as his
own, the diploma or certificate of another, or shall file, or
attempt to file, a false or forged affidavit of his identity, or
shall wilfully swear falsely to any question which may be propounded to hin on his examination, as herein provided for,
or to any affidavit herein required to be made or filed by him,
he shall, upon conviction thereof, be confined m the penitentiary not less than one nor more than three years, or imprisoned in the county jail not less than six nor more than twelve
months, and fined not less than one hundred nor more than
five hundred dollars, at the discretion of the court."
Under this statute the plaintiff in error was indicted in
the State Circuit Court of Preston County, West Virginia, for
unlawfully engaging in the practice of medicine in that State
in June, 1882, without a diploma, certificate, or license therefor as there required, not being a physician or surgeon called
from another State to treat a particular case or to perform a
particular surgical operation. To this indictment the defendant pleaded not guilty, and a jury having been called,
the State by its prosecuting attorney and the defendant by
his attorney, agreed upon the following statement of facts,.
namely
"That the defendant was engaged in the practice of medicine in the town of Newburg, Preston County, West Virginia,
at the time charged in the indictment, and had been so
engaged since the year 1876 continuously to the present time,
and has during all said time enjoyed a lucrative practice,

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

publicly professing to be a physician, prescribing for the sick,
and appending to his name the letters M. D., that he was not
then and there a physician and surgeon called from another
State to treat a particular case or to perform a particular
surgical operation, nor was he then and there a commissioned
officer of the United States army and navy and hospital service, that he has no certificate, as required by § 9, chapter
93, acts of the Legislature of West Virginia, passed March
15, 1882, but has a diploma from the 'American Medical
Eclectic College of Cincinnati, Ohio,' that he presented said
diploma to the members of the Board of Health, who reside in
his Congressional district, and asked for the certificate as required by law, but they, after retaining said diploma for some
time, returned it to defendant with their refusal to grant him
a certificate asked, because, as they claimed, said college did
not come under the word reputable as defined by said Board
of Health, that if the defendant had been or should be prevented from practising medicine it would be a great injury to
him, as it would deprive him of his only means of supporting
himself and family, that at the time of the passage of the
act of 1882 he had not been practising medicine ten years, but
had only been practising six, as aforesaid, from the year 1876."
These were all the facts in the case. Upon them the jury
found the defendant guilty and thereupon he moved an arrest
of judgment on the ground that the act of the legislature was
unconstitutional and void so far as it interfered with his vested
right in relation to the practice of medicine, which motion
was overruled, and to the ruling an exception was taken.
The court thereupon sentenced the defendant to pay a fine of
fifty dollars and the costs of the proceedings. The case being
taken on writ of error to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the
State the judgment was affirmed, and to review this judgment the case is brought here.
.A'r _I. -H.Dent for plaintiff in error.
Plaintiff insists that this statute by forfeiting his right to
continue in the practice of his profession (1) destroys his

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

vested rights and deprives him of the estate he had acquired
in his profession by years of study, practice, diligence and
attention (2) deprives him of the benefit of an established
reputation as a practitioner (3) depreciates, destroys, and
hence deprives him of the value of his invested capital in
books, medicines and instruments.
In Cummings v State of .Missourn, 4 Wall. 277, 320, Judge
Field in delivering the opinion of the court says "The
learned counsel does not use these terms - life, liberty and
property -as comprehending every right known to the law
B=e does not include under property those estates-which one
may acquire in professions, though they are often the source
of the highest emoluments and honors."
And in Fxparte Garland,4 Wall. 333, 379, the same Justice,
speaking for the court. says "The attorney and counsellor
being, by the solemn judicial act of the court, clothed with his
office, does not hold it as a matter of grace and favor. The
right which it confers upon him to appear for suitors, and
to argue causes, is something more than a mere indulgence,
revocable at the pleasure of the court, or at the command of
the legislature. It is a right of which he can only be deprived
by the judgment of the court, for moral or professional delinquency"
Mr. Blackstone in commenting on the terms life, liberty
and property says "In these several articles consist the
rights, or, as they are frequently termed, the liberties of Englishmen, liberties more generally talked of than thoroughly
understood, and yet highly necessary to be perfectly known
and considered by every man of rank and property lest his
ignorance of the points whereon they are founded should
hurry him into faction and licentiousness, on the one hand, or
a pusillanimous indifference and criminal submission on the
other, and we have seen that these rights consist primarily in
the free enjoyment of personal security, personal liberty and
of private property So long as these remain inviolate the
subject is perfectly free, for every oppression must act in
opposition to one or the other of these rights, having no other
object on which it can possibly be employed." Also, further

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"The third absolute right inherent in every Englishman is
that of property, which consists m the free use, enjoyment
and disposal of all his acquisitions without any control or
diminution save only by the law of the land."
From these authorities the conclusion is inevitable that the
terms life, liberty and property, as used in the Constitution,
were intended to comprehend every righit known to the law,
which might in any manner become the object of state oppression, and that a man's estate in his profession and the right
to the enjoyment of his acquired reputation are as certainly
included inthe meaning of these terms as his lands and chattels. For the State to enact a law forbidding a man the enjoyment of his own house without the consent of an arbitrary
board of examiners is no more unjust than to provide that a
man shall not enjoy the benefits of an established practice without a like consent. In either case he is deprived of his vested
rights and property by a process rather ministerial than judicial and wholly different from that which is meant by due
process of law the judgment of his peers, or the law of the
land. His land cannot be taken from him except by the intervention of an impartial jury of his countrymen, his hardearned reputation and professional practice should not be less
secure.
It was no crime for him to engage in the practice, and having become established in it, the State ought to have no authority to deprive him of the right to continue in it, except for
moral or professional delinquency, ascertained by the verdict
of an impartial jury of his peers.
In this case the State finds the plaintiff in the full enjoyment
of a lucrative practice, the fruits of six years of attention to
his profession, with his means invested in necessary medical
works, instruments and remedies, forfeits his right to continue
in the enjoyment thereof and proceeds to enforce the forfeiture
by fine and imprisonment.
It is true it is further provided that if the injured man will
gain the consent of an arbitrary board, armed with authority
to end his professional career, he can resume his forfeited
rights. This is a presumption of guilt, and a requirement that

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

he must prove his innocence before a tribunal authorized to
disregard the proof.
.A& Ayfred Cadwvell, Attorney General of West Virginia,
for defendant in error.
MR.

JusTiC,

FELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Whether the indictment upon which the plaintiff in error
was tried and found, guilty is open to objection for want of
sufficient certainty in its averments, is a question which does
not appear to have been raised either on the trial or before
the Supreme Court of the State. The presiding justice of the
latter court in its opinion states that the counsel for the defendant expressly waived all objections t6 defects in form or substance of the indictment, and based his claun for a review of
the judgment on the ground that the statute of West Virginia
is unconstitutional and void. The unconstitutionality asserted
consists in its alleged conflict with the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which declares that no State shall deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,
the denial to the defendant of the right to practise his profession without the certificate required constituting the deprivation of his vested right and estate m his profession, which
he had previously acquired.
It is undoubtedly the right of every citizen of the United
States to follow any lawful calling, business, or profession he
may choose, subject only to such restrictions as are imposed
upon all persons of like age. sex and condition. This right
may in many respects be considered as a distinguishing feature
of our republican institutions. Here all vocations are open to
every one on like conditions. All may be pursued as sources of
livelihood, some requiring years of study and great learning
for their successful prosecution. The interest, or, as it is sometimes termed, the estate acquired in them, that is, the right to
continue their prosecution, is often of great value to the possessors, and cannot be arbitrarily taken from them, any more

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

than their real or personal property can be thus taken. But
there is no arbitrary deprivation of such right where its
exercise is not permitted because of a failure to comply
with conditions imposed by the State for the protection
of society The power of the State to provide for the general welfare of its people authorizes it to prescribe all such
regulations as, in its judgment, will secure or tend to secure
them against the consequences of ignorance and incapacity as
well as of deception and fraud. As one means to this end it
has been the practice of different States, from time iinmemorial, to exact in many pursuits a certain degree of skill and
learning upon which the community may confidently rely,
their possession being generally ascertained upon an examination of parties by competent persons, or inferred from a certificate to them in the form of a diploma or license from an institution established for instruction on the subjects, scientific and
otherwise, with which such pursuits have to deal. The nature
and extent of the qualifications required must depend primarily
upon the judgment of the State as to their necessity If they
are appropriate to the calling or profession, and attainable by
reasonable study or application, no objection to their validity
can be raised because of their stringency or difficulty It is
only when they have no relation to such calling or profession,
or are unattainable by such reasonable study and application,
that they can operate to deprive one of his right to pursue a
lawful vocation.
Few professions require more careful preparation by one
who seeks to enter it than that of medicine. It has to deal
with all those subtle and mysterious influences upon which
health and life depend, and requires not only a knowledge of
the properties of vegetable and mineral substances, but of the
human body in all its complicated parts, and their relation to
each other, as well as their influence upon the mind. The
physician must be able to detect readily the presence of disease, and prescribe appropriate remedies for its removal.
Every one may have occasion to consult him, but comparatively few can judge of the qualifications of learning and skill
which he possesses. Reliance must be placed upon the assur-

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opmion of the Court.

ance given by his license, issued by an authority competent to
judge in that respect, that he possesses the requisite qualifications. Due consideration, therefore, for the protection of society
may well induce the State to exclude from practice those who
have not such a license, or who are found upon examination not
to be fully qualified. The same reasons which control in impomig conditions, upon compliance with which the physician
is allowed to practise in the first instance, may call for further
conditions as new modes of treating disease are discovered, or
a more thorough acquaintance is obtained-of the remedial properties of vegetable and mineral substances, or a more accurate
knowledge is acquired of the human system and of the agencies by which it is affected. It would not be deemed a matter
for serious discussion that a knowledge of the new acquisitions
of the profession, as it from tune to time advances in its attainments for the relief of the sick and suffering, should be requred
for continuance in its practice, but for the earnestness with
which the plaintiff in error insists that, by being compelled to
obtain the certificate required, and prevented from continuing
in his practice without it, he is deprived of his right and estate
m his profession without due process of law We perceive
nothing in the statute which indicates an intention of the legislature to deprive one of any of his rights. :No one has a right
to practise medicine without having the necessary qualifications
of learning and skill, and the statute only requires that whoever assumes, by offering to the community his services as a
physician, that he possesses such learning and skill, shall present
evidence of it by a certificate or license from a body designated
by the State as competent to judge of his qualifications.
As we have said on more than one occasion, it may be difficult,

if

not impossible, to give to the terms "due process of

law" a definition which will embrace every permissible exertion of power affecting private rights and exclude such as are
forbidden. They come to us from the law of England, from
which country our jurisprudence is to a great extent derived,
and their requirement was there designed to secure the subject against the arbitrary action of the crown and place hun
under the protection of the law They were deemed to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

equivalent to "the law of the land." In this country, the
requirement is intended to have a similar effect against legislative power, that is, to secure the citizen against any arbitrary
deprivation of his rights, whether relating to his life, his liberty, or his property Legislation must necessarily vary with
the different objects upon which it is designed to operate. It
is sufficient, for the purposes of this case, to say that legislation
is not open to the charge of depriving one of his rights without
due process of law, if it be general in its operation upon the
subjects to which it relates, and is enforceable in the usual
modes established in the administration of government with
respect to kindred matters that is, by process or proceedings
adapted to the nature of the case. The great purpose of the
requirement is to exclude everything that is arbitrary and
capricious in legislation affecting the rights of the citizen. As
said by this court in Tick IWo v Hopktns, speaking by Mr.
Justice Matthews "When we consider the nature and the
theory of our institutions of government, the principles -upon
which they are supposed to rest, and review the history of
their development, we are constrained to conclude that they do
not mean to leave room for the play and action of purely
personal and arbitrary power." 118 U S. 356, 369. See, also.
Pennoyer v N-ef, 95 U S. 714, 733, Dauidson v ZYew
Orleans, 96 U S. 97, 104, 107, ifurtado v California, 110
U. S. 516, Jfissou-1 . Pactfic Railway Co. v Hiumes, 115 U. S.
512, 519.
There is nothing of an arbitrary character in the provisions
of the statute in question, it applies to all physicians, except
those who may be called for a special case from another
State, it imposes no conditions which cannot be readily met,
and it is made enforceable in the mode usual in kindred matters, that is, by regular proceedings adapted to the case. It
authorizes an examination of the applicant by the Board of
lealth as to his qualifications when he has no evidence of
them in the diploma of a reputable medical college in the
school of medicine to which he belongs, or has not practised
in the State a designated period before March, 1881. If, in
the proceedings under the statute, there should be any unfair

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

or unjust action on -the part of the Board in refusing him a
certificate, we doubt not that a remedy would be found in the
courts of the State. But no such imputation can be made, for
the plaintiff in error did not submit himself to the examination
of the Board after it had decided that the diploma he presented was insufficient.
The cases of Cummmngs v The State of _ issoun, 4 Wall.
277, and of Ex' parte Garland,4 Wall. 333, upon which much
reliance is placed, do not, in our judgment support the contention of the plaintiff in error. In the first of these cases it
appeared that the constitution of Missouri, adopted in 1865,
prescribed an oath to be taken by persons holding certain
offices and trusts and following certain pursuits within its
limits. They were required to deny that they had done certain things, or had manifested by act or word certain desires
or sympathies. The oath which they were to take embraced
thirty distinct affirmations respecting their past conduct, extending even to their words, desires and sympathies. Every
person unable to take this oath was declared incapable of holding in the State "any office of honor, trust, or profit under its
authority, or of being an officer, councilman, director, trustee,
'o1 other manager of any corporation, public or private," then
existing or thereafter established by its authority, or "of actmg as a professor or teacher in any educational institution,
or in any common or other school, oi' of holding any real
estate or other property in trust for the use of any church,
religious society, or congregation." And every person holding, at the time the constitution took effect, any of the offices,
trusts, or positions mentioned, was required, within sixty days
thereafter, to take the oath, and if he failed to comply with
this requirement it was declared that his office, trust, or position should, ssofacto, become vacant.
No person after the expiration of the sixty days was allowed,
without taking the oath, "to practise as an attorney or coun-,
sellor at law," nor after that period could " any person be
competent as a bishop, priest, deacon, minister, elder, or other
clergyman of any religious persuasion, sect, or denomination
to teach or preach, or solemnize marriages." Fine and nm-

OCTOBER TER-l,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

prisonment were prescribed as a punishment for holding or
exercising any of the "offices, positions, trusts, professions, or
functions" specified, without taking the oath, and false swearing or affirmation in taking it was declared to be perjury punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary
A priest of the IRoman Catholic Church was indicted in a
Circuit Court of Missouri, and convicted of the crime of teaching and preaching as a priest and minister of that religious
denomination, without having first taken the oath, and was
sentenced to pay a fine of five hundred dollars, and to be
committed to jail until the same was paid. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed, and
the case was brought on error to this court.
As many of the acts from which the parties were obliged to
purge themselves by the oath had no relation to their fitness
for the pursuits and professions designated, the court held that
the oath was not required as a means of ascertaining whether
the parties were qualified for those pursuits and professions,
but was exacted because it was thought that the acts deserved
punishment, and that for many of them there was no way of
inflicting punishment except by depriving the parties of their
offices and trusts. A large portion of the people of Missourr
were unable to take the oath, and as to them the court held
that the requirements of its constitution amounted to a legislative deprivation of their rights. Many of the acts which
parties were bound to deny that they had ever done were
innocent at the time they were committed, and the deprivation
of a right to continue in their offices if the oath were not taken
was held to be a penalty for a past act, which was violative of
the constitution. The doctrine of this case was affirmed in
Pzerce v Carscadon,16 Wall. 234.
In the second case mentioned, Ahat of Ex parte Garland,
it appeared that, on the 2d of July, 1862, Congress had
passed an act prescribing an oath to be taken by every person
elected or appointed to any office of honor or profit under the
United States, either in the civil, military, or naval departments of the government, except the Presldent, before entering
upon the duties of his office, and before being entitled to his

DENT v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

salary or other emoluments. On the 24th of January, 1865,
Congress, by a supplemental act, extended its provisions so
as to embrace attorneys and counsellors of the courts of the
United States. This latter act, among other things, provided
that after its passage no person should be admitted as an
attorney and counsellor to the bar of the Supreme Court, and,
after the 4th of March, 1865, to the bar of any Circuit or
District Court of the United States, or of the Court of Claims,
or be allowed to appear and be heard by virtue of any previous admission, until he had taken and subscribed the oath
prescribed by the act of July 2, 1862. The oath related to
past acts, and its object was to exclude from practice in the
courts parties who were unable to affirm that they had not
done the acts specified, and, as it could not be taken by large
classes of persons, it was held to operate against them as a
legislative decree of perpetual exclusion.
Mr. Garland had been admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the United States previous to the passage of the act.
He was a citizen of Arkansas, and when that State passed an
ordinance of secession which purported to withdraw her from
the Union, and by another ordinance attached herself to the
so-called Confederate States, he followed the State and was
one of her Representatives, first m the lower House and afterwards in the Senate of the Congress of the Confederacy, and
was a member of that Senate at the time of the surrender of
the Confederate forces to the armies of the United States.
Subsequently, in 1865, he received from the President of the
United States a full pardon for all offences committed by his
participation, direct or implied, in the rebellion. He produced
this pardon and asked permission to continue as an attorney
and counsellor of this court without taking the oath required
'by the act of January 24, 1865, and the rule of the court
which. had adopted the clause requiring its administration in
conformity with the act of Congress. The court held that
the law in exacting the oath as to his past conduct as a
condition of his continuing in the practice of his profession,
imposed a penalty for a past act, and in that respect was subject to the same objection as that made to the clauses of the
constitution of Missouri, and was therefore invalid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in these decisions which supports the positions for which the plaintiff in error contends. They only
determine, that one who is in the enjoyment of a right to
preach and teach the Christian religion as a priest of a regular
church, and one who has been admitted to practise the profession of the law, cannot be deprived of the right to continue
in the exercise of their respective professions by the exaction
from them of an oath as to their past conduct, respecting
matters which have no connection with such professions. Between this doctrine and that for which the plaintiff in error
contends there is no analogy or resemblance. The constitution of Missouri and the act of Congress in question in
those cases were designed to deprive parties of their right to
continue in their professions for past acts or past expressions of
desires and sympathies, many of which had no bearing upon
their fitness to continue in their professions. The law of
West Virginia was intended to secure such skill and learning
in the profession of medicine that the community might trust
with confidence those receiving a license under authority of
the State.
Judgment affrmed.

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT
No. 86.

OF

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Argued November 15, 16, 1888.-Decided January 14, 18S9.

A railway company received cotton for transportation as a common carrier
giving the owner a bill of lading received and accepted by him which
contained a " stipulation and agreement" that the carrier "should have
the benefit of any insurance which may have been effected upon or on
account of said cotton." While in the carrier's custody the cotton was
destroyed by fire. The owner had open policies against loss by fire
which covered this loss. These policies all provided for the transfer
of the owner's claim against the carrier to the insurer on payment of the
loss, and some of them contained further provisions forfeiting the insurance in case any agreement was made by the insured whereby the insurer's right to recover of the carrier was released or lost. In case of loss

