OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

PROBST v. TRUSTEES OF THE BOARD OF DOMESTIC MISSIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF
THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

NEW

31EXICO.
No. 113.

Argued and submitted December 7, 1888.- Decided January 21, 1889.

A ruling, in the trial court, that the showing that an original deed of a tract
of land to a party in a suit pending in New Mexico is in the office of that
party in New York lays a foundation for the admission of a copy by that
party under ยง 2768 of the Compiled Laws of that Territory, is not good
practice, nor an exercise of the discretion of the court to be commended,
though it is possible that if there were no other objection to the proceedings at the trial, the judgment would not be reversed on that account.
An entry into land without right or title, followed by continuous uninterrupted possession tinder claim of right for the period of time named in a
statute of limitations, constitutes a statutory bar, in an action of ejectment, against one who otherwise has the better right of possession.

Plea, the general issue and the statute of limiVerdict for plaintiff and judgment on the verdict.

EJEOTMENT.

tations.

Defendant sued out this writ of error.
the opinion.
-Mr F IF Clancy and
error.

The case is stated in

1r 0 1) Barrett for plaintiff in

.Xr John E. Parsons,for defendant in error, submitted on
his brief.
Mr. Parsons' brief on the points considered in the opimon of
the court, to which reference has been made for a statementof
the case, was as follows
I. It was not error for the court to permit the Board to
prove that deeds purporting to convey the locus in quo to its

predecessors in title appeared on record in the Recorder's
Office of Santa F6 County (1) It having been proved that
the Board was in possession that entitled it to judgment, un-

PROBST v. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

less Probst showed either earlier possession or title. Ejectment is a possessory action. All that is required of the plaintiff to enable him to recover is, that he shall show possession
and a subsequent entry by the defendant. smith v .lorillard,
10 Johns. 338, 356, Burt v Panjaud,99 U. S. 180, Chrwty
v. Scott, 14 How 282, 292. The evidence of record title in
the Board was unnecessary therefore to enable it to recover.
Jackson v TFeat, 18 Johns. 40, Jackson v Newton, 18
Johns. 355. It was entitled to recover unless Probst made
good his plea of ten years' adverse possession. If, therefore,
there had been error m receiving this evidence, it was immaterial. Greenleaf v Btrth, 5 Pet. 132, First Unstaman
Socjety v -Faulkner,91 U. S. 415, -DecaturBank v St. -Touss
Bank, 21 Wall. 294.
(2) The evidence was, however, competent as showing acts
by the parties from time to time proved to be in possession,
characterizing their possession. Verbal declarations are competent for this purpose - afortiorn acts of the parties. Pillow
v Roberts, 13 How 472, 471, Jackson v 'Fan Dusen, 5 Johns.
144, . 0. 4 Am. Dec. 330 .Dodge v ]A'eed'man's Bank, 93
UT S. 379.
(3) The New Mexico statute is as follows (act of January
12, 1852, ยง 21) "When said writing is certified and registered
in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, and it be proven to
the court that said writing is lost, or that it is not in the
hands of the _arty wtshivg to use it, then the record: etc."
(a) It was proven that the deeds were not "in the hands of
the party wishing to use" them, viz. Dr. Eastman, the agent
of the Board in New Mexico. (b) It was also shown that,
if in existence, they were not within the State, but in New
York city This justified any secondary evidence of their
contents. Burton v Drzggs, 20 Wall. 125, 131, Bronson v
Tuthill, 1 Abb. Ct. App. Dec. (N. Y.) 206. And the general
rule is, that the sufficiency of preliminary proof "to authorize
the admission of parol evidence of the contents of a written
instrument, is very much in the discretion of the trial court, and
the case must be quite wihoutproof to authorize an appellate
court to find error." -fYoCulloch v Hoffman, 73 N. Y 615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

(4) So far as concerns all the deeds except that from
McFarland to the Board, a sufficient foundation was laid for
the introduction of record (secondary) evidence. There is no
presumption that these deeds were in the possession of the
Board. Eaton v Carnrell,7 Pick. 10. Very slight foundation is sufficient to justify a trial court, in the exercise of a
sound discretion, in receiving records as primary evidence.
i~cCulloch v loffman, 73 N. Y 615.
(5) The old deeds offered to fix the locus sn quo and characterize possession were made prior to the statute respecting
conveyances, Prince's General Laws of New Mexico, 234,
contained in effect a proper acknowledgment, were recorded
under the act of 1859, Id. 426, and were upwards of thirty
years old.
II. As to the errors alleged to have been made by the trial
judge in his instructions to the jury, there was only a general
exception. Such an exception will not be entertained by appellate tribunals. This especially ought to be so where, as
here, the case for the plaintiff in error is without any show
of merit.
The New Mexico statute, act of 1880, c. 6, ยง 28, Gen.
Laws, 127, itself provides "Either party may take and file
exceptions to the charge or instructions given, or to the
refusal to give any instructions offered, etc., but in either
case the exceptions shall specify the part of the charge or
instruction objected to, and the ground of the ojectwon. And
the general rule requires almost as much precision." Cooper v
Sehlesvnger, 111 U. S. 148, Hoyt v Long I7sland R. R. Co., 57
N. Y 678, Ayrault v Pac4ftc Bank, 47 N. Y 570.
But whether the plaintiff in error can or cannot argue these
exceptions, there is nothing in them. They all relate to
Probst's plea that for more than ten years before suit brought
he had been in adverse possession of the locus mi quo. He did
not pretend to have title. His defence limited itself to the
assertion that he had had ten years' adverse possession, or,
what comes to the same thing, that by ten years' adverse
possession the Board had become barred by the statute of
limitations. The testimony of Probst himself showed that

PROBST v. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

he had no right to require this question to be submitted to
the jury
(1) Mere possession does not start the statute, or, if continued, constitute title. There must be some claim of title.
Hfarvey v Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, 343. A mere trespass not
amounting to a disseism does not set the statute m motion.
The entry must be hostile, clearly defined, exclusive, uninterrupted and under claim of title real or pretended. 3 Washburn
on Real Property, 146 (5th ed.).
(2) Probst himself proved that any claim that he had was
under the deeds to Guttmann, and from Guttmann to hun and
Kirchner of November 24th, 1871. This was less than ten
years before the commencement of the suit. Furthermore,
these instruments related to other property A deed of one
parcel of land is no foundation for a claim of title upon which
to support adverse possession of another. Pope v Hanmer,
74 N. Y 240, WFoods v Banks, 14 N. H. 101, Jacksonv
Lloyd, cited in Jaoaeon v IFoodruff; 1 Cow 26, 386, S. C.
13 Am. Dec. 525, 3 Washburn on Real Property, 161 (5th ed.).
(3) There was not sufficient evidence of possession in Probst
at any time. Possession is a conclusion of fact. To prove it
the facts must appear. There was no evidence that Probst or
any predecessor ever did anything to the land, except, perhaps,
raising one or two crops from a part of it. This was before
November 24th, 1881, when first Probst, according to is own
testimony, was in a position to make a claim of title. It was
not continued. Of itself it did not tend to establish adverse
possession. For that purpose there must be some contemporary clan of title. It was not sufficient that upon the trial
Probst should say that he claimed to own the property
Hodges v Eddy, 41 Vermont, 485, S. C. 98 Am. Dec. 612.
(4) So far as concerns any attempt by Probst to patch up
his case by clanning that he was in possession prior to the
instruments of November 24th, 1871, there are in addition to
what has been previously said the following answers (a) On
Probst's own testimony there was no such possession as the
law requires. (b) There was no claim of title. Probst says
that his claun of title was under the Guttmann purchase and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the Bell and Edgar mortgage which preceded it. The Guttmann purchase was on iNovember 24th, 18'1. A mortgage
is a mere security, it does not assume to give title to anything. 2 Washburn's Real Property, 110 (5th ed.). And the
mortgage as well as the Guttmann deed was of other property (c) Probst's testimony that his claim depended on the
mortgage and the Guttmann deed in effect amounted to an
assertion that he had never clanned title to the locus mn quo.
He never did. If his conduct was honest, any use by hun of
the locus n quo arose from a mistake of boundary
That
does not constitute a claim of title, Such a claim to make
out adverse possession must be hostile, etc. (d) And even
where there is adverse possession, it must be uninterrupted.
3 Washburn, Real Property, 148 (5th ed.). So far as concerns any earlier claim, the Guttmann deed was an express
interruption.
MR.

JUSTIcE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of New Mexico.
The action was in ejectment, brought by the defendants in
error, the trustees of the Board of Domestic Missions of the
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United
States of America, against Charles Probst, to recover the possession of certain land. The plaintiffs below recovered a judgment against the defendant, which was affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and this writ of error is brought by
the defendant, Probst, to reverse that judgment.
The case was tried before a jury The plaintiff failed to
introduce any evidence of transfer of title from the government to any person, but relied upon the possession of the
property by certain parties from about the year 1846 up to
the bringing of this suit, and upon conveyances by those parties in such a manner that their right is thereby vested in the
plaintiffs in the action. The defendant, Probst, relied mainly
upon the statute of limitations as his affirmative defence.
Two questions are presented in this court for considera-

PROBST v. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. The first of these arises upon the introduction by the
plaintiffs of copies of certain deeds, duly recorded, from the
parties under whom they claim title, down to plaintiffs. These
copies were objected to, because no sufficient reason was shown
why the origmals should not have been produced,. and none
was shown, except that the last deed, which was claimed to
vest the title in the plaintiffs, made by one M cFarland, was
'probably in the possession of the officers of the corporation at
its offices in the city of N~ew York.
The statute of New Mexico on this subject is as follows
"SEc. 2768. When said writing is certified and registered
in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, and it be proven to the
court that said writing is lost, or that it is not in the hands of
the party wishing to use it, then the record of the same, or a
transcript of said record, certified to by the recorder under his
seal of office, may be read as evidence without further proof."
Chap: LT. Title XL. Compiled Laws [1884].
There was no attempt to prove that any of these deeds were
lost, nor that any search had been made for them, nor any
effort made to procure them. As regards those which were
prior to the deed from McFarland to the Board of Trustees it
may be conceded that the presumption was that they were m
the control and possession of the parties to whom they belonged,
and the introduction of copies from the record might be sustamed on this presumption. But as regards the deed from
McFarland to the Board, who were the plaintiffs, no such presumption can be made. All that was proved about that deed,
its custody, possession or location, was that it was not in the
hands of the agent of the Board in New Mexico. Naturally it
would be in the possession of the iNew York office. No attempt
was made to show that the trustees had made any search for
it, or that any effort had been made to have it sent to the
place of trial in this case, and it seemed to be supposed to be
quite sufficient to authorize the introduction of the copy of the
record to show that the deed, though in the possession of the
plaintiff corporation at its proper place at its office, was not in
the Territory of New Mexico, and not in possession of the
agent of the Board there.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

No member of this court sitting on the trial of a case would
admit this to be a sufficient showing under the statute of New
MKexico that the writing was lost, or was not in the hands of
the party offering it in evidence. But it may be conceded
that a very large amount of discretion must be reposed in the
trial court to whom such copy of a record is presented, in ruling upon the circumstances which shall determine its admission
or rejection, and itis possible that, if there were no other
objection to the proceedings at the trial than this one, this
court would not reverse the judgment on that account, but it
is certainly not good practice, nor an exercise of the discretion
of the court to be commended.
The other objection, we think, is fatal, and that is, to the
instruction of the court in regard to the statute of limitations.
An examination of the testimony shows that there was evidence tending to prove that the defendant, Probst, was in the
exclusive possession of the land in controversy from a period
variously stated to be from 1869, 1870 and 1871, onward up to
the time of the trial. The action was commenced on the 16th
day of July, 1881. The statute of New Mexico on the subject of limitations is found in the following section of the Compiled Laws [1884]
"SEc. 1881. No person or persons, nor their children or
heirs, shall have, sue, or maintain any action or suit, either in
law or equity, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments but
within ten years next after his, her or their right to commence,
have, or maintain such suit shall have come, fallen or accrued,
and that all suits either in law or equity for the recovery of
lands, tenements or hereditaments shall be had and sued within
ten years next after the title or cause of action or suit accrued
or fallen, and at no time after the ten years shall have passed."
If,therefore, Probst was in possession on the day this suit
was brought, and bad been for ten years prior thereto, no
reason can be seen why that fact did not constitute a statutory bar to the action. It may be conceded that there is contradictory testimony on this subject, but it is very certain that
several witnesses swear that he was in possession of the property prior to the year 1871, and that he had remained in such

PROBST v. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Opinion of the Court.

possession up to the tune of the trial. The court, in its treatment of that subject, seem to have gone upon the ground that
Probst's possession did him no good, and could constitute no
defence, unless he had some kind of a title to the land connected with it, and manifestly left upon the jury the impression that this must be a title evidenced by writing. Among
other things, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"The plaintiff claims title by purchase, evidenced by deeds,
and not by simple possession, and I instruct you that if you
believe from the evidence in this case that plaintiff did purchase this ground from persons who were legally entitled to
sell the same and took proper deeds therefor, and recorded
said deeds in the proper office in the county where such lands
were situated, that such record was notice to all the world of
legal ownership, and that such land could not thereafter be
taken up as vacant or abandoned lands, that even actual possession of such lands by the defendant for a period of ten
years, if taken after such deeds were recorded, would not give
him any legal title to them, but he would be as much a trespasser at the end of ten years as he was upon the day of his
entry If his entry was wrong no length of time could make
it right, but if you also find that plaintiff, by its agents, demanded possession and asserted its title, and brought its claim
to the land distinctly to defendant's knowledge, it destroys all
claims which he sets up to continuous and uninterrupted possession, and if you also find that plaintiff resided upon and
actually cultivated and possessed a portion of the land purchased by it you are instructed that such possession extends to
the boundaries described in such deeds of purchase.
"The defendant has informed you by his counsel that he
claims this land not by purchase, but because he has been in
possession of it for over ten years. I instruct you that unless
he had a right to the possession of such lands when he took
possession of them he has no right now, time never makes a
wrong right.
"If you find from the evidence that this plaintiff, by its
agents, was actually residing upon the land purchased by it,
and held by recorded deeds when this defendant entered upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

said lands and wrongfully took possession of a portion of said
lands, you must find for plaintiff, although you also find that
defendant has held said lands for more than ten years adversely to plaintiff."
Obviously the proposition here set out by the court is, that
if plaintiff had the real title to the land, and the evidence of it
was on record, nobody could, by taking possession and holding
it adversely for the period allowed by the statute, defeat such
a title. The language used by the court is: "Unless the
defendant had a rght to the possession of such lands when he
took possession of them he has no right now, time never
makes a wrong right."
It is the essence of the statute of limitations that whether
the party had a right to the possession or not, if he entered
under the claim of such right and remained in the possession
for the period of ten years, or other period prescribed by the
statute, the right of action of the plaintiff who had the better
right is barred by that adverse possession. This right given
by the statute of limitations does not depend upon, and has
no necessary connection with the validity of the claim under
which that possession is held. Otherwise there could be no
use for adverse possession as a defence to an action, for if the
decision is made to depend upon the validity of the respective
titles set up by the plaintiff and the defendant, there can be no
place for the consideration of the question of possession. It is
because the plaintiff has the better title that the defendant is
permitted to rely upon such uninterrupted possession adverse
to the plaintiff's title as the statute prescribes, it being well
understood, and an element in such cases, that the plaintiff
does have the better title, but though he has it, that he has lost
his right by delay in asserting it.
Nor is it necessary that the defendant shall have a paper
title under which he claims possession. It is sufficient that he
asserts ownership of the land, and that this assertion is accompanied by an uninterrupted possession. It is this which constitutes adverse possession, claiming himself to be the owner of
the land. This is a claim adverse to everybody else, and the
possession is adverse when it is held under this claim of owner

PROBST v. PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH.
D

191

Opinion of the Court.

ship, whether that ownership depends upon a written instrument, inheritance, a deed, or even an instrument which may
not convey all the lands in controversy If defendant asserts
his right to own the land in dispute, asserts his right to the
possession, and his possession is adverse and uninterrupted, it
constitutes a bar which the statute intended to give to the
defendant.
The instructions of the court are utterly at variance with
this doctrine. They do away with the value of adverse possession as a defence to an action of ejeotment. They say in
effect that unless the defendant was in the right when he took
possession, the length of its continuance does not afford him
any ground for a defence, whereas it is obviously the nature
and purport of the defence established by the statute of limitations that the defendant may not have been in the right, but
this long actual possession estops the plaintiff from putting the
defendant to the proof of the right.
The court, not only erred upon this subjct in the positive
instructions which it gave to the jury, but also in refusing to
charge as follows, at the request of the defendant
"That an umnterrupted occupancy of land by a person who
has in fact no title thereto, for the period of ten years adversely
to the true owner, operates to extinguish the title of the true
owner thereto and vests the right to the premises absolutely
in the occupier."
In -Ewmg v Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 52, this court said upon this
subject
"An entry by one man on the land of another is an ouster
of the legal possession arising from the title, or not, according
to the intention with which it is done, if made under claim
and color of right, it is an ouster, otherwise it is'a mere trespass, in legal language the intention guides the entry and
fixes its character."
We think this is a correct statement of the doctrine of
adverse possession. It is implied by the language of the court
in Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, 349, that "any one in possession, with no claim to the land whatever, must in presumption
of law be in possession in amity with and in subservience to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

that title." And the instruction of the court below in that
case was approved, that if "any of the defendants entered
upon and took possession of the land, without title or claim,
or color of title, such occupancy was not adverse to the title
of plaintiffs, but subservient thereto."
The fair implication in both of these cases is that where
possession is taken under claim of title it sufficiently shows
the intention of the party to hold adversely within the meaning of the law upon that subject. There is no case to be
found which holds that this adverse claim of title must be
found in some written instrument.
In the case of Bradstreet v Hunthngton, 5 Pet. 402, 439,
this court said
"The whole of this doctrine is summed up in very few
words as laid down by Lord Coke (1 Inst. 153) and recognized
in terms in the case of Blunden v Baugh, 3 Cro. [Car.] 302,
in which it underwent very great consideration. Lord Coke
says 'A disseisin is when one enters intending to usurp the
possession, and to oust another of his freehold, and therefore
querenduni est a, udice quo anmo hoc fecerit, why he entered
and intruded.' So the whole enquiry is reduced to the fact of
entering, and the intention to usurp possesszon."
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, wzth a
directon to award a new trial.

SEIBERT v. UNITED STATES ex rel. HARSHMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AISSOURI.
No. 130. Submitted December 18, 188.-Decided January 21, 1889.

Seibert v. Lewzs, 122 U. S. 284, was very carefully and elaborately considered, and is adhered to.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

