ELY v. NEW MEXICO &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

ELY v. NEW MEXICO AND ARIZONA RAILROAD
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
iTo. 1133.

Submitted January 14, 1889. -Decided

January 28, 1889.

Under the statutes of the Territory of Arizona, a complaint in a civil action,
alleging that the plaintiff is the owner in fee of a parcel of land, particularly described, and that the defendant claims an adverse estate or
interest therein, and praying for a determination of the plaintiff's claim
and of the plaintiff's title, and for an m3unction and other equitable
relief, is good on demurrer.

THIs was a complaint, filed in a district court of the Territory of Arizona and county of Pima, by Frank Ely against
the New Mexico and Arizona Railroad Company and several
individuals, alleging that the "plaintiff is the owner in fee of
all that piece or parcel of land granted by the Mexican authorities to Leon Herreros on May 15, 1825," called the Rancho San
Jose de Sonoita, situated in the Sonoita Valley in the county
aforesaid, and more particularly described and bounded in the
complaint, according to the calls of a survey made by the
government of Spain in June, 1821, and that the "defendants, and each of them, claim an estate or interest in and to
the above described land and premises adverse to this plaintiff, that the said claim of the said defendants and each of
them is without any right whatsoever; and the said defendants have not, nor have any or either of them, any estate, right,
title or interest whatever in said lands and premises or any
part thereof. Wherefore the plaintiff prays
"1st. That the defendants, and each of them, be required
to set forth the nature of his claim, and that all adverse claims
of the defendants, and each of them, may be determined by
decree of this court.
"2d, That by said decree it be declared and adjudged that
the defendants have no estate or interest whatever in or to
said land or premises, or m or to any part thereof, and that
the title of the plaintiff is good and valid.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"3d. That the defendants, and each of them, be forever
enjoined and debarred from asserting any claim whatever in
or to said land or premises, or to any part thereof, adverse to
the plaintiff, and for such other and further relief as to this
honorable court shall seem meet and agreeable to equity, and
for his costs of suit."
The defendants demurred to the complaint, upon the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The demurrer was sustained, and judgment given for
the defendants, dismissing the action. The judgment was
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the Territory 19 Pacific
Reporter, 6. The plaintiff appealed to this court.
-31" Rochester Ford for appellant.
3fr B. ff. Ierefordand -Jh. Thomas Mitchell for appellees.
Mnr. JUSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona in favor of the defendants, upon their demurrer to the
complaint, proceeded upon the ground that the action must be
treated as a suit in equity only, and that the complaint made
out no case for equitable relief, and therefore could not be
maintained under the opinions of this court in Hollavd v
Challen., 110 U. S. 15, 25, and Fp'ost v 8pzTley, 121 U S. 552,
557. See also -Morev Stetnbach, 127 U S. 70. But each of
those cases came from a Circuit Court of the United States, in
which the distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
is preserved. The present action, arising under territorial
statutes, is governed by different considerations.
The statutes of Arizona provide that "there shall be in this
territory but one form of civil action for the enforcement or
protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of
private wrongs," to be commenced by complaint, containing
"a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language," and "a demand of the relief

ELY v. NEW MEXICO &c. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

winch the plaintiff claims." Compiled Laws of 187T, c. 48,
§§ 1, 22, 39. Under precisely similar statutes of the Territory
of Montana, it has been adjudged by this court that both legal
and equitable relief may be granted in the same action, and
may be admnnstered through the intervention of a jury or by
the court itself, according to the nature of the remedy -sought.
Ho&,nuckle v Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, Hershgfied v G/jAtk,
18 Wall. 657, -Davms v Bilsland, 18 Wall. 659, Basey v.
Gallagher,20 Wall. 670.
By the Compiled Laws of Arizona, c. 48, § 256, "an action
may be brought by any person in possession by himself or his
tenant of real property against any person who claims an estate
or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determinmg such adverse claim, estate or interest."
By the act of the Territory of 1881, c. 59, that statute is
amended by striking out the requirement of the plaintiff's
possession, so as to read as follows "An action may be
brought by any person against another who claims an estate
or interest in said real property adverse to him, for the purpose
of determining such adverse claim."
The manifest mtent of the statute, as thus amended, is, that
any person owning real property, whether in possession or not,
in which any other person claims an adverse title or interest,
may bring an action against him to determine the adverse
claim and to quiet the plaintiff's title. It extends to cases in
which the plaintiff is out of possession and the defendant is in
possession, and in which, at common law, the plaintiff might
have maintained ejectment. An allegation, in ordinary and
concise terms, of the ultimate fact that the plaintiff is the
owner in fee is sufficient, without setting out matters of
evidence, or what have been sometimes called probative facts,
which go to establish that ultimate fact, and ,an allegation
that the defendant claims an adverse estate or interest is sufficient, without further defining it, to put him to a disclaimer,
or to allegation and proof of the estate or interest which he
claims, the nature of which must be known to him, and may
not be known to the plaintiff.
These conclusions accord with the decisions of the courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

California and Indiana under similar statutes, from one of
which the present statute of Arizona would seem to have been
taken. Payne v Treadwell, 16 California, 220, 242-247,
Stathan v -Duoy,11 Pacific Reporter, 606, feeser v .Miller,
19 Pacific Reporter, 375, Jefferson &o. I.ailroadv Oyler, 60
Indiana, 383, 392, Tritthpo v _lorgan, 99 Indiana, 269.
The result is, that the complaint in this case is sufficient to
authorize the court to determine the claim of the defendants
and the title of the plaintiff, and also, if the facts proved at
the hearing shall justify it, to grant an injunction or other
equitable relief.
Judgment reversed, and ease remanded to the Supreme Court
of A-izona, wzth directions to overrule the demurrer to t]te
complaint, and to take suchfurther proceedings as may be
consistent with this opinion.

PATTEE PLOW COMPANY v. KIN\GMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 88. Argued November 16, 10, 1888.-Decided February 4, 1889.

The second claim of reissued letters patent No. 6080, granted to James H.
lattee, October 6, 1874, for improvements in cultivators, changes the first
claim of the original patent, (1), by omitting the plates B, and (2) by
the addition of the direct draft; and thus substantially enlarges the
invention, and consequently is invalid.
The machines manufactured by the defendants do not infringe letters patent No. 174,684, granted to Thomas W Kendall, March 14, 1876, for improvements in cultivators.
Letters patent No. 187,899, granted to Henry H. Pattee, February 27 1877
for improvements in cultivators, embrace nothing that is not old, and
nothing that is patentable, -that is, which involves invention rather
than mechanical skill.

IN EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent.
dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed.

Decree

