WALWORTH v. HARRIS.
Syllabus.

We see nothing in the charge of which the plaintiff can
properly complain.
This case seems to have been very perfunctorily tried and
discussed. There is a question which may be entitled to much
consideration, whether the Nolan title has any validity at all
without confirmation by Congress. The act of July 22, 1854,
before referred to, seems to imply that this was necessary
There is also another act of Congress which may have a bearing on the case. We refer to the act of July 1, 1870, 16 Stat.
646, c. 202, by which another grant to Nolan was confirmed
to the extent of eleven leagues. After various provisions with
regard to the exterior lines of those eleven leagues, the 4th
section declares "that upon the adjustment of said claim of the
heirs of Gervacio Nolan, according to the provisions of this
act, it shall be the duty of the Surveyor General of the district
to furnish properly approved plats to said claimants, etc. Prornded, that when said lands are so confirmed, surveyed and patented, they shall be held and taken to be in full satisfaction of
all further claims or demands against the United States."
Whether this provision was not intended to affect the entire
claim of Nolan for any grant of lands in New Mexico may be
a serious question. Without expressing any opinion on the
subject, it suffices to say that we see no error in the judgment
of the Supreme Court of New Mexico, and it is therefore

-Aflrme&

WALWORTH v. HARRIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 148. Submitted January 7,1889.-Decided February 4, 1889.

The lien upon a crop of cotton, created by a statute of Arkansas whch
gives a lien to a landlord upon the crop grown on demised premises to
secure accruing rent, is, when the cotton comes into the hands of a
broker in New Orleans, under consignment from the lessee, and without
knowledge of the lien on the consignee's part, subordinated to the consignee's lien for advances, arising under the laws of Louisiana.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case in its opinion as follows:
Sarah Walworth, the appellant in the present case, and John
B. Walworth, who died pending the suit, said Sarah being now
his executrix, with many other persons, are complainants in a
bill in chancery, brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, against Joseph L.
Harris, John M. Parker, Z. T. Carlton, Sarah E. Bryan, and
others.
The object of the bill was to enjoin Carlton from proceeding
to sell property conveyed to him by a deed of trust to secure
certain debts due by the Bryans to J L. Harris & Co. Lemuel
C. Bryan and Joel E. Bryan were in business at Point Chicot,
in Chicot County, Arkansas, under the partnership designation
of L. C. Bryan & Bro. The main occupation was selling goods
and buying cotton, but they also had several cotton plantations
under their control. Among others they had leased from the
heirs of Horace F Walvorth a farm at Point Chicot, for five
years, at a rent of $5500 a year, running from January 1, 1879,
to January 1, 1884. Although the lease was executed in the
name of Lemuel C. Bryan alone, it was for the benefit of the
firm of Bryan & Bro., and it went into the general partnership business.
Joseph L. Harris and John M. Parker, trading as partners
under the firm name of J L. Harris & Co., cotton brokers in
the city of New Orleans, were the correspondents of Bryan &
Bro., and to them the latter firm transmitted the cotton raised
and purchased by them in Arkansas.
During the pendency of this lease, to wit, on December 9,
1881, Bryan & Bro. being indebted to Harris & Co., and
desiring further accommodations and advancements from them,
made a deed of trust to Z. T. Carlton, of the county of Chicot,
in Arkansas, in which they conveyed to him as trustee substantially all their property in the State of Arkansas, and all
the cotton or other products raised or gathered during the
year 1881 on the plantations and tracts of land described, with
about 250 bales of cotton, in seed lint and bales, on the Point
Chicot plantation, leased from the heirs of Walworth. The

WALWORTH v. HARRIS.
Statement of the Case.

purpose of this conveyance was declared to be to secure the
payment of a debt of $35,000, evidenced by notes of Bryan &
Bro., dated at New Orleans, La., December 9, 1881, drawn to
the order of J L. Harris & Co., and payable at their office m
that city, also any advance in addition to said notes which
Iarris & Co. might make to Bryan & Bro., with various other
agreements not material to be mentioned here.
The bill of the complainants, except the heirs of Walworti,
consists of allegations that Harris & Co. had undertaken that
out of the proceeds of the property conveyed by this deed of
trust to Carlton these creditors should be paid various sums
due to them. The heirs of Walworth in addition to this set
up that, by virtue of the lease made between them and Bryan
& Bro., they had a lien on the cotton raised each year on the
Point Chicot plantation for the amount of the rent, $5500 per
annum, and further, that by virtue of the laws of Arkansas
they had the landlord's lien for rent for the same sum on the
cotton raised on the plantation. They also alleged that this
cotton, the rent being unpaid, came to the hands of J L.
Harris & Co., who disposed of it, but that they were aware of
the existence of such lien and were bound by it.
The Circuit Court, after a hearing on the bill, answer, replication, and evidence, dismissed it, and from that decree only
the heirs of Walworth take this appeal, and they only as to
the question of their right to recover the rent for one year by
virtue of a lien on the cotton which came to the hands of
Harris & Co. from the Bryans. All the other questions, therefore, which were raised in the case, as it was originally heard
and tried, are eliminated from its consideration in this court.
The lien here asserted seems to be founded upon expressions
contained in the contract of lease, and upon the statute of
Arkansas concerning the lien of a landlord. The only clause
in the lease referring to a lien is the following - "And it is
further understood that the lessor shall have his lien on the
crop for the security and payment of his rent, as set forth in
this lease." This reference to what is set forth in the lease
means the amount of the rent and the time of its payment,
and the language, that "the lessor shall have his lien on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

crop," evidently refers to the lien which the statute gives. So
that, after all, it is the lien given by the statute of Arkansas
which is the one sought to be enforced here.
The text of that statute is given below m the opinion.
2fr J S. W]Fztaker and X2r D I 1eynolds for appellants.
By the laws of Arkansas, the landlord's lien is a charge upon
the crop for the rent, and if the purchaser, or mortgagee, has
notice of the lien for rent, he takes subject to the lien. Knowledge of the tenancy is sufficient notice to the purchaser or
mortgagee of the lien for rent. Snm'th v .Meyer, 25 Arkansas,
609, TVolmer v ITar'ton, 34 Arkansas, 691. And it is not
necessary in Arkansas to record a lease to give a landlord a
lien on the crop for rent, as actual knowledge of the tenancy
coupled with the lien for rent given by law is sufficient notice
to bind parties who deal with the lessee, or acquire an interest
in the crop within the period of limitation. Smith v. .Meyer,
e"Ipra.

The landlord's lien is superior to the lien of the mortgagee
and continues for six months after the rent becomes due, and
he may pursue the produce of the rented premises, or the proceeds thereof in the hands of parties having notice of the lien,
at any time within the six months. .Meyer v Bloom, 37 Arkansas, 43, Buck v Lee, 36 Arkansas, 525, Watson v Johnson, 33 Arkansas, 737, Zing v Blount, 37 Arkansas, 115.
These authorities show that if J L. Harris & Co.. by virtue
of their deed of trust, or otherwise, acquired an interest in the
crop of cotton raised on Point Chicot plantation in 1881, and at
the time had a knowledge of the tenancy of Bryan, from whom
they acquired such interest or lien, they acquired subject to
the lien for rent.
The removal into Louisiana did not change the rights of the
parties, or change the rule for ascertaining and enforcing
them. They might increase the difficulty of recovering the
property, or the proceeds from them by the removal, but
could not deprive the landlords of their lien or give themselves a better claun to it. Nor would the supposed advan-

WALW RTH v. HARRIS.
Argument for Appellants.

tage acquired by them, by the removal, give a solid basis on
which to rest a claim that the laws of Arkansas giving the
lien have no extraterritorial force, and that the removal to
Louisiana had brought the cotton within the influence of a
lien by statute of that State, that by comity could not be displaced, and thereby give them as it were a new and better
right to retain the cotton, or its proceeds against the lien
under the laws of Arkansas for the rent. The courts have
frequently been called upon to determine the right of parties
resulting from a conflict of laws, and it seems to be conceded
that one State or nation is not required by its courts through
comity to deprive its citizens of a right under its laws by
enforcing the laws of another State where the parties before
the court come to their interest or claim, in or to the property,
by regular course of trade without notice of the claims or
rights of others than those from whom they acquire title or
interest. But I have failed to find a case where the courts
have interposed the shield of comity to protect a party in the
possession of property where he has been instrumental in
removing the property from a jurisdiction where there were
liens in favor of himself and others, to a State where a new
lien might attach and for his benefit. See Bank of Augusta
v Eare, 13 Pet. 519.
As a general rule a personal contract with attendant privileges and effects when made in another State will be enforced
in Louisiana upon a movable according to the Zex loc contractus, provided such enforcement be not contrary to its policy,
and does not violate the order of priority established by them,
and does not injure the rights of its own citizens, and provided
further that the lexforz gives the remedy asked for. Tyree v
Sands, 24: La. Ann. 363, Chaffe v Heyner, 31 La. Ann. 594.
And in that State the landlord has a privilege on the growing crop of the year to secure his rents, and this privilege is
first except as to laborers' and overseers' wages. 1Tnox v
Booth, 19 La. Ann. 109, -Duplantierv Mlkzns, 19 La. Ann.
112; Rev Stat. La. ยง 2873.
The laws of Louisiana and Arkansas being the same in effect
in relation to the lien of landlords for rent, this lien may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

enforced in either of the States. Cox v -Mor'row, 14 Arkansas,
603, 610, Leonard v columbza Steam Nav. Co., 84 N. Y 48,
55, iMorrms v Ch'icago, Rock Island, &e. Railway, 65 Iowa,
727, Ziright v West Jersey Railroad,108 Penn. St. 250. See
also Ellett v Butts, 19 Wall. 544, CanadaSouthern Railroad
v. Gebkard, 109 U S. 527, 536.
J3 r F
appellees.

W Compton and 3fr Thomas J

AR. JUSTICE MILLER

Semmes for

delivered the opinion of the court.

There is no question that, under the laws of Arkansas, there
existed a lien on some of the cotton transmitted by Bryan &
Bro. to the defendants, Harris & Co., while that property
remained in the State of Arkansas, and it is attempted to aid
the argument in this case, which holds Harris & Co. liable for
that lien on the cotton received by them, by the allegation
that they knew that it came from the Point Chicot plantation,
and knew the rent was unpaid, and, therefore, had knowledge
of the existence of the lien. This knowledge, however, or
even notice, is not sustained by the evidence.
The plaintiffs, in their bill, allege that Harris & Co. must
have known of this lien, for two reasons First, because they
had paid the rent for two previous years to the heirs of Walworth, and, second, because the lease between the heirs of
Walworth and Bryan & Bro. had been m their hands for a
short time, so that they must be held to have known its contents.
The bill is sworn to, and the answer is sworn to, with no
waiver of an answer under oath, and according to chancery
practice the answer of Joseph L. Harris, of the firm of J L.
Harris & Co., so far as it is responsive to these allegations,
must be taken as evidence. In regard to the payment of the
rent for the two years mentioned, he says that he simply paid
it upon the order of Bryan & Bro., out of funds of theirs in
his hands, as he would have paid any other order of theirs,
and without any knowledge as to the nature, character or

WALWORTIH v. HARRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

extent of the lien, or that the rent was a lien on cotton in his
hands. As regards the possession of the lease referred to, he
says that they (Harris & Co.) did, at one time, in the year
1880, which is over a year previous to the crop on which the
lien is now claimed, have this lease in their possession, that it
was deposited with them by one Whitaker, who claimed to
have an interest in the lease as collateral security for a loan of
$600, and that Whitaker having soon thereafter paid the
same, it was returned to him without any further attention on
their part.
This statement is confirmed by the answer, which is also
under oath, of Joel E. Bryan, the surviving partner of Byran &
Bro., the other brother, Lemuel, having died before the trial.
He says that L. 0. Bryan & Bro. shipped of the cotton grown
on the Point Chicot plantation in the year 1881, 467 bales, all
of which was shipped to their own account to J L. Harris &
Co., to be by them sold as cotton factors, and the proceeds
applied to the payment of advances made to their firm by
Harris & Co., and, referring evidently to the question of the
lien stated in the bill to be impressed on said cotton, says that
if it was impressed with anything beside the shipping brand
of his firm he did not see it, that the whole of said cotton
belonged to the firm of Bryan & Bro., taken in the regular
course of business, and that the last shipment, made on the
19th day of December, 1881, was sold a few days thereafter,
and an account of sales rendered by Harris & Co.
There is no evidence from any quarter contradicting these
sworn answers of J L. Harris and Joel E. Bryan, and we,
therefore, think that it is not established that Harris & Co.
knew or had notice of any lien in favor of the Walworth heirs
for the rent upon the cotton received by them in the last days
of these transactions.
It is also apparent, from all this testimony, that the cotton
was shipped by Bryan & Bro. to Harris & Co. at New Orleans,
as the property of the former, and was received and for the
first time came under the control of the latter on landing at
that place, and that they received it without any other obligation to account for the rent of the Point Chicot plantation, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

any other lien upon it, except such as would arise from the
fact that such a lien existed in Arkansas as between Bryan &
Bro. and the Walworth heirs.
The laws of the two States differ from each other on this
subject. The statute of Arkansas is found in the Revised
Statutes of that State, of 1884, in the following words
"SEc. 4453. Every landlord shall have a lien upon the crop
grown upon the demised premises in any year for rent that
shall accrue for such year, and such lien shall continue for six
months after such rent shall become due and payable." Mansfield's Digest Stats. Ark. 1884.
This was in force when these transactions took place.
There are also other provisions for the enforcement of this
lien, which it is not necessary to embody here.
The Revised Code of Louisiana, arts. 2705 and 2709, limits
the right of pledge of the lessor of real estate to the "movable
effects of the lessee, which are found on the property leased,"
and "in the exercise of this right the lessor may seize the
objects which are subject to it, before the lessor takes them
away, or within fifteen days after they are taken away, if
they continue to be the property of the lessee, and can be
identified." By the Session Act of 1874, page 114, it is enacted
as follows.
"SEc. 2. That when any merchant, factor, or other person
has advanced money, property, or supplies on cotton, sugar,
or, other agricultural products, and the same has been consigned to him by ship, steamboat, vessel, railroad, or other
carrier, the said agricultural products shall be pledged to the
consignee thereof from the time the bill of lading thereof shall
be put in the mail or put into the possession of the carrier for
its transmission to the consignee."
It is not necessary to hold that the right of Harris & Co. to
this cotton was vested in them on the giving of the bill of
lading, or putting on board of a railroad or steamboat, but it
is sufficient to hold that when they received it m New Orleans
they received it under such rights and limitations as the laws
of Louisiana conferred upon them in that regard.
The question here presented of the conflicting rights of

.

WrALWVORTH v. HARRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

parties claiming property under the laws of two different
States, each of which sustains the claims of the party residing
in it, is not a new one in this court. The case of &reen v -Fn
Busk r, 5 Wall. 307, seems to decide the present one by the
principles which it lays down and the analogy of the two
cases in regard to the facts. That case was twice before this
court for consideration.
It appeared that Bates, a citizen of the State of New York,
was the owner of certain safes, which he sent from that
State to the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois. On the
3d day of November, 1857, Bates executed and delivered, in
the city of New York, to Van Buskirk and others, a chattel
mortgage on these safes to secure an existing debt. On the
5th day of the same month, Green also a creditor of Bates,
sued out a writ of attachment in the proper court of Illinois,
and caused it to be levied upon these safes in Chicago as the
property of Bates. No record had been made at this tune of
the mortgage in the State of Illinois, nor had the possession
of the property been delivered under it. Green recovered a
judgment in the attachment suit, and had the safes sold in
satisfaction of his debt. He was afterwards found in New
York, of which State all three of the parties named were
citizens, and was there sued by Van Buskirk for the value of
the safes. Green pleaded the proceedings in the Illinois courts
in bar of the action, but this plea was overruled. The decision
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of New York, from
which judgment Green took a writ of error to this court. It
first came under consideration here on a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction, but it was held that the question of the
right of Green to seize the property under his attachment
must be determined by the law of Illinois, where the property
was when so seized, and not by the law of New York, and
that the Court of Appeals had refused to give to the judgment
of the Illinois court the full faith and credit to which it was
entitled as a judicial proceeding of the courts of that State.
The inquiry of course involved more or less the question of
the effect of those proceedings, but as the case was only before
the court on a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

had to come up afterwards to be heard on its merits. On the
motwto the court considered very fully the much controverted
principle as to the extraterritorial effect of laws affecting the
title or liens upon the property in one State when that property was carried away or became the subject of litigation in
another State, and while it was seen that in many cases it
had been held that a court of one State would give effect to
the law of domicil of another State, it was said
"But after
all, this is a mere principle of comity between the courts,
which must give way when the statutes of the country, where
property is situated, or the established policy of its laws prescribe to its courts a different rule. The learned commentator,
already referred to, [Story on Conflict of Laws, ยง 390,] in
speaking of the law in Louisiana, which gives paramount title
to an attaching creditor over a transfer made in another State,
which is the domicil of the owner of the property, says: ' No
one can seriously doubt that it is competent for any State to
adopt such a rule in its own legislation, since it has perfect
jurisdiction over all property, personal as well as real, within
its territorial limits. Nor can such a rule, made for the benefit
of innocent purchasers and creditors, be deemed justly open
to the reproach of being founded in a narrow or selfish policy'
Again, he says ' Every nation, having a right to dispose of
all the property actually situated within it, has (as has been
often said) a right to protect itself and its citizens against
the inequalities of foreign laws, which are injurious to their
interests."
The court also cited with approval the following language
(ยง 388) from the same authority "The municipal laws of a
country have no force beyond its territorial limits, and when
another government permits these to be carried into effect
within her jurisdiction, she does so upon a principle of comity
In doing so, care must be taken that no injury is inflicted
upon her own citizens, otherwise justice would be sacrificed to
comity
If a- person sends his property within a
jurisdiction different from that where he resides, he impliedly
submits it to the rules and regulations enforced in the country
where he places it." See also Ol0vier v Townes, 2 Martin
(N. S.) 93, Denny v Bennett, 128 U. S. 489.

WVALWORTH v. HARRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

When the case of Green v 'an Busktrk again came before
this court on its merits, (7 Wall. 139,) Mr. Justice Davis, in
delivering the opinion, said, in reference to this question of
the conflict of rights under the laws of different States, which
were themselves in conflict
"It is a vexed question on which learned courts have
differed, but after all there is no absolute right to have such
transfer respected, and it is only on a principle of comity that
it is ever allowed. And this principle of comity always yields
when the laws and policy of the State where the property is
located have prescribed a different rule of transfer with that
of the State where the owner lives." p. 151.
The same principle is reasserted in Hervey v Rhodle Island
Zoeomoftve TForks, 93 U. S. 664. That was a case where the
Rhode Island company had delivered to Conant & Co., who
were contractors on a railroad in Illinois, a locomotive engine,
under an instrument in writing which this court construed to
be a lease: By the laws of Illinois, to which this engine was
carried, such lease or title, whatever it may have been, which
the locomotive company insisted that they had retained in the
property, was of no avail as against subsequent creditors when
the property was found in that State, unless it was properly
recorded there. No such record being made of the instrument
under which Conant & Co. held it., the engine was seized by
attachment against that firm and sold to Hervey, the plaintiff
in error in this court. In the following language, taken from
the opinion in that case, the doctrine is reiterated that the
question must be determined by the laws of Illinois where the
property was found and sold, and not by the laws of iRhode
Island where the lease or instrument of conveyance was made
"It was decided by this court in Green v VFan Bvsknrk, 5
Wall. 307, 7 Id. 139, that the liability of property to be sold
under legal process, issuing from the courts of the State where
it is situated, must be determined by the law there, rather
than that of the jurisdiction where the owner lives. These
decisions rest on the ground that every State has the right to
regulate the transfer of property within its limits, and that
whoever sends property to it impliedly submits to the regula-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

tions concerning its transfer in force there, although a different

rule of transfer prevails in the jurisdiction where he resides.
He has no absolute right to have the transfer of property,
lawful in that jurisdiction, respected in the courts of the State
where it is found, and it is only on a principle of comity that
it is ever allowed. But this principle yields when the laws
and policy of the latter State conflict with those of the
former." p. 671.
The principle here asserted, which is clearly applicable to
the case before us, is supported by reference to authorities in
those opinions which we think are conclusive. At all events,
the cases themselves are conclusive upon this court, and upon
the rights of the parties to this suit.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is,
therefore,
A_fi mned.

HARRIS v. BARBER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1443.

Submitted January 7, 1889.-Decided January 28, 1889.

A judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, quashing a
writ of certiorari, after a justice of the peace, in obedience to the writ,
has returned the record of his proceedings and judgment in a landlord and
tenant process, is reviewable by this court on writ of error, if the right
to the possession of the premises is worth more than $5000.
A judgment of a justice of the peace, which is subject to appeal, cannot be
quashed by writ of certiorari, except for want of jurisdiction, appearing on the face of his record.
Under the Landlord and Tenant Act of the District of Columbia, requiring
a "w1ritten complaint on oath of the person entitled to the possession of
the premises to a justice of the peace," the oath may be taken before a
notary public outside of the District.
Under the Landlord and Tenant Act of the District of Columbia, a complaint
which alleges that the complainant is entitled to the possession of the
premises, and that they are detained from him and held without right by
the defendant, his tenant at sufferance, and whose tenancy and estate
therein have been determined by a thirty days' notice in writing to quit,
is sufficient to support the jurisdiction of the justice of the peace.

