OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

yielding, elastic, or resilient function of the Gorham protector,
and is not accompanied by a spring or constructed substantially according to the description in the Gorham specification.
Gorham evidently had no idea of such a construction as that
of the Williams patent, found in the defendant's wash-board,
and no person could, by following the description in the Gorham specification, arrive at the defendant's structure.
Claim 3 of the Gorham patent requires that the protector
shall be "constructed to fold down," "substantially as"
"shown." The defendant's protector is not constructed to
fold down in the manner of the Gorham protector, and is
not constructed substantially as shown in the Gorham specification.
The decree of the Oircuit Court is
Affirmed.

-MIN-NEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BECKWITH.
ERROR TO THE cIRCUIT

COURT OF XOSSUTH COUNTY,

STATE

OF

IOWA.
No. 100. Argued December 3, 1888.-Decided January 7,18S9.

The provision in the Code of Iowa, ยง 1289, which authorizes the recovery of
"double the value of the stock killed or damages caused thereto" by a
railroad, when the injury took place at a point on the road where the
corporation had a right to erect a fence and failed to do so, and when it
was not "occasioned by the wilful act of the owner or his agent," is not
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, either as depriving the company of property without due
process of law or as denying to it the equal protection of the laws.
Corporations are persons within the meaning of the clauses in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution concerning the deprivation of
property and concerning the equal protection of the laws. Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 118 U. S. 394, and Pembina Minzng
Co. v. Pennsylvanza, 125 U. S. 181, followed.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution does not limit the sub3ects
in relation to which the police power of the State may be exercised for
the protection of its citizens. Barblier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, Soon

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. BECKWITH.
Opinion of the Court.
Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, and Missouri Pacific Railway v. Humes,
115 U. S. 512, considered and followed.
The propriety and legality of the imposition of punitive damages for a violation of duty have been recogmzed by repeated judicil decisions for
more than a century.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
XrA ]jppa .Tunton for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M . JusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us from the Circuit Court of Kossuth
County, Iowa, the highest court of that state in which the
controversy between the parties could be determined. Rev
Stat. ยง 709. It was an action for the value of three hogs,
run over and killed by the engine and cars of the Minneapolis
and St. Louis Railway Company, a corporation existing under
the laws of Minnesota and Iowa, and operating a railroad in
the latter state. The killing was at a point where the defendant had the right to fence its road. The action was brought
before a justice of the peace of Kossuth County Proof having been made of the killing of the anmals and of their value,
and that notice of the fact, with affidavit of the injury, had
been served upon an officer of the company in the county
where the injury was committed, more than thirty days
before the commencement of the action, the justice gave
judgment for the plaintiff against the company for twentyfour dollars, double the proved value of the animals. The
case was then removed to the Circuit Court of Kossuth
County, where the judgment was affirmed. To review this
latter judgment the case is brought here on writ of error.
The judgment rendered by the justice was authorized by
ยง 1289 of the Code of Iowa, which is as follows:
"Any corporation operating a railway that fails to fence the
same against live stock running at large at all points where
such right to fence exists shall be liable to the owner of any
such stock injured or killed by reason of the want of such fence

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

for the value of the property or damage caused, unless the same
was occasioned by the wilful act of the owner or his agent.
And in order to recover it shall only be necessary for the
owner to prove the injury or destruction of his property,
and if such corporation neglects to pay the value of or damage done to such stock within thirty days after notice in writing, accompanied by an affidavit of such injury or destruction,
has been served on any officer, station or ticket-agent employed
in the management of the business of the corporation ii the
county where the injury complained of was committed, such
owner shall be entitled to recover double the value of the
stock killed or damages caused thereto."
The validity of this law was assailed in the state court, and
is assailed here, as being in conflict with the first section of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it deprives the railway company of property
without due process of law, so far as it allows a recovery of
double the value of the animals killed by its trains, and in
that it denies to the company the equal protection of the laws
by subjecting it to a different liability for injuries committed
by it from that to which all other persons are subjected.
It is contended by counsel as the basis of his argument, and
we admit the soundness of his position, that corporations are
persons within the meaning of the clause in question. It was
so held in Santa Clara County v Southern Pcacfc RailroadZ
Co., 118 U S. 394, 396, and the doctrine was reasserted in
Pernbna .Mingng Conpany v Pennsylvanza, 125 U S. 181,
189. We admit also, as contended by him, that corporations
can invoke the benefits of provisions of the Constitution and
laws which guarantee to persons the enjoyment of property,
or afford to them the means for its protection, or prohibit
legislation injuriously affecting it.
We will consider the objections of the railway company in
the reverse order in which they are stated by counsel. And
first, as to the alleged conflict of the law of Iowa with the
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment ordaining that no state
shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. That clause does undoubtedly prohibit

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. BECKWITH.

29

Opinion of the Court.

discriminating and partial legislation by any State in favor of
particular persons as against others in like condition. Equality
of protection implies not merely equal accessibility to the
courts for the prevention or redress of wrongs and the enforcement of rights, but equal exemption with others n like
condition from charges and liabilities of every kind. But the
clause does not limit, nor was it designed to limit, the subjects
upon which the police power of the State may be exerted.
The State can now, as before, prescribe regulations for the
health, good order and safety of society, and adopt such measures as will advance its interests and prosperity And to accomplish this end special legislation must be resorted to in
numerous cases, providing against accidents, disease and danger, in the varied forms in which they may come. The nature
and extent of such legislation will necessarily depend upon the
judgment of the legislature as to the security needed by society When the calling, profession or business of parties is
unattended with danger to others, little legislation will be
necessary respecting it. Thus, in the purchase and sale of
most articles of general use, persons may be left to exercise
their own good sense and judgment, but when the calling or
profession or business is attended with danger, or requires a
certain degree of scientific knowledge upon which others must
rely, then legislation properly steps in to impose conditions
upon its exercise. Thus, if one is engaged in the manufacture
or sale of explosive or inflammable articles, or in the preparation or sale of medicinal drugs, legislation, for the security of
society, may prescribe the terms on which he will be permitted
to carry on the business, and the liabilities he will incur from
neglect of them. The concluding clause of the first section of
the Fourteenth Amendment simply requires that such legislation shall treat alike all persons brought under subjection to it.
The equal protection of the law is afforded when this is accomplished. Such has been the ruling of this court in numerous instances where that clause has been invoked against
legislation supposed to be in conflict with it. Thus in Barbier
v Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 32, it was objected that a municipal
ordinance of San Francisco, prohibiting washing and ironing

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

in public laundries, within certain designated limits of the city,
between the hours of ten at night and six in the morning, was
in conflict with that amendment, in that it discriminated
between laborers engaged in the laundry business and those
engaged in other kinds of business, and between laborers employed within the designated limits and those without them.
But the court held that the provision was merely a police regulation, that it might be a necessary measure of protection in
a city composed largely of wooden .buildings like San Francisco, that occupations in which fires are constantly required
should cease during certain hours at night, and of the necessity
of such a regulation that mumcipal body was the exclusive
judge, that the same authority which directs the cessation of
labor must necessarily prescribe the limits within which it
shall be enforced, as it does the limits within which wooden
buildings must not be constructed, and that restrictions of
this kind, though necessarily special in character, do -not furnish ground of complaint if they operate alike upon all persons or property under the same circumstances and conditions.
"Class legislation," said the court, "discriminating against
some and favoring others, is prohibited, but legislation which,
in carrying out a public purpose, is limited in its application,
if within the sphere of its operation it affects alike all persons
similarly situated, is not within the amendment."
In Soon Hing v Crowley, 113 U S. 703, 709, an objection
was taken to a similar ordinance of San Francisco, that it
made an unwarrantable discrimination against persons engaged in the laundry business, because persons m other kinds
of business were not required to cease from labor during the
same hours at mght. But, the court said. there may be no
risks attending the business of others, certainly not as great
as where fires are constantly required, and that specific regulations for one kind of business, which may be necessary for
the protection of the public, can never be the just ground of
complaint, because like restrictions are not imposed upon
business of a different kind. "The discriminations, which are
open to objection," the court added, "are those where persons
engaged in the same business are subjected to different restric-

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. BECKWITI.

31

Opinion of the Court.

tions, or are held entitled to different privileges under the
same conditions.

It is only then that the discrimination can

be said to impair that equal right which all can claim in the
enforcement of the law"

In The i1issour, Pacftc Railway Company v Humes, 115
U. S. 512, 523, a statute of Missouri requi'mg every railroad
corporation within it to erect and maintain fences and cattle
guards on the sides of its roads, where the same passed through,
along, or adjoining inclosed or cultivated fields, or uninclosed
lands, and, if it did not, making it liable in double the amount
of damages to animals, caused thereby, was assailed as in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, on the same grounds
urged in the present case, namely, that it deprived the defendant of property without due process of law, so far as it allowed
a recovery of damages for stock killed or injured in excess of
its value, and also that it denied to the defendant the equal
protection of the laws, by imposing upon it a liability for
injuries committed which was not imposed upon other persons.
But the court said that authority for requiring railroads to
erect fences on the sides of their roads, so as to keep horses,
cattle and other animals from going upon them, was found in
the general police power of the State to provide against accidents to life and property in any business or employment,
whether under the charge of private persons or of corporations, that in few instances could that power be more wisely
or beneficently exercised than in compelling railroad corporations to inclose their roads with fences having gates at crossings, and cattle guards, that they are absolutely essential to
give protection against accidents in thickly settled portions
of the country; that the omission to erect and maintain
them, in the face of the law, would justly be deemed gross
negligence, and that if injuries to property are committed
something beyond compensatory damages might be awarded
in punishment of it. Referring to the rule which prevails of
allowing juries to assess exemplary or punitive damages where
injuries have resulted from neglect of duties, the court said
"The statutes of nearly every State of the Unmn provide for
the increase of damages where the injury complained of results

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

from the neglect of duties imposed for the better security of
life and property, and make that increase in many cases
double, in some cases treble, and even quadruple the actual
damages. And experience favors this legislation as the most
efficient mode of preventing, with the least inconvenience, the
commission of injuries. The decisions of the highest courts
have affirmed the validity of such legislation. The injury
actually received is often so small that in many cases no effort
would be made by the sufferer to obtain redress, if the private
interest were not supported by the imposition of punitive
damages." And as to the objection that the statute of Mlissouri denied to the defendant the equal protection of the laws,
the court said that it made no discrimination against any railroad company in its requirement, that each company was
subject to the same liabilities, and from each the same security
was exacted by the erection of fences, gates and cattle guards,
when its road passed through, along, or adjoining inclosed or
cultivated fields or uninclosed lands, and that there was no
evasion of the rule of equality where all companies are subjected to the same duties and liabilities under similar circumstances.
In 31issoun Pacqflc Railway 0o. v _Mackey, 127 U S. 205,
a statute of Kansas providing that "every railroad company
organized or doing business in this State shall be liable for all
damages done to any employe of such company in consequence
of any negligence of its agents, or by any mismanagement
of its engineers or other employes, to any person sustaining
such damage," was assailed on the ground that it was in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution in
that it deprived the company of its property without due process of law and denied to it the equal protection of the laws.
In support of the first position the company referred to the
rule of law that prevailed previously in Kansas and some
other States, exempting from liability an employer for injuries
to emploves caused by the incompetency or negligence of a
fellow-servant, and contended that the law of Kansas in
creating on the part of the railroad company a liability in
such cases not previously existing, in the enforcement of which

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. BECKWITH.
Opinion of the Court.

their property might be taken, authorized the taking of property without due process of law, and imposed a special liability
upon railway companies that was not imposed upon other persons, and thus denied to the former the equal protection of
the laws. But the court answered that the law in question
applied only to injuries subsequently committed, and that it
would not be contended that the State could not prescribe the
liabilities under which corporations created by its laws should
conduct their business in the future, where no limitation was
placed upon its power in that respect by their charters, that
whatever hardship or injustice there might be in any law thus
applicable to the future must be remedied by legislative enactment, that the objection, that the railroad company was denied
the equal protection of the laws, rested upon the theory that
legislation special in its character was within the constitutional
inhibition, but that so far from, such being the fact the greater
part of all legislation was special, either in the objects sought
to be attained by it, or in the extent of its application, that
when such legislation applied to particular bodies or associations, imposing upon them additional liabilities, it was not
,open to the objection that it denied to them the equal protection of the laws, if all persons brought under its influence
were treated alike under the same conditions, that the hazardous character of the business of operating a railway called for
special legislation with respect to railroad corporations, having
for its object the protection of their employes as well as the
safety of the public, which was not required by the business
of other corporations not subject to similar dangers to their
employes, and that the legislation in question met a particular
necessity, and all railroad corporations without distinction
were subject to the same liabilities.
From these adjudications it is evident that the Fourteenth
Amendment does not limit the subjects in relation to which
the police power of the State may be exercised for the protection of its citizens. That this power should be applied to railroad companies is reasonable and just. The tremendous force
brought into action in running railway cars renders it absolutely essential that every precaution should be taken against
VOL. Cx=x-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

accident by collision, not only with other trains, but with animals. A collision with animals may be attended with more
serious injury than their destruction, it may derail the cars
and cause the death or serious injury of passengers. Where
these companies have the right to fence in their tracks, and
thus secure their roads from cattle going upon them, it would
seem to be a wise precaution on their part to put up such
guards against accidents at places where cattle are allowed to
roam at large. The statute of Iowa, in fixing an absolute liability upon them for injuries to cattle committed in the operation of their roads by reason of the want of such guards,
would seem to treat this precaution as a duty It is true that,
by the common law, the owner of land was not compelled to
inclose it, so as to prevent the cattle of others from coming
upon it, and it may be that, in the absence of legislation on
the subject, a railway corporation is not required to fence its
railway, the common law as to inclosing one's land having
been established long before railways were known. But the
obligation of the defendant railway company to use reasonable means to keep its track clear, so as to insure safety in the
movement of its trainq, is plainly implied by the statute of
Iowa, which also indicates that the putting up of fences would
be such reasonable means of safety If, therefore, the company omits those means, the omission may well be regarded
as evidence of such culpable negligence as to justify punitive
damages where injury is committed, and if punitive damages
in such cases may be given, the legislature may prescribe the
extent to which juries may go in awarding them.
The law of Iowa under consideration is less open to objection than that of Missouri, which was sustained in the case
cited above. There double damages could be claimed by the
owner whenever his cattle had strayed upon the track of the
railway company for want of fences on its sides, and had been
killed or injured by the railway trains. Here such damages
can be claimed for like injuries to cattle only where the company has received notice and affidavit of the injury committed
thirty days before the commencement of the action, and has
persisted in refusing to pay for the value of the property

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. BECKWITH.

35

Opinion of the Court.

destroyed or the damage caused. There must be not merely
negligence of the company in not providing guards against
accidents of the kind, but also its refusal to respond for the
actual damage suffered. Without the additional amount
allowed there would be few instances of prosecutions of railroad companies where the value of the animals killed, or
injured by them is small, as m this case, the cost of the proceeding would only augment the loss of the injured party
As said m the Missouri case cited "The injury actually
received is often so small that in many cases no effort would
be made by the sufferer to obtain redress, if the private interest were not supported by the imposition of punitive damages." 115 U S. 523.
The legislation in question has been sustained in numerous
instances by the Supreme-Court of Iowa. In TFelsh v Ch icago,
Burlington a'nd Quzncy Railroad Co., 53 Iowa, 632, 634,
which wasan action to recover double the value of a horse
alleged to have been killed by one of the defendant's engines
at a point where it had the right to fence the road, the court
below instructed the jury that it was the duty of the company
to fence its road against live stock running at large at all
points where such right to fence existed, and it was objected
to this instruction that no such duty existed, upon which the
Supreme Court of the State, to which the case was taken,
said "While it is true the statute does not impose an abstract
duty or obligation upon railway companies to fence their
roads, yet as to live stock running at large a failure to fence
fixes an absolute liability for injuries occurring in the operation of the road by reason of the want of such fence. The
corporation owes a duty to the owners of live stock running at
large either to fence its road or to pay for injuries resulting
from the neglect to fence." And in Bennett v The TVabash,
St. Louis and Paice Railway Co., 61 Iowa, 355, 356, the same
court said "We think the only proper construction of the
statute is, that in order to escape liability the company must
not only fence, but keep the road sufficiently fenced, and this
has been more than once ruled." As it is thus the duty of
the railway company to keep its track free from animals, its

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

neglect to do so by adopting the most reasonable means for
that purpose, the fencing of its roadway as indicated by the
statute of Iowa, justly subjects it, as already stated, to pumtive damages, where injuries are committed by reason of such
neglect. The imposition of punitive or exemplary damages
in such cases cannot be opposed as in conflict with the prohibition against the.deprivation of property without due process
of law It is only one mode of imposing a penalty for the
violation of duty, and its propriety and legality have been
recognized, as stated in Day v TMoodworth, 13 How 363, 371,
by repeated judicial decisions for more than a century Its
authorization by the law in question to the extent of doubling
the value of the property destroyed, or of the damage caused,
upon refusal of the railway company, for thirty days after
notice of the injury committed, to pay the actual value of the
property or actual damage, cannot therefore be justly assailed
as infringing upon the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Judgment affirmed.

SHREV-EPORT

v. COLE.

E-,nOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN1ITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No.106. Argued and submitted December 4, 188.- Decided January 7, 1889.

Two "residents of Shreveport, Louisiana," sued in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Louisiana on a contract
of that muniipality made in 1871, alleging, as the ground of Federal
jurisdiction, that the constitution of Louisiana of 1879 had impaired the
obligation of their contract. The municipality answered that it had
been held by all the state courts that the provision of the constitution
referred to did " not apply to contracts entered into prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1879." The Supreme Court of Louisiana
prior to the commencement of this suit had in fact so decided Held,
that this suit was an attempt to evade the discrimination between suits
between citizens of the same State and citizens of different States, established by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that
the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.

