OCTOBER TER-I,

1888.

Syllabus.

In .Factors'insurance Co. v lurffmy,
111 U S. 738, the effect to be given to a sale of property under
an order of the District Court in bankruptcy was in question.
the authority of the court to direct a sale free from encumthe Federal jurisdiction.

brances being denied.

Jenkins v 1atwnal Bank of Chweago,

127 U. S. 484, involved a question as to the authority of the
assignee in bankruptcy to institute a suit touching any property or rights of property vested in him after the expiration of
two years from the time when the cause of action accrued.
The decision of the state court as to what should be deemed
a fraudulent conveyance does not present any Federal question,
nor does the application by the court of the evidence in reachmrg that decision raise one.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
Tie wrdt of error must consequently be dismtssed, and zt is
so ordered.

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, EASTERN DIVISION.
No. 169. Argued January 21, 22, 1889.-Decided March o, 1889.

It is not within the general province of a master in chancery to pass upon
all the issues in a cause in equity nor is it competent for the court to
refer the entire decision of a case to him without consent of the parties.
When the parties consent to the reference of a case to a master or other
officer to hear and decide all the issues therein, both of fact and of law,
and such reference is entered as a rule of court, it is a submission of the
controversy to a special tribunal, selected by the parties, to be governed
in its conduct by the ordinary rules applicable to the administration of
justice in tribunals established by law; and its determinations are not
subject to be set aside and disregarded at the discretioh of the court.
In practice it is not usual for the court to reject the report of a master,
with his findings upon the matters referred to him, unless exceptions are
taken to them, and brought to its attention, and unless, upon examination, the findings are found unsupported or essentially defective.
The law exacts good faith and fair dealing between partners, to the exclusion of all arrangements which can possibly affect injuriously the profits
of the concern.

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Statement of the Case.
If one partner is the active agent of the firm, and as such receives a salary,
beyond what comes to him from his interest as partner, he is clothed with
a double trust in his relations with the other partner which imposes upon
him the utmost good faith in his dealings; and if he obtains anything to
his own benefit in disregard of that trust, a court of equity will subject
it to tie benefit of the partnership.
When a letter is mailed, addressed to a person at his post-office address,
the presumption is that he receives it.

Ix EQUITY. The court, in its opinion, made the followino
statement of the case
On the 27th of April, 1878, the complainant, Kimberly, and
the defendant, Hannah Mv.Arms, executed the following arti-

cles of agreement
"Articles of agreement made and concluded this 27th day
of April, A.D. 1878, by and between Hannah A. Arms, of
Youngstown, Mahoning County and State of Ohio, party of
the first part, and Peter L. Kimberly, of Sharon, Mercer
County and State of Pennsylvania, of the other part, witnesseth, That the said parties have agreed, and by these presents
do agree, to associate themselves in the art, trade and business
of leasing, prospecting, buying, mining, working and operating and dealing in lead, iron, silver, gold and other minerals,
together with the lands on which the same may be located,
and to do and perform all things belonging to said trade or
business, which said copartnership shall commence on the 27th
day of April, A.D. 1878, and continue until dissolved by either
or both of said parties. And to that end and purpose said
Hannah M. Arms has this day paid in as capital stock six
thousand dollars, and the said Peter L. Kimberly has paid in
as capital stock six thousand dollars, which said twelve thousand dollars shall be used, laid out and employed in common
between them for their mutual advantage. It is also agreed
that all gains, profits and increase as shall arise by reason of
said joint business shall be divided equally, share and share
alike, between said parties, and that all losses that shall happen
to said joint business shall be shared and borne equally between
said parties alike.
"That said business shall be carried on under the name and
VOL. cxxix-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

style of Arms & Kimberly, Charles D. Arms, agent. That
Charles D Arms shall act as agent for said firm, and receive in
compensation for his services the sum of twenty-five hundred
dollars per annum, or at that rate, while in their employ That
said business shall be carried on in the Territories or States in
the United States, or some of them.
"Witness our hands and seals the day and year aforesaid, at
Youngstown, 0.
"P L. KnumERLY.
[SEAL.]

"HAx M. Apms.

EsA.."

Hannah M. Arms was the wife of the defendant Charles D.
Arms, and the instrument, though signed by her, was intended
to express an agreement on his part, his name not being used
because at the time he was financially embarrassed. She was
always treated as a mere nominal party, and he was treated
as the real party On the 10th of May following, Kimberly,
having become embarrassed financially, assigned his interest
in the partnership thus formed to Edwin M. Ohl. This assignment was made to prevent any interruption in the business of
the partnership, Arms having already gone to Arizona in its
prosecution. Kimberly took at the time from Ohl a declaration showing that the latter had no personal interest in the
partnership, or in the properties that had been or might be
acquired by it, but held the interest assigned to him as the
trustee of Kimberly In all subsequent proceedings Kimberlv
and Charles D. Arms considered and treated each other as the
real and sole parties in the partnership, and- as solely interested in the properties which it acquired.
Under this contract, and about the first of May following,
Arms went to Arizona on the business of the firm, taking with
him all its capital, viz., $12,000, to use in its business and to
pay his expenses and salary Whilst there he had his headquarters at Tucson, the capital of the Territory, where he
became acquainted with two persons by the name of Witherell and Gage, who were largely interested in property known
as the Grand Central Mine, wnch was reputed to be of great
value, and was owned by the Grand Central Mining Company

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Statement of the Case.

of Arizona, a corporation created under the laws of Missouri.
From them Arms learned of the reputed value of the property,
and very naturally became desirous of examining it, and, if
found to be as valuable as reported, to acquire an interest in
it. Accordingly, in November following, in company with
Witherell and two other other persons by the names of Whiteside and Austin, who were also interested in the mine, he went
to see the property, travelling a distance of about two hundred
miles, a portion of the way through the Apache territory,
where they had an escort of soldiers. The expenses attending
this visit were large and were borne by Arms and Kimberly
Arms examined the property and found good ore in it. He
was informed by one of his companions, Whiteside, that he
had in a crude way reduced four tons of ore and obtained $900
in silver. Soon afterwards Arms returned to Ohio, met Kimberly, and reported that he had expended all the moneys of
the firm except three twenty-dollar gold pieces. It does not
appear that any further account of. his expenditure of the
moneys was ever rendered.
On the 24th of March, 1879, Arms and Kimberly, after
consultation, concluded that it was advisable to increase the
capital of their firm to $25,000, and accordingly did so,
indorsing upon the original articles an agreement to that
effect, signed H. If. Arms by C. D. Arms, and E. N. Ohl,
and, pursuant to it, each party paid $6500, Kimberly paying
his share to Arms. With this increased capital Arms returned
to Arizona, leaving about the first of April, and was there
until some time in the following July
Other sums were
advanced by Kimberly in the business of the firm as they
were from time to time needed. Whilst in the Territory,
Arms again made a visit to the Grand Central Mine in company with a mining expert whom he had employed. The
expenses of the trip and for the services of the expert were
charged to the firm and paid. It is not necessary to state
here the different steps taken by Arms which resulted in his
acquiring an interest in the Grand Central Mine, by the
purchase of a large number of shares of the company owning
it with moneys borrowed of one N. K. Fairbank, of Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

for the facts respecting this transaction are detailed in the
findings of the master to whom the case was referred, which
are hereafter given. The capital of the firm and other sums
advanced by Kimberly were invested in various mining properties in Arizona and Colorado, the title of some of which
was taken in his name, and of some in the name of Ohl, but
all claims arising out of them have been adjusted and settled
between the partners.
The only remaining subject of controversy between them
grows out of the interest which Arms acquired in the stock of
the Grand Central Mining Company, Kimberly claiming that
such interest belonged to the firm, and consequently that an
undivided half thereof inured to him, and Arms claiming
that the interest was acquired by him in his own right and
belonged to him individually The present suit is brought to
determine this disputed matter, the complainant, Kimberly,
asking for an adjudication in his favor and an accounting by
Arms for the stock held by him in the Grand Central Mining
Company, and for certain shares in the New York Grape
Sugar Company, which he had acquired by a sale of some
shares of the mining company The bill contains all the averments necessary to present the claim of Kimberly, and the
answer of Arms contains all the averments necessary to disclose his defence. The answers of the other defendants are
not material upon the matters in controversy Replications
to the answers being filed, testimony was taken for some time,
when, on the 16th of May, 1884, the parties consented that
the case should be referred to a master "to hear the evidence and decide all the issues" between them, and, upon
such agreement and at the request of the parties, the court on
that day entered the following order
"By consent and request of all the parties herein, it is
ordered by the court that Hon. Richard D. Harrison be and is
hereby appointed a special master herein to hear the evidence
and decide all the issues between the parties and make his
report to this court, separately stating his findings of law and
fact, together with all the evidence introduced before him,
which evidence shall thereby become part of the report, which

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Statement of the Case.

report shall be subject to like exceptions as other reports of
masters.
"It is further ordered by like consent and request that
said master shall proceed upon twenty days' notice from either
party to hear and determine said issues, and with full power
and authority to grant such adjournments, amendments, exceptions, and motions as might be granted by the court if the
trial was by the court."
Shortly after this order was made a hearing was commenced
before the master, and two weeks were occupied m taking testimony and in the arguments of counsel. After holding the
case under consideration until April 17, 1885, a period of eleven
months, the master made his report, of which the following
are the most important parts for the decision of the case, in
addition to the facts stated above
"The report of Richard A. Harrison, special master in chancery, to whom this cause stands referred for the purpose of
hearing the evidence and determining all the issues between
the parties, and making his report to said court, separately
stating his findings of law and fact, together with all the evidence introduced before him, pursuant to an interlocutory
decree, rendered at April Term, A.D. 1884.
"Having heard the evidence in the presence of the parties
and their counsel, and the arguments of counsel for the
parties, in the city of Cleveland, my findings of fact, from
such evidence, upon all the issues between the parties, are as
follows "

[The first six findings set forth substantially the facts as to
the formation of the partnership between Arms and Kimberly,
its object, the original capital put in, and its subsequent
increase, the visit of Arms to Arizona on its business, and
the purchase of mining properties there, which are narrated
above.]
"7. In the years 1878 and 1879, prior to October, 1879, said
Charles D. Arms, while acting as the agent of said partnership, and. as a partner of said Kimberly, and while receiving a
salary from said partnership, and at the expense of said partnership, visited the Tombstone District of Arizona, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

mining claim then known as the ' Grand Central Mine,' which
is in said district, and examined the same, and thus acquired a
knowledge of the property
"8. In the fall of 1879 the Grand Central Mining Company
of Arizona, a Missouri corporation, having previously been
organized with a capital stock of 800 shares of the par value
of $500 per share, representing the said property known
as the Grand Central Mine, E. B. Gage and W F Witherell, who were the holders of a large portion of said capital
stock, proposed to sell a portion of the stock so held by
them to said Charles D. Arms, whereupon Arms in October,
1879, came to Sharon, Pennsylvania, where said Kimberly resided, and there met said Kimberly, whereupon it was agreed
between them that said Arms should go to Chicago and there
arrange with N. K. Fairbank, if possible, to furnish the money
to purchase stock in said Grand Central M ining Company of
Arizona. Whereupon said Arms did go to Chicago, and did
arrange with said Fairbank to furnish $87,500 for the purchase
of said stock, and then returned to Youngstown, Ohio, and there
again met said Kimberly and informed him of the arrangement
he had made with said Fairbank, whereupon it was further
agreed between said Arms and Kimberly that if, when Arms
got back to Arizona and required the money to purchase said
stock, said Fairbank should fail to furnish it, then said Kimberly, upon being notified of Fairbank's failure or refusal to
furnish the money, would furnish at least $37,500 for that
purpose.
"9. Immediately after making the arrangement last aforesaid, said Arms returned to Arizona, and there, on the 13th
of November, 1879, obtained, in writing, from said Gage and
Witherell, an option to purchase from them 225 shares of
said stock at the price of $87,500 in four months from said
date. Said Gage and Witherell also agreed to give said
Arms forty additional shares of stock, in case he should finally
elect to purchase said 225 shares under said option, and, as
a part of said transaction, said Witherell also purchased of
said Arms the interest of said Arms and Kimberly in certain
mining properties known as the Mexican mine, at and for

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Statement of the Case.

the price of $4500. Afterwards, and prior to March 4th, 1880,
said Arms elected to purchase said stock under said option,
and, of said 225 shares,
He received
210 shares
Also said (bonus)
40
"
51 "
He also purchased of George P Reed
And of E. B. Gage
23
"
Making in all acqmred by said Arms
324 "
"10. For the purchase of 324 shares, and for assessments
upon said stock to pay the expenses of developing said mine and
for machinery, said Fairbank advanced to said Arms various
sums of money, from time to time, which sums, including interest thereon up to October 13, 1880, aggregated $162,498.08.
On or about the 13th of October, 1880, said Arms and Fairbank
made a settlement of the moneys so advanced by said Fairbank and of the stock so acquired by said Arms, and said
Fairbank received and accepted from said Arms 184 shares
of said 324 shares of stock, in full payment and satisfaction
of the moneys so advanced by him, leaving said Arms the
holder of 140 shares of said stock.
"11. Afterwards, to wit, on or about the
day of
,1881, the Grand Central Mining Company, an Ohio
corporation, and a defendant in this'suit, was formed and
organized, with a capital stock of 100,000 shares of the par
value of $100 per share, and said Arms converted said 140
shares of said Missouri corporation into 17,500 shares of said
Ohio corporation.
"12. On the 4th of March, 1880, the partnership between
said Arms and Kimberly was, by mutual consent, dissolved by
them, Arms then claiming that said interest in said Grand
Central Mining Company was his own individual property,
which claim said Kimberly then disputed, and insisted that
said interest belonged to said Arms and himself jointly, in
equal proportions. On the 5th of March, 1880, said Edwin
N. Ohl signed and delivered to said Arms an instrument
of writing whereby he (said Ohl) agreed to convey, upon
demand, the property held by him for said firm to said Arms

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

and Kimberly, and said Arms, at the same time, signed and
delivered to said Ohl an instrument of writing, whereby he
(said Arms) agreed to convey to said Kimberly, upon demand,
all the undivided one half interest, or interests, which he, (said
Arms,) had in mining lands and claims, or stocks in mining
interests or claims, in the Territory of Arizona, except his
interest in what was known as the Grand Central Mining
Company, which said interest, it was provided in said instrument, should belong to the said Charles D. Arms absolutely
"13. Said last-mentioned instrument of writing was not
shown to said Kimberly, and he had no knowledge of its provisions until on or about theday of July, 1880, when,
upon seeing and examining the same for the first time, and
after consultation with legal counsel, he, said Kimberly, on
the 22d of July, 1880, wrote, addressed and mailed to said
Arms, at Youngstown, Ohio, his post-office address, a letter
notifying him that he, said Kimberly, would not consent that
said Arms should hold said interest in said Grand Central
Mining Company as his own property, and insisting that
said interest belonged to them jointly, and that he, Kimberly,
would have his half of it if he was compelled to get it at the
end of a law suit. The evidence does not prove that Arms
actually received said letter, -and I therefore do not find he
received it. Said Kimberly did not know that said firstmentioned instrument was executed until after July, 1880.
"14. On the day of August, 1881, said Edwin N. Ohl
reconveyed all of his interest in said business to said Peter L.
Kimberly
"15. On the 2nd day of September, 1881, said Kimberly, by
his attorney, requested of said Charles D. Arms, who was the
president of said Grand Central Mining Company, permission
to examine the records and books of said company, and also
that said Arms should account with him, said Kimberly, for
all the business that he, said Arms, had done since he and said
Kimberly had gone into the mining business, all of which said
Arms refused to do."
[The 16th and 17th findings show that out of the 11,500
shares of stock of the Grand Central Mining Company, Arms,

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Statement of the Case.

sold to different parties, in 1881 and 1882, 4800 shares, receiving therefor in cash $68,900 and from Jebb and Bond 625
shares of stock m the New York Grape Sugar Company,
and during those years received cash dividends on his shares
amounting to $81,775.]
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact my findings of law
are as follows
"1. That the 12,700 shares of stock in the Grand Central
iMining Company standing in the name of said Charles D. Arms
on the 14th of August, 1882, and said 625 shares of stock m
the :New York Grape Sugar Company, received by said
Charles D. Arms from said William T. Jebb and H. G. Bond,
belong to said copartnership of Arms & Kimberly, composcd
of said Charles D. Arms and Peter L. Kimberly, and that
said Peter L. Kimberly is entitled to have one half of said
12,700 shares of stock and one half of said 625 shares of stock
transferred to him.
"12. That the several sums of money received by said
Charles D. Arms, from the sales made by him of stock in the
Grand Central Mining Company, as well as the several sums
of money received by hun as dividends on stock held by him
in said company, also belong to said copartnership of Arms &
Kimberly, composed as aforesaid of said Charles D. Arms and
Peter L. Kimberly, and that said Charles D. Arms is liable to
said Peter L. Kimberly for one half of said several sums of
money, together with interest on such one half, at the rate of
six per cent per annum from the respective dates when said
moneys were received by said Charles D. Arms."
Then follows a statement showing the amount due from
Charles D. Arms to Peter L. Kimberly, on account of moneys
thus received by Arms, and also a statement of the depositions
offered to the master by the respective parties, which were returned with his report to the court. The report concludes as
follows
"The foregoing is all the evidence offered by either party
On the hearing, counsel for the respective parties agreed that
all the evidence so offered, on either side, should be read, sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ject to the objections by either party on the ground of incom.
petency or irrelevancy, and the same was read accordingly
"Respectfully submitted.
"R. A. HARRISON, .pecial 3faster"
Several exceptions were taken by the defendants to the
report, amounting in substance to this, that the findings of
fact were not supported by the evidence, and that the findings of law were not warranted by the law as applied to the
evidence.
On the hearing the court treated the report as merely presenting the testimony in the case, holding that the findings of
the master were not entitled to consideration as presumptively
correct, so as to throw the burden of proof on the excepting
parties. The language of the presiding justice on this head
was as follows.
"A question is made as to the legal effect to be given to
the findings of fact reported by the special master, it being
claimed by counsel for complainant that the presumption in
favor of their correctness throws upon the defendants excepting the burden of proof, which otherwise would have to be
borne by the complainant. Undoubtedly, in equity causes,
where a particular matter, properly referable to a master, has
been reported on, the burden is upon the party excepting;
but that rule is not applicable to the present case, where the
whole cause has been referred, a practice not .borrowed from
the Code of Procedure of the State, and not sanctioned by the
rules prescribed for the courts of the United States sitting in
equity The cause comes before me, as in other cases, for final
hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, and, while not conceding to the report of the special master the legal effect claimed
for it, it has, nevertheless, in forming the conclusions reached
in this decision, had accorded to it that weight which is due
to the careful and well-considered opinion of a lawyer chosen
by the parties to act as judge, with every qualification to justify the selection."
The court held that the purchase by the defendant, Charles
D. Arms, of the shares in the Grand Central Mining Company

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Opinion of the Court.

was made on his individual account, and not for the firm of
Arms & Kimberly, and therefore that the equity of the case
was with the defendants. It accordingly entered a decree
sustaining the exceptions to the master's report, and setting
aside the report and findings and dismissing the bill. The
case is here on appeal from this decree.
XrM Samuel G-rzfth and MX" A. W 7rones for appellant.
-Mr Tkornas WF Sanderson and Xr Stevenson Burke for
appellees. -r IW B. Saunderswas with them on the brief.
Mm. JusTIcE. FrL-,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The first question to be considered on the appeal relates to
the effect to be given to the findings of fact and of law contained in the report of the special master. The court below
refused to treat them as presumptively correct, so as to impose
upon the excepting parties the burden of showing error in
them. It considered the case as presented on the pleadings
and proofs, without reference to the report, to which there was
accorded only the weight due to the careful and well considered opinion of a lawyer chosen by the parties to act as a
judge, with qualifications to justify the selection. What that
weight was, and in what appreciable way it could affect the
judgment of the court, does not appear.
A master in chancery is an officer appointed by the court
to assist it in various proceedings incidental to the progress
of a cause before it, and is usually employed to take and state
accounts, to take and report testimony, and to perform such
duties as require computation of interest, the value of annuities,
the amount of damages in particular cases, the auditing and
ascertaining of liens upon property involved, and similar services. The information which he may communicate by his
findings in such cases, upon the evidence presented to him, is
merely advisory to the court, which it may accept and act
upon or disregard in whole or in part, according to its own
judgment as to the weight of the evidence. Basey v Gallagher,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

20 Wall. 670, 680; Quznby v Conlan, 104 U S. 420, 424. In
practice it is not usual for the court to reject the report of
a master, with his findings upon the matter referred to him,
unless exceptions are taken to them and brought to its attention, and, upon examination, the findings are found unsupported or defective in some essential particular. Medsker v
Bonebrake, 108 U. S. 66, Tlghrman v Proctor,125 U. S. 136,
149, Callaghan v JMyers, 128 U. S. 617, 666. It is not within
the general province of a master to pass upon all the issues in
an equity case, nor is it competent for the court to refer the
entire decision of a case to him without the consent of the parties. It cannot, of its own motion, or upon the request of one
party, abdicate its duty to determine by its own judgment the
controversy presented, and devolve that duty upon any of its
officers. But when the parties consent to the reference of a
case to a master or other officer to hear and decide all the
issues therein, and report his findings, both of fact and of law,
and such reference is entered as a rule of the court, the master
is clothed with very different powers from those which he
exercises upon ordinary references, without such consent, and
his determinations are not subject to be set aside and disregarded at the mere discretion of the court. A reference by
consent of parties, of an entire case for the determinatzon of
all its issues, though not strictly a submission of the controversy to arbitration -a
proceeding which is governed by
special rules -is a submission of the controversy to a tribunal
of the parties' own selection, to be governed in its conduct by
the ordinary rules applicable to the administration of justice
in tribunals established by law Its findings, like those of an
independent tribunal, are to be taken as presumptively correct,
subject, indeed, to be reviewed under the reservation contained
in the consent and order of the court, when there has been
manifest error in the consideration given to the evidence, or
in the application of the law, but not otherwise.
The reference of a whole case to a master, as here, has
become in late years a matter of more common occurrence
than formerly, though it has always been within the power of
a court of chancery with the consent of parties, to order such

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Opinion of the Court.

a reference. .laggett v Welsh, 1 Sim. 134, Dowse v Coxe, 3
Bing. 20, Pr or v .Tembrow, 8 M. & W 873. The power is
incident to all courts of superior jurisdiction. .ewcomb v
Tood, 97 U. S. 581, 583. By statute in nearly every State,
provision has been made for such references of controversies at
law And there is nothing in the nature of the proceeding, or
in the organization of a court of equity, which should preclude
a resort to it in controversies involving equitable considerations.
By the consent in the case at bar it was intended that the
master should exercise power beyond that of a reporter of the
If there had been such a limitation of his autestimony
thority, there would have been no purpose in adding to his
power "to hear the evidence" the power to "decide all the
issues between the parties and make his report to the court,
separately stating his findings of law and of fact" together
with the evidence. To disregard the findings and treat the
report as a mere presentation of the testimony is to defeat,
as we conceive, the purpose of the reference and disregard
the express stipulation of the parties. We are, therefore, constrained to hold that the learned court below failed to give
to the findings of the master the weight to which they were
entitled, and that they should have been treated as so far correct and binding as not to be disturbed, unless clearly in conflict with the weight of the evidence upon which they were
made. That there was no such conflict is manifest. Upon
nearly every important particular relating to the partnership
between Arms and Kimberly, and its business, there is hardly
any discrepancy in the testimonv of the parties. It is only as
to the circumstances under which Arms obtained his loan from
Fairbank, with which he purchased the shares in the Grand
Central Mining Company, that there is any serious dispute,
and as that transaction is viewed -as the act of a partner
or agent of the firm, or as the act of the individual without
regard to such partnership -the conclusion is reached as to
his liability to account for them. If the findings are taken as
correct-there not being sufficient evidence to justify a disregard of them-there is an end to the controversy, for in
accordance with them the firm had an interest in the shares

OCTOBER TERMf, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

purchased, and the complainant an equitable right to his proportion upon its dissolution.
But, independently of the findings, the facts, which are
undisputed or sustained by a great preponderance of evidence,
must, we think, lead to the same conclusion. As already
stated, Arms made two visits to Arizona on the business of
the partnership, which consisted principally in the purchase
and sale of mining properties, and whilst there on both occasions he visited and examined the Grand Central Mine, taking
long trips for that purpose, accompanied on one of them by an
experienced expert, and thus ascertained the great value of the
property The expenses incurred for himself on both trips
and for the expert were charged to and paid by the firm. On
one of these visits he met Gage and Witherell, who held certain shares in the company owning that mine, which they
desired to sell. Upon his return north, in October, 1879, he
informed Kimberly of the shares thus held, and advised their
purchase. How the necessary means for that purpose could
be raised was then discussed between them, Kimberly expressing a willingness to act upon the judgment of Arms and firnish his portion of the money Arms mentioned that he had
a friend in Chicago by the name of Fairbank, a man of great
wealth, whom he thought he could interest in the purchase
After this consultation
and induce to advance the money
Arms went to Chicago and there succeeded in making an
arrangement with Fairbank, by which the latter was to fur
nish the money to purchase the shares held by Gage and
Witherell. The arrangement provided that from the moneys
first received from the sale or operation of the mine Fairbank
should be reimbursed his advances, and that the sum or interest remaining should be equally divided, but in case the investment proved a failure, he should be paid one half of his
advances. Arms then returned to Youngstown, in Ohio, and,
October 13, telegraphed Kimberly, who was at Sharon, iT
Pennsylvania, inquiring where he could meet him. Kimberly
replied that he would leave for Youngstown that afternoon,
and did so, joining Arms at that place. Gage had previouslv
been there, and Kimberly, on his arrival, immediately inquired

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Opinion of the Court.

for him, evidently desirous of seeing him respecting the proposed purchase of shares held by him and Witherell, for it is
not suggested that Gage had any other business than the sale
of the shares, with either member of the firm. Arms told
Kimberly that Gage had left that morning or that day, and
then informed him of the arrangement with Fairbank, including the agreement to refund one half the advances in case the
investment proved a failure. To this arrangement Kimberly
assented. Arms further said that there might be some misunderstanding with Fairbank, and he wished to know if, in
that event, Kimberly would raise the necessary funds to make
the purchase, mentioning from forty to fifty thousand dollars.
Kimberly assured him that he would if Arms thought it advisable, that is, that the property was worth the money Soon
afterwards Arms went to Arizona and purchased from Gage and
Witherell 225 shares m the Grand Central -Mining Company
They also gave him a bonus of forty additional shares, which
they had agreed to do in case the purchase was made. Arms also
effected a purchase of '74 shares from other parties. All these
purchases were made whilst the partnership between Arms and
Kimberly continued as originally formed, changed only by the
increase in its capital. The partnership was not dissolved until
March 4, 1880. Under these circumstances, the purchase must
be deemed to have been made in the interest of the partnership.
One member of a partnership in a particular business cannot
secretly engage on his own account in such business and keep
his earnings to himself. Such conduct would inevitably lead
to gross abuses, tempting one partner to apply to his own use
profitable adventures and to turn over to the firm those which
were failures. The law exacts good faith and fair dealing
between partners, to the exclusion of all arrangements which
could possibly affect injuriously the profits of the concern.
Arms was not merely a partner of Kimberly, he was the agent
of the firm for the transaction of its business, and as such was
allowed a salary beyond the interest coming to him as partner.
He therefore stood in his relation to Kimberly clothed in some
respects with a double trust, both of which imposed upon him
the utmost good faith in his dealings, so that he might never

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sink the interest of the firm into that of himself alone. Whatever he may have obtained in disregard of such trust, a court
of equity will lay hold of and subject to the benefit of the
partnership. Neither by open fraud nor concealed deception,
nor by any contrivance masking his actual relations to the
firm, can a member of it, or an agent of it, be permitted to
hold to his own use acquisitions made in disregard of those
relations, either as partner or agent. In this statement of
their duties we are repeating doctrines of common knowledge,
which will be found fully set forth and illustrated in approved
treatises on partnerships and agency and in the adjudications
of the courts. Thus, in MVitckell v Reed, 61 N. Y 123, to
cite one instance, the Court of Appeals of New York held that
one member of a partnership could not, during its existence,
without the knowledge of his copartners, take a renewal of a
lease for his own benefit of premises leased by the firm, upon
which it had made valuable improvements and enhanced their
rental value, although the term of the renewed lease did not
begin until the termiiation of the partnership. And in giving
its decision, the court said "The relation of partners with
each other is one of trust and confidence. Each is general
agent of the firm and is bound to act in entire good faith to
the other. The functions, rights and duties of partners in a
great measure comprehend those both of trustees and agents,
and the general rules of law applicable to such characters are
applicable to them. Neither partner can, in the business and
affairs of the firm, clandestinely stipulate for a private advantage to himself, he can neither sell to nor buy from the firm
at a concealed profit for himself. Every advantage which he
can obtain in the business of the firm must inure to the benefit
of the firm. These principles are elementary"
See Story on
Part., §§ 174-178, Story on Agency, § 211.
We do not attach any weight. as against the conclusions
reached, to the fact that on the 5th of March, 1880, the day
following the dissolution of the partnership, in an instrument
executed by Arms, agreeing to convey to Kimberly on demand, the undivided one half interest which he, Arms, had
in mining lands or claims, or stocks in mining interests, or

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
Opinion of the Court.

claims in the Territory 6f Arizona, purchased or located by him
prior to January 1st, 18803 he excepted the interest claimed
by him in the Grand Central Mining Company, stating that
said interest should belong to him absolutely That instrument was delivered by Arms to Ohl, who kept it m his pos-session until some time in the following July It was not
shown to Kimberly, nor had he had any knowledge of it
until then. So soon as he saw it, after consultation with
counsel, he wrote and mailed to Arms a letter under date of
July 22, 1880, notifying him that he would not consent to his
holding the interest m the Grand Central Mining Company
as his own property, and stating that the said interest belonged
to them jointly, and that he, Kimberly, would have half of it if
he was compelled to obtain it by legal proceedings. Though it
is not shown that Arms received the letter, yet, as it was mailed
to his post-office address in Youngstown, Ohio, the presumption is that he did receive it. At any rate, Kimberly never
in any way assented to the correctness of the statement in the
instrument as to Anus' alleged sole interest in the Grand Central Mining Company, but on the contrary repudiated it so
soon as it was brought to his knowledge.
The fact that the transaction with Fairbank and the purchase of the shares were made in the name of Arms alone,
does not affect the question. All the purchases for Arms and
Kimberly were made in his name alone or in that of Ohl.
Not one was made in the firm name of Arms & Kimberly
Nor does it make any difference that no money was advanced
by Kimberly for the purchase. None was advanced by Arms;
the money was raised by a loan which Arms negotiated upon
conditions that proved profitable to the lender as well as to
himself, and of course to his partner.
The case of Bissell v Foss, 114 U S. 252, does not seem to
us to have any bearing on the subject under consideration.
There the question was whether a member of a mining partnership, that is, a partnership formed for the development and
working of a nne, could acquire the shares of an associate
without the knowledge of the other associates and hold them
on his own account, and the court held that it was lawful for
VOL. cxxix-34

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

him to do so. Mining partnerships or associations, whilst
governed by many rules relating to ordinary partnerships,
have some rules peculiar to themselves.
One of such rules
is that a member may convey his interest or shares to another
person without dissolving the partnership, and thus bring into
it a new member without the consent of his associates, and
may purchase interests in the same or in other mines for his
own benefit without being required to account to the partnership for the property Kahn v Smeltng Co., 102 U S. 641.
The partnership between Arms and Kimberly was not a
mining partnership, in the proper sense of that term. It was
not a partnership for developing and working mines, but for
the purchase and sale of minerals and mining lands, and in
that respect was subject to the rules governing ordinary
trading or commercial partnerships. It can no more be called
a mining partnership than a partnership for the purchase of
the products of a farm and the lands upon which those products are raised, can be called a partnership to farm the
lands.
It follows from the views expressed that the decree of the
court below must be
Peversed, and the clause remanded with directions to confirm
the report of the &pecialmaster, and to take further proceedings not inconsistent with thts op'nton.

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING
APPEAL FROM

COMPAT Y

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 65. Argued January 25, 1889.-

Decided March 5, 1889.

Claims 1 and 2 of letters patent No. 178,463, granted June 6, 1876, to George
M. Peters, for an improvement in tools for attaching sheet-metal moldings, on an application filed March 7, 1876, namely, "1. A sheath for
applying metallic moldings, said sheath being furnished with a stop for

advancing the molding, all substantially as and for the purpose specified,

