UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
Statement of the Case.

the stockholders in proportion to the amount of stock held by
them respectively
The plaintiff was present and voted m
favor of the division. Upon these facts it was held that the
bill could not be sustained, although upon its filing the plaintiff was the absolute owner of the eight shares, and that he
could not make the act which he had favored and voted for a
ground for charging the stockholders with a personal liability
for a debt due from the corporation to himself.
The indorsement of the note of the Black River Lumber
Company for $10,000, by Ketchum in the firm name of
Ketchum & Waterman, was made by way of security to the
bank for its loan to that company The transaction had no
connection with the business of the firm. It was a guarantee
of another's obligation which no member of the firm had any
authority to give. It was not shown, moreover, that the indorsement was made with the consent or even knowledge of
Waterman. His estate, therefore, cannot be held liable upon
the note.
Deoree cffimed.

UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 123. Argued December 12, 1888.-Decided February 4, 1889.

In an action against the sureties on a contractor's bond to the United States
to recover damages suffered by reason of the nonfulffiment of the contract, he burden of proof is on the United States to show a demand upon
the contractor for performance, and his failure and refusal to perform,
and a statement of such nonperformance, demand, failure and refusal,
made by an officer of the government in the line of his official duty in
reporting them to his official superior, is not legal evidence of any of
those facts.

AT LAW, Ol a contract. Judgment for defendants. Plaintiffs sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opimon.

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Afbr Asststant Attorney General _H'aury for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
Mn. JUSTIE L.mAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 17th of November, 1883, the plaintiffs in error
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas against the defendants in error,
Dennis Corwin and John Cardwell, as sureties in two bonds,
one in the penal sum of $3000, and the other, $2150, given by
one Edwin P Phillips, to secure the faithful performance
of two contracts, dated May 20, 1881, between Phillips and
these plaintiffs. Phillips being without the jurisdiction of that
court, was not sued. By one of these contracts Phillips agreed
to furnish to the quartermaster's department, United States
army, at the military station of San Antonio, Texas, "such
quantity as may be required, not exceeding in all 1,000,000
pounds, of good merchantable oats," at a stipulated price,
"the said oats to be furnished and delivered as may be required for the wants of the said station, between the 1st day
of July, 1881, and the 13th day of July, 1882, m such quantities and at such times as the receiving officer may require,"
and by the second contract he agreed to furnish to the same
authorities, at the same place, such quantity as may be required,
not exceeding in all 1,000,000 pounds, of good merchantable
corn, at a stipulated price, between July 1, 1881, and June 30,
1882, upon like terms, as to quantity and time of delivery, as
in the case of the oats.
The petition, after setting out the material parts of both of
these contracts, and also of the bonds, alleged that Phillips
"wholly failed, refused and neglected to carry out any one or
all of his stipulations in said agreements;" that, as a result
of such failure on his part, the plaintiffs were compelled to,
and did, go into the open market and purchase large amounts
of both kinds of grain at a much higher price than was stipulated in said contracts, and that plaintiffs were thus subjected
to a loss of $11,564.55, for which sum, or so much thereof as

UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

did not exceed the amounts named as penalties in the bonds,
together with interest and costs, etc., they prayed judgment.
Each of the defendants below demurred to the petition, and.
at the same time, traversed its allegations.
August 21, 1884, a formal stipulation was filed, waiving a
jury and submitting all matters of law and fact to the court.
On the following day an amendment to the petition was filed,
alleging that -on the 8th day of July, 1881, demand was made
on Phillips, under the contract, for the delivery of 150,000
pounds of corn and a like quantity of oats. Issue being joined,
the United States introduced then .evidence, which was wholly
documentary, and consisted of transcripts of various original
papers deposited in the Treasury Department, and which, it
was claimed, was relevant to the case. The defendants in error
offered no evidence at all. On the 3d of September, 1885, the
court overruled the demurrers to the petition, and upon consideration of the case upon its merits rendered judgment in
favor of the defendants in error, upon the ground that, under
the contracts sued on, a demand upon Phillips for their performance was a condition precedent to the right of action on
the bonds, and that there had been no legal evidence submitted
showing that any demand ever had been made. From this
judgment the United States sued out the writ of error which
brings the case here.
The burden of proof was upon the United States to show
that a demand had been made upon Phillips for the performance of each of his said agreements, and to show his failure
and refusal to so perform them.
The evidence submitted by the United States to establish
this demand and refusal, consisted of several letters, of different dates, written by the quartermaster in charge of the depot
at San Antonio to the Chief Quartermaster of the Department
of Texas, for authority to purchase certain stated amounts of
oats in open market, because (as was alleged therein) Phillips
had failed to make deliveries under his contract, all of which
letters were referred by the last-named officer to the Adjutant General, with a recommendation that such authority be
granted. The Adjutant General approved these requests, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the purchases were accordingly made. These letters were substantially alike, differing only as to dates and amounts of oats
desired, one of which, including indorsements, is as follows:
"Office Depot Quartermaster, I. S. Army,
"San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 2d, 1881.
"Chief Quartermaster, Department of Texas,
"San Antonio.
to purchase 40,000
request
authority
"Sir- I respectfully
Mr. E. P Phillips,
the
contractor,
oats,
in
open
market,
lbs. of
having failed to make deliveries under his contract.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

"L. E.

CAMPBELL,

"Capt. & A. Q. 731., U S. A., Depot Q'r M'r."
(First indorsement.)
"lt'dq'rs, Dep't of Texas,
"Office of Chief Quartermaster,
"San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 2d, 1881.
"Respectfully referred to the Adj't General, Department of
Texas, recommending approval of this request in accordance
with article 1 of the contract. 7Mr. Phillips, after having had
due notice by requisition from the depot quartermaster to furnish certain quantities of grain, has so far failed to make any
delivery, and the amount of grain for which authority is here
requested to purchase in open market is absolutely needed for
issue to the public and private animals pertaining to this station, and the San Antonio depot, and will last about ten days.

"(Sig'd)

"Wm. B.

HUGHES,

"Major & Chief Q'r'master."

(Second indorsement.)
"Headquarters Department of Texas,
"San Antonio, Aug. 3, 1881.
"Respectfully returned by the Commanding General to the
Chief Quartermaster of the department approved.
" (S'g'd)
"THnOMAs 1. VINCENT,
"Adjutant General."

UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
Opilon of the Court.

(Third indorsement.)
"Headq'rs, Dep't of Texas,
"Office of Chief Quartermaster,
"San Antonio, Texas, August 3, '81.
"Respectfully referred to the Depot Quartermaster, San
Antonio, inviting attention to preceding indorsement.

"(S'g'd)

"W B. HuG-ES,
IMa3or & Chief Quartermaster."

We agree with the Circuit Court that the transcript does
not present any legal evidence of a demand upon the contractor, nor of any such default on his part, as to give the
United States a cause of action against him and his sureties.
The order .of the receiving officer at San Antonio requiring
the contractor to deliver the oats in the quantity stated and at
the time specified, should have been produced, or its non-production accounted for. The letters of the acting quartermaster, Captain Campbell, applying for authority to purchase
oats, and the recommendation by Major Hughes that the
application be granted, only prove the necessity and object
for such purchase. ' The assertion by Major Hughes that the
contractor, though duly notified by requisition, had failed to
comply with his contract, is unsustained by any evidence of
any kind. No such requisition can be found among the papers,
nor is any reason given for its non-production. Neither is it
shown, except by the bare assertion referred to, that the
requisition ever reached the contractor.
It is contended by the counsel for the government, that this
assertion, being in the official communication of the Chief
Quartermaster of the Department of Texas, is itself sufficient
and competent evidence of the fact. We do not think that
the authorities cited support the proposition. They present
applications in various instances of the well established rule
that official reports and certificates made contemporaneously
with the facts stated, and in the regular course of official duty,
by an officer having personal knowledge of them, are admissible for the purpose of proving such facts. Mamfestly the
VOL. Cxxix-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

design and meaning of this rule is not to convert incompetent
and irrelevant evidence into competent and relevant evidence
simply because it is contained in an official communication.
Had the officer been testifying under oath, such an assertion
would have been excluded as inadmissible, upon the ground
that the statement itself implied the existence of prinary and
more original and explicit sources of information. Clifton v
Undted States, 4 How 242, 247, 1 Taylor Ev §§ 391, 394,
1 Greenl. Ev §§ 82, 84. The courts hold this rule, which has
been invoked, to be limited to only such statements in official
documents as the officers are bound to make in the regular
course of official duty The statement of extraneous or rndependent circumstances, however naturally they may be deemed
to have a place in the narrative, is no proof of such circumstances, and is, therefore, rejected. 1 Taylor Ev § 705, United
States v Buford, 3 Pet. 12.
It results from what we have said that there was no evidence submitted showing a demand by the United States
under the first contract, and a failure and refusal by Phillips
to perform it. As to the contract for supplying corn, it is
admitted by the United States that their evidence in support
of their claim is not so strong as in the case of the contract
for supplying oats. The only evidence touching the contract
to supply corn was certain vouchers for corn purchased outside the contract, all dated in the latter part of the year 1881
and the early part of 1882. In the language of the counsel
for plaintiffs in error, "we find no correspondence, nor any
other form of documentary evidence, tending to show that the
demand for performance required by the contract to supply
corn had been made by the government."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

