ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

We see no inconsistency between the first and second counts
of the declaration. They were in substance for the same
cause of action, and the first count is clearly sufficient to support the verdict.
J'dgment affirmed.

ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 672.

Argued January 15,16, 1889.-Decided January28, 1889.

The crop ends of Bessemer steel rails are liable to a duty of 45 per cent ad
valorem, as "steel" under Schedule C of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes,
as amended by § 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 500,
and are not liable to a duty of only 20 per cent ad valorem, as ",metal
unwrought," under the same schedule.
Where, at the close of the plaintiff's evidence, on a trial before a 3ury, the
defendant moves the court to direct a verdict for him, on the ground
that the plaintiff has not shown sufficient facts to warrant a recovery,
and the motion is denied, and the defendant excepts, the exception fails,
if the defendant afterwards introduces evidence.
Under the practice m New York, allegations in the complaint, that the
plaintiff "duly" protested in writing against the exaction of duty, and
"duly" appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury and that ninety days
had not elapsed, at the commencement of the suit, since the decision of
the secretary, if not denied by the answer are to be taken as true, and
are sufficient to prevent the defendant from taking the ground, at the
trial, that the protest was premature, or that the plaintiff must give
proof of an appeal, or of a decision thereon, or of its date.
THE

case is stated m the opinion.

.Mr &oZieitor GeneraZ for plaintiff in error.
.Ar J -Langdon Ward-for defendant in error.
MRs. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action originally brought in the Superior Court of
the city of New York, and removed by certiora, by the
defendant, into the Circuit Court of the United States for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Southern District of New York. It was brought by Charles
L. Perkins against William. H. Robertson, collector of the
port of New York, to recover $1460 as duties illegally exacted
on an importation of Bessemer steel rail crop ends, from England, in August, 1884. The defendant exacted duties on the
articles at the rate of 45 per centum ad valorem, amounting to
$2628. The plaintiff claimed that the lawful rate of duty was
only 20 per centum ad valorem, or $1168. The complaint
contained the allegation that the plaintiff "duly made and
filed due and timely protest in writing against the said erroneous and illegal assessment and exaction of the said duty,"
that the plaintiff was compelled to pay the $1460 in order to
obtain possession of the merchandise, that he duly appealed
to the Secretary of the Treasury from the decision of the
defendant ascertaining and liquidating the duties, and that
ninety days had not elapsed at the commencement of the suit,
since the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on such
appeal. The answer of the defendant did not deny the allegations of the complaint as to protest and appeal and the decision
of the Secretary of the Treasury The jury found a verdict
for the plaintiff. The parties consented in open court that the
amount of the verdict might be adjusted at the custom-house,
under the direction of the court. The amount was adjusted as
of the date of the verdict, and for that amount, with interest
and costs, in all $1742.23, judgment was rendered for the plaintiff. To review that judgment the defendant has brought a
writ of error.
At the close of the plaintiff's evidence, the counsel for the
defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for the defendant,
on the grounds, among others (1) that the protest which was
put in evidence by the plaintiff was served and filed before
liquidation, and was, therefore, premature, (2) that no proof
was offered or given that there was any appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, or any decision on such appeal, and no
proof of the date of such decision, to show that the suit was
brought in time. The motion was denied, and the defendant
excepted to the ruling.
Under § 914 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,

ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding
in this case, m regard to the complaint and the answer,
were required to conform, as near as may be, to the practice,
pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the
time m like causes in the courts of record of the State of New
York. By § 481 of the New York Code of Civil Procedure,
it is required that the complaint shall contain "a plain
and concise statement of the facts constituting each cause of
action." Section 500 requires that the answer shall contain
"a general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge
or .formation thereof sufficient to form a belief." By § 522,
"each material allegation of the complaint, not controverted
by the answer," "must, for the purposes of the action, be
taken as true."
The allegation of the complaint in this case is, that the
plaintiff "duly made and filed due and timely protest in writing," and "duly appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury,"
and "that ninety days have not elapsed since the decision of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the aforesaid appeal." As
none of these allegations were denied in the manner required
by § 500 of the code, they were, by § 522, to be taken as true,
and no issue was joined upon any one of them. This is the
ruling in regard to these provisions by the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York. In -Lorillardv Clyde, 86 N. Y
381, the complaint alleged that, in pursuance of a certain agreement, a corporation "was duly organized under the laws of
this State." It was contended, on a demurrer to the complaint,
that the agreement was illegal, because it provided thaat the
parties thereto, consisting of five persons only, should form
a corporation, whereas the statute contemplated that at least
seven persons should unite in order to form a corporation. But
the court held that the allegation that a corporation was "duly
organized under the laws of this State," pursuant to the agreement, imported that the requisite number of persons united for
that purpose, that it must be assumed that the corporation
was regularly orgaized, and that it was unnecessary for the
plaintiff to show in his complaint the precise steps taken to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

accomplish that result. The word "duly" means, in a proper
way, or regularly, or according to law See, also, Tuttle v
The People, 36 N. Y 431, 436, and cases there cited, Fryatt
v Iindo, 3 Edw Oh. 239, The People v Walker, 23 Barb.
304, The People v Afayor, 28 Barb. 240, Burns v. The People, 59 Barb. 531, Gibson v The People, 5 Hun, 542.
The plaintiff claimed, by his protest and at the trial, that
the articles in question were liable to a duty of only twenty
per centum ad valorem, under the provision of Schedule C
of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by § 6
of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 501, which imposes a duty of 20 per centum ad valorem on "mineral substances in a crude state and metals unwrought, not specially
enumerated or provided for m tins act." The collector had
imposed a duty of 45 per centum ad valorem on the articles,
under the following provision of the same Schedule 0, 22 Stat.
500 "Steel, not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act, forty-five per centum ad valorem. Provtded, That all
metal produced from iron or its ores, which is cast and malleable, of whatever description or form, without regard to the
percentage of carbon contained therein, whether produced by
cementation, or converted, cast, or made from iron or its ores,
by the crucible, Bessemer, pneumatic, Thomas-Gilchrist, basic,
Siemens-Marten, or open-hearth process, or by the equivalent
of either, or by the combination of two or more of the processes, or their equivalents, or by any fusion or other process
which produces from iron or its ores a metal either granular
or fibrous in structure, which is cast and malleable, excepting
what is known as malleable iron castings, shall be classed and
denominated as steel."
At the close of the plaintiff's evidence, the defendant moved
the court to direct a verdict for the defendant, on the further
ground that the plaintiff had not shown facts sufficient to
entitle him to recover. The motion was denied by the court,
and the defendant excepted to the ruling. But, as the defendant did not then rest his case, but afterwards proceeded to
introduce evidence, the exception fails. Accmdent Ins. Co. v.
Crandal, 120 U S.527.

ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff introduced evidence for the purpose of showing
that the article in question fell under the denomination of
"metal unwrought," not specially enumerated or provided for
in the act, and the defendant introduced evidence to show
the contrary It appeared by the evidence of the plaintiff,
that the crop end of a Bessemer steel rail, such as the article
in question, was the unperfect end of a rail, which was cut off
to bring the remainder down to a solid rail of regular length,
that the end thus cut off was of the same texture and fabric
with the rail which remained after such end was cut off, and
was made in the same manner, and that the crop end so cut
off was Bessemer steel. It also appeared that such ends, when
imported, were sold as an article of merchandise in this country,
and were sometimes remelted in furnaces, and that they were
sometimes used, after importation, for manufacturing other
articles by reheating them, without their being remelted, and
liad a value as a manufactured article, other than for the purpose of remelting.
At the close of the testimony on both sides, the defendant
moved the court to direct a verdict for him, on the grounds,
that the plaintiff had not produced sufficient evidence to make
a case, that there was no evidence that the imported articles
were unwrought metal, and that they were steel, which was
specially provided for in the statute. The motion was denied
by the court, and the defendant excepted to the ruling.
The court charged the jury that the only question was
whether the article was wrought or unwrought metal, that
the word "wrought " meant wrought into something suitable
for use, and not merely wrought in some manner, by being
manufactured or treated, that, if the article was a mere excess
of material, left after the making of steel rails, it was not
wrought metal, within the sense of the statute, that, if it was
something left over in excess of the material, the jury were to
return a verdict for the plaintiff, but if it was an article fit for
use in itself, made at the same time with the making of the
rail, they should return a verdict for the defendant. The
defendant excepted to that part of the charge which stated
that the only question for the jury was -vhether the article

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

was wrought or unwrought metal, and also to that part which
stated that if the article was a mere excess of material in
making steel rails, it was not wrought metal in the sense of
the statute.
We are of opinion that the court erred in its disposition of
the case, and its charge to the jury The motion to direct a
verdict for the defendant, on the ground that the article was
not metal unwrought, not specially enumerated or provided for
in the statute, but was steel, specially enumerated and provided
for in the same statute, in a clause other than that regarding
metals unwrought, ought to have been granted. The article
fell within the definition of steel given in the statute. The
testimony showed that it was metal produced from iron or its
ores, by the Bessemer process, within the definition of the
articles which the statute stated should "be classed and
denominated as steel." It was none the less steel because it
was an excess of material, as the result of making steel rails,
cut off from the steel rail, and not suitable for use in itself,
without being remelted or reheated. The charge of the court
on this subject was subject to the exception and objection
made to it.
It results from these views that
The judgment below must be reversed, and the case be 'emanded to the Cireomt Court wtth a direction to grant a
new trial.

BROWN v. SUTTON.
APPEAL FROI£ THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 97. Argued and submitted November 26, 1888. -Decided

January 28, 1889.

On the whole proof in this case, some of which is referred to m the opinion
of the court. Held,
(1) That the appellant's intestate intended that the property in dispute
should belong to the appellee, that he bought it for her, and that
he promised her orally that he would make over the title to her

