DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

241

United States v. The Minnesota and Northwestern Railroad Co.

THE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERRoR, v. THE MINNESOTA
AND NORTHWESTERN RAImROAD O0IMPANY.

Where the United States brought a case up to this court as plaintiffs in error, and
the attorney'-general moved for a discontinuance upon the ground that he wished
other questions to be presented upon the record, which he deemed necessary for a
full elucidation of the case, the court, without expressing an opinion upon these
other questions, will grant the motion made by the legal representative of the government.

THIS was a motion by Mr. Gushing, (attorney-general,) to
withdraw the writ of error, and discontinue the appeal to this
court, to which the case had been brought up, by writ of error,
from the supreme court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The motion was argued by Hfr. Cushin, and opposed by M11r.
Barbour and .Mr. ohnson. Much matter of general interest
was introduced by both sides into the discussion, which it is
not deemed necessary to report, because the deoision of the court
turned upon a single legal point.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the supreme court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
An action of trespass was brought by the United States
against the defendants before the district court of the first district, in the county of Goodhue, in said Territory, for an alleged
trespass committed on section 3, in township No. 112 north, of
the public lands.
The defendants justified under an act of incorporation by
the legislature of the said Territory, passed March 4, 1854, and
by which they were empowered to construct a railroad from a
point on the northwest shore of Lake Superior, and near the
mouth of the St. Louis River, across the said Territory of Minnesota, by the way of St. Anthony and St. Paul, over the Mississippi at St. Paul, and to such point on the northern boundary
line of the State of Iowa, as the board of directors niight designate, which point should be selected with reference to the best
route to the city of Dubuque, provided the location of the road
should conform in all respects to such route as might be designated in any act of congress granting lands for the construction
of a railroad through the Territory.
The act of incorporation also provided that any lands granted
to the Territory in aid of the construction of this road, should
be deemed vested in fee-simple in the company; and further, it
is alleged that by an act of congress, passed June 29, 1854, for
the purpose of aiding in the construction of the road, every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers, for six sections
VOL. XVIII.

21

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. The Minnesota and Northwestern Railroad Co.

in width on each side of the road along the line, was granted to
the Territory upon the terms and conditions specified in the said
act; and also, that the said defendants caused a survey and location of the road as contemplated by the act of incorporation,
and that said road includes the land upon which the trespass
complained of was committed, and which is a portion of one of
the sections granted to the Territory of Minnesota by the act
of congress aforesaid.
The plaintiff to this defence set up, by way of replication,
that before the trespasses complained of were committed, namely,
on the 4th of August, 1854, an act was passed by congress repealing the act previously passed on the 29th of June, granting
land in aid of the construction of said road.
To this replication the defendants demurred, and the plaintiff
joined in the demurrer.
The district court gave judgment for the defendants on the
demurrer.
An appeal was taken from this judgment to the supreme
court of the Territory, where, after argument, the judgment was
affirmed. From this judgment the plaintiff has appealed to this
court by writ of error.
The. writ of error was made returnable to this court on the
fourth Monday of December, 1854, and the record was brought
up by the defendants in error, and filed and docketed on the 21st
of the same month.
The attorney-general now moves, on behalf of the United
States, to withdraw his writ of error, and discontinue the appeal
to this court, which motion is resisted by the counsel for the
defendants.
After an appeal brought to the appellate court, the withdrawal
or discontinuance of the same is not a matter of course, but, if
the plaintiff finds it expedient to discontinue, lie must first obtain leave of the court. 2 Daniel's Pr. 1644; 11 Pet. 55. The
discontinuance is usually granted on the application, unless
some special reason be shown by the defendant for retaining the
case with a view to a determination on the merits. Usually, the
courts will not allow it, if the party intend at some future time
to bring a new appeal, as the allowance under such circumstances would be unjust to the defendant. There is no such
ground of objection here, as the attorney-general disclaims trying the questions involved upon the present pleadings. These
pleadings, with the exception of some questions arising upon
the powers conferred upon the defendants under their act of incorporation, confine the issue to the effect and operation of the
act of congress granting the lands in aid of the construction
of the road, and of the suhsequent repealing act. And these,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

243

Calcote v. Stanton et al.

doubtless, comprised all the questions which the counsel in the
court below, representing the United States, supposed could be
material. They are presented very fully and lawyer-like upon
the record, and are involved in the judgment rendered in the
court below,
The attorney-general, however, avers, that there are other questions than those appearing on the record, which he deems material to be brought to the consideration, of the court in deciding
upon the force and effect of these acts of congress referred to, and
without which he is unwilling to submit the case to the final determination of this court; and asks, therefore, for a withdrawal
of the appeal. Without expressing any opinion whether there
may or may not be questions presented, other than those appearing upon this record, bearing upon the general matters involved
in the litigation, the court are of opinion that the grounds stated
by the attorney-general, and his opinion expressed as the legal
representative of the government, are sufficient to justify us in
granting leave for the discontinuance.
Some technical grounds have been presented, depending upon
the rules and practice of the court for the dismissal of the case
from the docket, and of the writ of error, which we have not
deemed it important to notice, as we think the motion should be
granted upon the general ground stated.
Motion to withdraw and discontinue the appeal by writ of
error in this case granted.

JAzES L. CALCOTE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK STANTON
AND HENRY S. BUCKNER.
This court has no jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the judiciary act, of a case
like the following, namely: Where an assignee of some creditors of a person who had taken the benefit of the
bankrupt act of the United States, filed a bill against the bankrupt to set aside the
discharge as void upon the ground of fraud. The defendant demurred to the bill
upon the ground of staleness, want of equity, and the statute of limitations.
It does not follow that the supreme court of the State, in dismissing the bill, placed
any construction whatever upon the bankrupt act; and moreover, if they did, the
decision must have been in favor of the privilege set up by the bankrupt and not
against it.

Tins case was brought up from the high court of errors and
appeals of the State of Mississippi, by a writ of error issued
under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
Mr. Benjamin moved to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction,

