470

SUPREME COURT.
Fouvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans et al.

be recalled at any time before carried into execution; and, until
carried into execution, the complainant certainly could set up
no right under them, much less a right in disregard and defiance
of them. Even if the state .court had gone on and decreed
against these defendants, and compelled a surrender of the
note, or a delivery of the deed in the absence of the principals,
it could not have extinguished the note, or have transferred the
title to the land, as the decree could have had no binding effect
upon them. Before the surrender could extinguish the note, or
the delivery could have the effect to pass the estate in the land,
the decree must operate upon the principals, the real parties in
interest, and coerce them to make such surrender or delivery.
The agents had no authority to represent them in the litigation.
Nor had they any interest of their own in the subject in controversy. This is not the case of a stakeholder, or holder of a deed
as an esQrow, where a trust has been created by the parties which
is sought to be enforced by one of them. In all such cases the
trustee may be a proper party, as he has a duty to perform,
and which the court may enforce if improperly neglected or
refused.
The above view applies with equal if not greater force to the
case of the attorneys.
Even if there could be any doubt about the correctness of the
view above taken, after the real parties in interest appeared and
took upon themselves the defence, the defendants, Stohl and Foster, and Hooper and Campbell, were no longer parties in interest,
or necessary parties, as the possession of the note and of the deed
by the agents and the attorneys, was, in judgment of law, the
possession of the principals and clients, and any decree or injunction against them would bind the agents or attorneys. 6 Ves.
143; I Mer. 123; 1 Daniel's Pr. 343; 7 Hare, 428; Story Eq.
P1. §§ 229, 231, 232.
We are satisfied that the decision of the court below was erroneous, and that the order remanding the cause to the state court
must be reversed, and the cause restored to its place in the circuit court of the United States.

EuPHRosImN FOUVERGNE ET AL. APPELLANTS, v. THE MUNICIPALITY No. 2, OF THE CITY OF NEW ORLEANS ET AL.
Where a will was established in New Orleans, in 1792, by order of the alcalde, an officer who bad jurisdiction over the subject-matter, his decree must be considered as a
judicial act, not now to be called into question.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

471

Fouvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans et al.
The courts of the United States have no probate jurisdiction, and must receive the sentences of the courts to which the jurisdiction over testamentary matters is committed,
as conclusive of the validity and contents of a will. An original bill cannot be sustained upon an allegation that the probate of a will is contrary to law.
Moreover, the fraud charged in this case, is not established by the evidence.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting as a court of
equity.
The principal circumstances of the case, which furnished the
basis of the judgment of this court, are set forth in the opinion.
The entire case was one which covered a vast deal of ground.
For the appellants there was a brief filed by Mr. S. Paul, of
nearly 150 pages, which was adopted by Mr. Taylor, and one by
Mr. Taylor himself, of the same size. On the part of the appellees, the brief of Mr. Janin was only 30 pages. These papers
contained a vast deal of research into the civil law upon many
points of the case which were not noticed in the opinion of the
court, whose judgment rested upon a single point as disposing of
the case. It is not necessary, therefore, to report them.
The case was argued by 3r. Taylor and 11r. Lewis for the
appellants, and by M1'r. .Tanin, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff filed her bill in chancery to recover a share of the
succession of Marie Josepha Deslondes, (wife of Bertrand
Gravier,) who died at New Orleans, in November, 1792, without lincal heirs, she claiming to be one of the heirs at law of
said decedent. After the death of his wife, Bertrand Gravier
placed a petition before the first alcalde of New Orleans, stating
that his wife had made a will before a notary and three assisting
witnesses; that the testamentary dispositions, as set down, conformed to her instructions, and were given while she was of a:
sound mind, but she had lost her consciousness before she had
signed the paper; and prayed that the assisting witnesses might
be examined to prove the will, and that the same might be declared valid in, all its parts, in the same manner as if she had
signed'it. An order was made by the alcalde on this petition,
with the approbation of the assessor of the intendancy, and the
sanction of the governor and intendant-general, directing the
notary to take the examination of the witnesses, as the petitioner
had solicited. The witnesses, on their examination, testified
that the notary had drawn the will in accordance with the directions of the testatrix, and they were given when her mind and
memory were sound; but that before the formal writing was
finished she had lost her consciousness, and did not therefore

472

SUPREME COURT.
Fouvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans et al.

sign the same. Upon the return -of the depositions to the alcalde, he entered the following decree:-Decree.
Under advisement, [vistos.] The will, proved by a legalized
notarial act to have been made by Dona Maria Josefa Deslondes,
who was the lawful wife of Don Bertrand Gravier, is declared
valid and subsisting; let it be kept and executed in all its parts;
and in order that this declaration, relative to said will, may remain permanent, there shall be placed on the notarial register,
and on the original will, a note referring to the proceedings,
giving to the parties interested certified copies of both documents, whenever they may ask for them. And whereas the said
Don Bertrand Gravier, sole heir, has attained the years of majority, and that the property is notoriously large, there is, for
this reason, no necessity for judicial proceedings; and for security for payment of the six thousand dollars to the absent heirs,
he (Gravier) will immediately mortgage the plantation until final
payment, or till otherwise agreed to by the parties. Whereupon,
these proceedings terminated, let the costs be taxed by D'n
Louis Liotaud, after acceptance and oath, and let them be paid
by the heir, twenty-four reals having been received as the assessor's fee.
(Signed)
PEDRO DE MARIGNY,
LICENTIATE MANUEL SERRANO.

Thus decreed by D'n Pedro de Marigny, knight of the order
of St. Louis, and first alcalde for his majesty, having original
jurisdiction in this city and its judicial precincts, with the approbatory opinion of D'n Manuel Serrano, assessor-general of this
intendancy, and he signed the same in the city of New Orleans,
the 21st November, 1792.
(Signed)
PEDRO PEDESCLAUX,
Not. Pub.
By this will, the testatrix bestowed legacies in favor of a number of her relations, and instituted her husband for her sole and
universal heir, in order that after her death he should inherit the
remainder of her property. The defendants claim the property
described in the bill under titles derived from this heir.
The bill charges that Bertrand Gravier fraudulently induced
the notary to prepare a will for his wife, and witnesses to attest
the act, and, although the legal formalities were wanting which
were necessary to its validity, a "sham decree" of probate was
procifred from the alcalde by the corrupt agency of the said instituted heir. The defendants deny these allegations, and they

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

473

Ledoux et al. v. Black et al.

have not been supported by testimony. The will has remained
without contestation for above a half century. The alcalde,
assessor, notary, and witnesses maintained during their lives a
good reputation for probity. The property of the testatrix was
distributed without opposition, according to the provisions of
the will, and is now held, under titles derived from the instituted
heir. This evidence disposes of the allegations of the bill, except
those which impugn the sufficiency of the act as a legal instrument.
That question, in our opinion, is closed by the decree of the
alcalde. That- decree declares the will to be valid and subsisting, and directs its execution. We are obliged to treat the
decree as the judicial act of a court of competent jurisdiction.
In fact, it was the only judicial authority ili the province of
Louisiana, except that exercised by the governor.
This decree remains in full force, never having been impeached, except in this collateral way. The courts of the United
States have no probate jurisdiction, and must receive the sentences of the courts to which the jurisdiction over testamentary
matters is committed, as conclusive of the validity and contents
of a will; an original bill cannot be sustained upon an allegation that the probate of a will is contrary to law. If any error
was committed in allowing the probate, the remedy is in the
state courts, according to their appropriate modes of proceeding; such was the decision of this coui't in Tarver v. Tarver,
9 Pet. 174.
The decision of this question is sufficient to dispose of the
case, and we decline any inquiry in reference to any other which
was discussed at the hearing.
Decree of the circuit court affirmed.

AMARON LEDOUX, ALPHONSE MILTENBERGER, AND GEORGE 0.
HALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN BLACK, JOHN HAGAN, JR.,
JOHN HAGAN, SR., FRANCIS WVREN, J. M. SMILEY, AND EPHRAIM
MCLEAN.
In the case of an imperfect Spanish title to land in Louisiana, a confirmation by congress is inoperative, unless the title or survey under it will enable the court to ascertain the specific boundaries of the land.
If, before a survey, in such a case, an entry is made and a patent taken out for land,
which conflicts with a subsequent survey of the confirmed concession, the patentee
has the better title.

Tins case was brought up from the supreme court of Louis40*

