DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

581

Crockett et al. r. Newton, Claimant, &c.

The foundation of the case certified is, first the assumption of
fraud practised by the agent of the insurance company; and,
secondly, an inquiry as to the liability of the company resulting
from the connection of the company as principal with their
agent, and from the character of the fraud assumed as above.
The question of fraud or no fraud, is one necessarily compounded of fact and of law; and without a correct and precise
knowledge of the facts from which the legal conclusion should
be deduced, it is not easy to perceive how any legal conclusion
can be reached.
In this case, as certified, there is no fact shown by which the
precise connection of this alleged agent with the company is
established; or the character or extent of any representations
said to have been made by him, and upon which it is assumed
that the company may be bound. There is nothing then before
us upon which this court could deduce any inference or conclusion properly applicable to the case as it really exists. The
question propounded, therefore, appears to be one that is entirely
general and abstract, and which can admit of no answer but one
which is equally abstract .and general, and which may in truth
have no application to the case. We therefore think that this
certificate admits of no other answer than an order that the case
be remanded to the circuit court to be proceeded in according to
law.

JONATHAN CROCKETT, ARCHIBALD C. SPALDING, JOHN GREGORY,
CHRISTOPHER DYER, AND NATHANIEL DYER, LIBELLANTS AND
APPELLANTS, v. THE STEAMBOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER TACKLE,
&C., ISAAC NEWTON, CLAIMANT.
AUGUSTUS LORD, LIBELLANT
AND APPELLANT, v. THE STEAMBOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER
TACKLE, &c., DANIEL DREW, CLAIMANT.
The general rule is, for a sailing vessel meeting a steamer, to keep her course, while
the steamer takes the necessary measures to avoid a collision.
And though this rule should not be observed when the circumstances are such that it
is apparent its observance must occasion a collision, while a departure from it will
prevent one, yet it must be a strong case which puts the sailing vessel in the wrong
for obeying the rule.
The present is not such a strong case, and therefore the steamer must be condemned
in the damages and costs resulting from a collision between herself and a sailing2
vessel.

THESE two cases were appeals from the circuit court of the

United States for the southern district of New York.
In the first case, the libellants were owners of the schooner
49 *

SUPREME COURT.
Crockett et al. v. Newton, Claimant, &c.

Hero, of Maine, and in the second case, Lord was the owner of
a cargo of corn and flour laden on board of The Hero, bound
from New York to Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
The circumstances of the collision are set forth in the opinion
of the court.
The district court dismissed the libels with costs, which decree
was affirmed in the circuit court.
The case was argued in this court by 111r. Benedict, for the
appellants, and by LTIr. Cowles, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the southern district of New York, in a cause
of collision, prosecuted by the owners of the schooner Hero,
against the steamer Isaac Newton.
On the sixteenth of July, 1850, the schooner Hero, of the burden of 100 tons, which had been lying at pier No. 15 on the
North River, in the city of New York, hauled out of the dock,
soon after sunrise got up her mainsail and both jibs, and pushed
off into the stream. The tide was about half ebb, setting to the
southward and eastward, and the wind was about southeast,
but so light that very little way could be made. A brig was at
anchor in the river, a little below pier No. 15, about one hundred
and fifty yards from the piers; and immediately below the brig,
at the distance of about 300 feet, two ships were also anchored.
When The Hero had got within a short distance of the brig, and
was nearly between the brig and the town, and while her crew
were in the act of hoisting the peak of the foresail, the body of
the sail being up, the steamer Isaac Newton came down the
river, and seeing no clear passage to her dock at pier No. 16,
except that of about 300 feet between the brig and the ships at
anchor, swung round, passed between those vessels at anchor,
straightened up alongside the brig for her dock, and then, for
the first time, discovered The Hero directly in her course. The
two ships being at anchor astern of the steamer, the latter could
not back, without the certainty of injuring herself and one of
the ships; she kept on her course, struck The Hero on the starboard bow, which was stove, and the schooner almost -immediately filled.
It is pleaded that The Hero was in fault, because her helm was
not put hard down and kept there, when the danger was first
discovered. The distance between the steamer and the schooner,
when the latter straightened up and headed for the former, was
only about 400 feet, as testified by the pilot in charge of the
steamer. The opportunity for the schooner to make any ma-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Crockett et al. v. Newton,

583

Claimant, &c.

noeuvre was consequently very small; and though some of the
witnesses say there was breeze enough at the moment to give
the schooner steerage way, others deny this. It must be
remembered that the general rule is, for a sailing vessel, meeting a steamer, to keep her course, while the steamer takes the
necessary measures to avoid a collision. And though this rule
should not be observed when the circumstances are such that it
is apparent its observance must occasion a collision, while a
departure from it will prevent one, yet it must be a strong case
which puts the sailing vessel in the wrong for obeying the rule.
The court must clearly see, not only that a deviation from the
rule would have prevented collision, but that the commander of
the sailing vessel was guilty of negligence or a culpable want of
seamanship, in not perceiving the necessity for a departure from
the rule, and acting accordingly.
We do not think this was such a case. Besides, the master
of the schooner testifies, that the helm of the schooner had been
put hard down by him, and fastened there in a becket, as soon
as he saw the steamer, and before hailed from the latter. In
this he is corroborated by his mate and crew. Other witnesses
say they saw a man rim aft, when hailed, and put the helm
first up and then down. This apparent discrepancy may be
accounted for by the fact mentioned by those on board the
schooner; that, after the master had left the helm hard down in
a becket, and just before the collision, the mate ran aft. Perhaps he went to the helm, and he may have changed it. But
we do not think what he did could have influenced the result.
Fault was also attributed to the schooner, in the argument at
the bar, because she left her dock when the wind was so light
and baffling that she was not really manageable. But we think
there was no impropriety in her being where she was at the
time of the collision, with her sails hoisted, waiting for a wind
to get out of the harbor, any more than in her being at anchor
there. It is true she would have no right to endanger other
vessels by drifting afoul of them. This she was bound to avoid,
by coming to anchor. But till there was danger of this, and
none such appears in the case, she had a right to wait for a wind
there in daylight, with her sails hoisted.
We hold the schooner to have been free from fault.
After a eareful consideration of the evidence we cannot think
the steamer did all that could reasonably be required to avoid
the collision. After the schooner was seen from the steamer, we
have no doubt a collision, either with the schooner, or with one
of the ships at anchor, was inevitable; and that the steamer
chose that alternative least dangerous to herself' and rail down
the schooner. But the fault was, in not dis,.iuing the schooner

584

SUPREME

COURT.

Culbertson v. Shaw et al. Claimants, &c.

before getting into that position. Though the brig was at
anchor between the steamer and the schooner when the former
was sweeping across the river and heading for the opening between the brig and the ships, yet the sails of the schooner were
hoisted, and must have been visible over the hull of the brig.
The steamer, therefore, made for this passage, not only without
first ascertaining it to be clear, but without discovering the sails
of the schooner which might and ought to have been seen, and
which, if seen, would have warned those managing her that the
.passage there was not clear. We hold this attempt of the
steamer to come to her landing between the vessels at anchor,
without first ascertaining that the track was clear, to have been
culpable, and; accordingly, that she must be condemned in the
damages and costs.
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
remanded to be proceeded with according to law..
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented in both cases.

AUGUSTUS LORD, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT,
BOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER TACKLE, &C.,

v.

THE STEAMDANIEL DREw,

CLAIMANT.

Tais being a libel by the owner of the cargo on board The lero
at the time of the collision, is disposed of by the opinion in the
case of the libel by the owners of the vessel. It was argued
with the other case. Depends on the same evidence, and the
decree must, in like manner, be reversed and the cause remanded.

WILLAm B. CULBERTSON, APPELLANT, V. THE STEAMER SOUTHERN BELLE; HENRY B. SHAW, WILLIAM M. SHAW, ELAx
BowMAN, SIDNEY A. LACOSTE, AND JOHN DE SEBASTIAN,
CLAIANTS.
Where a regulation was made in one of the harbors of the Mississippi River, assigning
their positions to different species of boats, if the regulation was generally known,
it was the duty of all persons to conform to it.
Where a flat-boat was moored at the place designated for flat-boats, and a steamboat,
in attempting to land, came into collision with and sunk the flat-boat, the steamboat
must be liable for the damage done.
When a steamer is about to enter a harbor, great caution is required. Ordinary care,
under such circumstances, will not excuse a steamer for a wrong done.

