286

SUPREM1E COURT.
Hunter's Exec.utor v.

Mlinor.

recognizance, or a stipulation in the admiralty, we are of opinion
it was not invalid for this cause.
Some objection was made to the proceedings of the marslal
under the warrant, because he did not levy on certain shares of
corporate stock belonging to Swartwout, and because it does
not appear, by the return of the warrant, that he had not goods
and chattels wherewith to satisfy the exigency of the warrant.
In respect to the corporate stocks, they do not appear to have
been goods or chattels, subject to such levy at the time it was
made; and the return of the marshal, that he had levied on the
lands by virtue of the warrant, is, at least, primet facie evidence
that his levy was not irregular, by reason of the existence of
goods and chattels of the collector subject to his process.
The third question is, therefore, to be answered in the affirmative.
This renders the other questions proposed immaterial, and no
answer need be returned thereto.
The other two cases, - John Den, ex dem. James B. Murray
et al. v. The Hoboken Land and Improvement Company. And
John Den, ex dem. William P. Rathbone et al v. Rutsen Suckley
et al., are disposed of by this opinion, the same questions having
been certified therein.

WILLIAx D. NUTT, EXECUTOR OF ALEXANDER HUNTER,
CEASED, PLAINTIFP IN ERROR, V. PHILIP H. MINOR.

DE-

Where a case is brought up to this court upon an alleged error in a demurrer to evidence, inasmuch as the prayer to the court below was, that there wa no evidence
from which the jury could infer a certain promise; and this court is of opinion that
the court below judged rightly in thinking that there was such evidence, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up by-writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Davis and L11r. Bradley, for the plaintiff in error, and by A3r. Badger and 111r. Lawrence, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Minor sued Nutt as executor of Alexander Hunter, and sought
to recover on a quantum meruit for services rendered as clerk for
Hunter in the marshal's office for fourteen and a half years.
The defence is, that Minor entered on the service under a
special agreement to receive four hundred dollars a year.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

287

Hunter's Executor v. Minor.

The bill of exceptions states, that "on the trial of this calfse,
the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, gave evidence
tending to prove that he had rendered the services mentioned in
the declaration, during the period therein stated, and that the
said services were faithful, valuable, and unremitting, during all
the time aforesaid ; and he further gave evidence by Daniel
Minor, a competent witness, that the engagement under which
the plaintiff commenced to serve as such clerk as aforesaid to
the deceased, Hunter, was made verbally in the presence of the
witness; that the witness was a surety in the official bond of
the deceased, as marshal for the District of Columbia; that
plaintiff is the brother of witness ; that witness was the deputy
marshal of Alexandria county from 1806 or 1807, down to 1826;
and that the plaintiff was very familiar with the duties of clerk
in the marshal's office, and that the said Hunter was wholly
ignorant of the duties of said office ; that the witness was
desirous of having plaintiff employed as such clerk by said
Hunter, and, with the plaintiff, went to the marshal's office and
there met the said Hunter, and in said office, they there being
present, they had a conversation about the employment of the
plaintiff and the terms thereof; that witness told the said
Hunter that he could find nobody who would suit the place
better than the plaintiff; that Hunter said he did not know anything about the emoluments of the office, or the value of the
plaintiff's services, but he would be willing to give him 8 250
per annum; that witness said that was out of the question,
that plaintiff could not pay his board with it; the witness then
said ha would give $150, if Hunter .would give $250, making
the salary $ 400 for the first year ; that said Hunter said he was
willing to do that; that plaintiff was dissatisfied; that witness,
then and there continuing the conversation, in the presence of
the said Hunter, and speaking in the same tone as in the previous part of the conversation, and standing near to the said
Hunter as before, told the plaintiff that he must try and get
along with the $ 400 for the first year, and that afterwards, when
Hunter should ascertain the value of the services, lie would pay
him accordingly; that said Hunter made no comment on the
last statement; that said plaintiff thereupon acquiesced, and
entered upon the duties of said clerkship. And further proved
by another witness, that during the said first year, the plaintiff
complained to the witness of the insufficiency of the salary;
that witness thereupon saw and had a conversation with Hunter
on the subject; that he could not recollect the language of said
Hunter, but it was to the effect that if he gave plaintiff more
now he would waste it; and other remarks which lie could not
distinctly repeat, but all which left the clear impression on the

SUPREME COURT.
Hunter's Executor v. Minor.

mind of the witness that after the said first year the plaintiff
was to be better compensated ; that the witness reported the
conversation to the plaintiff. Another witness, Smith Minor, a
brother of the plaintiff, deposed that the witness had a conversation with Hunter in the year 1843 or 1844, in which he told
Hunter that the plaintiff had not been to see witness for tell
years; that the plaintiff bad given as a reason that he could not
get enough money from said Hunter to hire a horse to ride to
the country, where witness resided, in Fairfax county, Virginia.
That said Hunter spoke in the highest terms of the plaintiff's
services, and of his integrity and industry; said that he owed
his fortune to the plaintiff, and that plaintiff had made him from
70 to $ 100,000, and other words to this effect; and said that he,
Hunter, was keeping all he could back from the plaintiff for
a rainy day, and to support him in his old age. And further
proved by the evidence of Chief Judge CRANCH, of M3arshal
Wallach, Marshal Hoover, and John A. Smith, clerk, and others,
that the plaintiff's services were well worth the amount claimed,
(to wit, $ 800 per annum,) and by said ex-Marshal Wallach and
Marshal Hoover, that they respectively paid plaintiff $ 1,000 per
annum for similar services, and for the discharge of the same
duties which he had rendered and discharged in the time of
their said predecessor, Hunter. And further gave evidence tending to show that the said office of marshal, during the time the
said Hunter had held the same, was very profitable, and that said
Hunter had amassed.a considerable fortune therefrom."
An account was also given in evidence by which it appeared
that Minor, as clerk, had for the first year credited payments at
the specific sum of 400 dollars ; but that, afterwards, the credits
were at irregular intervals, and usually of small sums - sometimes covering 400 dollars in the year; but often falling short
of this amount. The account has the appearance of an open
and running account.
The court was asked to charge the jury, on part of the defendant, that if they believed the plaintiff entered on the service
upon an agreement for 400 dollars salary for that year, and continued in it from 1834 to 1848, and during all the time, from
time to time, received from Hunter in full at that rate for the
whole service, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. This
instruction was given.
The principal instruction demanded and refused was, that
there was no evidence legally competent from which the jury
could infer that there was any agreement between Hunter and
Minor, upon other terms than for the payment of the services at
the rate of 400 dollars per annum.
Another instruction was asked and refused, assuming for the

289

DECEMBER rtERM, 1855.
Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

defendant that Minor was bound to give Hunter notice that
more than $ 400 was claimed after the expiration of the first year,
before he could be allowed a higher rate of compensation.
As the case depended on proof of a promise, (arising by implication,) on the fact that Hunter assented to the proposition
made by Daniel Minor to the plaintiff below, no proof of further
notice could be required; so that the controversy must be limited
to the instruction first refused.
This instruction, if given, would have taken the case from the
jury by rejecting the entire evidence as legally incompetent,
except such as established the special contract.
There was evidence from which the jury might infer a promise
on part of Hunter to further compensate -Minor; and it was
the duty of the circuit court to leave the fact to the jury: indeed,
the first instruction which was given went to the limit of the
court's power in its bearing on the facts; the jury being told
that if they found the plaintiff was to receive 400 dollars for the
first year's service, and had received at that rate for the whole
period, then the plaintiff was not entitled to recover.
It is ordered that the judgment of the circuit court be affirmed.

ISRAEL KINSMAN

AND CALvIN L. GODDARD,
STEPHEN R. PARKHURST.

APPELLANTS, V.

Where there was an agreement between a patentee and dn assignee that the latter
should manpfacture the machines for a certain time and upon certain terms, it is
too late for him, when called upon in chancery for an account, to deny that the
patentee was the original inventor of the thing patented.
Even if the patent were invalid, yet that does not so taint with illegality the sales of
the machines by the assignee, as to affect the claim of the a-signor to an account of
the sales.
The agreement that one only of the parties should continue the manufacture was not
void as being in restraint of trade.
The assignee could not legally purchase the outstanding claim of a third person,
and set it up against the patentee with whom he had an existing agreement, in the
nature of a copartnership.
If the assignee transfers his contract, the person to whom he tranfers it is bound by tle
same equities which existed between the original parties to the contract, having pur;
chased with a full knowledge of the state of things.
If the report of the master was incorrect, exception should have been taken to it ii
the court below. It cannot be examined in this court; no exception having been
'taken.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
VOL. XV1ii.

25

