476

SUPREME COURT.
The United States 2. Booth.

:IN
v

THE MATTER OF THE
BOOTH. 'STEPHEN V. R.
SHERmAM M. BOOTH.

UNITED
STATES V. SERMAN M.
ABLExAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

7g
*Where the clerk of the

supreme court of a state neglects or refuses to make a return
to a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act, this court will
lay a rule upon him to make return on or before the first day of the next term, or
show cause why such return has not been made in conformity to law.
And where there is another case upon the docket involving the same questions the
court will direct it to be continued, in order that both cases may he argued together.

THEsE two cases will be reported together, although in some
respects they were dissimilar. In both, however, writs of error had been issued by this court directed to the supreme court
of Wisconsin. In the first case, viz. The United States v. Booth,
the writ was not returned, and Mr. Cushing (attorney-general)
filed a copy of the record and moved the court to docket the case,
and set it down for argument at the next term. In the other
case, viz. Ableman v. Booth, the writ was returned, accompanied
by- a certified copy of the record, and the case stood regularly
upon the trial docket.
In the case of the United States v. Booth the motion of the
attorney-general was as follows And now the attorney-general comes into court and says that,
to the writ of error in the present case to the supreme court of
the State of Wisconsin, issued by the chief justice of the United
States, no return has been made; whereupon he moves that an
authentic copy of the record of the said supreme court of the
State of Wisconsin in the case, and of the writ of error, with
certificate of other proceedings since had, may be filed, and the
case entered, and proceed to final judgment on the said copies.
The other proceedings, mentioned in the above motion were
comprised in the following certificates, &c.
1. A petition of the attorney-general, reciting the facts stated
in the opinion of the court, and praying for a writ of error to remove the case from the supreme court of Wisconsin to this
court.
2. The allowance of the writ on the 21st of April, 1855. On
the 5th of September, 1855, John R. Sharpstein, district attorney
of the United States, made oath before Judge Miller, judge of
the district court, that he delivered the writ of error to Lafayette
Kellogg, Esq.; clerk of the supreme court of Wisconsin, at his
office in Madison, on the 30th of May, 1855.
3. The citation to Booth and the service of it by Ableman,
the marshal.
4. The following affidavit by Sharpstein I, John R. Sharpsteiti, attorney of the United States for said

477

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
The United States v. Booth.

district, do solemnly swear, that I have been informed by Lafayette Kellogg, Esq., clerk of the supreme court of the State of
Wisconsin, and also by Abram D. Smith, an associate justice
of said court, that the said court directed the said clerk to make
no return to the writ of error issued out of the supreme court of
the United States, in the above entitled cause, and by this deponent served, according to law and the rules of the said lastmentioned court, and that the said supreme court of the State
of Wisconsin further directed the said clerk to enter no order
upon the journal or records of said court concerning the same,
and further deponent says not.
J. R. SHARPSTEIN.
5. A copy of the record.

IN

THE

MATTER

OF

THE

UNITED

STATs

v.

SHERmAN

M.

BoOTH.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court proceed to dispose of the motion made by the attorney-general to docket the case of The United States v. Booth,
to stand for argument in this court at the next term.
In support of this motion he has produced a copy of the record
of the proceedings in the supreme court of Wisconsin in the
above-mentioned case, certified by the clerk under the seal of
the court, by which it appears that Booth was indicted in the
district court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin,
for aiding a fugitive slave to escape from the custody of the
marshal,- the marshal having the said slave at that time legally
in his custody ; and that upon that indictment the said Booth
was tried and found guilty,- and sentenced by the court to be
imprisoned for one month, and to pay a fine of one thousand
dollars. That while le was thus imprisoned he obtained a writ
of habeas corpus from the state court; and, upon a hearing in
the supreme court of the State, was discharged from imprisonment by that court, upon the ,ground that the imprisonment
under the sentence of the district court of the United States
was illegal.
It further appears, that a writ of error afterwards issued from
this court, at the instance of the attorney-general in behalf of
the United States, returnable to the present term, and directed
to the judges of the supreme court of the State of Wisconsin in
order to bring the said proceedings and judgment here for revision, according to the provisions of the 25th section of the act of

478

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Booth.

congress of 1789, oh. 20. But no return has been made to the
writ; and it appears by the affidavit of the district attorney,
filed with the motion, that the writ of error was duly served on
the clerk of the supreme court of the State, and that he was informed by the said clerk that the court had directed him to make
no return to the writ of error.
Upon this" state of facts the attorney-general has made the
motion above mentioned.
The writ of error, without doubt, was rightfully issued from
this court, to carry into execution the appellate powers confided
to it by the constitution and laws of the United States; and it
was the duty of the clerk to obey it, and to send a transcript of
the record and proceedings therein mentioned, together with the
writ of error, to this court at the present term. And certainly
the order of no other tribunal will justify an officer in disobeying
the process of this court lawfully issued.
The refusal of the clerk, however, cannot prevent the exercise
of the appellate powers of this court; and the court will take
such order in the case, as will enable it to fulfil the duties imposed upon it.
But in a matter of so much gravity and importance, we deem
it proper, before any other proceeding is had, to lay a rule upon
the clerk to make the return required by the writ of error, on or
before the first day of the next term of this court; or to show
cause, if any he hath, to excuse or justify his neglect or refusal
to obey the writ.
The motion to docket the case is, therefore, continued over to
the next term, and the court will make the following order:Rule.
It having been suggested and shown to this court by the attorney-general of the United States, that the writ of error heretofore allowed and awarded by the chief justice of the supreme
court of the United States, and which issued out of this court,
pursuant to the several acts of congress in such case made and
provided, directed to the supreme court of the State of Wisconsin, requiring the record and proceedings of the said supreme
court of the State of Wisconsifi in the matter of Sherman M.
Booth, for a writ of habeas corpus and to be discharged from
imprisonment, to be sent to this court, has not been returned
pursuant to the exigency of the said writ: It is thereupon ordered, that the clerk of said supreme court
of the State of Wisconsin do make due return of the said writ
of error, pursuant to the mandate therein contained, and according to the laws of the United States in that behalf, on or before

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

479

Ableman v. Booth.

the first day of the term of this court next to be holden at the
city of Washington, on the first Monday of December, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, or
then and there show cause why such return has not been made
in conformity to law. And it is further ordered that a copy of
this rule be served on the said clerk on or before the first day
of August next.

STEPHEN V. R.ABLEmAN, PLFF. IN ER.,

v./
SHERMAN M. BOOTH.

No. 35.-In

error to the

supreme court of the
State of Wisconsin.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon looking into the transcript in this case, we find that the
questions of constitutional law which it involves arose in a prelininary proceeding in the case between the same parties, of
which we have just spoken. In that case, the whole .subject
was disposed of in the state court, and the principal question
in it is precisely the same with that which is presented in this,
which the attorney-general proposes to argue. The two cases
ought to be argued together. It would hardly be proper for the
court, where questions of so much interest are concerned, to
hear a portion of them at one term and a portion of them at
another. All of the questions which are involved in the two
cases have grown out of one transaction, and depend upon the
same facts, and it is impossible to decide one without disposing
of the principal question in the other. The court, therefore,
will not hear the argument in these cases separately. They
must be argued together. And as the principal case is not before the court in a form that will enable the court to hear it at
the present term, this preliminary portion of it must be continued until the next term, to be argued when the whole subject
is ready for hearing.

