DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

463

Goslee et al. v. Shute's Executor et al.

This report was duly made in conformity with the order, and
the counsel for the respective parties filed at the time a written
declaration waiving all exceptions to any part of said account
or vouchers, and stating that they do not mean to except to said
report, nor desire any further time to examine or except to it;
whereupon the report was confirmed by this court.
It can hardly be expected, after this deliberate proceeding by
the court to ascertain the costs and expenses attending the trial
and hearing of the case, and the opportunity of the counsel for
the respective parties at the time to scrutinize the several items
of the account, their attendance before the master, and, after the
proper scrutiny, entering into and filing an express written
waiver of exceptions to the taxation and solemn recognition of
its justice and propriety, that the court will open the question
for a re-examination, or can desire any further inquiry into or
review of the matter thus disposed of. There must be an end
of litigation. We are not only satisfied that the party applicant
for a review of the question has already had full opportunity to
present his objections to the bill of costs, and, indeed, has
already availed himself of the benefit of it, but are also satisfied
with the order and judgment of the court heretofore given in the
premises.
The motion for bill of review, and also for re-taxation of
costs, is denied.

JAbmES W. GOSLEE, DUNCAN B. FRIERSON, HANNIBAL S. BLOOD,
AND JOHN GOODRICH, OWNERS OF THE STEAM1BOAT AUTOCRAT,
LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. THEODORE SHUTE, EXECUTOR
OF MARIA SHUTE, DECEASED, AND MARY A. SHUTE, OWNERS
AND OLAIAIAMTS OF THE STEAMER MAGNOLIA.

a4
In a collision which occurred upon the Mississippi River between an ascending and
descending steamboat, whereby the former was destroyed, the collision was chiefly
owing to the neglect, by the ascending boat, of the rule which requires the ascending boat to keep near the right bank and the descending one to keep near the middle
of the river.
Moreover, the ascending boat had not a sufficient watch, and in other respects its

officers were to blame.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court held that both boats were in fault, and
divided the damages, and ordered judgment to be entered against
The Magnolia for $17,900.

464

SUPREME
Goslec et al. v.

COURT.

Shute's Executor ct al.

From this decision both parties appealed to the circuit court,
where the judgment of the district court was reversed, and the
libel dismissed with costs. The libellants, who were owners of
The Autocrat, appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Sargent and Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants, on whose side was also filed an argument by Mr. Pike.
For the appellees, it was argued by.Mr. Benjamin.
Mr. Justice MoLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty, from the circuit court for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
The libellant charges, that on a trip from New Orleans to
Memphis in the steamer Autocrat, with a full cargo and a great
number of passengers, The Magnolia ran into her, forward of the
wheel on her larboard side, which caused her to sink in less
than ten minutes; by which the boat and cargo were lost, and
the lives of several passengers.
On the hearing in the district court, it was held that both boats
were in fault; and, under the well-established rule of the admiralty, the damage was divided. From that decision an appeal
was taken to the circuit court, which reversed the decree of the
district court. The appeal now before us is from the circuit
court.
As usual, in collision cases, there is some conflict among the
witnesses in regard to the facts of the case, as well as to matters
of opinion.
On the 9th of February, 1852, the steamboat Magnolia, descending the Mississippi River, one hundred miles above New
Orleans, about five o'clock in the morning, landed to wood, on
the left bank of the river, at a place called Col. Robinson's woodyard. Before the boat left the wood-yard, when the pilot was
on deck and about to take the helm, his attention was called to
an ascending boat, which was near Bayou Goula, a mile and a
half or two miles below. When first seen, the ascending boat
was running to the right bank of the river.
There is a bar on the left side of the river about a mile below
the wood-yard. The course of ascending boats is to cross into
the bend, just above Bayou Goula, and keep up the right shore
some six or seven miles. This course was taken by The Autocrat, averaging, generally, less than one hundred yards from the
right shore.
On leaving the wood-yard, The Magnolia backed out on both
wheels, her bow being fast on the shore; as she came off both
engines were stopped, and then the boat went ahead on both
wheels to check her up. As soon as this was done, her stern
being opposite the wood-yard, the larboard engine was stopped,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

465

Goslee et al. v. Shute's Executor et al.

to let her come round by the action of the starboard wheel. The
Autocrat continued up the right bank until she came opposite,
or nearly opposite, to Col. Butler's residence. At this place she
was within less than one hundred yards of the shore, when she
changed her course to the left shore, nearly in the direction of
the wood-yard which had a few minutes before been left by The
Magnolia. The river at this place is about three quarters of a
mile wide.
In rounding, The Magnolia passed the middle of the river, but
as her bow was thrown down the stream, The Autocrat, turning
suddenly to the right, approached her with a speed of some ten
or twelve miles an hour. As The Autocrat approached, by a tap
of the bell she signified her intention to cross to the left bank,
and before the bow of The Magnolia, whose bell was rung two
taps, indicating the same direction. Seeing the imminent danger,
The Magnolia rang her bells to back; and it is stated by her pilot,
that when the collision happened she lay upon the water, not
having a descending movement of more than at the rate of a
mile or a mile and a half to the hour. The Autocrat struck her
with so much force as to turn her bow up the stream. In less
than ten minutes The Autocrat sunk in deep water. It was not
more than five minutes after The Magnolia left the wood-yard,
until the collision occurred. The pilot says The Magnolia was
brought round, as soon as could be done, by the action of her
starboard wheel.
The nose of The Magnolia struck The Autocrat's guard near
the forward part of the cylinder, on the larboard side, and the
hull, at the other end of the cylinder, and brought up in her
wheel. The collision took place not far from the middle of the
river, somewhat nearer to the right bank than to the left. After
the boats were separated, the machinery of The Autocrat continued to work for a few minutes, her course being directed to
the right bank, on reaching which, she went down.
Entire accuracy of witnesses as to the direction and position
of the boats in a case of collision at night, is not to be expected.
The peril is too great and absorbing to note and detail the events
as they transpired, by the officers and hands of either boat. The
leading facts being ascertained by the weight of the testimony,
when properly considered, will lead to a more just result than by
a minute examination of the evidence.
What was the duty of the respective boats, when they first
came within view of each other? The Magnolia was at the woodyard on the left bank of the river; The Autocrat was near Bayou
Goula, crossing over to the right bank of the river, about a mile
and a half below the wood-yard.
Although there is some contrariety of evidence in regard to

466

SUPREME

COURT.

Goslee et al. v. Shute's Executor et al.

the usage which should govern the respective boats, occupying
the positions above stated, yet the weight of the evidence clearly
establishes the rule, that the ascending boat should keep near
the right bank and the descending one about in the middle of
the river. Each boat was bound to keep a vigilant and competent watch, and to slacken the speed of the boat and stop it, as
the danger becomes imminent. This is dictated by a common
prudence of a qualified pilot.
The principal fact relied-on to show fault in The Magnolia is,
that she left the wood-yard, and described too large a circle in
rounding; that the larboard wheel should have made backwater,
which would have reduced the circle and have thrown the bow
down the stream in less time.
After a misfortune has happened, it is easy to see how it might
have been avoided. If The Magnolia had remained at the woodyard some eight or ten minutes longer, there could have been no
collision. But this is not a fair mode of trying the case. Had
the officers of The Magnolia a right to expect that The Autocrat
would not depart from her course; and if she had not done so,
could the boats have come in contact? It is clear, if the ascending boat had continued near the right bank of the river, there
would have been no collision. This is an important fact. Admit that The Magnolia passed the middle of the stream in rounding, still ample space was left for the ascending boat. One third
or even one fourth of the river, the water being deep, was sufficient for this purpose.
The testimony shows that at least
one third of the river, along the right bank, was open for The
Autocrat.
But it is said that the pilot of The Autocrat, seeing The Magnolia was rounding off from the wood-yard, had a right to conclude that it intended to cross over to the right bank. This was
a little after five o'clock in the morning; daylight was breaking,
but the stars had not disappeared.
Being acquainted with the locality of the wood-yard, and the
general course of the river, the pilot of The Autocrat must be
presumed to know that a large boat could not round in a narrow
circle. His inference would naturally be, that the boat was
rounding from the wood-yard, and not to cross the stream. But
admit that the direction of The Magnolia was doubtful -it
was
the duty of the officers of The Autocrat to slacken her speed, and
even to stop her engines, until those doubts were removed. No
such precautions were used. The Autocrat, by a great pressure
of steam, was propelled onward, changing her course; and in
attempting to pass the bow of The Magnolia, came in contact
with her. Her pilot had hoped, it seems, to pass her stern; but
to any prudent man, either attempt would have been considered

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

467

Wood et al. v. Davis.

a dangerous experiment. His great error, however, consisted in
leaving the way established by usage; such to him would have
been the way of safety. Evdry deviation from it, in meeting a
boat, is always hazardous, and often fatal.
There was another defect, in not having an efficient watch on
The Autocrat. This is indispensable, especially in navigating
our western rivers. The captain was asleep; the watchman did
not occupy the proper position; there, in fact, was no watch to
direct or advise the pilot; he seems to have been left to the exercise of his own judgment, unaided by suggestions or facts
from any quarter. This is enough to charge The Autocrat with
fault.
Leaving the wood-yard by The Magnolia, under the circumstances, was not charged as a fault in the libel, nor was it so
stated in the protest. The Magnolia had an efficient watch at
the proper place for observation, and an experienced pilot. She
rounded in the ordinary way. While the pilot of The Autocrat
was a mile from The Magnolia, he ascertained that she was a descending boat. Still under the impression that she intended to
run down the right bank, the course of The Autocrat was so
changed across the river, in the direction of the wood-yard as
to bring the boats in conflict. Had the pilot of The Autocrat
designed to produce a collision, he could not have taken a different course from the one he did take. From intimidation, or
some other cause, he showed a culpable defect of judgment, and
a disregard of the established usage.
The Magnolia seems to have taken every precaution she was
required to take to avoid the collision. She was in her proper
place, near the middle of the river, moving down the stream
with less force than the current. If The Autocrat had met the
crisis with the same precaution, a collision could have caused
little or no damage.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL dissented.

RICHARD

D. WOOD, JOHN YARRow, JAMES ABBOTT, AND JOSEPH

BACON, COPARTNERS UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF WOOD,
APPELLANTS, v. ALEXANDER C.
COMPANY,
ABBOTT,
AND

DAVIS.
Where a bill in chancery was filed in a state court, by a citizen of that State, against
parties, some of whom resided in that State and some in another State, and the latter removed the cause into the circuit court of the United States; and that court,

