DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

• 199

Craighead et al. v. J. E. and A. Wilson.

aries, that should chance to be found vacant, after the private
claims had been acted on and confirmed, or rejected.
As respected these private rights and pretensions, congress
reserved to itself the power to deal with them by such means as
were deemed appropriate; and by the course of action it prescribed, General Lafayette was compelled to abide. The case of
West v..Cochran (17 How. 403) lays down the governing rule
on the subject.
The courts of justice have no power to revise what congress,
or commissioners acting by its authority, have done in their confirmations of the titles here assailed. Against the United States
these confirmations are conclusive, and they are equally so
against General Lafayette; this being a condition imposed on
his location by the act of 1805, above quoted, and which is
affirmed in his patent. Titles, covering the lands sought to be
recovered by the petitioners below, were confirmed to others
before the patent to General Lafayette was issued, which appears by documents found in the record. But, if these documents were wanting, we are of opinion that the patent, and the
figurative plan, with the designations on it, where the private
confirmed titles and the vacant lands are laid down on the plot,
and noted as private property or as vacant, furnish evidence that
nothing passed by the grant but the lands noted as being vacant.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment in thie circuit court be
affirmed in the respective cases cited in the caption.

JOHN

B.

CRAIGHEAD ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH E.

AND

ALEXANDER WILSON.
Where a case in chancery was referred to a master to state accounts between the plaintiffs and defendants, to ascertain how much property remained in the hands of the
latter, and how much had been sold, with the prices; to make allowances to the
defendants for payments made or incumbrances dischirged, and to ascertain what
might be due from either defendant to the plaintiffs, this was not such a final decree
as could be appealed from to this court.
Although the decree settles the equities of the bill, yet the amount to be distributed
amongst the parties depends upon the facts to be reported by the master ; and until
the allotment to each one of the share to which he might be entitled, .the decree
cannot be considered as final.

Tmis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States,
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
There were briefs filed in this case by Mr. .Robertson and Mr:
Taylor, for the appellants, and by 11r. Benjamin and Mr. .anin,
for the appellees; but the question of jurisdiction was not raised.
1;Q '

200

SUPREME COURT.
Craighead et al. v. J. E. and A. Wilson.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
During the opening argument of this case, doubts were suggested whether the decree of the circuit court was final within
the act of congress, and the attention of the court was directed
to that question.
The complainants filed their bill in the circuit court, claiming
as heirs a part of the property of Joseph and Lavinia Erwin,
deceased. Erwin died in 1829, in the parish of Iberville, having
made his will in 1828. His property, real and personal, was
much embarrassed ; the persons claiming an interest in the succession were numerous; and, from the loose manner in which
the property was managed by the testator in his lifetime, and by
those who succeeded him, great difficulty was found in the distribution of the estate.
The circuit court, having ascertained the heirship of the claimants and their relative rights in the succession, referred the matter to a special master, "to take an account of the successions
of the said Joseph Erwin, sen., Joseph Erwin, jr., and Lavinia
Erwin, in so far as it may be necessary to state the accounts between the plaintiffs and the heirs at law, defendants in this suit,
to ascertain the property in kind that remains in the possession
and control of either of the defendants, except Adams and
Whiteall, as aforesaid- what has been sold, and the 'prices of
the same and the profits thereof; and he will report all the
encumbrances that have been discharged by either of the defendants on the same, and make to them all just allowances for
payments, and permanent and useful improvements, and just
expenses, and to ascertain what may be due to the said plaintiffs
from either defendant; and the said master may make a special
report of any matters that may be requisite to a full adjustment
of the questions in the cause."
By the 22d section of the judiciary act of 1789, it is provided,
that final decrees of the circuit court, where the amount in controversy exceeds two thousand dollars, may be brought before
this court by an appeal. The law intended that one appeal
should settle the matter in controversy between the parties ; and
this would be the result in all cases where the appeal is taken
on a final decree, unless it should be reversed or modified by this
court.
The cases are numerous which have been dismissed on the
ground that the appeals were taken from interlocutory decrees.
In Perkins v. Fourniquet, 6 How. 206, it was held, "where the
circuit court decreed that the complainants were entitled to two
sevenths of certain property, and referred the matter to a master

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

201

Craighead et al. v. J. E. and A. Wilson.

in chancery, to take and report an account of it, and then reserved all other matters in controversy between the parties until
the coming in of the master's report,.' was not a final decree on
which an appeal could be taken. And, in the same volume,
209, Pulliam et al. v. Christian, where "a decree of the circuit
court, setting aside a deed made by a bankrupt before his bankruptcy; directing the trustees under the deed to deliver over to
the assignee in bankruptcy all the property remaining undisposed of in their hands, but without deciding how far the trustees might be liable to the assignee for the proceeds of sales
previously made and paid away to the creditors; directing an
account to be taken of these last-mentioned sums in order to a
final decree," was held not to be a final decree, and the appeal
was dismissed.
The above cases are sufficient to show the grounds on which
appeals in chancery are dismissed. To authorize an appeal, the
decree must be final in all matters within the pleadings, so that
an affirmance of the decree will end the suit. To apply this test,
in all cases, cannot be difficult.
In no legal sense of the term, is the decree nov" before us a
final one. The basis of the decree, embracing the equities in
the bill, is found, but the distribution among the parties in interest depends upon the facts to be reported by the master. It is
his duty, under the interlocutory decree, to balance the equities
by ascertaining what has been expended on the property, and
what has been received by each of the claimants; and also every
other matter which should have a bearing and influence in the
distribution of the property. Until the court shall have acted
upon this'report and sanctioned it, giving to each of the devisees
his share of the estate under the will, the decree is not final.
There may be cases in which the attention of the court has
not been drawn to the character of the decree appealed from ;
but such an inadvertence cannot constitute an exception to the
rule. The decision of the court, under the law, establishes the
rule which must govern in appeals from the circuit courts.
The case of Whiting v. Bank of the United States, 13 Peters,
6, is supposed to conflict with the above rule; but that was a
decree of foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged premises. This
was held to be a final decree, the order for sale having an effect
similar to that of an execution on a judgment.
The case of Michaud et al. v. Girod et al. 4 How. 503, was
an interlocutory decree in the circuit court, and which case,
being appealed, was heard and decided by this court. But,
from the report, there appears to have been no exception taken
to the appeal, and it may be presumed to have escaped the notice
of the court.

202

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

The case of Forgay et al. v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, was an appeal from an interlocutory decree, which was sustained, though
objected to. But this deoision was made under the peculiar
circumstances of that case. The decree was, that certain deeds
should be set aside as fraudulent and void; that certain'lands
and slaves should be delivered up to the complainant; that one
of the defendants should pay a certain sum of money to the
complainant; that the complainant should have execution for
these several matters; that the master should take an account
of the profits of the lands and slaves, and also an account of
certain money and notes, and then said decree concluded as
follows, viz.: "And so much of said bill as contains or relates
to matters hereby referred to the master for a report, is retained
for further decree in the premises," &c.
It will be observed, that two deeds for lots in New Orleans
were declared to be null and void, and certain slaves owned by
Forgay, one of the appellants, were directed to be sold on execution, as also the real estate and the proceeds distributed among
the bankrupt's creditors; and if the defendants principally interested could not take an appeal until the return of the master,
their property, under the decree, would have been disposed of
beyond the reach of the appellate court, so that an appeal would
be useless. This was the principal ground on which the appeal
was sustained, although it was stated that this part of the decree
was final.
The court say: "The decree upon these matters might and
ought to have awaited the master's report; and when the accounts were before the court, then every matter in dispute might
have been adjudicated in one final decree ; and if either party
thought himself aggrieved, the whole matter would be brought
here and decided in one appeal, and the object and policy of the
acts of congress upon this subject carried into effect."
The decree before us is not final, consequently it must be dismissed.

JAMES

A.

ABBOTT AND HANNAH K., ms WIFE, DMIANDANTS AND
THE ESSEX COmPANY, TENANTS.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v.

The following clause in a will, namely: "I give to my two sons, viz. John and Jacob,
all my lands, &c., live stock, &c., tools, &c., bonds, &c., to be equally divided between them, and the executor is ordered to pay debts out of that part of the estate.
Item. -It is my will that if either of my said sons, John and Jacob, should happen
to die without any lawful heirs of their own, then the share of him who may tirst
decease shall accrue to the other survivor and his heirs," gave an estate in fee simple to John and Jacob, and the share of the one who first died without issue passe
over to the other son by way of executory devise.

