DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

467

Wood et al. v. Davis.

a dangerous experiment. His great error, however, consisted in
leaving the way established by usage; such to him would have
been the way of safety. Evdry deviation from it, in meeting a
boat, is always hazardous, and often fatal.
There was another defect, in not having an efficient watch on
The Autocrat. This is indispensable, especially in navigating
our western rivers. The captain was asleep; the watchman did
not occupy the proper position; there, in fact, was no watch to
direct or advise the pilot; he seems to have been left to the exercise of his own judgment, unaided by suggestions or facts
from any quarter. This is enough to charge The Autocrat with
fault.
Leaving the wood-yard by The Magnolia, under the circumstances, was not charged as a fault in the libel, nor was it so
stated in the protest. The Magnolia had an efficient watch at
the proper place for observation, and an experienced pilot. She
rounded in the ordinary way. While the pilot of The Autocrat
was a mile from The Magnolia, he ascertained that she was a descending boat. Still under the impression that she intended to
run down the right bank, the course of The Autocrat was so
changed across the river, in the direction of the wood-yard as
to bring the boats in conflict. Had the pilot of The Autocrat
designed to produce a collision, he could not have taken a different course from the one he did take. From intimidation, or
some other cause, he showed a culpable defect of judgment, and
a disregard of the established usage.
The Magnolia seems to have taken every precaution she was
required to take to avoid the collision. She was in her proper
place, near the middle of the river, moving down the stream
with less force than the current. If The Autocrat had met the
crisis with the same precaution, a collision could have caused
little or no damage.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL dissented.

RICHARD

D. WOOD, JOHN YARRow, JAMES ABBOTT, AND JOSEPH

BACON, COPARTNERS UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF WOOD,
APPELLANTS, v. ALEXANDER C.
COMPANY,
ABBOTT,
AND

DAVIS.
Where a bill in chancery was filed in a state court, by a citizen of that State, against
parties, some of whom resided in that State and some in another State, and the latter removed the cause into the circuit court of the United States; and that court,

SUPREME

COURT.

Wood et al. v. Davis.
after answer filed, remanded it to the state court, this order was, under the circumstances of the case, erroneous.
The real parties in interest were those who resided out of the State. The circumstance that other and formal parties were joined with them in the bill, cannot oust

the federal courts of jurisdiction.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the northern district of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. St. George T. Campbell and M1r.
BrowniiW, for the appellants, and Mr. Carlisle, for the defendant.
The argument turned chiefly upon the point, whether Foster
and Stohl, who held the deed, and Hooper and Campbell, who
held the note, were real or nominal parties in the cause.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the northern district of Illinois.
Davis, a citizen resident of Illinois, filed a bill in the 14th judicial circuit of that State, in chancery, against the appellants,
citizens and residents of Pennsylvania, and four other persons
who will be more particularly noticed hereafter, setting out various dealings and business transactions between the complainant
and the appellants, under the firm of Wood, Abbott, and Co.,
from the year 1843 down to the year 1849. That in October of
the latter year, the firm, claiming to be largely in advance to the
complainant, sent one of the partners to his place of business for
the purpose of procuring a settlement of the accounts, and security for the balance of indebtedness. The balance was ascertained
to be'some $29,000, the payment of whiclh was eventually secured by the conveyance of certain parcels of real estate; the
firm, at the same time, entering into an agreement to resell and
reconvey the same for the amount of the debt and interest, in
one, two, three, and four years. The complainant also gave his
notes for the amount for the purchase-money. All the notes
have been paid, and parcels of the land reconveyed from time
to time, except the last note of $6,000, and the parcels of land
retained as security for its payment.
This note having become due, the firm of Wood, Abbott, and
Co., the appellants, transmitted it and a deed of the land to
Foster and Stohl, with directions to collect the money, and on
receipt of the same to deliver the deed to the complainant. The
note having been presented for payment, it was refused, upon
which they placed it in the hands of Hooper and Campbell,
attorneys at law, for collection. The bill in this case was filed

DECEMBER T.ERM, 1855.

469

Wood et al. v. Davis.

against Wood, Abbott, and Co., the appellants, Stohl and Foster,
the agents, and Hooper and Campbell, the attorneys, setting out
the facts substantially as above stated, together with the additional charges that the account presented by the firm of Wood,
Abbott, and Co. was overcharged and fraudulently made up, and
that a much less balance was due to them than the amount
secured upon a fair and equitable adjustment. The bill avers
that Stohl and Foster had no interest in the transaction except to
receive the money on the note, and to deliver the deed as agents
of Wood, Abbott, and Co.; and that Hooper and Campbell have
no interest, except as attorneys for the collection of the note.
There is a prayer for subpoena against all the defendants, and for
answers; also, that an account be taken between the complainant
and Wood, Abbot, and Co.; and the note be given up, and the
deed be delivered to complainant; that an injunction be issued,
enjoining Stohl and Foster, and Hooper and Campbell, from delivering over the note to the appellants.
The firm of Wood, Abbott, and Co. entered their appearance
at November term, 1853, and petitioned the court, under the 12th
section of the judiciary act, for a removal of the cause to the circuit court of the United States, on the ground that they were
citizens and residents of the State of Pennsylvania, which application was granted.
The appellants, afterwards, in April, 1854, filed an answer to
the bill in the circuit court of the United States; and on the 29th
of June, 1855, that court ordered the cause to be remanded back
to the state court from which it was sent.
The case is now here on an appeal from that order.
The ground upon which the cause was remanded is, that four
of the defendants were citizens of the State of Illinois -namely,
Stohl and Foster, and Hooper and Campbell - the same State of
which the complainant was a citizen. And this presents the
question whether or not these defendants wdre parties in interest
in the subject of litigation, or, in other words, were proper or
necessary parties in the suit. It has been repeatedly decided by
this court, that formal parties, or nominal parties, or parties
without interest, united with the real parties to the litigation,
cannot oust the federal courts of jurisdiction, if the citizenship, or
character of the real parties, be such as to confer it within the
11th section of the judiciary act. 7 Cranch, 98; 8 Ib. 267; 8
Wheat. 421; 5 Cranch, 303.
It would be difficult to state a case of parties more destitute
of interest, or in which they were used merely as formal parties,
than in the case of these defendants. Stohli and Foster were
simply agents of Wood, Abbott, and Co., with special instructions
in which the complainant had no participation, and which could
VOL. XVUI.

40

470

SUPREME COURT.
Fouvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans et al.

be recalled at any time before carried into execution; and, until
carried into execution, the complainant certainly could set up
no right under them, much less a right in disregard and defiance
of them. Even if the state .court had gone on and decreed
against these defendants, and compelled a surrender of the
note, or a delivery of the deed in the absence of the principals,
it could not have extinguished the note, or have transferred the
title to the land, as the decree could have had no binding effect
upon them. Before the surrender could extinguish the note, or
the delivery could have the effect to pass the estate in the land,
the decree must operate upon the principals, the real parties in
interest, and coerce them to make such surrender or delivery.
The agents had no authority to represent them in the litigation.
Nor had they any interest of their own in the subject in controversy. This is not the case of a stakeholder, or holder of a deed
as an esQrow, where a trust has been created by the parties which
is sought to be enforced by one of them. In all such cases the
trustee may be a proper party, as he has a duty to perform,
and which the court may enforce if improperly neglected or
refused.
The above view applies with equal if not greater force to the
case of the attorneys.
Even if there could be any doubt about the correctness of the
view above taken, after the real parties in interest appeared and
took upon themselves the defence, the defendants, Stohl and Foster, and Hooper and Campbell, were no longer parties in interest,
or necessary parties, as the possession of the note and of the deed
by the agents and the attorneys, was, in judgment of law, the
possession of the principals and clients, and any decree or injunction against them would bind the agents or attorneys. 6 Ves.
143; I Mer. 123; 1 Daniel's Pr. 343; 7 Hare, 428; Story Eq.
P1. §§ 229, 231, 232.
We are satisfied that the decision of the court below was erroneous, and that the order remanding the cause to the state court
must be reversed, and the cause restored to its place in the circuit court of the United States.

EuPHRosImN FOUVERGNE ET AL. APPELLANTS, v. THE MUNICIPALITY No. 2, OF THE CITY OF NEW ORLEANS ET AL.
Where a will was established in New Orleans, in 1792, by order of the alcalde, an officer who bad jurisdiction over the subject-matter, his decree must be considered as a
judicial act, not now to be called into question.

