DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

109

Curtis et al. v. Petitpain et al.

the surety on the appeal bond, which more than covered his decree, including interest and cost.
The condition of the appeal bond was "for the prosecution
of said appeal to effect, and to answer all damages and costs,
if" there should be a failure to make the plea good in the supreme court. There was a failure to do this, and the penalty
of the bond was incurred. Whatever hardship may be in this
case is common to all sureties who incur responsibility and have
money to pay. Beyond that of a faithful application of the
proceeds of the land in payment of the decree, the appellants
have no equity. They cannot place themselves in the relation
of two creditors having claims on a common fund, which may
be distributed pro rata between them. Pintard has a claim on
both funds; first, on the proceeds of the land, and second, on
the judgment entered on the appeal bond for the satisfaction of
the original decree.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, with costs.

Louis CURTIS, BENJAMIN

CURTIS, JOHN L. HUBBARD, JAMES
D. B. CURTIS, AND HENRY A. BOORAINE, PLAINTIFFS IN ER-

ROR, V. MADAME THERESE PETITPAIN, WIFE OF VICTOR
FESTE, AND MANDERVILLE MARIGNY) LATE UNITED STATES

MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Where the record contains only an agreed statement of facts, it is not in conformity
with the eleventh and thirty-first rules of this court, and the case will be dismissed.
Where different; parties claimed a fund in the hands of the marshal, which had
arisen from sales under an execution, a judgment of the circuit court on rules
as to whom the money should be paid, is not such a judgment as can be re-examined
in this court.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hr. Taylor, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr.Benjamin for the defendants.
The point of practice, upon which the case went off,
raised by ilfr. Benjamin, who contended that the transcript
not such a complete record as was requh'ed by the 11th
31st rules of court.
The points made relating to the merits of the cause
omitted.

was
was
and
are

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL. XVII.

10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

The record certified in this cause consists of "an agreed statement of facts," which the parties submitted to the court on the
rules taken by the plaintiffs against the defendants, and the
judgment rendered thereon, and a judgment rendered on a motion
for a new trial, being the proceedings after the submission of
the case.
The case stated is, that the plaintiffs recovered a judgment
against Victor Feste in the circuit court of the United States.
That an execution issued thereon, and a seizure was made of
immovable as well as movable property; which was sold, and
the proceeds held by the marshal.
While these proceedings were pending, Madame Feste recovered, in one of the state courts, a decree against her husband,
Victor Feste, for the separation of property and the amount of
dowry brought in marriage; and thereupon served a notice upon
the marshal, claiming to have satisfaction of her legal mortgage,
in preference to the execution creditor, from the moneys in his
hands, and obtained a rule from the court requiring him to
answer her claim. The plaintiffs, upon their part, (as the case
btates,) also obtained a rule, to enforce the payment of the money
to them on their execution. To settle these conflicting claims
was the object of the agreed case thus submitted to the court.
Two questions arise in lirnine, either of which is, in our
opinion, decisive of this cause: 1st. That this is not such a
transcript as will satisfy the 11th and 31st rules of this court,
under the decision of Keene v. Whittaker, 13 Pet. 459; and, 2d,

that this is not such a judgment as this court can re-examine,
according to the principle of Bayard v. Lombard, 9 How. 530.
And we agree with the defendants upon both these questions.
The cause is dismissed with costs.

JECKER, TORRE, AND CO., ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE CARGO OF
THE SHIP ADMITTANCE, AND FESSENDEN AND FAY, CLAIMANTS

OF THE SHIP ADMITTANCE, V. JOHN B. MONTGOIERY,

LIBEL-

LANT.
In a state of war, the nations who are engaged in it, and all their citizens or subjects, are enemies to each bther. Hence, all intercourse or communication between
them is unlawful.
Cases mentioned, by way of illustration, in which property of a subject or citizen,
| found trading with an enemy, has been adjudged to be forfeited as prize.
The interposition of a neutral'port through which the property is to pass, does not
prevent it from being confiscated.
In the present case, the evidence shows that the owners of the ship and cargo knew
that the destination of the voyage was to an enemy's port. Even if the owner of the

