SUPREME COURT.
Sturgess v. Harrold. Buckley v. Harrold.

it must, of necessity, address itself to the executive or legislative
power.
The district court, having entered the decree as directed, had
no jurisdiction to take any further step in the cause. It follows
that the executive department must determine for itself whether
any law exists authorizing that branch of the government to ascertain and survey the land, and issue a patent for it, by which the
title of the United States will be devested, and transferred to
the grantee.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern district of California, filed by the appellee, John 0. Fremont, and,
on the motion of Messrs. Crittenden and Bibb, of counsel for
the appellee, to docket and dismiss this appeal, pursuant to the
63d rule of this court, and was argued by counsel, as well against
as in support of the said motion. On consideration whereof, it
appearing to this court that the appellants have altogether failed
to prosecute their appeal pursuant to the rules of this court.
And, also, as the mandate only was entered on the records of
the district court, no action being had thereon, that there was no
ground for an appeal in this cause from the said district court,
it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that this appeal be and the same is hereby docketed and
dismissed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court, with directions to proceed
therein according to law and in conformity to this decision.
And it is further ordered by this court here, that the clerk do
forthwith issue a writ of procedendo in this cause to the said
district court.

Ex

PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LATHROP L. STURGESS V. CHRISTIAN HARROLD. ALSO, GEORGE BucKLEY V. CHRISTIAN HARROLD.

A certificate from the clerk of the circuit court, that he cannot make out the record in
time to comply with the 63d rule of this court, does not furnish a sufficient reason
for an extension of the time prescribed by that rule.

Mr. Lawrence, of counsel for the plaintiffs in error in these
cases, filed certificates of the clerk of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, stating that
judgments were entered against the plaintiffs in error in that
court, on the 16th day of November, 1855, and that writs of

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

41

Sturgess v. Harrold. Buckley v. Harrold.

error were duly applied for, and allowed on the 21st of November, 1855, returnable to the December term, 1855, of the supreme
court of the United States. The certificates further stated that
the clerk could not, consistently'with the other duties of his office, make out and have ready the transcripts of the records and
proceedings at the opening of the term of the supreme court, nor
within less than ninety days thereafter.
Whereupon, 31r. Lawrence applied for an extension of time
under the 63d rule of this court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
In the above cases writs of error were allowed on the 21st
day of November last, the judgments having been entered on
the 16th of that month. The clerk of the circuit court certifies
that he cannot, consistently with the other duties of his office,
make out and have ready the transcript of the record and proceedings in the said causes, in time for the same to reach Washington City at the opening of the term of the supreme court, nor
within less than ninety days. thereafter.
On this statement of the clerk, a motion is made for longer
time to certify the record.
At the December term, 1853, this court adopted a rule requiring, where a judgment or decree was entered thirty days
before the succeeding term of this court, that the writ of error
or appeal should be entered on the record of this court, and the
record filed within the first six days of the term. But if less
than thirty days intervene between the entry of the judgment
or decree and the sitting of this court, the case should be entered
on the docket of this court, and the record filed, within thirty
days from the commencement of the term.
The above rule was adopted to prevent unnecessary and improper delays, in prosecuting writs of error or appeals in this
court from the inferior courts. Thirty days from the commencement of this term affords ample time to the clerk, to make out
and forward the records in the above cases. -The rules of this
court can, in no respect, depend upon the convenience of the
clerks of the inferior courts.
Extension denied, and motion overruled.

