DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

89

McCready at al. v. Goldsmith et al.

reserved to a Creek warrior should be offered for sale by the
register of the land-office, unless specially directed by the secretary of the treasury. Both by the treaty and the act of congress
it was declared that if the Indian abandoned the reserved land,
it became forfeited to the United States. The fact of abandonment, the secretary was authorized to decide, and if he did so
find, he might then order the land to be sold as other public
lands. The rule being that the patent is evidence that all previous steps had been regularly taken to justify making of the
patent; and one of the necessary previous steps here being an
order from the secretary to the register to offer the land for sale,
because the warrior had abandoned it, we are bound to presume
that the order was given. That such is the effect, as evidence,
of the patent produced by the plaintiffs, was adjudged in the
case of Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 450, and is not open to
controversy anywhere, and the state court was mistaken in holding otherwise.
The defendant being in possession, without any title from the
United States, we deem it unnecessary to discuss the effect of
the parol proof introduced in the state circuit court to defeat the
patent.
It is therefore ordered that the judgment of the supreme court
of Alabama, be reversed.

ROBERT H. MCCREADY AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT BAY STATE, HER TACKLE, MACHINERY, &C., APPELLANTS,
v. GOLDSMITH, 'WELLS, AND OTHERS.
Where a large steamer was coming down Long Island Sound, on a foggy morning,
with a speed of sixteen or seventeen miles per hour, in the direct track of the coasting trade, and rundown a vessel which was lying at anchor, (the weather being perfectly calm,) the steamer was grossly in fault.
The vessel at anchor cannot be considered in fault for omitting to have hors blown
is notbeen
estabis done
in such would
a case have
usage whether
that thissuch
barrels
beaten.it isThe
or emptyand,
lisved;
moreover,
doubtful
a precaution
of
any service.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court decreed that the collision was caused by

the fault, want of precaution, and blamable conduct of the persons oi board of and managing each of the vessels, and ordered

the damages to be borne in equal moieties by them.
8*

Both par-

90

SUPREME OOURT.
McCready et al. v. Goldsmith et al.

ties appealed to the circuit court. Mr. Justice Nelson reversed
the decree of the district court, and ordered that the libellants
should recover against The Bay State the sum of $6,411, with
interest from the 8th of October, 1849, and costs in both courts.
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments, by Mr. Lord, for the
appellants, and Mr. Cutting, for the appellees.
The arguments of the counsel upon both sides consisted of
comments upon the facts and evidence in the cause, which it
would not be possible to explain without an abstract of the testimony.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of.the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty; in a case of collision, from a
decree of the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York.
The collision occurred on Long Island Sound, off Watch Hill
light, on the Connecticut shore, between the schooner Oriana
and the steamer Bay State, on the 18th of August, 1847, when
the former was run down and sunk. The schooner was laden
with coal, and on her way to New Bedford. The steamer was
engaged in one of her usual trips from Fall River, through the
Sound to the city of New York. On the morning of the accident the weather was thick and foggy, and so dark that a vessel
could not be seen over two or three hundred feet off, and the
wind at a dead calm. The schooner lay helpless on the water.
The steamer is a large vessel, some sixteen hundred tons bur.
den, with powerful engines, and of great speed, and was coming
down the Sound at the time at the rate of sixteen or seventeen
miles the hour. The hands on board the schooner heard the
noise of her paddle-wheels before she appeared in sight; she
was within less than her length when they could first discern
her; and she had approached within that distance of the schooner
before that Yessel was discerned by the bands on board the
steamer.
The place where this collision occurred is in the direct track
of the coasting trade between the Eastern States, New York,
and Pennsylvania, and where the waters are greatly frequented
by vessels engaged in it.
We agree, that it is not for this court to lay down any fixed
and inflexible rule as it respects the rate of speed of steam vessels
navigating these waters. This must depend upon the circumThese may justify a
stances attending each particular case.
rate deemed prudent navigation at one time, that would be
wholly unjustifiable at another. But we feel no difficulty in

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

91

McCready et al. v. Goldsmith et al.

saying, that, in a case circumstanced as the present one, a fog
so dense that the most vigilant look-out would be unable to discern a vessel at a distance of more than sixty or one hundred
yards -navigating, at the tinie, waters frequented with sailing
vessels - a rate of sixteen or seventeen miles the hour is altogether inadmissible as prudent or reasonably safe navigation.
According to the testimony of the pilot, it would take four or
five minutes to stop The Bay State at this rate of speed; at a
reduced rate, it would of course take a proportionably less time.
This, in addition to the better opportunity for each vessel approaching to adopt the proper manoeuvre to avoid the collision,
should admonish those engaged in navigating vessels of this
description, of the propriety, if not necessity, of slacking their
speed in thick weather, and especially in a track where other
water-craft are usually to be met.
Some of the officers on board this steamer, as is apparent
from the evidence, were laboring under a very imperfect appreciation of their whole duty as regarded her proper navigation.
A passenger on board, who witnessed the collision, was struck
with the impropriety of the rate of speed, and asked why they
ran so fast in a fog, and was answered that it was necessary, in
order to enable them to keep their reckoning in going from place
to place. And we learn also from the testimony of the pilot
and some others, that they make no difference in the rate of
speed in consequence of a fog; that they go slow when making
land, or a light, or in narrow passages, and when sounding the
lead, as if the only precautions they were bound to observe in
the navigation were as it respected the safety of their own
vessel.
We will only repeat what we said in the case of Newton v.
Stebbins, 10 How. 606: "1That it may be matter of convenience
that steam vessels should proceed with great rapidity; but the
law will not justify them in proceeding with such rapidity, if the
lroperty and lives of other persons are thereby endangered."
We are all atisfied that this vessel was grossly in fault, on
account of the rate of speed with which she was moving, under
the circumstances, at the time of the colli~ion.
The remaining question is, whether or not the schooner was
also in fault. And this, in the present case, depends upon
another, namely, whether she omitted any precautionary measures which she was bound to observe under the circumstances,
such as beating empty casks or blowing a fog-horn, with a view
to give notice to vessels approaching, of her position.
A good many witnesses have been examined as to the usage
of vessels navigating the Sound, in respect to the blowing of
horns, beating of empty barrels, and the like, in thick and foggy

SUPREM1E COURT.

92

United States v. Jones.

weather ; but, on looking carefully into the testimony, it will be
found that no such general or established usage has been proved.
The evidence of most of the experienced masters who have
been examined goes to disprove the prevalence of any such
usage. The practice is occasionally resorted to in the navigation of the Sound, but with what advantage or security against
accidents, does not distinctly appear. Without much more evidence of the usage, and of its utility in preventing collisions,
than is shown in this case, we cannot say that the omission to
comply with it is of itself chargeable as a fault against the
schooner. It may well be, that the use of these means should
be entitled to consideration upon a nice question of proper vigilance and caution, in a case of collision between two vessels,
like any other precautionary measure that might tend to prevent
its occurrence. Beyond this, we do not think the evidence as
disclosed in the case would justify us in carrying the effect of
the omission.
Besides, we are not satisfied, upon the evidence, that the precautionary measure of blowing horns, or ringing a fog-bell, would
have been of any avail under the circumstances of this case.
The witnesses on the part of the steamer agree that the noise
of the motion of the vessel in the water is so great that it could
be heard at a much further distance than their own fog-bell; and
several of them consider the bell useless for this reason ; and one
of them states expressly that he did not recollect ever hearing
a horn while on a steamboat when she was under way, but had
after she stopped. A horn, it is said by some of the witnesses,
cannot be heard, at the furthest, over a mile and a half; and if
so, it certainly could not be heard anything like that distance,
if at all, on board a steamboat in motion. The steamer, as we
have seen, was moving at a rate of more than a mile in four
minutes; and taking into view the size of The Bay State, with
her powerful engines, together with this rate of speed, it is quite
apparent that if a horn could have been heard at all, it could
not, upon any reasonable conclusion, in time to have materially
influenced the result.
We are satisfied the decree of the court below is right, and
should be affirmed.

THE U

FD

STATES, PLANTFS iN ERROR, v. CATESBY AP.
ROGER JONES.

Where an officer of the navy was detached on special duty in France, and a sum of
money was transmitted to him by the secretary of the navy, to be disbursed for

