530

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee,

&c.

undoubtedly entitled to recover. But the point now made was
not suggested in the argument, nor noticed in the opinion of
the court, nor was any distinction in this respect taken between
an undervaluation, in an entry at the invoice value, and an
undervaluation where the importer added to the value.
We do not refer to this case as a judicial decision of the
question before us; because, although it was in the case, the
attention of the court was not called to it. But it certainly may
fairly be inferred from it that in 1853, when this case was
decided, no doubt had been suggested as to the construction of
the act of 1846, and that the mercantile community, and the
members of the bar to whom their interests were confided, concurred with the secretary in his construction of the law. And
after that construction had been thus sanctioned, impliedly, in
a judicial proceeding in this court, and acted on for so many
years by all the parties interested, the court think it ought to be
regarded as settled, and that what has been done under it ought
not to be disturbed, even if this construction was far more
doubtful than it is. We shall therefore certify to the circuit
court: -

1. That the tariff act of March 3, 1851, repealed so much of
the former laws as provided that merchandise, when imported
from a country other than that of production or manufacture,
should be appraised at the market value of similar articles at
the principal markets of the country of production or manufacture at the period of the exportation to the United States.
2. That in estimating the value of the cutch, it was' the duty
of the appraisers to determine what were the principal markets
of the country from which it was exported into the United
States, and their decision that London and Liverpool were the
principal markets for that article is conclusive.
3. The appraisement appearing to have been legally made,
the additional duty of twenty per cent, under the 8th section of
the tariff act of July 30, 1846, was rightfully exacted by the
defendant,
ROBERT HUDGINS ET AL., APPELLANTS, v. WYNDHAM KEMP,
ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JoHN L. HUDGINS. ELLIoTT
W. HUDGINS ELT AL., APPELLANTS, v. WYNDHAM KEMP,
AssIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN L. HUDGINS.
Whsre the record, certified by the clerk of the circuit court, states that an appeal from
a decree in chancery was taken in open court, no evidence dehors the record can
be received to impeach its verity, on a motion to dismiss the appeal for want of
jurisdiction upon the ground that the case has not been regularly brought op.
If the record is defective, the errors can be corrected in several modes.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.
The distinction pointed out between appeals which operate as a supersedeas and those
which do not.
If the evidence offered were received, it would not furnish a sufficient reason for dismissing the appeal.
The -tppeal being taken orally in open court, an omission of the clerk to enter it in
the order book could not devest the party of the enjoyment of his Jtgal right to
appeal.
The mode of removing a case from an inferior to an appellate court is regulated by
acts of congress, and does not depend on the laws or practice of the State in which
the court may happen to be held.
An appeal bond may be approved of by the judge out of court.

THESE two cases were appeals from the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Virginia. Being exactly
alike, it will only be necessary to state the first.
A motion was made to dismiss the first case upon the following grounds, and was argued by Mr. Bobinson and 211r. rPalon
in support thereof, and opposed by 3r. Johnson and l/r. Lyons.
The counsel for the motion filed the following certificate

-

I, Philip Mayo, clerk of the United States court for the fourth
circuit and eastern district of Virginia, do certify that, in a suit
in chancery in the said court between Wyndham Kemp, assignee
in bankruptcy of John L. Hudgins, a bankrupt plaintiff, and Elliott W. Hudgins and John L. Hudgins, defendants, a final
decree was rendered on the twenty-seventh day of June, 1855;
that the term of the court at which the same was rendered
ended on the twenty-eighth day of that month; that afterwards
in the vacation of the said court, to wit, on the 16th of October,
1855, there was filed in my office, a writing under the hand of
R. B. Taney, judge of the said court, bearing date on the thirteenth of that month, whereby it was "ordered that the appeal
in this case, which was taken in open court when the decree
was pronounced, be entered accordingly on the order book of
the court of the last term, to wit: of May term, 1855" ; that, in
view of this order, the clerk on its being so filed wrgte on the
order book of the court, at the foot of the decree of the 27th of
June, 1855, the following words: "And from the foregoing
decree the defendants prayed an appeal, which was granted them
on giving bond and security to be approved by the court in
double the amount of said decree, conditioned for their prosecuting the said appeal"; and that at the time of filing the said vacation order of the judge, there was also filed in the clerk's office,
bond and security approved by the said judge in double the
amount of said decree, conditioned for their prosecuting the said
appeal. Given under my hand this 2 1st day of April, 1856.
P. M'AYO, Clerk.

532

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.

And then made the following points for dismissal:

-

I. It cannot take jurisdiction of the appeals as having been
allowed by the court, when the record as*it stood at the end of
the term, and as it was then signed by the presiding judge, shows
no allowance of such appeals. In Burch, &o. v. White, 3 Rand,
104, cited in 1 Rob. Pract. 642, (old edit.,) it appeared that at
the preceding term the appeal was prayed and bond and security then given; but the clerk of the court had omitted to enter
on the records thereof the appeal so granted. The supreme
court of appeals of Virginia decided that this omission could
not be remedied by an amendment of the record made after the
term had ended; and the appeal was therefore dismissed.
Though the appeal bond was filed with the clerk, it was considered there was nothing in the record to amend by. Afortiori,
it must be so in these cases, when no appeal bond was given
during the term; and there was nothing whatever to amend by.
H. If the appeal had been duly allowed, the appeal bond has
not been properly given.
Under the act of congress of March 3, 1803, (2 Story, 905,)
appeals are "subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law in cases of writs of error." One of
the rules as to a writ of error is, that it "shall be a supersedeas
and stay execution in cases only where the writ of error is served,
by a copy thereof being lodged for the adverse party in the
clerk's office, where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after rendering the judgment or passing the decree complained of." 1 Story, 61, ยง 23; Wallen v. Williams,
7 Cranch, 278. Now it is well established that an appeal in
chancery cannot operate as a supersedeas, unless the appeal be
perfected by giving an appeal bond within the ten days. Adams,
&c. v. Law, 16 How. 148. And it is clear that we are entitled
to process to carry these decrees into effect. S. C. 17 How. 417.
But perhaps it may be said that in other cases -in cases where
there is nQ supersedeas- the mode of taking the security, and
the bond for perfecting it, are matters of discretion to be
regulated by the court granting the appeal; and that when its
order is complied with, the whole has relation back to the time
when the appeal was prayed. The Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheat.
306. Still, if we are to take the regulation of the court granting
the appeal from its order on the record book of the court, even
as it now appears, since the alteration of the record, that order
has not been complied with; for according to that order, the
appeal was granted on giving bond and security, to be approved
by the court, and the bond and security given have not been
approved by the court in term, but only by the judge in vacation.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee,

533
&c.

III. If the appeals could be allowed in vacation, and could
in these cases be regarded as so allowed, still, the appeals would
be defective for want of citation and notice. Ex parte Crenshaw,
15 Pet. 119; Villabolos v. United States, 6 How. 90; Hogan v.
Ross, 9 Tb. 602.
The propriety of the rules above insisted on, is strikingly illustrated by what in fact took place in these cases; for here the
assignee, immediately after the term was ended, procured copies
of the decrees; there was nothing either in these copies or in
the record itself to inform him of there being appeals, no such
information was afterwards obtained by means of citation or
notice, and he proceeded to make sale according to the decrees.
The counsel, in opposition to the motion to dismiss, filed the
following certificates :I, P. Mayo, clerk of the United States court for the fourth
circuit and eastern district of Virginia, hereby certify that in the
case of Wyndham Kemp, assignee in bankruptcy of John L.
Hudgins, against Robert Hudgins, John L. Hudgins, Elliott W.
Hudgins, and Albert G. Hudgins, lately decided in the said
court, an appeal was granted the defendants from the decree
entered against them on the 27th of June, 1855, and that their
said appeal was entered among the minutes of the proceedings
of that day, but was omitted to be entered in the order book, by
the inadvertence of the clerk; but was subsequently entered
therein, as of the date when entered in the minutes; by the
order of Chief Justice Taney, to wit, Wednesday, June 27,
1855.
Given under my hand this 23d day of April, 1856.
P. MAYO, Olerk.
Filed, 2d

May.

Nos. 239 and 240.
In the clerk's office of the circuit court of the United States
for the fourth circuit and eastern district of Virginia.
I, P. Mayo, clerk of the circuit court of the United States for
the fourth circuit and eastern district of Virginia do hereby certify that the term of the said circuit court at which the cases of
Kemp, assignee, v. Hudgins were decided, adjourned the next
day after the decrees in those cases were entered, until the next
term of the court, and that the district judge, the Hon. James D.
Halyburton, had previously declined to sit in those cases because
45*

534

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.

he was a party interested in them. And I do further certify
that the bonds, required to be given on the appeals granted in
those cases, were filed in this office on the 16th day of October,
1855.
Given under my hand this 29th day of April, 1856.
P. MAYo, Clerk.
Filed, 2d May.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been brought up to this court by appeal from
the decree of the circuit court of the United States, from the
district of Virginia; and a motion is made on behalf of the appellee to dismiss it, upon the ground that it has not been removed in the manner the law requires, and that therefore we
have no jurisdiction over it. And certificates and statements of
the clerk, outside of the record, and given since it was certified
and transmitted to this court, have been filed as evidence of the
irregularity of the removal.
This evidence is not admissible upon the present motion. The
record transmitted to this court, certified by the clerk of the circuit court, states that the appeal was taken in open court. This
is sufficient evidence of that fact. And upon a motion to dismiss, as well as on the hearing on the merits, no evidence dehors the record, as certified and returned by the clerk of the circuit court, can be received here to impeach its verity, or to show
that the certificate ought not to have been given. The case, as
therein set forth, is the case before this court. And if from inadvertence or mistake of the clerk of the court below, or from
any other cause, the record transmitted in this case is defective
or incorrect, the errors or omissions should have been suggested
in this court, and a certiorarimoved to bring up a correct and
true transcript of the proceedings.
It is true an amendment may be made here by consent, as was
done in the case of Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87. And so also,
where it appeared by the certificate of the clerk that he had
committed a clerical error in the transcript, in the form in which
he had entered a judgment, in ejectment, and it was evident,
from the declaration, that it was a mere clerical error, the court
suffered it to be amended here, without sending a certiorarito
the circuit court to have it corrected. Woodward v. Brown, 13
Pet. 1.
But in the case before us, there is no consent to amend, and
the errors alleged are of a very different character, from the mere
formal error in the case of Woodward v. Brown. And if it were
otherwise, still, there should have been a motion to amend, by
inserting in the transcript the certificates above mentioned of the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

535

Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.

clerk, before the motion was made to dismiss. But no such
motion has been made, and the transcript now before the court
is the one originally certified, without any amendment here by
consent or by order of the court. And the motion is made to
dismiss the case, not for any irregularity apparent in the record,
but by testimony aliunde, offered to show that the transcript is
incorrect. It is very clear that such testimony cannot be received
to support this motion. And the record, as it stands when the
motion is heard, presents the case which this court is called upon
to decide; and nothing outside of it can be introduced to affect
the decision.
Neither is it of any importance as concerns this motion whether
the appeal does or does not operate as a supersedeas. A writ
of error or appeal does not operate as a supersedeas under the
act of congress, unless security is given sufficient to cover the
amount recovered within ten days after the judgment or decree
is rendered. But yet, if the party does not give the bond within
the ten days, he may, nevertheless, sue out his writ of error or
take his appeal, as the case may be, at any time within five
years from the date of the decree or judgment, upon giving
security sufficient to cover the costs that may be awarded
against him in the appellate court. And his omission to give
the security in ten days is no ground for dismissing the appeal.
In this case, certainly, the appeal did not operate as a supersedeas. The security was given and approved long after the
time limited by the act of congress. Nor was any supersedeas
moved for, or awarded by the circuit court, or the judge of the
supreme court who approved the bonds. Nor could any have
been awarded by any court or judge. And, upon the expiration
of the ten days, the plaintiff had a right to proceed on his decree
and carry it into execution, notwithstanding the pendency of the
appeal in this court.
But if a sup.ersedeas had been awarded, this motion could not
be sustained. The motion should have been to discharge the
order, not to dismiss the appeal. And the propriety or impropriety of an order granting a supersedeascould not be considered
on a motion to dismiss. The order for the supersedeas might
be discharged, and the appeal still maintained.
The decision of these points disposes of the motion. But in
order to avoid any further controversy on the subject, it is proper
to add that if the facts offered in evidence were inserted in the
record, they would furnish no ground for dismissing the appeal.
They are substantially as follows The district judge had an interest in the issue of the case; and
withdrew from the bench, and the chief justice of the supreme
court sat alone at the trial. The decree was passed on the 27th

536

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.

of June, 1855, and the appellant on the same day, in open court,
appealed to this court, and his appeal was entered by the clerk
among the minutes of the proceedings of that day, by order of
the court; and on the next day, June 28, the court closed its
session and adjourned to the next term.
It is the practice in the state courts of Virginia, for the clerk
to make written minutes of the proceedings in court as they occur
during the day; and after the court adjourns for the day, they
are all written out in full in what is called the order book, and
presented to the court when it meets next morning, and read;
and if found to be correct, is signed by the presiding judge, as
evidence that the proceedings are therein correctly stated. This
practice has been followed by the circuit court of the United
States when sitting in Virginia; and according to this practice,
it seems the clerk supposed that the appeal ought to have been
entered in the order book, but omitted it through inadvertence;
and did not discover the omission until after the term had closed.
The fact was brought to the attention of the chief justice, by a
certificate from the clerk, when the appeal bonds were presented
for approval, which was in October, 1855; and when he approved
the bonds, he at the same time sent a written direction to the
clerk to enter the appeal in the order book, as having been made
in open court; and as of the day when it was actually made and
entered in the minutes. It may be proper to say, that the
penalty of the appeal bond presented for approval was much
larger than necessary; because, as the appeal could not then
operate as a supersedeas, the act of congress required such
security only as w6uld cover the costs of the appellee in case the
decree should be affirmed. But it certainly could be no ground
of objection when thd bond was offered for approval, that the
penalty was larger than it need have been.
These are the material facts, as they appear in the certificates
of the clerk, produced and relied on in the argument. And the
appellees contend that the order book is the only record of the
proceedings of the court; that this record could not lawfully be
amended by the order of the judge after the term was over; that
the entry of the appeal made by his direction, is not legally a
record; and that as there is no record of an appeal in open court
on the 27th of June, 1855, the clerk had no legal authority for
certifying that such an appeal was made; that his certificate on
that account is erroneous; and the case, therefore, is not removed to, and is not in this court, according to law.
The counsel for the appellee, in support of these objections,
has referred to a decision of the court of appeals of Virginia, and
to the practice in the courts of that State in cases of appeal.
The answer, however, to this argument is obvious. The power

DECEMBER TERMf, 1855.

537

Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &e.

of making amendments, and the mode of removing a case from
an inferior to an appellate court of the United States, are regu-

lated by acts of congress, and do not depend upon the laws or
practice of the" State in which the court may happen to be held.
The decisions or practice of the courts of Virginia, cannot therefore have any influence in deciding the motion before us.
Neither is it necessary to inquire, whether the entry made in
the order book is to be regarded as a part of the record, - or
merely a memorandum to preserve the history of the case, by
entering the appeal iri
the book where it is usually found, and
would naturally be looked for by the party interested. In either
view this entry was not necessary to give validity to the appeal.
In making the appeal the party exercised a legal right. It was
made in open court, and the clerk had official knowledge of the
fact. And it would have been his duty, even if no written
memorandum of it had been made, to certify it to this court,
when the security was approved by the judge and the appeal
allowed. And his certificate of the fact is all that is required in
the appellate tribunal. He does not certify it as a copy from the
record. The appeal is made orally, and the entry usually made
on the minutes or in the order book, is to -preserve the evidence
of the act, and is not necessary to give it validity.
The act of congress does not require an appeal to be made in
open court - or to be in writing - or entered on the minutes of
the court - or to b recorded. It is often made before a judge
in vacation, when it cannot be recorded in the order book as a
part of the proceedings of the court. And the law makes no difference, as to the form in which it is to be made, whether it be
taken in court or out of court before a judge. In either case it
may be made orally or in writing. And the only difference is,
that this court has decided that where the appeal is made in
open court, during the term at which the decree is passed, no
citation is necessary to the adverse party. He is presumed to
be in court, and therefore to have notice. But when the appeal
is taken out of court, the citation is necessary to give him notice.
In all other respects the same rules apply to either mode of
taking an appeal. Reilly v. Lamar, 2 Cranch, 344; Yestor v.
Lenox, 7 Pet. 220.
The act of March 3, 1803, which authorizes the appeals, pro,
vides that they shall be subject to the same rules, regulations,
and restrictions as are prescribed by law in cases of writs of
error. And in the case of Innerarity v. Byrne, 5 How. 295,
where the record transmitted to this court did not show that a
citation had been issued and served, it was held to be no ground
for dismissing the case, and that the fact might be proved
aliunde. It is not necessary that all of the steps required to give

538

SUPREME

COURT.

Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee, &c.

this court jurisdiction should even be on file in the court below,
and zertainly need not appear to be of record in that court.
Masten v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304.
We think it evident, therefore, that the want of rdcord evidence
in the circuit court that the appeal was prayed, would be no
ground of dismissal; and the certificate of the clerk that it was
so prayed, is all that is required in this court.
The objection that the entry on the minutes, and also in the
order book, required that the bond should be approved by the
court, and that the approval by the judge out of court is therefore not sufficient, is equally untenable.
No copy of the order of the judge directing the entry in the
order book has been produced. But the clerk states in his certificate that the order directed him to enter the appeal as of the
day on which the decree passed; and without doubt he states it
correctly. And in executing that order he appears to have followed the form he had adopted in his entry on the minutes.
The same form may perhaps be used in other circuits, and is in
some cases probably borrowed from the formulas used in like
cases in the state courts. But the appellant had legal rights,
and he cannot be deprived of them by any irregularity in a clerical entry. Strictly speaking, nothing ought to have been entered
either in the minutes or on the order book as of the day the decree was passed, except the appeal itself. And this, indeed,
would appear to have been all the judge ordered. For the appeal could not have been allowed on that day, because an order
of a court, or a judge allowing an appeal, is in effect nothing
more than an order to send the transcript of the record to the
appellate court. It is the clerk's authority for making the return
to the superior court. And that order could not be legally given
until the security required by law was offered and approved.
But, when the appeal was taken, the approval of the court could
not be made the only condition upon which it should be allowed.
He had a right by law to carry up his appeal, if the security he
offered was approved by the judge, out of court, in vacation ;
and no entry of the clerk, and indeed no order of the court, could
deprive him of this right. Neither could the amount of the
security be then prescribed. For he had a right to produce his
security within the ten days, if he desired to do so, and thereby
supersede the judgment, until the decision of this court was had
in the premises. And in order to obtain the supersedeas, the
law requires that the security given shall be sufficient to cover
the whole amount of the sum recovered against him. But, if
he preferred carrying up his case without superseding, the law
does not exact security to the amount recovered. Security is
required in that case for no greater amount than will cover the

DECEMBER TERM,

1855.

539

Arguello et a]. v. The United States.

costs that may be recovered against him in the superior court.
Such were the legal rights of the appellant when he made his
appeal; and he cannot be deprived of them by the form adopted
by the clerk in entering it. The approval of the security by the
judge, as it appears in the certificates offered in evidence, is
sufficient, and the objection that it was not approved by the court
cannot be maintained.

Upon the whole, we see no ground for dismissing the appeal;
and the motion to dismiss is overruled.

ELLIOTT W. HUDGINS ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. WINDHAM KEMiP,
ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN L. HUDGINS.

Tins case is in all respects the same with that of Robert
Hudgins v. Kemp, above decided; and for the reasons stated in
that case, the motion in this to dismiss is overruled.

MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD

DE ARGUELLO

ET AL.,

CLAIMANTS AND

THE UNITED STATES,
APPELLANTS, v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPELLANTS, V. MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD DE ARGUELLO ET AL.
Th. title of the family of Arguello confirmed to the following described tract of land
in California, namely, bounded on the south by the Arrogo, or Creek of San Franeisquito, on the north by the Creek San Mateo, on the east by the Esteras, or
waters of the bay of San Francisco, and on the west by the eastern borders of the
valley known as the Canada de Raymundo.
On the 26th of November, 1835, the governor of California gave an order that the
petitioner should have a tract of land without specifying the boundaries, which was.,
done by an order, having the formalities of a defnitive title on the 27th. This
latter document must govern the case. No good title is shown which can include
the valley on the vest.
The testimony upon this point examined.
The decree of 1824 and regulations of 1828 forbid the colonization of territory comprehended within twenty leagues of the boundaries ofany foreign state, and within ten
leagues of the sea-coast, without the consent of the supreme executive power.
But this restriction only included grants to empresarios, who intended to introduce
large colonies of foreigners. It did not prohibit grants of land within those limits
to nativeb of the country.

THESE were appeals from the district court of the United States
for the northeii district of California.
The facts are -tated in the opinion of the court.

