SUPREME

182

COURT.

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

tainly of universal interest, but of municipal concern, over which
the power of the State is plenary and exclusive. In the present
instance, the grant is to the State directly, without limitation of
its power, though there is a sacred obligation imposed on its
public faith. We think it was competent to Michigan to sell
the school reservations without the consent of congress.
The defendant further objects, that the officers of the State
violated the statutes of Michigan in selling these lands, after
they were known, or might have been known, to contain minerals. Without a nice inquiry into these statutes, to ascertain
whether they reserve such lands from sale, or into the disputed
fact whether they were known, or might have been known, to
contain minerals, we are of the opinion that the defendant is
not in a condition to raise the question on this issue. The
officers of the State of Michigan, embracing the chief magistrate
of the State, and who have the. charge and superintendence of
this property, certify this sale to have been made pursuant to
law, and have clothed the purchaser with the most solemn evidence of title. The defendant does not claim in privity with
Michigan, but holds an adverse right, and is a trespasser upon
the land, to which her title is attached.
Michigan has not complained of the sale, and retains, so far
as the case shows, the price paid for it. Under these circumstances, we must regard the patent as conclusive of the fact of
a valid and regular sale on this issue.
Upon the whole record, we think the jury should have been instructed, that if they found the facts thus given in evidence to be
true, the plaintiff was entitled to recover the premises in question.
Judgment reversed; cause remanded - a venire to issue.

THE SCHOONER FREEMAN, HER TACKLE, &C., CHARLES HICKOX,
CLAIMANT AND APPELLANT, V. ALVAH BUCKINGHAM, PHILO
BUCKINGHAM, BENJAMIN H. BUCKINGHAM, AND JAMES W.
MCOULLOK, LIBELLANTS.
Under the admiralty law of the United States, contracts of affreightment, entered into
with the master in good faith, and within the scope of his apparent authority as
master, bind the vessel to the merchandise for the performance of such contractS,
wholly irrespective of the ownership of the vessel, and whether the master be the
agent of the general or the special owner.
If the general owner has allowed a third person to have the entire control, management. and employmcnt of the vessel, and thus become owner pro hac vice. the general owmner miust be deemed to consent that the ,peeial .,ner or his master may
create liens hinding on the interest of the general owner in the vessel, at sectu'ity
for the performance of such contracts of affreightment.
.

L

i

*, aI

.0

.-. ,

tr

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

183

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.
But no such implication arises in reference to bills of lading for property not shipped,
designed to be instruments of fraud; and they create no lien on the interest of the
general owner, although the special owner was the perpetrator of the fraud.
Though in such a case the special owner would be estopped, in favor of a bond flde
holder of the bill of lading, from proving that no property was shipped, yet the general owner is not estopped.

Tnis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the northern district of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Haven, for the appellant, and Mr. Ganson, for the appellee.
Mr. .Taven made the following points :1. Hickox, the claimant, was the owner of the schooner Freeman. He agreed to sell her to John Holmes for $4,500, payable
in five instalments, at various times from June, 1851, to December, 1853. And on such payments being made, and other conditions complied with, he agreed to give John Holmes a good
and sufficient bill of sale of her, &c. By this agreement, the
property of the claimant in the schooner was not devested.
Hilliard on Sales, title "Conditional Sales," pp. 18-23; Barrett
v. Pritchard, 2 Pick. 512; Ayer v. Bartlett, 9 Pick. 156; West
v. Bolton, 4 Verm. Rep. 558; Herring v. Willard, 2 Sandf. Sup.
Ct. Rep. 418.
Mem. -Kent, in his Commentaries, (vol. ii. p. 497,) says:
"When there is a condition precedent attached to a contract of
sale and delivery, the property does not veit in the vendee on
delivery, until the performance of the condition, or the seller
waives it; and the right continues in the vendor, even against
the creditors of the vendee."
He cites Strong v. Taylor, 2 Hill, 326, which is in point, and
was decided by Justice Nelson.
2. (Second point omitted.)
8. If Hickox, the owner, had directed the master to sign the
bills of lading, or given him authority to do so, without having
the flour on board, the schooner would have been bound, or the
owner would have been estopped from denying the shipment
had been made; but in a case where there is no fraud, and the
master has only general authority as such, he cannot sign a bill
of lading for goods not delivered so as to charge the owner or
vessel, even when the bill of lading has been assigned or indorsed,
for value. Grant and others v. Norway and others, 70 Eng.
Com. Law Rep. 664, fully in point.
4. The signatures of Ramsdell, the master, to the bills of
lading, were procured by S. Holmes by fraud, by false representations, and by substitution of false papers, amounting to a fel-

184

SUPREME

COURT.

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

ony, or were forged. And as between Holmes and Hickox, the
bills were void and of no validity. This being so, the libellants,
if they had been indorsees of the bills for value, would take
nothing under them, as they make title to the pretended flour
only by showing Holmes shipped it; and bills of lading procured by a felony, by fraud, or forgery, are no evidence of that
fact, nor do they estop any one. And this case must stand as
though S. Holmes forged the bills. King v. Richards, 6 Whart.
Penn. Rep. 418; Berkley v. Wattling, &c., 7 Ad. & El. 29, and
34 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 22; Bates v. Todd, 1 Moody & Robinson, 106; Angell on Carriers, §§ 231-337; Abbott on Shipping, 324, 325, original paging; Bates v. Stanton, 1 Duer Sup.
Ct. Rep. 79, and cases cited.
5. But the pretended flour was consigned to the libellants as
factors of S. Holmes & Co., and not as owners. By the bills,
they were not interested in it; the consignment was "for account of S. Holmes & Co." This would have given the libellants no right or title to the flour had it been on board the
schooner, and Holmes could have sold it or given a good title to
a stranger at any time before it actually reached the libellants.
Patten v. Thompson, 5 Maule & Selw. 350; Russell on Factors
and Brokers, 202, 203, republished in Law Library, vol. 48;
Grove v. Brien, 8 How. 429, 438; Conrad v. Atlantic Ins. Co.
1 Pet. 345, 386; Kinloch v. Craig, 3 Term Rep. 119.
Mr. Ganson made the following points 1. The appellees were the consignees of the property, acknowledged ii the contracts of affreightment to have been
shipped on the schooner, and, as such, had advanced money
upon the faith of the shipment therein declared, and the contract
therein contained.
2. By such consignment and advance, the appellees acquired
a property in the flour mentioned and referred to in those contracts. The delivery of the bills of lading to the appellees, by
which the flour was to be delivered to them, and the advancement of money upon the faith thereof, was equivalent to an
actual delivery of the property to them, as a security for the advance. Gibson v. Stevens, 8 How. 384; Conard v. Atlantic
Insurance Co. 1 Pet. 445; Bank of Rochester v. Jones, 4 Cornstock, 497.
3. It is a well-established rule of the maritime law of this
country, that the ship is bound to the merchandise, and the
well-established practice of our admiralty courts to entertain
proceedings in rem for the non-performance of contracts of affreightment. The Rebecca, Ware's Rep. 188; New Jersey
Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344; The
Volunteer, 1 Suinu. R. 551.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

185

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

4. If the two contracts in question were made under such circumstances as to bind the vessel, it must answer for their nonperformance. "rhe question then arises, were they so made ?
5. Had the master of The Freeman any authority to sign
these bills of lading? He was acting under the employment of
Sylvanus Holmes. The vessel was in the possession of Holmes.
He was running her at his own expense and risk, and for his
own benefit. The appellant had not any interest in her earnings, and was not liable for her debts. Sylvanus Holmes, therefore, and not the appellant, was the owner of the vessel, within
the signification of that term as used by the maritime law, with
reference to determining who is responsible personally for the
master's contracts. Reynolds v. Toppan, 15 Mass. 370; Hallet
v. Columbian Insurance Co. 8 John. 272; The Phebe, Ware's
R. 268; Cutler v. Windsor, 6 Pick. 335.
A personi in possession of a vessel, under a conditional contract of purchase, is the owner within the rule referred to.
Leonard v. Huntington, 15 John. 298; Hinton v. Hogeboon,
7 John. 308; Thorn v. Hicks, 7 Cowen, 797.
It is upon this rule that the courts hold that a mortgagee out
of possession is not liable for supplies; but, if in possession, is
liable. McIntyre v. Scott, 8 John. 159; Phillips v. Ledley, 1 WV.
C. C. R. 226; Miln. v. Spinola, 4 Hill, 177; Champlin v. Butler, 18 John. 169.
Hence, also, a person running a vessel under a charter-party,
is liable for its debts, and the general owner is not; and the vessel is liable for the contracts of the charterer's master. Drinkwater v. The Brig Spartan, Ware's R. 149; The Phebe, Ib. 263.
If, under the contract for a conditional sale, there be a forfeiture, and the property reverts, and in case of a charter-party, at
its expiration, the vessel goes back to the general owner, subject
to the admiralty liens created in the hands of the conditional
vendee or charterer.
6. The appellant was a mere mortgagee out of possession,
holding, as a mortgagee does, the legal title a.s a security for the
payment of the purchase-money; he, therefore, is not personally
responsible for the master's contracts, nor is the vessel liable for
the appellant's contracts.
7. The master, therefore, was not the agent of the appellant,
but derived all his authority over the vessel, and to make contracts binding upon her, from his employer, Sylvanus Holmes.
The master derived his authority from Sylvanus Holmes, in his
character as owner, within the signification of that term as used
by the maritime law.
8. The contracts of affreightment are such as bind the vessel
to answer in specie for their non-performance. If they were
16*

186

SUPREME COURT.
Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

made by the master under such circumstances as to render the
person who was pro tempore the owner personally responsible
for their performance, then it follows the vessel is liable also; for
the liability of each proceeds upon the basis that the contracts
are made by one having authority to make them as the agent of
the owner of the vessel. The Druid, 1 W. Rob. 399.
9. Sylvanus Holmes would be liable personally upon the contracts, and the master had authority to make them; for they
were executed by the procurement of, and used by the owner of
the vessel, Sylvanus Holmes, himself.
10. The owner, Sylvanus Holmes, is, therefore, estopped from
denying the master's authority to execute the contracts of
affreightment; and if the master did execute them with the
sanction of the owner of the vessel, his authority to do so cannot be questioned.
11. The master and the owner, Sylvanus Holmes, as against
these appellees, cannot deny even the receipt of the property on
board, for it would be bad faith in them to do so; much less can
they deny the contract to carry the flour, upon the faith of which
contract, as well as upon the shipment and receipts declared in
the bills of lading, the appellees parted with their money. Niles
v. Culver, 8 Barb. S. C. R. 205; Abbot on Shipping, 323, (margin;) Foster v. Newland, 21 Wend. 94.
12. The appellant cannot impeach these contracts as between
him and the appellees,I. Because he was not the owner of the schooner, at the time
the contracts were made and broken, in the eye of the maritime
law. That law only recognizes the person who employed the
vessel, and was pro hac vice the owner, to determine the liability of the vessel; and if the contracts presented hold good as
against such owner, then the vessel is held to be bound to answer, in specie, for the non-performance of the contracts, and the
rights of the general owner are subject to the lieu and operation
of the contracts so made.
II. Because he, .by the contract with Holmes for the sale of
the vessel, and the delivery of the vessel to him under and in
pursuance of the provisions of that contract, is, in law, deemed
to have taken the risks of its becoming hypothecated, to answer
for the breach of any and all maritime contracts, as well as damages sustained by collision and all other marine torts. If it became so hypothecated, it would, in case of a forfeiture of the
conditional contract, revert to him curn onere.
III. Because he allowed Holmes to hold himself out to the
world as the owner of the vessel. He will not, therefore, be permitted to gainsay his acts, especially as against these appellees
who are innocent parties, and have no power to prevent his

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

187

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

wrongful doings.. If any one is to suffer, it should be the appellant. The liens of the maritime law should not be in this way
avoided when contracted by third parties, in the ordinary course
of business, with the master of the vessel, relative to her ordinary employment, under the sanction of the ostensible owner.
The rights of parties would be far better guarded, and the interests of commerce be far better subserved, by protecting persons
who deal with the ostensible owner of a vessel, than by favoring
those who seek to reap the rewards of the business, but avoid its
risks and responsibilities under the cover of a contract like that
set up in this case.
13. The provisions of the decree, relative to the securities
given to Mr. Morrison, are right. This court cannot marshal
these assets, and the decree gives the appellant all the rights to
the securities that the appellees have, and this is all he can claim
in equity.
14. The appellant should be required to pay the costs personally, because the fund realized from the sale of the vessel is insufficient to pay the appellee's claim; and if their costs were
decreed to be paid from that fund, it would be in effect to decree
that they pay their own costs, which would be manifestly inequitable.
15. The decree should be affirmed, with costs to be paid by
the appellant personally.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal, from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the northern district of New York.
The appellees filed their libel in the district court, alleging that
they are the consignees named in two bills of lading, signed by
the master of the Schooner Freeman, which certify that certain
quantities of flour had been shipped on board the schooner by S.
Holmes and Company, at Cleveland, in the State of Ohio, to be
carried to Buffalo, in the State of New York, and there safely delivered - dangers of navigation excepted - to an agent flamed in
the bills of lading, to be by him forwarded to the libellants, in the
city of New York. That though this merchandise was thus consigned to the libellants for account of the shipper, yet, on receipt
of the bills of lading, and on the faith thereof, the libellants made
advances to the shipperi. That thirteen hundred and sixty barrels of the flour mentioned in the bills of lading were not delivered at Buffalo, though the delivery was not prevented by any
danger of navigation.
In accordance with the prayer of the libel, the schooner was
arrested, and the appellant intervened as claimant.
It appeared that, a short time before these bills of lading were

188

SUPREME COURT.
Schooner Freeman, &c.

v. Buckingham et al.

signed, the claimant, being the sole owner of the schooner, contracted with John Holmes to sell it to him for the sum of $ 4,000,
payable by instalments of 8 500, at different dates; that, by the
contract, John Holmes was to take possession of the vessel, and
if he should make all the agreed payments, the claimant was to
convey to him; that only one instalment had become payable,
and had been paid, when the vessel was arrested ; that the vessel
was delivered to John.Holmes, under this contract, and he allowed
his son, Sylvanus Holmes, to have the entire control and management of the schooner, which was in his employment, and
victualled and manned by him, and commanded by a master
whom he appointed, at the time the bills of lading in question
were signed.
It further appeared that Sylvanus Holmes transacted business
under the style of S. Holmes and Company; that the flour mentioned in these bills of lading as having been shipped by him,
and which the master failed to deliver, never was in fact shipped
- nor, so far as appeared, had Sylvanus Holmes any such flour;
and that he induced the master to sign the bills of lading by
fraud and imposition, intending to use them-as he did use
them- as instruments to impose on the libellants, and obtain
advances on the faith thereof.
To state succinctly the legal relations of these parties, it may
be said, that the claimant was the general owner of the vessel;
that Sylvanus Holmes was owner pro hac vice; that the libellants are holders of the bills of lading, for a valuable consideration parted with, in good faith, on the credit of the bills of
lading; but that the bills of lading themselves are not real contracts of affreightmcnt, but only false pretences of such contracts;
and the question is, whether they can operate, under the maritime law, to create a lien, binding the interest of the claimant in
the vessel.
Under the maritime law of the United States the vessel is
bound to the cargo, and the cargo to the vessel, for the performance of a contract of affreightmenL, but the law creates eo lien
on a vessel as a security for the performance of a contract to
transport cargo, until some lawful contract of affreightment is
made, and a cargo shipped under it.
In this case there was no cargo to which the ship could be
bound, and there was no contract made, for the performance of
which the ship could stand as security.
But the real question is, whether, in favor of a bondfide holder
of such bills of lading procured from the master by the fraud of
an owner pro hac vice, the general owner is estopped to Jhow
the truth, a undoubtedly the bpecial owner would he. This
question does not appear to have been made in the court helow,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

189

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

the distinction between the special and general owner not having been insisted on. So large a part of the carrying trade of
this country is carried on in vessels of which the masters, or
other persons, are owners pro hac vice, and the practice of taking
security by way of mortgage of vessels has become so common,
while, at the same time, the confidence placed in bills of lading
as the representatives of property is so great and so important
to commerce, that the relative rights of the holders of such documents, and of the general owners and mortgagees of vessels,
which are involved in this case, are subjects of magnitude; and
the case has received the attentive consideration of the court.
The first and most obvious view which presents itself is, that
the claimant in this case is not personally liable on these bills
of lading. The master who signed them was not his agent, and
they created no contract between him and the consignor or consignee, or any third person who might become their holder.
Abbot on Shipping, 42 and note, 57 and note. And it has been
laid down by the high court of admiralty in England, (The
Druid, 1 Win. Rob. 399,) that "in all causes of action which
may arise during the ownership of the persons whose ship is
proceeded against I apprehend that no suit could 'ever be maintained against a ship, where the owners were not themselves
personally liable, or where their personal liability had not been
given up, as in bottomry bonds by taking a lien on the vessel.
The liability of the ship, and the responsibility of the owners in
such cases, are convertible terms; the ship is not liable if the
owners are not responsible; and, vice versd, no responsibility can
attach on the owners if the ship is exempt and not liable to be
proceeded against." See also The Bold Buccleugh, 2 Eng. Law
and Eq. 537.
Though this language is broad enough to cover all cases,
whether of contract or tort, it should be observed that the case
before the court was one of wilful tort by the master, and that
there was no occasion to advert to any distinction between a
general and special owner, or to consider whether the interest of
the former in the vessel could be bound by the act of the latter,
or of the master appointed by him.
We are of opinion that, under our admiralty law, contracts
of affreightment, entered into with the master, in good faith, and
within the scope of his apparent authority as master, bind the
vessel to the merchandise for the performance of such contracts,
wholly irrespective of the ownership of the vessel, and whether
the-master be the agent of the general or the special owner.
In the case of The Phebe, Ware's R. 263, Judge Ware has
traced the power of the master to bind the vessel by contracts
of affreightment to the maritime usages of the middle ages. So

190

SUPREME COURT.
Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

far as respects such contracts made by the master in the usual
course of the employment of the vessel, and entered into with a
party who has no notice of any restriction upon that apparent
authority, those maritime usages may safely be considered to
make part of our law; though we should hesitate to declare that
their effect has not been modified by our own commercial law,
which has recognized interests and rights unknown to the commercial world when those usages obtained. And we desire to
be understood as not intending to say that all contracts made by
a master within the usual scope of his employment, which, by
the ancient maritime law, would have created liens on the vessel,
will now do so, in such manner as to bind the interests in the
vessel of parties whom he does not represent as agent. For the
ground on which we rest the authority of a master, who is either
special owner or agent of the special owner, is, that when the
general owner intrusts the special owner with the entire control
and employment of the ship, it is a just and reasonable implication of law that the general owner assents to the creation of liens
binding upon his interest in the vessel, as security for the performance of contracts of affreightment made in the course of the
lawful employment of the vessel. The general owner must be
taken to know that the purpose for which the vessel is hired,
when not employed to carry cargo belonging to the hirer, is to
carry cargo of third persons ; and that bills of lading, or charterparties, must, in the invariable regular course of that business,
be made, for the performance of which the law confers a lien on
the vessel.
He should be considered as contemplating and consenting
that what is uniformly done may be done effectually; and he
should not be allowed to. say that he did not expect, or agree,
that third persons, who have shipped merchandise and taken
bills of lading therefor, would thereby acquire a lien on the vessel which lie has placed under the control of another, for the
very purpose of enabling him to make such contracts to which
the law attaches the lien. See The Cassius, 2 Story, 93 ; Webb
0
v. Pierce, 1 Curtis, 107.
But if this be the ground upon which the interest of the general owner is subjected to liens, by the act of those who are not
so his agents as to bind him personally, this ground wholly fails
in the case at bar.
There can be no implication that the general owner consented
that false pretences of contracts, having the semblance of bills
of lading, should be created as instruments of fraud ; or that, if
so created, they -hould in anly manner affect him or his property.
They do not grow out of any employment of the vessel; and
there is as little privity or connection between him, ur his vessel,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

191

Schooner Freeman, &e. v. Buckingham et al.

and such simulated bills of lading, as there would be between him
and any other fraud or forgery which the master or special owner
might commit.
Nor can the general owner be estopped from showing the real
character of the transaction, by the fact that the libellants advanced money on the faith of the bills of lading; because this
change in the libellant's condition was not induced by the act of
the claimant, or of any one acting within the scope of an authority which the claimant had conferred. Even if the master had
been appointed by the claimant, a wilful fraud committed by
him on a third person, by signing false bills of lading, would not
be within his agency. If the signer of a bill of lading was not
the master of the vessel, no one would suppose the vessel bound;
and the reason is, because the bill is signed by one not in privity
with the owner. But the same reason applies to a signature
made by a master out of the course of his employment. The
taker assumes the risk, not only of the genuineness of the signature, and of the fact that the signer was master of the vessel, but
also of the apparent authority of the master to issue the bill of
lading. We.say the apparent authority, because any secret instructions by the owner, inconsistent with the authority with
which the master appears to be clothed, would not affect third
persons. But the master of a vessel has no more an apparent
unlimited authority to sign bills of lading, than he has to sign
bills of sale of the ship. He has an apparent authority, if the
ship be a general one, to sign bills of lading for cargo actually
shipped; and he has also authority to sign a bill of sale of the
ship, when, in ease of disaster, his power of sale arises. But the
authority in each case, arises out of, and depends upon, a particular state of facts. It is not an unlimited authority in the
one case more than in tie other; and his act, in eitfier case, does
not bind the owner, even in favor of an innocent purchaser, if
the facts upon which his power depended did not exist; and it
is incumbent upon those who are about to change their condition, upon the faith of his authority, to ascertain the existence
of all the facts upon which his authority depends.Though the law on this point seems to have been considered
in Westminster Hall not to have been settled, when the eighth
edition of Abbot on Shipping was published, in 1849, (Ab. on
Sh. 325,) we take it to be now settled, by the cases of Grant v.
Norway, 2 Eng. Law and Eq. 337; Hubbersty v. Ward, 18 ibid.
551; and Coleman v. Riches, 29 ibid. 323
The same law was much earlier laid down in Walter v. Brewer,
11 Mass. 99.
But the case at bar is much stronger in favor of the claimant,
because the master was not appointed by him, and the signature

192

SUPREME COURT.

Heirs of Poydras de la Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

of the bills of lading was obtained by the fraud of the special
owner.
In Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 605, the question came before
this court, whether the charterer and the master could, by a
contract made with a shipper who acted in good faith, destroy
the lien of the owner on the goods shipped, for the freight due
under the charter-party. It was held they could not; and the
decision is placed upon the ground of want of authority to do
the act. It was admitted by the court that the charterer and
master might impose on a shipper in a foreign port, by making
him believe the charterer was owner, and the master his agent.
But it was considered that so far as respected the owner, the
risk of loss from such imposition lay on the shipper. So, in this
case, even if the special owner and the master had combined to
issue these simulated bills of lading, they could not create a lien
on the interest of the general owner of the vessel. Upon the
actual posture of the facts, the master having been defrauded by
the special owner into signing the bills of lading, it would be
difficult to distinguish them, so far as respects the rights of the
claimant, from bills forged by the special owner, On these
grounds, we are of opinion that, upon the facts as they appear
from the evidence in the record, the maritime law gives no lien
on the schooner ; that the claimant is not estopped from alleging
and proving those facts ; and, consequently, that the decree of
the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to dismiss the libel, with costs.

THE WIDOW AND HEIRS OF BENJAIIN POYDRS DE LA LANDE,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE TREASURER OF THE STITE OF
LouISIANA.
The laws of Louisiana impose a tax of ten per cent upon what an heir, legatee, or
donee may receive upon the succession to an estate of a person deceased, where
such heir, legatee, or donee is not domiciliated in Louisiana, and is not a citizen of
any State or Territory of the Union. They also provide that the executor, &c.,
shall pay the tax.
Where the state court decided that this tax was properly imposed upon the succession
accruing to persons who were born in France, had always lived in France, without
ever having been in Louisiana, this is not such a decisionas can be reviewed by this
court under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
No question was made in the Vourt below that these laws conflicted with any provision
of the constitution of the United States. In a petition for rehearing, several grounds
were alleged as reasons for granting it; but the record does not show why the court
refused it.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Lou-

