192

SUPREME COURT.

Heirs of Poydras de la Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

of the bills of lading was obtained by the fraud of the special
owner.
In Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 605, the question came before
this court, whether the charterer and the master could, by a
contract made with a shipper who acted in good faith, destroy
the lien of the owner on the goods shipped, for the freight due
under the charter-party. It was held they could not; and the
decision is placed upon the ground of want of authority to do
the act. It was admitted by the court that the charterer and
master might impose on a shipper in a foreign port, by making
him believe the charterer was owner, and the master his agent.
But it was considered that so far as respected the owner, the
risk of loss from such imposition lay on the shipper. So, in this
case, even if the special owner and the master had combined to
issue these simulated bills of lading, they could not create a lien
on the interest of the general owner of the vessel. Upon the
actual posture of the facts, the master having been defrauded by
the special owner into signing the bills of lading, it would be
difficult to distinguish them, so far as respects the rights of the
claimant, from bills forged by the special owner, On these
grounds, we are of opinion that, upon the facts as they appear
from the evidence in the record, the maritime law gives no lien
on the schooner ; that the claimant is not estopped from alleging
and proving those facts ; and, consequently, that the decree of
the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to dismiss the libel, with costs.

THE WIDOW AND HEIRS OF BENJAIIN POYDRS DE LA LANDE,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE TREASURER OF THE STITE OF
LouISIANA.
The laws of Louisiana impose a tax of ten per cent upon what an heir, legatee, or
donee may receive upon the succession to an estate of a person deceased, where
such heir, legatee, or donee is not domiciliated in Louisiana, and is not a citizen of
any State or Territory of the Union. They also provide that the executor, &c.,
shall pay the tax.
Where the state court decided that this tax was properly imposed upon the succession
accruing to persons who were born in France, had always lived in France, without
ever having been in Louisiana, this is not such a decisionas can be reviewed by this
court under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
No question was made in the Vourt below that these laws conflicted with any provision
of the constitution of the United States. In a petition for rehearing, several grounds
were alleged as reasons for granting it; but the record does not show why the court
refused it.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Lou-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

193

Heirs of Poydras de la Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

isiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by XIfr. Tanin, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr.Benjamin, for defendant.
.M. Tanin made the following points :It is important to ascertain what points the supreme court of
Louisiana really decided, for upon this depends the jurisdiction
of this court. The decision turned principally upon the construction of the statutes of 1842 and 1850, and sums up a review
of these statutes in the following words: "From this view of
the statute, we conclude that the tax attaches not only to
property falling to alien heirs, who are non-residents, but also
to the property falling to citizens of our own State who reside
abroad."
(Mr. .anin contended that under the 911, 912, 913, and
914th articles of the Code of Practice, a decision upon a petition
for rehearing could be reviewed by this court.)
The Louisiana statutes, as expounded by the supreme court
of the State, are contrary to two provisions of the constitution
of the United States, namely: " Art. IV. sect. 2. The citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
"Art. I. sect. 8. The congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian tribes." 4 Wash. 0. C. R. 880; Story on
the Constitution, ยง 1806; 9 Wheat. 190.
.Mr. Benjamin contended that the record did not show that
the questions stated in the 25th section arose in the case, much
less that they were decided as thdt section requires. A petition
for rehearing can bring up no new question. 6 La. R. 193; 19
La. R. 48; 1 Rob. R. 380; 1 Annual, 406.
The defence in the state court assumed the position, that the
state law, properly construed, applies only to heirs alien and nonresident, and alleged that the defendants were citizens of Louisiana and residents. The court, without determining whether
defendants were citizens of Louisiana or not, held, that the
proper construction of the law embraced them as non-residents,
whether they were citizens of Louisiana or of France.
The alleged error is that, if the defendants are citizens of Louisiana, and if the court construed the statute aright, then the
statute is unconstitutional. But the court below did not decide
the defendants to be citizens of Louisiana, and this court therefore cannot examine the first question suggested, and it is equally
without power to examine the second question, being without
VOL. XVII.

17

194

SUPREME

COURT.

Heirs of.Poydras de la Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

jurisdiction to revise a decision of a state court for error in the
construction of a state statute.
The question of the jurisdiction of this court, in cases similar
to the present, was again very recently passed on by the court,
and its former decisions reviewed and affirmed, in a case from
Louisiana, which cannot be distinguished in principle from the
one now under consideration.
Grand Gulf Co. v. Marshall, 12 How. 166, and other cases
still later, affirm the previous jurisprudence. Lawler et al. v.
Walker et al. 14 How. 153 ; Robertson v. Coulter, 16 How. 106.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the supreme court of Louisiana.
The treasurer of the State of Louisiana instituted a suit in
the second district of New Orleans, claiming, in behalf of the
State, a tax of ten per cent on the amount of the succession
of Benjamin Poydras de la Lande, inherited by pei'sons alleged
to be citizens and residents of France.
This tax was claimed by virtue of two acts of the legislature.
of Louisiana, one passed on the 26th of March, 1842, which
provided "that each and every person, not being domiciliated in
this State, and not being a citizen of any State or Territory of
the Union, who shall be entitled - whether as heir, legatee, or
donee - to the whole or any part of the succession deceased,
whether such person shall have died in this State or elsewhere,
shall pay a tax of ten per cent on all sums, or on the value of
all property which he may actually receive, or so much thereof
as is situated in this State."
The 76th section of the act of March 21, 1850, provides, that
"every executor, curator, tutor, or administrator, having the
charge or administration of succession property belonging in
whole or in part to a person residing out of this State, and not
being a citizen of any other State or Territory of the United
States, shall be bound to retain in his hands the amount of
the tax imposed by law, and to pay over the same to the
state treasurer."
Benjamin Poydras, an old and wealthy naturalized citizen of
Louisiana, having died in 1851, in France, leaving a widow and
three minor children in that country, the treasurer of the State
of Louisiana filed, on the 27th of February, 1852, a petition in
the second district court of New Orleans against the widow, as
tutrix of her minor children, claiming ten per cent on the amount
of the property left by the deceased in Louisiana. The grounds
for this claim, as alleged in the petition, are, " that the said
tutrix, as well as her said minor children, are all citizens of
France, and reside in that country."

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

195

Heirs of Poydras de Ia Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

The answer of the defendants denied their liability for the payment of the tax, alleging that they were citizens of the State of
Louisiana, legally domiciliated therein. The lower court gave
judgment for the State, which judgment, on appeal, was affirmed
by the supreme court of the State.
This being a writ of error, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, the defendant -inerror insists that there is no
jurisdiction. That section provides, that on "a final*judgment
or decree in any suit in the highest court of law or equity in
which a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United States, and the
decision is in favor of such their validity, may be re-examined,
and reversed or affirmed in the supreme court of the United
States, upon a writ of error.
In the petition, the respondents are alleged to be citizens and
residents of France. In their answer, they allege, that the deceased, in the year 1804, settled in Louisiana, and became a
citizen of the United States, and maintained his residence and
citizenship in Louisiana; that his last visit to France was intended to be temporary, but he was involved in lawsuits in that
country for years, though he intended to return to Louisiana,
and would have done so, had he not died. During his absence
he acquired a large amount of property in Louisiana, and he
continued to express his determination to return to that country
during his life. And they alleged that they were citizens of the
State of fouisiana.
In the final judgment in the lower court, the judge says :
"The deceased was a French subject, who was born and died
in France; and his heirs, now residents and natives of France,
who have never been in this State, claim his estate. It appears
to me .that they came within the purview of the act of 1842."
A judgment for $ 45,208.80 and costs of suit was entered against
the defendants. An appeal was taken to the supreme court
of the State, where the judgment of the inferior court was
affirmed.
It does not appear from the pleadings, and procedure in the
inferior or in the supreme court, that the question was made
whether the acts of 1842 and 1850 were in conflict with any
provision of the constitution of the United States.
The supreme court held, that the tax in question "attaches
not only to property falling to alien heirs, who are non-residents,
but also to the property falling to citizens of our own State
residing abroad." And they say the object of the law is to discourage absenteeism. The court held that neither the act of

196

SUPREME COURT.

Heirs of Poydras de la Lande v. Treasurer of Louisiana.

1842 nor that of 1850 is repugnant to the 187th article of the
constitution of the State, of 1845.
Up to the final judgment in this case, in the supreme court
of Louisiana, no question was raised by the counsel nor decided
by the court, involving the constitutionality of either of the acts
before us, under the constitution of the United States. Indeed,
this is not asserted by the counsel ;but it is contended that such
a question was raised and decided on the petition for a rehearing.
If this were admitted, does it bring the case within the 25th section ? It must appear from the record, that one or both the acts
referred to are not only repugnant to some provision of the constitution of the United States, but that the'point was presented
to the court, and it decided in favor of the unconstitutional act
or acts.

The points, which the defendants requested the court to review, were: 1. That a citizen of Louisiana, whether native or naturalized,
who absents himself, even for temporary purposes, from the
State for more than two years, thereby loses his domicile and
residence, and is bound to pay to the State ten per cent on any
inheritance, legacy, or donation to which he may be entitled as
intestate or under a will, if the estate of which he is heir and
legatee is opened in the State after his aforesaid absence of more
than two years ; but that he would not be liable to this tax, if
during his absence he had become a citizen of another State or
Territory of the Union.
2. That the act of March 26, 1842, which establislhes the tax
of ten per cent upon foreign non-resident heirs, is not contrary
to the 12th article of the constitution of 1845.
3. That Benjamin Poydras, by his prolonged residence in
France, during the latter part of his life, had lost his domicile
in Louisiana.
In neither of the above grounds is there an intimation of any
conflict with the federal constitution in the decision. Whether
there was a repugnancy between the tax-acts and the state constitution,-is a matter which belongs, exclusively, to the state
court.
The court refused the rehearing, on what ground does not
appear.
This court can exerdise no appellate power over the supreme
court of a State, except in a few specified cases; and the ground
of jurisdiction must be stated with precision, and the ruling of
the court to bring the case under the 25th section must appear,
on the record, to have been against the right claimed. Any reason assigned for a rehearing or a new trial is not sufficient.
The case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

