28

SUPREME COURT.
Hartshorn v. Day.

voidable, by the department of public lands. The case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet., was an instance of the first kind, where
the entry was pronounced as absolutely void, it being in the
notorious limits of a reservation for military purposes; and so
here the entry of Duncan was within the notorious limits of the
city of St. Louis, according to the record of incorporation made
by the court of common pleas for St. Louis county, in 1809,
and which city limits are recognized by the department of public lands and by the out-boundary survey, as the existing limits
when the act of 1812 was passed. This appears from the documents offered in evidence, on which the instruction to the jury
was founded. We, therefore, concur with the views expressed
by the state courts and those of the commissioner of the general
land-office, that Duncan's entry was invalid.
As this concurrence with the state courts is conclusive of the
controversy, we do not deem it necessary to examine further into
the titles and instructions given to the jury.
It is proper to remark, that we are here dealing with the survey, (marked X,) and ascertaining its effect as regards the lands
granted and allotted for school purposes, and are not to be understood as having expressed any opinion on the effect of this
out-boundary survey on titles situated beyond it, and claimed
to have been confirmed by the act of 1812, or which were subject to be identified by the recorder of land titles, under the act
of 1824.
For the reasons above stated, it is ordered that the judgment
of the supreme court of Missouri be affirmed.

IsAAc HARTSHORN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. HORACE H.

DAY.

If the defendant in error files a copy of the record before the expiration of the time
which is allowed to the plaintiff in error to file it, and afterwards the plaintiff in
error files the record in proper time, the case made by the defendant in error will be
dismissed.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island.
The defendant in error filed the record, and docketed the case
on the 24th of November, 1855, and on the ensuing 1st of December the plaintiff in error filed his copy of the record, within the
period allowed him by the 63d rule of court.
Mr. Gillett, for the defendant in error, moved the court for leave

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

29

Hartshorn v. Day.

to withdraw the record filed by him in order to have the same
forthwith printed at his own expense.
Upon which motion, Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
In the above case, a motion was made by the defendant that
he be permitted to withdraw the record filed and docketed by
him, and have it printed at his own expense, without losing its
place on the docket.
Rule 63, published in 16 How. requires that, when an appeal
on writ of error shall be taken to this court thirty d6ys before
the commencement of the ensuing term, the record shall be filed
within the first six days of the term; and if the plaintiff in error
or appellant shall fail to comply with this rule the defendant in
error or appellee may have the cause docketed and dismissed,
upo% producing a certificate of the clerk of the court wherein
the judgment or decree was rendered, stating the cause, and certifying that such writ of error or appeal has been duly sued out
and allowed.
But the rule states, the defendant in error or appellee may, at
his option, docket the case and file a copy of the record with the
clerk of the court; and if the case is docketed and a copy of the
record filed with the clerk of this court, by either party, within
the periods of time above limited and prescribed by this rule, the
case shall stand for argument at the term.
The above case was docketed in this court, by the defendant in
error, before the expiration of the time allowed the plaintiff to
file the record.
The plaintiff in error filed the record and had the cause docketed, before the expiration of the six days after the commencement of the term; he was therefore within the rule, and was
guilty of no laches. Had he failed to do this, the defendant, on
the certificate of the clerk, might have docketed and dismissed
the cause, or he might have procured the record and docketed
the case which, under the rule, would stand for argument at the
present term. But the case cannot be dismissed or docketed by
the defendant, unless the plaintiff in error or appellant shall be
in default.
The above cause is, therefore, dismissed.
Order.
1M1r. Gillet, of counsel for the defendant in error having moved
the court on a prior day of the present term, for leave to withdraw this record in order to have the same printed forthwith,
and it appearing to the court that this record was filed and
docketed at the instance of the defendant in error, on the 24th
3*

30

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fremont.

day of November last, and it also appearing that the plaintiff in
error had filed the record and docketed the case, on the 1st of
December last, within the period allowed him by the 63d rule of
court, it is considered by the court that this cause was filed and
docketed prematurely by the defendant in error, and should be
dismissed -whereupon it is now here ordered by this court that
this cause be stricken from the docket and that the record thereof be delivered to the defendant in error.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. JoHN

C. FOIONT.

Where the record is not filed by the appellant, within the time prescribed by tke rules
of this court, and the appellce files a copy of it, the appeal will be dismissed upon
his motion.
Also, where a mandate went down from this court to the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California, and that court entered a decree according to the mandate, this furnishes no ground for an appeal, and the case will be dismissed upon that ground.

THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United States,
for the northern district of California, and was a sequel to the
same case reported in 17 How. 553.
As the case involved a principle somewhat novel, and especially an important point of practice, the reporter thinks it proper to
insert the papers upon which the motion to dismiss the appeal
was founded.
The appellee, J. C. Fremont, (by his counsel,) moves to dismiss this appeal, and brings here into court the certificate of the
clerk of the district court of the United States for the northern
district of California, stating the case, and certifying the appeal
as prayed, allowed, and sued, (at the instance and prayer of the
attorney for the United States for the district aforesaid,) for and
on behalf of the United States, in the month of July of the present year 1855And for causes of dismissal, the following are assigned and
shown.
1. That the said appeal is, in fact and truth, nothing but an
appeal from the opinion and decree and mandate of this
supreme court of the United States, pronounced between the
same parties, at December term, 1854, (reported in 17 How.
553, 576,) entered of record in the said district court of the
United States for the northern district of California, in strict
conformity with the opinion and mandate of this supreme court,
and made the decree of said district court. Wherefore the

