82

SUPREME COURT.
Bush v. Cooper's Administrator.

DAVrD BUSH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
MINISTRAT O4

DE BONIS

JAMES I.

PERSON, AD-

NON OF MABORN COOPER, DECEASED.

Where a person mortgaged land, which was at the time subject to a judgment lien,
the deed containing what was equivalent to a covenant of warranty; then took the
benefit of the bankrupt act of 1841 ; and then purchased the property which was
sold under the judgment lien, he is estopped by his covenant from setting up his
after-acquired title to defeat the mortgage.
The bankruptact does not annul a covenant in such a case.

THIS case was brought up from the high court of errors and
appeals of the State of Mississippi, by a writ of error issued
under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bayard,for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Grittenden, for the defendant.
-Afr. Bayard explained the doctrine of estoppel at common
law, and referred to Williams v. Saunders, 80, note. But where
there is no covenant of warranty there is no estoppel, 11 How.
298; and in this case there was none. The law of the State
implies such a covenant from a deed of bargain and sale, but
not as between mortgagor and mortgagee.
Mr. Crittenden contended that the second section of tlhe bankrupt act excepted mortgages and other securities for debt. It
says that mortgages must remain unimpaired, but if Bush is
allowed to hold, tile mortgage certainly is impaired.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
A bill to foreclose a mortgage on a lot of land in Mississippi
was filed by the administrator of the assignee of the mortgage,
in the superior court of chancery iii that State. The complainant obtained a decree of foreclosure, and the respondent appealed
to the high court of errors and appeals, where the decree of the
superior court of chancery was affirmed. The appellant then
prosecuted the writ of error, which brings the case before this
court.
The case was, shortly, this: The appellant was one of two
mortgagors. When the mortgage was executed, the land was
encumbered by a lien from a -judgment previously recovered
against the mortgagors.
After executing the mortgage the appellant became a bankrupt, under the act of congress of August 19, 1841, 5 Stats. at
Large, 440, and received his discharge. The land was exposed
to sale to satisfy the judgment lien, and the appellant, after his

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

83

Bush v. Cooper's Administrator.

discharge, purchased it. The court of appeals of Mississippi
decided:
1. That though the deed of mortgage contained no express covenant of warranty, the words "grant, bargain and sell," which
were in the deed, under the law of that State, imported covenants of warranty of title, and against encumbrances, and for
quiet enjoyment, as effectually as though such covenants had
been expressly set out in the deed.
2. That, under the law of Mississippi, if there had been no
discharge in bankruptcy, the appellant would be estopped by his
covenants from setting up his after-acquired title to defeat the
mortgage.
3. That the discharge in bankruptcy did not enable him to
do so.
This last position is the only one re-examinable here; the decision by the state court, of all matters depending exclusively
upon the law of the State, being conclusive, on a writ of ertor,
under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789.
The question for our consideration is, what effect the discharge
of a bankrupt has upon estoppels, arising by law from covenants
of warranty contained in his deeds of conveyance of land.
To determine this, it is necessary to have in view the different
modes of operation of such covenants. They are contracts, and
an action lies for recovery of the damages sustained by their
breach. At law, they run with the land; and if the covenantor
subsequqently acquire an outstanding paramount title, it enures
by force of the covenant to him who claims under the deed of
the covenantor. This rule is now established in the law of this
country, and has been affirmed in numerous decisions in this and
other courts. Many of them may be found collected in a note
to, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 545, &c.
In equity, the covenantor is treated as estopped by his covenant to assert that any outstanding title existed inconsistent with
what he undertook to sell and convey.
The argument on the part of the appellant is, that, under the
4th section of the bankrupt act, he was discharged from all debts,
contracts, and other engagements provable under the act; that
not only the debt secured by this mortgage, but the covenant of
warranty itself, was provable under the act. And, consequently,
the covenantor, being released from the covenant, it could no
longer have the operation allowed to it by the courts of Mississippi.
It must be admitted, that if the covenantee or his assignee
had released the covenant, it would be difficult to maintain that
it could continue in existence for any purpose. But it must be
considered, that whatever discharge has taken place in this case,

84

SUPREME COURT.
Bush v. Cooper's Administrator.

is by force of a statute, which may have so qualified and limited
its effect as still to leave the covenant in existence for one purpose, though not for others; and that the question, whether it
has done so, can be determined only by examining the act, and
ascertaining the will of the legislature in this particular.
The second section of the act contains this proviso: "That
nothing in this act contained shall be construed to annul, destroy,
or impair any lawful rights of married women, or minors, or any
liens, mortgages, or other securities on property, real or personal,
which may be valid by the laws of the States respectively, and
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the second and
fifth sections of this act." There does not appear to have been
anything in this mortgage inconsistent with those sections; and
it is not denied that the mortgage itself, considered simply as a
conveyance of the land, remained unaffected by the act.
It is therefore obvious, that though the bankrupt, personally,
was released by the act, the debt due from the land continued
undischarged. In this particular, beyond all doubt, the discharge
by the act differs from a release by the creditor; since, if the
latter had released the debtor, the mortgage would thereby have.
been satisfied, and the charge on the land destroyed.
The intention of the legislature to carry out this distinction
between the personal liability of the debtor and the liability
of the land, and to preserve the latter in full force, unaffected
by the discharge of the debtor, is clearly declared by the act.
The act says, in so many words, that a mortgage, valid by the
law of the State, shall not be impaired by anything' in the
act.
We think there is sufficient reason why this proviso should
be so construed as completely to save the effect and operation
of all estoppels running with the land and operating at law to
pass the legal title, or in equity to conclude the grantor from asserting the existence of a title inconsistent with what he undertook to sell and convey. The purpose of the legislature to
afford complete and effectual protection to mortgage titles, against
anything which was to be done under the act, and the broad and
strong terms in which this purpose is expressed, require us to
say, that the debtor cannot derive from the act an enabling power
to do or assert anything which will impair a mortgage otherwise
valid. Nor is there any incongruity with established principles,
in holding that the personal discharge of the debtor does not free
him from the estoppel.
If this obligation could rest solely upon a covenant, effectual
in law to charge the grantor in a personal action, it would follow, that when such personal liability was released by the bankrupt act, the estoppel would naturally fall with it; and that an

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

85

Bush v. Cooper's Administrator.

intention to preserve the estoppel ought to be clearly indicated,
to induce the court to say it was not destroyed ; but such
estoppels do not depend on personal liability for damages.
This is apparent, when we remember that estoppels bind, not
only parties, but privies in blood and estate, though not personally liable on the covenants creating the estoppel. See Carver
v. Jacksoa, 4 Pet. 85, 87 ; White v. Patten, 24 Pick. 324 ; Mark
v. Willard, 13 New Hamp. R. 389; Baxter v. Bradbury, 20
Maine R. 260.
Indeed, it is the settled doctrine of this court, not only that
no existing personal liability is necessary to work an estoppel,
but that none need have existed at any time. In Van Renssalaer v. Kearney et al. 11 How. 322, it was held, after great
consideration and a full examination of the authorities, that "if
a deed bear on its face evidence that the grantors intended to
convey, and the grantee expected to become invested with, an
estate of a particular description or quality, and that the bargain
had proceeded upon that footing between the parties; then, although it may not contain any covenants of title, in the technical
sense of the term, still, the legal operation and effect of the instrument will be as binding on the grantor and those claiming
under him, in respect to the estate thus described, as if a formal
covenant to that effect had been inserted; at least, so far as to
estop them from ever afterwards denying that he was seized of
the particular estate at the time of the conveyance."
It is familiar law, also, which was applied in Carver v. Jackson, 4 Pet. 86, 88, that a mere recital of a fact in a deed is as
effectual an estoppel as a covenant. There is no necessary connection, therefore, between the personal liability of the debtor on
his covenant, and the estoppel which arises therefrom ; and it is
not an incongruity for the legislature to preserve the latter while
they discharge the former.
Estoppels which run with the land and work thereon are not
mere conclusions; they pass estates, and constitute titles ; they
are muniments of title, assuring it to the purchaser. Their
operation is highly beneficial, tending to produce security of
titles; and if a discharge under the bankrupt law were allowed
to destroy this mode of assurance, it would in an important particular impair the operation of deeds containing it. This, by the
express words of the bankrupt law, is prohibited.
In Stewart v. Anderson, 10 Alabama R. 504, the supreme
court of Alabama had this precise question before them, and
held the bankrupt estopped. A similar decision was made by
the court of appeals of Maryland in reference to the effect of a
discharge under the insolvent law of that State. Dorsey v.
Gasaway, 2 H. and J. 411.
VOL. XVIIi.

8

86

SUPREME COURT.
Verden v. Coleman.

Our opinion is, that the decree of the high court of errors and
appeals of Mississippi should be affirmed, with costs.

SAMUEL VERDEN,

PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR,

V.

ISAAC

COLEMAN.

This court again decides that a decree upon a motion to dissolve an injunction in the
course of a chancery cause, and where the bill is not finally disposed of, is not such
a final decree as can be re-examined in this court, under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.

TmIs case was brought up from the supreme court of Indiana,
by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary
act.
The case is explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by T3r. Gillett, for the plaintiff in error, no
counsel appearing for Coleman.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court,
The plaintiff filed his bill in the circuit court of Benton
county, Indiana, sitting in chancery, to obtain a decree to cancel
a mortgage and the mortgage note, and also to restrain, by
injunction, the mortgagee from proceeding upon the power of
sale contained in the mortgage until the final hearing, and from
thence perpetually.
A temporary injunction was granted in vacation upon the usual
conditions, which was dissolved, on the coming in of the answers
upon the motion of the defendants, by the circuit court.
From the order dissolving the injunction there was an appeal
to the supreme court of Indiana, where, after argument, the
decree of the circuit court was affirmed. Upon this decree this
writ of error is prosecuted.
This court has repeatedly decided that a decree upon a motion to dissolve an injunction in the course of a chancery cause,
and where the bill is not finally disposed of, is not such a final
decree as can be re-examined in this court, under the terms of
the 25th section of the judiciary act of the 24th September, 1789.
McCollum v. Eager, 2 How. 61; Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheat.
448.
The writ of error is dismissed.

