30

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fremont.

day of November last, and it also appearing that the plaintiff in
error had filed the record and docketed the case, on the 1st of
December last, within the period allowed him by the 63d rule of
court, it is considered by the court that this cause was filed and
docketed prematurely by the defendant in error, and should be
dismissed -whereupon it is now here ordered by this court that
this cause be stricken from the docket and that the record thereof be delivered to the defendant in error.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. JoHN

C. FOIONT.

Where the record is not filed by the appellant, within the time prescribed by tke rules
of this court, and the appellce files a copy of it, the appeal will be dismissed upon
his motion.
Also, where a mandate went down from this court to the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California, and that court entered a decree according to the mandate, this furnishes no ground for an appeal, and the case will be dismissed upon that ground.

THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United States,
for the northern district of California, and was a sequel to the
same case reported in 17 How. 553.
As the case involved a principle somewhat novel, and especially an important point of practice, the reporter thinks it proper to
insert the papers upon which the motion to dismiss the appeal
was founded.
The appellee, J. C. Fremont, (by his counsel,) moves to dismiss this appeal, and brings here into court the certificate of the
clerk of the district court of the United States for the northern
district of California, stating the case, and certifying the appeal
as prayed, allowed, and sued, (at the instance and prayer of the
attorney for the United States for the district aforesaid,) for and
on behalf of the United States, in the month of July of the present year 1855And for causes of dismissal, the following are assigned and
shown.
1. That the said appeal is, in fact and truth, nothing but an
appeal from the opinion and decree and mandate of this
supreme court of the United States, pronounced between the
same parties, at December term, 1854, (reported in 17 How.
553, 576,) entered of record in the said district court of the
United States for the northern district of California, in strict
conformity with the opinion and mandate of this supreme court,
and made the decree of said district court. Wherefore the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

31

United States v. ]Fremont.

appeal, so as aforesaid prayed and allowed, is subversive of order
and due subordination, in derogation of the supreme judicial
power and authority of the supreme court of the United States
as established by the constitution, unlawful in the inception,
tending in its consequences, (if indulged,) to vexatious delay
and endless litigation.
2. Because the party appellant has failed to docket the case
and file the record thereof with the clerk of this court within the
first six days of this term, as required by the rules of this court.
The appellee further moves for permission to take out a copy
of the dismission, when granted, forthwith, in order to prevent
further delay.
JONES, CRITTENDEN, and BIBB,
Dec. 14, 1855.
for Appellee.
MANDATE SUPREME COURT UNITED STATES.

United States of America, ss.
The President of the United States of America, to the Honorable the judge of the district court of the United States for
the northern district of California:
Greeting" Whereas lately, in the district court of the United States for
the nortfhern district of California, before you, in a cause
between the United States, appellants, and John C. Fremont,
claimant and appellee; the decree of the said district court was
in the following words, namely:This cause coming on to be heard at the above stated term,
on appeal from the final decision of the commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State of California,
under the act of congress approved March 3, 1851, upon the
transcript of the proceedings and decision, and the papers and
evidence on which said decision was founded, and also upon the
testimony and depositions taken before this court, and the
arguments of counsel for the United States and for the claimant
being heard, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the decision of the said commissioners be in all things reversed and
annulled, and that the said claim be held invalid and rejected,
"as by the inspection of the transcript of the record of the said
district court which was brought into the supreme court of the
United States, by virtue of an appeal agreeably to the act of
congress in such cases made and provided, fully and at large
appears.
And whereas in the present term of December, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four, the said
cause came on to be heard before the said supreme court on the
said transcript of the record, and was argued by counsel, on

32

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fremont.

consideration whereof it is the opinion of this court that the
claim of the petitioner to the land as described and set forth in
the record is a good and valid claim. Whereupon it is now
here, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said district court in this case be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said district court for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.
You, therefore, are hereby commanded that such further proceedings be had in said cause, in conformity to the opinion and
decree of this court as according to right and justice, and the
laws of the United States, ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding.
Witness the Honorable Roger B. Taney, chief justice of said
supreme court, the first Monday of December, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.
Wil.

THOMAS CARROLL,

Clerk Supreme Court of the United States.
Indorsed: Filed June 4, 1855.
JoHN A. MONROE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHEVERS, -Deputy.
Decree of United States District Court.
The United States, appellants)
Stated term, June 27, 1855.
v.
John C. Fremont, appellee.
Comes now the said John C. Fremont, by his attorney, and
the United States by theirs, also come, and the mandate of the
supreme court of the United States having been filed in this
court, duly authenticated under the seal of the said supreme
court, and certified by the clerk thereof- whereby it appears
that at the December term of said supreme court, 1854, that is
to say, on the 10th day of March, 1855, upon the appeal by the
said John C. Fremont, from the decree of this court, reversing
the decision of the said commissioners, and holding invalid and
rejecting the claim of the said John C. Fremont, (the said appeal
having come on to be heard before the said supreme court, upon
the transcript of the record of this court,) the said supreme court
rendered, and pronounced a judgment and decree in the following words to wit: "It is the opinion of this court that the claim
of the petitioner to the land as described and set forth in the
record, is a good and valid claim. Whereupon, it is now here
adjudged and decreed by this court that the decree of the said
district court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed,
and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

83

United States v. Fremont.

said district court for further proceedings to be had therein in
conformity to the opinion of this court.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court,
that the claim of the said John C. Fremont, to the land as described and set forth in the record, is a good and valid claim,
and that the said claim be and the same is hereby confirmed to
the extent of ten square leagues, the quantity specified in the
original grant, set forth in the record, and within the limits
therein mentioned, the said land to be surveyed in the form and
divisions prescribed by law for surveys in California and in one
entire tract.
M. HALL McALUsTEB,
Circuit Judge United States District of California.
OGDEN HOFFmAN, Jr.
United
States Distriet Jiudge.
1855.
June 27,
Filed
Indbrsed:
JoHN A. MONROE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHEVEBS, Deputy.

Notice of Appeal.
District court of the United States in and for the northern
district of California.
The United States, appellants,)
V.

John C. Fremont, appellee.
Sir: The United States intend to appeal from the final decree
of the court in this cause.
S. W. INGE,
United States District Attorney.
To JomN A. MONROE, Esq., Clerk.
Indorsed: Filed, June 27, 1855.
JoHN A. MONROE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHEVERS, Deputy.
District court of the United States in and for the northern
district of California.
The United States, appellants,)
V.

John C. Fremont, appellee.
.
Sir: The United States intend to appeal from the final decree
of the court in this cause.
S. W. INGE,
United States District Attorney.
To VoLNEY E. HowARD, Esq.

34

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Fremont.

Harshal's Return.
I served this notice in person, by copy, on V. E. Howard, this
27th day of June, 1855.
W. H. RICHARDSON, United States Mlarshal.
By Q. E. SEWELL, Deputy.
Indorsed: Filed, June 28' 1855.
JOHN A. MONROE, Clerk.

By W. H. CHEVERS, Deputy.
In the district court of the United States for the northern district of California.
The United States ) Appeal from the board of commissioners
v.
to ascertain and settle private land-claims
John C. Fremont. ) in California.
Be it remembered that on the return of the mandate from the
supreme court of the United States, (in the appeal from the
decision of this court heretofore rendered in this cause,) the said
John C. Fremont moved the court to pronounce a decree in pursuance of said mandate, in the form of the decree in that behalf in the record of this cause appearing, (exceptBill of ex- ing the following words, to wit: "The said land to
ceptions. be surveyed in the form and divisions prescribed by
law for surveys in California, and in one entire
tract,") to which motion the attorney for the United States
objected, and after arguments, the court, on June 27, 1855,
refused to render the decree as prayed by the said John C.
Fremont, but added thereto the words above quoted, as to the
mode of survey, and rendered the decree in this behalf accordingly, to which decision of the court (adding the above quoted
words) and to the said portion of said decree directing the mode
of survey, the said John C. Fremont by his counsel, at the
proper time, duly excepted, and prayed that this his exception
be signed and sealed by the court, and made a part of the record
of this cause, which is accordingly done.

M. HALL MCALLISER,
Circuit Judge United States for the District of California,and
Presiding Officer United States District Court.
OGDEN HOFFMAN,

Jr.

United States District Judge, Northern District of California.
Indorsed: Filed, June 28, 1855.
JOHN A. MONROE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHEVERS, Deputy.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

35

United States v. Fremont.

Ordergranting Appeal.
At a stated term of the district court of the United States of
America, for the northern district of California, held at the courthouse in the city of San Francisco on Monday, the 23d day of
July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
fifty-five.
Present:
HON. M. H. MCALLISTER, Circuit .Tudge.
HoN. OGDEN HOFFMAN, JR., District udge.
The United States, appellants,)
V).

John C. Fremont, appellee.
In this case, on application of the United States attorney,
made in open court, it is ordered by the court, that an appeal
on behalf of the United States from the final decision of this
court rendered in said cause at the present term be and the
same is hereby granted.
And that a certified transcript of the pleadings, evidence,
depositions, and proceedings in the said cause be sent to the
supreme court of the United States, without delay.
Indorsed: Filed July 23, 1855.
JOHN A. MONRaOE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHmvERS, Deputy.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Northern District of California.
I, John A. Monroe, clerk of the district court of the United
States of America for the northern district of California, do
hereby certify that the annexed pages from one to one hundred
and twenty inclusive, contain a full, true, and correct transcript
of the record on file from the Board of Land Commissioners,
together with the pleadings, depositions, orders, opinion, decrees,
bond, mandate of the supreme court of the United States, and
the proceedings thereon in this court, filed in this office in the
case entitled: The United States, appellants, v. John C. Fremont, appellee.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of the said court, this 18th day of October, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five, and of
our Independence the eightieth.
Jom A. MONROE, Clerk.
By W. H. CHiEVERS, Deputy.

36

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fremont.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the northern district of California.
A final decree was entered in this case at the last term, and a
mandate was issued to the district court, directing such further
proceedings in conformity to the opinion and decree of this court,
as according to right and justice, and the laws of the United
States, ought to be had.
This court reversed the decision of the district court, and ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the claim of the said John
C. Fremont, to the land as described, and set forth in the record,
is a good and valid claim; and that the said claim be, and the
same is hereby confirmed to the extent of ten square leagues,
the quantity specified in the original grant, set forth in the record
and within the limits therein mentioned, the said land to be surveyed in the form and divisions prescribed by law for surveys in
California, and in one entire tract."
The mandate was filed in the district court, and the counsel
of Fremont moved the court for an order in pursuance of said
mandate, in the form of the decree in that behalf elsewhere in
the record of the case appearing, excepting the following words,
"the said land to be surveyed in the form and divisions prescribed by law, for surveys in California, and in one entire
tract," which motion was opposed by the district attorney of the
United States. The district court entered the decree upon its
record, refusing to omit the words, moved by the appellee, and
to this refusal his counsel excepted.
No further proceedings were had, as appears from the record;
and at a subsequent day of the district court, the attorney of the
United States applied for an appeal in open court, in behalf of
the United States, from the final decision of that court, at the
above term, which was granted.
The appeal was allowed the 23d of July, 1855, more than three
months before the commencement of the present term of this
court; and no record of the case having been filed within six
days, after the commencement of the term, as the rule requires,
a record of the case being filed by the appellee, a motion is made
to dismiss the appeal on the ground that there was no action of
the district court on which an appeal could be taken. And also,
on the ground that the appellants have failed to file the record
within the rule.
It was the duty of the appellants to file the record and docket
the cause, within the first six days of the present term ; the decree appealed from having been entered sixty days before the
commencement of the present term. With the exception of
California, Oregon, Washington, New Mexico, and Utah, appeals
3r writs of error allowed are required to be docketed within the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

37"

United States v. Fremont.

first six days of the term, if entered or allowed, thirty days
before its commencement.
The appellants having failed to file the record, it was filed by
the appellee, which entitles him, under the rule, to have the
cause dismissed.
But the counsel for the appellee insist that the appeal should
be dismissed, on the ground that it was taken with the intent
to bring before this court a review of its decree entered at the
last term. As there was no action by the district court, except
the entry of the mandate upon its records, the appeal brings
before us only, that which was transmitted to the district court
by the mandate. This is an irregular procedure; and it must
have been entered without a particular examination by the
court.
The appeal is dismissed, and the clerk is directed, forthwith,
to certify this decision to the district court.
]Wr. Justice CATRON.
I agree that, by the 19th, 30th, 43d, and 63d rules governing
the practice of this court, the record presented was not filed in
time, and that therefore the appeal must be dismissed for want
of prosecution. But I do not concur that, on the present motion
to dismiss, we ought to decide the question, whether the district
court could or could not allow the appeal on the decree made
there, on the ground that the decree did not conform to the
mandate of this court.
The motion to dismiss for want of prosecution, and the
motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, to entertain the
appeal, are different and distinct in their character; the one only
dismisses the appeal and allows a second; and the other bars it.
The practice has been, when the record was not filed in time,
for the defendant in error, or appellee, to produce a certificate
from the clerk, or a copy of the record duly certified, showing
that the writ of error or appeal had been taken, and that it
operated as a supersedeas, when the cause was docketed' and
dismissed. But when a motion was made to dismiss the cause
for want of jurisdiction in this court to entertain the writ of
error or appeal; or in other words, want of authority in the
court below to allow it, (which is the question here,) then the
record was ordered to be printed, briefs filed, and the question
discussed in the usual way. Nor has it ever occurred in my
experience in this court, to set down a cause to be heard at the
same time, on both motions. The consequence must be in such
a proceeding, that if the plaintiff in error is turned out of court
for his neglect, in not filing the record in time, he has no power
to move for a certiorarito amend the record, filed by the other
VOL. XVIII.

4

38

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fremont.

side, and then this court bars a second appeal by further adjudging that no jurisdiction existed in the inferior court to allow it.
And such is the judgment in this case.
Some of the most stringent controversies that have come
before us, have arisen on motions to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and especially in causes brought here from state courts
under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The idea in such cases, that a state court decision should in
effect be affirmed, and the plaintiff in error barred, by dismissing case for want of jurisdiction, on the presentment of a manuscript record, without furnishing the court with even a brief (as
was done here) is not only contrary to our established practice,
but is calculated to do great mischief to suitors.
In the instance before us, I never saw the papers until after I
heard the opinion of the majority of the court read. I deemed
it unimportant, on the first question, to read the record, as it had
not been filed in time, nor was a valid excuse offered for the
delay. On the second question, I had then formed no opinion.
In his remarks, the attorney-general referred us to a letter of the
district attorney of the United States for the northern district
of California, which was officially written to the secretary of the
interior, and presented to us, as part of the attorney-general's
argument, setting forth the reasons why the appeal was prosecuted. These reasons, in substance, are, that this court, in its
opinion delivered by the chief justice at the last term (17 How.
565), remanded the cause, and directed the court below to enter
a decree conformably to that opinion; which opinion (ibid. 558)
declared: "That if any other person within the limits where the
quantity granted to Alvarado should be located had afterwards
obtained a grant by specific boundaries before Alvarado had
made his survey, the title of the latter grantee could not be
impaired by any subsequent survey for Alvarado; and that as
between individual claimants from the government, the title of
the party who had obtained a grant for the specific land would
be the superior and better one."
And it is insisted, in this argument, that the district court
should have inserted in its decree the foregoing conclusions,
and have protected individual titles and rights in the region of
country where Colonel Fremont's claim might be located, ordering that such lands should be excluded from the survey as
Fremont's land, although they were embraced within its outboundaries. And, secondly, that, in the opinion of this court,
the district court was directed to cause the grant to Alvarado to
be surveyed, "in the form and divisions prescribed by law for
surveys in California." But that it had made no decree as to
the form of the survey, and disregarded the instruction, leaving

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

39

United States v. Fremont.

it to the surveyor to ascertain the law, and to locate the land,
according to the law of California, whether it was Mexican or
United States law; whereas, it is insisted that the true construction of the grant to Alvarado, (as to the manner in which
it shall be surveyed,) was a judicial question; and that, as the
concession was for the purposes of cultivation and pasturage, a
survey should be made of lands suited to these purposes, and
that the district court ought so to have adjudged and decreed
and to have excluded a survey of barren mountains, including
improved gold-mines, contrary to the plain intention of the
parties to the grant as originally made.
The questions presented were supposed to be of grave importance and much difficulty, and, therefore, no imputation of unfair
and oppressive conduct should be cast on the officer of the government who prayed this appeal, under the express sanction of
the district court.
It is manifest that Fremont, the appellee, believed he might
appeal, if he saw proper to do so. He took a bill of exceptions,
and had it signed by the court, to its ruling, that his claim
should be surveyed in one tract. As.no bill of exceptions lies,
in cases of this description, an appeal could have been prosecuted, on the affirmative fact, that too much. had been inserted
in the decree, contrary to the mandate of this court; so, on the
other hand, if not enough was put into the decree, to execute the
mandate, an appeal would equally lie. As a general rule, this
is undoubted. It is plainly apparent that both parties, and ,the
court, believed that an appeal would lie.
I hold it to be true, however, that the appeal should not have
been allowed. By the treaty of peace with Mexico, the legal
title to the public lands in California was vested in the United
States, onerated with private claims to parts thereof. Alvarado's
claim was presented as one of this character, and being brought
before this court, was pronounced to be a good and subsisting
claim; and furthermore, that all the conditions it contained were
subsequent conditions, which, by the treaty, ceased to have any
binding force; and, therefore, they were struck from the grant
as being no necessary part thereof. It was also held that the
claim, in this condition, was assignable, and properly assigned
to Colonel Fremont; and, as there was no grant to any specific
tract of land, that Colonel Fremont held a common interest in
the public lands generally, lying within a large section of country
described in the grant.
This decision reduced the claim to the condition of a mere
floating land-warrant, that could not be located by judicial authority, more than an ordinary floating warrant can be located
by the decree of a court; and, therefore, when seeking location

SUPREME COURT.
Sturgess v. Harrold. Buckley v. Harrold.

it must, of necessity, address itself to the executive or legislative
power.
The district court, having entered the decree as directed, had
no jurisdiction to take any further step in the cause. It follows
that the executive department must determine for itself whether
any law exists authorizing that branch of the government to ascertain and survey the land, and issue a patent for it, by which the
title of the United States will be devested, and transferred to
the grantee.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern district of California, filed by the appellee, John 0. Fremont, and,
on the motion of Messrs. Crittenden and Bibb, of counsel for
the appellee, to docket and dismiss this appeal, pursuant to the
63d rule of this court, and was argued by counsel, as well against
as in support of the said motion. On consideration whereof, it
appearing to this court that the appellants have altogether failed
to prosecute their appeal pursuant to the rules of this court.
And, also, as the mandate only was entered on the records of
the district court, no action being had thereon, that there was no
ground for an appeal in this cause from the said district court,
it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that this appeal be and the same is hereby docketed and
dismissed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court, with directions to proceed
therein according to law and in conformity to this decision.
And it is further ordered by this court here, that the clerk do
forthwith issue a writ of procedendo in this cause to the said
district court.

Ex

PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LATHROP L. STURGESS V. CHRISTIAN HARROLD. ALSO, GEORGE BucKLEY V. CHRISTIAN HARROLD.

A certificate from the clerk of the circuit court, that he cannot make out the record in
time to comply with the 63d rule of this court, does not furnish a sufficient reason
for an extension of the time prescribed by that rule.

Mr. Lawrence, of counsel for the plaintiffs in error in these
cases, filed certificates of the clerk of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, stating that
judgments were entered against the plaintiffs in error in that
court, on the 16th day of November, 1855, and that writs of

