460

SUPREME COURT.

State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling. and Belmont Bridge Co.

THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COMPLAINANT, v. THE WHEELING
AND BELMONT BRIDGE COMPANY.
This court has power, in a case of original jurisdiction, to award costs against either
of the parties.
The statutes of the United States upon the subject of costs, examined.
Moreover, this court has equity jurisdiction in certain cases, under the constitution of
the United States; and in those cases, it is guided by the rules and principles of the
court of chancery in England, as they existed when our constitution was formed
That court had power to award costs And this court must have the same power.
The bill of costs in this case was taxed by the clerk under the order of this court.
Either party had leave to file exceptions, but both parties, by a written agreement,
waived all exceptions, and the court confirmed the report. After this, it is too
late to object.
A motion to file a hill of review upon the subject of costs, and also for a re-taxation
of them, is, therefore, overruled.

THIS was a case of original jurisdiction upon the equity side
of this court, and was a sequel to the preceding case between
the same parties.
Af&r. Charles W. Russell, as the solicitor for the Bridge Company, filed a petition praying leave to file a bill of review of an
order of this court, made at the December term, 1851, respecting
the costs, in the original case bet veen the parties. The petition
set forth that this court had no power to condemn either party
to a suit originally brought in this court to pay the costs of the
suit ; or if it had the power, then the amount of costs must be
regulated by some *previousact of congress or rule of this court.
It also set forth that the report of the clerk, which was confirmed by an order, was liable to objection, and prayed that the
report might be reopened.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application made on the part of the defendants,
for leave to file a bill of review, so far as respects the orders
and decrees for costs heretofore rendered in the above case
against them.
The court have already determined that the decree rendered
for costs against the defendants was unaffected by the act of
congress passed August 31, 1852, and with which determination it is entirely satisfied.
It is suggested, however, on the part of the applicant, that
there is no act of congress expressly conferring power upon this
court in the case of original jurisdiction, to award costs against
either of the parties. This may be true, but it is equally true
in respect to the circuit courts of the United States, and yet no
one has doubted the power in those courts since their first organ-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

461

State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co.

ization; 1 Blatchford R. 652; and the grounds upon which that
power rests apply with equal force to the supreme court in the
cases mentioned. In the distribution of original jurisdiction between the supreme and circuit courts, there is nothing peculiar
in the nature or character of that conferred upon the former to
distinguish it specially from the latter. Indeed, a large portion
of this jurisdiction is concurrent with that of the circuit courts.
It is exclusive only in a few cases having regard to the sovereign
character of the party to the suit, or in cases where the interests
of our foreign relations may be concerned, and principles of international law involved.
In the nature of the jurisdiction, therefore, or in the character
of the suits in this court of original jurisdiction, we perceive
nothing that should lead us to distinguish, on the question of
costs, between this court and the circuit courts. And, as we
have already said, the grounds for the exercise of the power namely, the repeated recognition by acts of congress of the right
of the prevailing party to oosts-is as applicable to the one court
as the other.
It would be an endless task to refer to the various acts of congress passed from time to time recognizing the right of the party
to costs in procedings in the courts of the United States, and,
of course, including this court. It will be sufficient to say, that
they will be found in the laws of congress, running through -its
entire legislation oil the subject of judicial proceedings, and regulation of the power and authority of tie federal courts and its
officers. Among the first acts is that of May 9, 1792, "An Act
for regulating processes in the courts of the United States, and
providing compensations for the officers of the said courts and
for jurors and witnesses." 1 Stats. at Large, 275. The compensation here provided for, on behalf of officers and persons concerned in the administration of justice, not payable out of the
treasury of the United States, was recoverable as costs of the
suit. ยง 6, p. 278.
The act of July 22, 1813, (2 Stats. at Large, 19,) -1An Act
concerning suits and costs in courts of the United States," provided, (ยง 1,) that where several actions against persons who might
be joined in one action touching a demand in any court of the
United States, if judgment be given for the plaintiff, such party
shall not recover the costs of more than one action, &c. And
the 3d section provided, that where causes of like nature, &c.,
shall be pending before a court of the United-States, it is made
the duty of the court to make rules or orders to avoid unnecessary costs, and consolidate the causes. It is also provided that
if any attorney or person admitted to conduct causes in a court
of the United States shall appear to have multiplied proceedings
39*

SUPREME COURT.
State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co.

in any cause, so as to increase costs vexatiously, such person may
be required to satisfy any excess of costs so incurred. But we
shall not pursue this inquiry. We could multiply instances of
similar recognition of the right of the party to costs, and power
of the court to award them, to almost any extent. The instances
we have referred to are but samples, and, we think, sufficient for
the purpose designed.
But, independent of this, the constitution provides that the
judicial power of the United States shall extend to all cases in
equity between a State and the citizens of another State; and
that, in cases in which a State shall be a party, this court shall
have original jurisdiction. There is thus conferred by the constitution on this court original juHsdiction over " cases in
equity" between a State and citizens of another State ; and
this is the jurisdiction we have exercised in the matter now
before us.
Original jurisdiction in equity, in a particular class of cases,
conferred by the constitution on this court, has been interpreted
to impose the duty to adjudicate according to such rules and
principles as governed the action of the court of chancery in
England, which administered equity at the time of the emigration of our ancestors, and down to the period when our constitution was formed. And when the constitution of the United
States conferred that jurisdiction on this court, it cannot be construed to exclude the power possessed and constantly exercised
by every court of equity then known, to use its discrptiou to
award or refuse costs, as its judgment of the right of the case,
in that particular, might require. The court entertains no doubt
of its power to award costs, and deny tie application to file a
bill of review.
Then as to the bill of costs taxed by the clerk. It is sufficient
to say, that the bill as we understand it, consists entirely of the
expenses attending the taking of testimony inthe case, and of
the surveys, examinations, and reports of the engineer, preparatory to the final hearing of the case, and which services were
performed under the special order and direction of the court,
together with the fees for the services of the officers of the court.
And, further, that the bill of costs has been referred to the clerk
of the court, with directions to examine witnesses, and resort to
such other proofs for the purpose of ascertaining the proper compensation to be allowed the commissioners, and to the engineers
and clerks employed by him, and also to ascertain the whole
amount of expenses incurred by said commissioner, and the
amount advanced by the respective parties, and report on the
same; and that either party have leave to except to the report,
in writing, as to any of the items or sums of money allowed by
the clerk.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

463

Goslee et al. v. Shute's Executor et al.

This report was duly made in conformity with the order, and
the counsel for the respective parties filed at the time a written
declaration waiving all exceptions to any part of said account
or vouchers, and stating that they do not mean to except to said
report, nor desire any further time to examine or except to it;
whereupon the report was confirmed by this court.
It can hardly be expected, after this deliberate proceeding by
the court to ascertain the costs and expenses attending the trial
and hearing of the case, and the opportunity of the counsel for
the respective parties at the time to scrutinize the several items
of the account, their attendance before the master, and, after the
proper scrutiny, entering into and filing an express written
waiver of exceptions to the taxation and solemn recognition of
its justice and propriety, that the court will open the question
for a re-examination, or can desire any further inquiry into or
review of the matter thus disposed of. There must be an end
of litigation. We are not only satisfied that the party applicant
for a review of the question has already had full opportunity to
present his objections to the bill of costs, and, indeed, has
already availed himself of the benefit of it, but are also satisfied
with the order and judgment of the court heretofore given in the
premises.
The motion for bill of review, and also for re-taxation of
costs, is denied.

JAbmES W. GOSLEE, DUNCAN B. FRIERSON, HANNIBAL S. BLOOD,
AND JOHN GOODRICH, OWNERS OF THE STEAM1BOAT AUTOCRAT,
LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. THEODORE SHUTE, EXECUTOR
OF MARIA SHUTE, DECEASED, AND MARY A. SHUTE, OWNERS
AND OLAIAIAMTS OF THE STEAMER MAGNOLIA.

a4
In a collision which occurred upon the Mississippi River between an ascending and
descending steamboat, whereby the former was destroyed, the collision was chiefly
owing to the neglect, by the ascending boat, of the rule which requires the ascending boat to keep near the right bank and the descending one to keep near the middle
of the river.
Moreover, the ascending boat had not a sufficient watch, and in other respects its

officers were to blame.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court held that both boats were in fault, and
divided the damages, and ordered judgment to be entered against
The Magnolia for $17,900.

