557

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

The governor made the grant according to the agreement,
bounding the rancho by the eastern limits of Wolfskill, and subject to the measurement to be made of the contiguous ranchos
previously conceded.
The prior proceedings and decree of concession were passed
to the departmental assembly, and the concession was approved,
under the condition that within four months they should put in
the hands of the governor a proper map of the land.
The grant by Pico designated the tract as "Los Putos." The
stream of Los Putos" is the same called in the former grant
"Lihuaytos."
It is not worth while to inquire whether the departmental
assembly had any authority to annex new conditions to the grant
thus approved by them. It is a condition subsequent, which, at
the worst, only left the title of the.grantee open to be denounced.
But as the claimant was hindered from performing it by the
revolutionary state of the country, the non-fulfilment of it will
not work a forfeiture of his title.
The chief objection urged to this grant, is the want of a survey, and that there is no sufficient designation of boundaries to
sever it from the public domain. It is a sufficient answer to this,
that the quantity is defined and the general locality. The
claimant had been in possession before applying for the grant
under a license from Vallejo; the tract was known by the desigIt was to be located
nation of "Los Putos," or "Lihuaytos."
on the eastern boundary of Wolfskill, and on the margin of the
river.
The district court confirmed the grant on the authority of the
case of Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542. As that case is
directly in point and overrules the objections made to this grant,
we do not think it necessary to pursue the subject further.
The decree of the district court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
For the reasons of his dissent see the preceding case of Arguello v. The United States.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THOmAS

0.

LARKIN AND

JoMn S. MIssRooN.
Where there was a grant of land in California made by the governor to the secretary
of the government, and neither the petition nor the patent .tated the quantity, but
the -*nee-ion and direction by the governor to the proper officer to issue the patcnt, limLte,a the quantity to eleven square leagues, this concession and direction
47*

558

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

constitute a part of the evidence of title, and are sufficient to make a good grant for
that amount.
The petition to the governor was accompanied with a sketch or map giving the location and boundaries of the tract. The patent refers to this sketch, and by it the
land can be located.
The fraudulent nature of the grant was not made a question in the court below and
therefore cannot be made here. Moreover, there is no evidence of fraud.
The objections that the case was not submitted to the departmental assembly, and that
judicial possession was not taken of the land, are overruled by the case of United
States v. Fremont, 17 How. 542.
Neither the act of the Mexican congress of 1824, nor the regulations of 1828, prescribe any particular form of grants or patents of the public lands. And there is
no uniformity with respect to the conditions imposed upon the grantee, either in
those which relate to the cultivation or taking possession of the laud. The absence
of the condition of settlement within a limited time will not avoid the grant in
this case.

THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the
United States, and by Hr.-Lawrence,with whom was Mfr. Goold,
for the appellees.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from. a decree of the district court of the
United States for tie northern district of California, in which a
land claim was confirmed to the appellees, and which had been
previously confirmed by the board of commissioners.
The grant was made to Manuel Jimeno, who was at the time
secretary of the government of California, by Governor Micheltorena, on the 4th November, 1844.
The petition for the same is as follows "EXCELLENT SIR GOVERNOR:
" I, Manuel Jimeno Cassarin, a resident of this department,
represent before Y. E., with due respect, that, inasmuch as it suits
my interests to establish a rancho about (port) the Sacramento
River, according to the accompanying sketch, I entreat Y. E. to
be pleased to grant to me, since it lies completely unoccupied,
and nobody has petitioned for it, the land, as it is made apparent
by the general map, formed this year by the Land Surveyor
Bidwell. By which grace I will receive mercy from Y. E.
(Signed)

"MANUEL JIMENO.

"Monterey, November the Ist; 1844."

And on the same day the governor made the following memorandum: "Monterey, November 1, 1844.

"The party concerned not being able to report, on account of
his being at a time concerned, party and secretary of govern-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

559

The United States v. Larkin et al.

ment, I order that, whatever it may be convenient to have in
mind, for the purpose of coming to a determination, be brought
to my knowledge.
" McHELTORENA."
(Signed)
on the next day directions were given for the issuing of
theAnd
patent,
as follows :
"Monterey, November the
2d, 1844.

"After having seen the petition at the head of this record of
proceedings, the uncultivated state in which the land petitioned
for lies, according to the general map which has been formed of
the Sacramento River, and whatever else it was found convenient
to attend to, in conformity with the laws and regulations on the
subject, I declare Don Manuel Jimeno .the owner of eleven
square leagues ("Sitios de Ganado Mayor") between Sacramento River, the ranch which the children of Senor Larkin have
applied for, and the vacant lands lying south, as the respective
sketch shows. Let the corresponding patent be issued; let it
be entered in the respective book ; and let it be delivered to the
party concerned, for his security, and other ends.
" MIHELTORENA."
(Signed)
And on the 4th November the patent was issued, in the following terms The citizen Manuel Micheltorena, general
of brigade of the Mexican army, adjutantgeneral of the staff of the same, governor,
Afonterey.]
commandant-general, and inspector of the department of Californias.
"[L. S.]
Whereas Don Manuel Jimeno has peti[Govern't of the depart- tioned for his personal benefit for the tract
" [L. S.]

[Maritime Custom House,

nent of the Californias.]

of land which is unoccupied between the

ranch which has been granted to the children of Don Tomas
0. Larkin, the River Sacramento, and the uncultivated lands
which are on the side of the south, entirely in conformity with
the showing in the corresponding plan. Thenecessary preliminaries and investigations having been gone through with, as
directed by the laws and regulations on the subject; exercising
the authority in me vested, in the name of the Mexican nation,
I have just granted to him the said land, subject to the following
conditions "1. He may inclose it without prejudice to the cross-ways,
roads, and right of way; he shall enjoy it freely and exclusively,
destining it to the use and cultivation which best suits him.
"2. He shall solicit the proper judge to give him juridical pos-

560

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

session of it, in virtue of this grant, for the which boundaries
thereof shall be marked out, within the limits of which, besides
the usual landmarks, he shall plant some fruit-bearing or some
forest trees of some utility.
"3. If he shall contravene these conditions he will lose his
right to the land.
"Wherefore, I order this title, being of itself duly firm and
valid. Record thereof shall be taken in the proper book, and
that it be delivered to the party interested for his security, and
for other purposes.
"Given in Monterey, this fourth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and forty-four.
(Sg'd)

"MAN'L MICHELT'A.

(Sg'd)

FRANc'o AR E,
First OfflciaL

"The record of this grant has been taken in the proper book,
folio.
"FRANc'o ARcE."
On the 21st April, 1846, Jimeno made application to the departmental assembly for a confirmation of his grant.
"To the excellent departmental assembly: "I, Manuel Jimeno, represent before Y. E., with all due respect,
that by the adjoined title is proved the grant, made in my favor,
of a tract of land on the margins of the Sacramento ('corresponde') River, and, inasmuch as it pertains (correspond) to
Y. E., to give Y. E. approval.
"I beg Y. E. to deign to grant it to me, whereby I will receive
grace and mercy. I swear so ; and Y. E. will be pleased to excuse my usage of common paper, there being none of the corresponding paper.
(Signed)
" Mii UEL Jimngo.
"]Monterey, April the 21st, 1846!'

And on the 3d June, the same year, that body acted upon the
application of which we ha~e the following record : "Angeles, June the 3d, 1846.

"Account having been given in to-day's session to the excellent departmental assembly, with this instancy, it was ordered to
be referred, together with the respective record of proceedings,
to the committee on vacant lands.
(Signed)
"AUGUSTIN OLIvERA."

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

561

The United States v. Larkin et al.

Jimeno and his wife conveyed all their interest in the land to
the appellees on the 30th August, 1847; soon after which the
grantees took actual possession, and have occupied and possessed
the same ever since.
The petition to the governor was accompanied with a sketch
or map giving the location, and boundaries of the tract solicited,
and referred, also, to a general map of the valley of the Sacramento River, made by Bidwell, a land surveyor, the same year.
The quantity of land was not specifically designated in the petition. Neither does the patent itself designate the quantity,
but refers to the sketch accompanying the- petition. But the
concession and direction by the governor to the proper officer to
issue the patent, limits the quantity to eleven square leagues,
and which concession and direction constitute a part of the
evidence of the title, or, according to the Mexican vocabulary, a
part of the "expe d iente," and therefore may well qualify and
limit the quantity to this number, even if the number of leagues
within the boundaries, as given by the rough sketch, exceeded
it; especially should this construction be given as the power of
the governor to grant to a single person was limited so as not to
exceed this quantity, according to the 12th section of the decree
of the Mexican congress of the 18th August, 1824.
The decree of the commissioners, and also of the district court,
very properly limited the confirmation to the extent only of
eleven square leagues, provided the quantity should be contained
within the sketch called for by the patent, and if there should be
less than that quantity, then no more than this lesser quantity is
confirmed.
No question appears to have been made as to the practicability
of locating the grant in the tribunals below; nor do we see any
ground upon which such a question could have been properly
raised in the case.
The plan or sketch found in the expediente in connection with
the description given in the grant furnishes all the materials essential to determine the boundaries. Three sides are given, and
the quantity will guide the surveyor in closing the lines by running the fourth.
It has been suggested on the argument here, that this grant is
a fictitious one, made by the governor to the secretary of the
territory according to the forms of law, for the purpose of defrauding the United States. One answer to the suggestion is,
that no objection as to the bona fides of the grant was taken
before either of the tribunals below, where it should have been
made, if relied on by the government, so as to have given the
claimants an opportunity to have met it. To permit it to be
taken in the appellate court for the first time, where there is no

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

opportunity for explanation, would be a surprise upon them, of
which they might justly complain. The commissioners say,
"the grant is fully proven, and we find no cause to doubt its
genuineness." And the judges of the district court observe,
"that the grant is fully proved ; nor is its genuineness called in
question."
Besides this answer to the suggestion, even were we to entertain the question, we see nothing in the record to justify the imputation. The grant was made 4th November, 1844, at a time
when California was in the full possession of the Mexican
authorities, and more than a year previous to any hostile entry
of the forces of the United States, and more than three years
before the cession of the country to this government. The fact
that seems most to be relied on to maintain the suggestion is,
that Jimeno, the grantee, was the secretary of the territory at
the time, and hence the grant an act of favoritism. But there
is nothing in the decree of 18th August, 1824, of the Mexican
congress, or in the regulations of the 21st November, 1828, forbidding such grants. On the contrary, it is known to be the
usual mode of remuneration to an officer of the government for
meritorious public services. A preference is given to such officers in the distribution of the public lands by the 9th article of
decree of 1824, above referred to.
It is also objected that the grant does not contain the condition of confirmation by the departmental assembly; and also that
there has been no confirmation by that body.
The 5th regulation of November, 1828, provides, that grants
to individuals or families shall not be definitively valid without
the previous approbation of the departmental assembly to which
the respective "expedientes" shall be referred. There is nothing in this or any other regulation that requires this condition to
be inserted in the patent.
It appears from the records in the case, that the grant was
submitted to this body by Jimeno on the 21st April, 1846; and
that that body, on the 3d June following, referred it to the committee on vacant lands ; but, for aught that appears, no further
action was had upon it. The expediente, however, which was
before this body, seems afterwards to have been returned to the
appropriate office for the keeping of these records, and was found
in the government archives.
The 6th regulation of 1828 provides that, "if the governor
does not obtain the approval of the departmental assembly, he
shall report the same to the supreme government," together with
the " expediente," for its decision. Inasmuch as the record of
the title was found returned by the governor to the government
archives, and not forwarded to the supreme government, it is

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

563

The United States v. Larkin et al.

insisted, on behalf of the claimants, that the fair presumption is,
that the grant had been approved ; otherwise, it would not have
been returned to government archives.
However this may be, it is not important to determine, as it
was settled, after full consideration, in the case of Fremont v.
United States, 17 How. 542, 563, that the omission to procure
the confirmation under circumstances existing similar to those
attending this case did not operate to defeat or avoid the title.
The grant, in that case, to Alvarado, was made by the same
governor, and in the same year of the present grant, and, we
may add that the grantee was a military officer of the government
at the time ; the present grantee was a civil officer.
The same case also furnishes a full answer to the objections,
that judicial possession was not taken of the land. We refer to
the grounds there stated without repeating them, as the facts in
this case fully warrant the view there presented.
It is also objected that the grant does not contain the usual
condition of cultivation and habitation within the year. Neither
the act of the Mexican congress of 1824 nor the regulations of
1828 prescribe any particular form of grants or patents of the
public lands. And there appears to have been no uniformity in
the conditions annexed in those issued by the different political
chiefs, nor even as it respects those issued by the same individual. Great latitude seems to have been exercised in prescribing these conditions, both as to the number and the nature of
them; also, in respect to the time within which the possession
was to be taken when inserted as a condition. It is understood
that the condition was usually dispensed with in cases where
the grantee was in actual possession at the time of the grant.
It was probably dispensed with in the present case ; as the
grantee was the secretary of the territory, and his services required at the seat of government ; especially, as it appears that
a civil disturbance had broken out between the political authorities, and which continued down until possession was taken of the
country by the United States in 1846 and 1847.
We think it would be going further than required by any of
the provisions of the law of 1824, or regulations of 1828, to hold
the grant void for the want of this condition of possession within
a limited time; more especially, as it appears that actual possession was taken of the land as soon as the state and condition of
the country would admit, and which has been held ever since.
And we are -the more bound to hold this construction in respect
to this particular condition, as the court have already held, after
the fullest consideration, that even in cases where the condition
is contained in the grant, the non-compliance with its terms will
not necessarily have the effect to avoid the title. Circumstances may excuse the omission.

564

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

Upon the whole, we are satisfied that the judgment of the court
below was right, and should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.
For the reasons of Mr. Justice Daniel's dissent, see the preceding case of Arguello v. The United States.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissenting.
In exercising the jurisdiction conferred by the act of congress
of the 3d March, 1851, in reference to claims for lands in California, it seems to me this court should be satisfied that the
claimant has received a title from the governor who was a legal
representative of the Mexican nation, and that no credit should
attach to the acts of the usurpers who from time to time occasioned anarchy and civil war in that territory; that the grant
should be, in spirit and effect, a colonization grant, in accordance with the Mexican laws; that it should describe the lands
so that they can be identified; and that the conditions of improvement and occupancy should be substantially fulfilled. The
case before us is a claim for eleven leagues of land lying on the
Sacramento River, with that length and of a league in width.
The papers purport to have been made during the four first
days of November, 1844, by the governor of the territory, in
favor of one Jimeno, the secretary of the government. The
usual inquiries could not be made, for the party interested was
charged with the performance of that duty; though the governor recites that, in making the grant, he .had conformed to the
regulations. The patent issued the 4th November, 1844, subject to the conditions that juridical possession should be taken,
and the proper boundaries marked out, and that the grantee
should plant fruit-bearing, or forest trees of some utility; and
if he failed to perform the conditions he should lose the land.
No act was done by this person during 1844 or 1845, or the
early part of 1846, which indicates any claim on his part to this
land. There is a petition entered by himself on the expediente,
directed to the departmental assembly, dated 21st April, 1846,
asking for a confirmation and a certificate of one Olivera, dated
3d June, 1846, that it had been presented and referred to the
committee of public lands. Here the connection of Jimeno terminates. The preparation of these papers is the whole extent
of that connection. In August, 1847, the petitioner, Larkin,
consul of the United States at Monterey, purchases from
Jimeno this claim for one thousand dollars, or rather, that is
the price recited in the deed of Jimeno to him. The American flag had been raised at Monterey twelve months before,
and the whole country was then in the possession of General
Kearney.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

565

Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

We have some unsatisfactory evidence that Larkin, either in
1847 or 1848 sent a Spaniard to enter upon this land; a camp,
in which he might find a shelter and some conveniences for
collecting cattle, form the facts of this settlement.
Neither Jimeno nor Larkin entered upon or occupied the
land. This evidence merely shows that Larkin was laying the
foundations for a claim upon the United States, and was wholly
unconnected with the Mexican regulations. The evidence satisfies me that this claim was fabricated after the difficulties
between the United States and Mexico had occurred, with a
view to enable the American consul at Monterey to profit from
it, in the event of the cession of the country to the United
States. I lay no stress upon the fact that the papers are found
in the archives. I presume Jimeno was the keeper of those
archives. I dissent from the judgment of the court confirming
this claim.

DENNISTOUN, JOHN DENNISTOUN, WILLIAM MYLINE, AND WILLIAM WOOD, PARTNERS, UNDER THE STYLE OF

ALEXANDER

A. DENNISTOUN AND CO., PLAINTIFFS, V. ROGER STEWART.
Where questions are certified up to this court, in consequence of a division in opinion
between the judges of the circuit court, they must be questions of law and not
questions of fact; not such as involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the
judges, upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts, adduced in the cause.
The questions must also be distinctly and particularly stated with reference to that
part of the case upon which such questions shall have arisen.
The points stated must be single, and must not bring up the whole case for decision.

THIS case came up from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of Alabama, upon a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
The case was before the court at the preceding term, and is
reported in 17 How. 606.
The certificate of division commenced as follows, namely :
Certficate of -Division of Ovinion.
CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U. S.,
Southern Dist. of Ala.
A. DENNlSTOUN AND Co.)
V.

JAMES REI AND CO.
Upon the trial of this cause in the circuit court aforesaid, the
defendant, among other defences to the case of the plaintiffs,
insisted that the plaintiffs had surrendered, to one Byrne, a bill
of lading for ten hundred and fifty-eight bales of cotton on The
VO.. XVIIl.

48

