DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

473

Ledoux et al. v. Black et al.

have not been supported by testimony. The will has remained
without contestation for above a half century. The alcalde,
assessor, notary, and witnesses maintained during their lives a
good reputation for probity. The property of the testatrix was
distributed without opposition, according to the provisions of
the will, and is now held, under titles derived from the instituted
heir. This evidence disposes of the allegations of the bill, except
those which impugn the sufficiency of the act as a legal instrument.
That question, in our opinion, is closed by the decree of the
alcalde. That- decree declares the will to be valid and subsisting, and directs its execution. We are obliged to treat the
decree as the judicial act of a court of competent jurisdiction.
In fact, it was the only judicial authority ili the province of
Louisiana, except that exercised by the governor.
This decree remains in full force, never having been impeached, except in this collateral way. The courts of the United
States have no probate jurisdiction, and must receive the sentences of the courts to which the jurisdiction over testamentary
matters is committed, as conclusive of the validity and contents
of a will; an original bill cannot be sustained upon an allegation that the probate of a will is contrary to law. If any error
was committed in allowing the probate, the remedy is in the
state courts, according to their appropriate modes of proceeding; such was the decision of this coui't in Tarver v. Tarver,
9 Pet. 174.
The decision of this question is sufficient to dispose of the
case, and we decline any inquiry in reference to any other which
was discussed at the hearing.
Decree of the circuit court affirmed.

AMARON LEDOUX, ALPHONSE MILTENBERGER, AND GEORGE 0.
HALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN BLACK, JOHN HAGAN, JR.,
JOHN HAGAN, SR., FRANCIS WVREN, J. M. SMILEY, AND EPHRAIM
MCLEAN.
In the case of an imperfect Spanish title to land in Louisiana, a confirmation by congress is inoperative, unless the title or survey under it will enable the court to ascertain the specific boundaries of the land.
If, before a survey, in such a case, an entry is made and a patent taken out for land,
which conflicts with a subsequent survey of the confirmed concession, the patentee
has the better title.

Tins case was brought up from the supreme court of Louis40*

474

SUPREME COURT.
Ledoux et al. v. Black et al.

iana by a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Carlisle and Mr.Bad,,er, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Benjamin, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought here from the supreme court of Louisiana, by writ of error, under the 25th section of the judiciary
act of 1789. The only question presented for our consideration
is, which party has the better right to the land in dispute ? The
defendant, Black, claims title under an entry made in 1808, and
a patent founded on the entry, dated in 1810, in the name of
General Lafayette, for a thousand acres. The validity of this
title as against the United States is not denied ;. but the plaintiffs claim to have an elder title, by virtue of a concession to
Ursino Bouligny, of forty arpens front by forty arpens in depth,
dated January 10, 1796, of which the plaintiffs are assignees.
They allege that under an act of congress of February, 1813,
Bouligny prosecuted his claim to the proper register and receiver,
who reported in its favor on the 20th of November, 1816; that
their report was confirmed by act of congress, the 11th of May,
1820, and that claim was regularly surveyed by order of the
surveyor-general of Louisiana, in 1843, and the survey approved
in 1844.
To show the point made and decided on these facts, by the
supreme court of Louisiana, we give an extract of their opinion,
which is found in the record:-""Conceding," (says the court,). "for the sake of argument.
that the claim of the plaintiffs was filed in the land-office in the
manner required by law, before the issuing of the patent to
General Lafayette; that it has been confirmed by the act of
congress of the 11th of May, 1820, and that the confirmation
should be made to refer back to the date of the original title,
unless that title or a survey made under it by the Spanish surveyor, in compliance with the order of the governor, will enable
the court to ascertain the specific boundaries of the land granted,
the location of the warrant under which the patent issued to
General Lafayette cannot be disturbed. We have uniformly
adhered to the rule laid down by our predecessors in the cases
of Lefebvre v. Cameau, 11 L. R. 323; Slack v. Orillon, 11 L.
R. 587; Lott et al. v. Prudhomme et al. 3 R. R. 298; Metoyer
v. Larenaudi~re, 6 R. R. 139.
"In the case of Lott, the court say, referring to the other two:
We then held, that when the boundaries of a confirmed claim

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

475

Ledoux et al. v. Black et al.

are vague and uncertain, and are to be fixed by the operations
of the surveying department, or such confirmation is only the
recognition of a pre-existing right or claim, and before the survey
and location the government sells a part of the land not necessarily embraced within the tract confirmed, the title of the purchaser will prevail.' Let us test the title of the plaintiffs by that
rule, and ascertain whether the land now claimed is necessarily
embraced within the tract confirmed to them, supposing that
such a confirmation had taken place.
"There was no survey under the Spanish government, and no
possession by the grantee. The boundaries are to be ascertained
exclusively by the calls of the requele, and of the order of the
governor upon it. Both described the land as a tract of forty
arpens front by forty deep, in the district of Point Couple, en el
It is not stated
parage, called the Lagoon of the Raccourci.
whether the land is to front upon t.he Lagoon, or upon the Mississippi River; and as one location would answer the calls as
well as the other, the description is, perhaps, on that ground
alone defective. Lafayette v. Blanc, 3 Annual R. 59.
"But supposing that the front was intended to be upon the
river, where is it to begin, how is it to run, and where is it to
end? Whether the words of description used mean at the
place called the Lagoon, or in the vicinity of the Lagoon, the
starting-point of the survey is alike uncertain, and the designation of it by the surveyor who located the grant purely abitrary,
so far at least as it affects the rights of the defendants."
Until the confirmation took place, (supposing the act of 1820
did confirm Bouligny's claim,) no valid title as" against the
United States was vested in the grantee to any specific tract of
land. We need only to refer to the case of De Vilemont v. The
United States, 13 How. 266, for authority to this effect. The
cases are alike in all their features.
,Nor did the mere act of confirmation tend to locate the claim,
and sever the land from the public domain; this could only be
done by a public survey, and which was not done till 1844. Up
to that date the government could sell and convey a legal title
to General Lafayette, regardless of the fact that Bouligny's concession existed, and might be surveyed on the land previously
granted. This question was settled by the decision in the case
of Menard's Heirs v. Massey, 8 How. 301, and is not now open
to controversy.
We order that the judgment of the supreme court of Louisiana be affirmed.

