DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

267

Ward v. Peck et al.

SAMUEL WARD, CLAIMANT OF THE BARK MOPANG, APPELLANT,
V. WILLIAM M. PECK, JACOB BADGER, FREEmiAN KINGSLEY, AND
HUMPHREY DEVEREUX, LIBELLANTS.*
The courts of admiralty of the United States have jurisdiction of petitory as well as
mere possessory actions.
The cases of The Tilton (5 Mason, 465,) and Taylor v. Royal Saxon, (1 Wall, 322,)
confirmed.
The abandonment of a ship by her owners to the underwriters does not operate to
ratify the title of one who claims her under an unauthorized sale by the master.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The circumstances of the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
It was submitted on the record by Mr. Benjamin, for the appellant, and argued by Mr. Stanton, for the appellees.
Mr. Stantonz contended that the offer to abandon did not constitute a ratification of the sale by the master, and cited Phillips
on Ins. ยง 1576; Abbott on Shipping, 19; 18 Pickering, 83;
Phillips on Ins. ยง 1497; 2 Peck, 249; 5 Pet. 604; 15 Mlass.
341; 9 Johns. 21; 1 Caines, 573; 18 Peck, 88.
2Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The pleadings in this case present but the single question of
the title or ownership of the Bark Mfopang.
Originally, the court of admiralty in England entertained
jurisdiction of petitory as well as mere possessory actions.
Since the Restoration, that court, through the jealous interference of courts of law, had ceased to pronounce directly on
questions of ownership or property. Petitory suits were silently
abandoned, and, if in a possessory action a question of mere
property arose, especially of a more complicated nature, it declined to interfere.
This "submission to authority rather than reason" has continued till the statute of 3 and 4 Vidt. c. 65, ยง 4, restored to the
admiralty plenary jurisdiction of such questions. See case of
The Aurora, 3 Rob. 133, 186, and the Warrior, 2 Dodson, 288,
2 Brown Civ. & Ad. 430.
In this country, where the courts of admiralty have not been
subjected to such jealous restraints, the ancient jurisdiction over
petitory suits or causes of property has been retained. In the
* Air. Justice CATRON was absent on the trial of this cause.

SUPREME

COURT.

Ward v. Peck et al.

case of The Tilton, (5 Mason, 405,) Mr. Justice Story has examined this 'question with his usual learning and ability. The
authority of that case has never been questioned in our courts.
See Taylor v. Royal Saxon, 1 Wall, 322. In the case of the
New England Ins. Co. v. Brig Sarah Anne, 13 Pet. 387, in this
court, the only question was the title or ownership of the brig,
yet the cause was entertained without any expression of doubt
as to jurisdiction.
The following agreed statement of facts presents the merits
of this case: "That the libellants are the owners of the said Bark 'Mopang,' unless their title has been devested by the sale made by
the master under the following circumstances: The I-ark sailed
from New Orleans on or about the 29th November, 1846, for
Tampico and other Mexican ports. That, on or about the 6th
of December thereafter she struck aground, was abandoned by
her officers and crew on the north breakers off the bar of Tampico; that she floated over the bar, and was boarded by one
Clifton, who refused to deliver her to the master; that a claim
for salvage was made; that by agreement between the master
and Clifton, the vessel was sold to the claimant, Ward, on the
It is admitted that the sale to Ward was unauthorized
by the circumstances in which the master was placed.
"The libellants had a valued policy upon the vessel taken out
at New Orleans. Ol the 9th day of January, 1847, they gave
notice of abandonment to the underwriters as for a total loss,
who refused to accept the same. They were sued for a total
loss by libellants. Judgment found for defendant."
This statement amounts to an admission of want of title in
the claimant. The abandonment by her owners to the underwriters could not affect the title of the claimant, by way of ratification or estoppel. The insurance is but a wager between the
parties to it, on the safety of the vessel. By the rule of the contract the ship may be abandoned, and the whole insurance
claimed, when the damages exceed half the value.
Nothing but extreme necessity caii justify the sale of the
vessel by the master. T~e abandonment was based on the
damage done to the vessel at the time of the accident. If accepted, the master became the agent of the insurer ; and whether
accepted or not, his act, without authority, can receive no ratification from allegations or admissions made by any party in a
dispute on the contract of assurance, where the inquiry as to the
act of the master was irrelevant. The defendant, having obtained possession unlawfully, was a trespasser, and can no more
plead the abandonment as a confirmation of his title than if he
had obtained it by theft or piracy, moreover, if the circumltances
-.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

269

Ward v. Peck et al.

would have justified a sale by the master, no abandonment was
necessary. It cannot, therefore, by .any possible implication,
amount to a confirmation of such sale.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissenting.
I dissent from the decision just pronounced: 1. On the ground
that this case is not one regularly appertaining t6 a court of admiralty. 2. Because this decision professes to claim a power and
jurisdiction admitted by the decision itself never to have been
heretofore conceded to nor exerted by courts of admiralty in this
country, whose power and jurisdiction in future are to be traced
for their origin to this cause alone.
With respect to the objection first stated ; this cause presents
no example of a maritime contract or of a marine tort. It is
simply a contest as to the right of property in a subject situated
within the ordinary and settled jurisdiction of the courts of common law and equity of the State of Louisiana, and could have
been there as effectively determined by an action of detinue or
trover, or by a bill in equity if there was danger of an eloignment of the subject in controversy, as it could possibly be in
admiralty: and this fact alone should have been a reason sufficient against an abandonment of the adequate and familiar
modes of administering justice, and an unnecessary resort to a
tribunal which in England, we are told by Lord Hale, was never
established either by common law or by statute, but had grown
up entirely by encroachment and sufferance.
It is true that the subject in controversy here is a vessel; but
if that single fact could justify the interposition of the admiralty,
it would equally imply the same power in that jurisdiction over
any dispute concerning the right of property in a vessel, although
she might still be upon the stocks, and although she had never
reached the water, or might, by some casualty, never touch that
element.
This was simply a question of property arising out of the extent of power in an agent to dispose of it, - a common and everyday question of law.
2. It is admitted that the juiisdiction now asserted for the first
time in this court, - namely, the jurisdiction in petitory suits, did not belong to the admiralty in England, or was not exercised
by them for several hundred years at least; and that a recent
statute in the present reign, had been enacted expressly to confer
that jurisdiction. It has also been said, that the jurisdiction
thus recently authorized had, in the olden time, existed in the
admiralty, and had been restrained or forbidden only by the
jealousy of the common lawyers. This appears to me to be an
23*

SUPREME

COURT.

Ward v. Peck et al.

argument not founded upon the judicial history of the country,
and one which is neither logical nor tenable. A reference to
others of the highest and most venerable authorities, which
might be added to that of Lord Hale already cited, demolishes
entirely the foundation on which this argument is based. The
argument is in itself illogical and illusory; for had this jurisdiction been even legitimate in the admiralty, it might doubtless
]lave been vindicated and maintained in despite of an illegal and
unfounded jealousy of the common lawyers. It never could
have been forced to yield to so baseless an opposition. No
authority so potent as that of an express statute could have
been required, to create what not only already had being, but
which was established and venerable from justice and from lapse
of time.
If the inhibition had been the mere creature of jealousy or prejudice, a returning sense of right and a conviction of public advantage, would, in this as in other instances falling within the
power of the courts, have corrected previous errors. The very
fact of the enactment of a statute, such as that referred to, is
strong evidence to show that the jurisdiction it confers had no
previous or rather no rightful existence.
But it is said that no jealousy like that once felt in England
against the admiralty exists in this country; and, therefore, the
inveterate powers ascribed to it formerly in England are free
and unfettered for its exercise in this country. This course of
argument naturally suggests with me the following inquiries:
What fetters or limitations are recognized as placed upon the
admiralty jurisdiction in the United States ? Freed from the
checks and restraints imposed upon such a jurisdiction in that
country, from which the system was transferred to us, what are
the checks imposed upon it here ? Are there any such checks ?
Does it, either in theory or in practice, recognize any such, how or where are they defined or ascertained ? Has it any
system at all, or is it left to the judgment or fancy of those who
assume to exercise power under its name?
Too true does it seem to me the case, that the ambitious and
undefined pretensions of this branch of jurisprudence have found
greater favor here than, in my view, is compatible with civil
liberty, with public policy, or private benefit; and hence I have
been the more inclined to watch and prevent its dangerous encroachments, and in all sincerity can, in contemplating the
favor extended to those encroachments exclaim, " hinc ille
lachryme."
For the jurisdiction here claimed for the admiralty, we are
referred to the treatise of Mr. Arthur Brown, professor of civil
law in Ireland. I have no recollection of having before seen or

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

271

Ward v. Peck et al.

heard the doctrines of this professor recognized as authority;
and with respect to his theories, it may justly be remarked, that
if these are to be adopted as law, there is no excess of extravagance to be found in the exploded notions of Sir Leoline Jenkins, or anywhere else, which will not find an apology, nay, a
full justification, in the book of this civil-law doctor. If the
theories of this professor are to be regarded as binding, his disciples may look forward at no distant day to an announcement
from this bench, as there has been formerly from that of one of
the circuits, of the doctrine, that a policy of insurance (a mere
wager laid upon the safety of a vessel) is strictly and essentially
a maritime contract, because, forsooth, the vessel had to navigate
the ocean.
It seems somewhat singular, however, that Mr. Brown should
be appealed to in support of the authority now claimed for the
admiralty, when in truth his book again and again admits, that
such jurisdiction had been utterly repudiated in England as a
sheer usurpation, and may appropriately be styled a jeremiad
over the lost authority and splendor of a system which he would
exalt to the control of every other branch of jurisprudence.
I object, in all cases, to the decision of questions not strictly in
point, or which have not been regularly discussed, and not only
maturely but necessarily considered. If there is any one source
of embarrassment more prolific than all others, it is this very
practice. I cannot perceive the necessity nor the propriety of
deciding matters in advance. The effect of such a practice is
either the difficulty of getting clear of irregular and inapposite
conclusions, or the sanction of them with the view of maintaining consistency whether right or wrong.
A great portion of the admiralty jurisdiction now permitted in
this country may be traced to a dictum in argument in the case
of The General Smith, 4 Wheat. p. 444, in the assertion of a
doctrine which, if now for the first time discussed and examined,
might not command the sanction of this tribunal.
It is that tendency of error once countenanced or tolerated to
grow into precedent, which has ever enjoined it upon me as a
sacred duty to resist its approaches before they have been matured into power and even the conviction of an inability to
accomplish this result, is with me no dispensation from the duty
of resistance.

