289

DECEMBER rtERM, 1855.
Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

defendant that Minor was bound to give Hunter notice that
more than $ 400 was claimed after the expiration of the first year,
before he could be allowed a higher rate of compensation.
As the case depended on proof of a promise, (arising by implication,) on the fact that Hunter assented to the proposition
made by Daniel Minor to the plaintiff below, no proof of further
notice could be required; so that the controversy must be limited
to the instruction first refused.
This instruction, if given, would have taken the case from the
jury by rejecting the entire evidence as legally incompetent,
except such as established the special contract.
There was evidence from which the jury might infer a promise
on part of Hunter to further compensate -Minor; and it was
the duty of the circuit court to leave the fact to the jury: indeed,
the first instruction which was given went to the limit of the
court's power in its bearing on the facts; the jury being told
that if they found the plaintiff was to receive 400 dollars for the
first year's service, and had received at that rate for the whole
period, then the plaintiff was not entitled to recover.
It is ordered that the judgment of the circuit court be affirmed.

ISRAEL KINSMAN

AND CALvIN L. GODDARD,
STEPHEN R. PARKHURST.

APPELLANTS, V.

Where there was an agreement between a patentee and dn assignee that the latter
should manpfacture the machines for a certain time and upon certain terms, it is
too late for him, when called upon in chancery for an account, to deny that the
patentee was the original inventor of the thing patented.
Even if the patent were invalid, yet that does not so taint with illegality the sales of
the machines by the assignee, as to affect the claim of the a-signor to an account of
the sales.
The agreement that one only of the parties should continue the manufacture was not
void as being in restraint of trade.
The assignee could not legally purchase the outstanding claim of a third person,
and set it up against the patentee with whom he had an existing agreement, in the
nature of a copartnership.
If the assignee transfers his contract, the person to whom he tranfers it is bound by tle
same equities which existed between the original parties to the contract, having pur;
chased with a full knowledge of the state of things.
If the report of the master was incorrect, exception should have been taken to it ii
the court below. It cannot be examined in this court; no exception having been
'taken.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
VOL. XV1ii.

25

SUPREME OOURT.
Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

It was argued by Mlr. Keller, for the appellants, and ir. Gifford, for the appellee.
Mr. Keller made ten points.
The first three assailed the validity of Parkhnrst's patent. The
others raised the following questions 4. Whether the agreement, preventing one of the parties from
making the article and both from selling it under a certain price,
was not void as being in restraint of trade and against public
policy, if either or both of the parties knew that the patent was
not valid.
The 5th, 6th, and 7th related to the responsibility of Godalard.
The 8th. Whether Kinsman and Goddard were responsible
for bad debts, provided they were prevented from receiving the
money by the interference of Parkhurst.
The 9th again attacked the patent.
The 10th. Whether Kinsman and Goddard were responsible,
if the machines which they made did not, in law or fact, infringe
the letters-patent.
Mr. Gifford made eleven points.
The first related to the propriety of entertaining the appeal
at all.
The 2d, 3d, and 4th. That the agreements between the parties fixed their relation and prescribed their rights and obligations.
5. That Kinsman was estopped from denying the validity of
the patent.
6. That Goddard, having come in under the agreement, was
in the same situation as Kinsman.
7. That the machines made by Kinsman and Goddard were
covered by the patent.
8. That Kinsman had made enough to reimburse himself and
fraudulently refused to account for the surplus.
9. That Parkhurst was the inventor of the thing patented.
10. That he never obtained a single feature of his invention
from any other person.
11. That he had always acted fairly.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the southern district of New York, in a suit
in *equitybrought by the appellee, Parkhurst, against the appellants. The bill states, and the proofs show, that Parkhurst,
being the owner of letters-patent for improvements in the machine for ginning cotton and wool, on the 22d of May, 1845,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

291

Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

entered into a written agreement with Kinsman, the substance
of which was, that Parkhurst was to be the owner of two thirds,
and Kinsman of one third, of the letters-patent; that the business of manufacturing and selling the patented machines should
be carried on by the parties on their joint account, in the proportions of two thirds and one third, Kinsman giving his personal
attention to the business, and advancing a sum not exceeding
one thousand dollars for the purchase of machinery, stock, &c.,
for which advance he was to be repaid out of the first profits
of the business. Kinsman was to pay Parkhurst two thousand
dollars in cash, and give his note for one thousand dollars, payable in sixty days. Under this agreement, the manufacture and
sales of the machines were begun and carried on until the 9th
day of February, 1846, at which time the parties entered into
a new agreement, the substantial part of which was as follows:"Whereas the party of the first part has advanced moneys,
and become responsible for various sums of money which have
been expended in getting up machinery, and tools, and stock,
&c., for the manufacture of burning and carding machines, which
were invented by the said Parkhurst; one third part of which
he sold and assigned to the party of the first part: Now, therefore, the party of the first part, in consideration of one dollar in
hand paid by the party of the second part, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, hereby covenants and agrees, that, as soon
as the profits which have accrued, and which may hereafter
arise, from the manufacture and sale of the said machines, so
invented by the party of the second part, and so made and sold
by the party of the first part, shall be sufficient to pay all legal
demands for the purchase of machinery, tools, &c., &c., and
other expenses incurred by said party of the first part, then he,
the said party of the first part, shall and will discontinue the
manufacture and sale of said machines, invented as aforesaid,
and that all machines which he shall manufacture and sell after
this date should not be sold for a less profit than one hundred
dollars each, and that he will be accountable for one hundred
dollars profit on each and every machine made and sold from
this day, unless he has the written consent of the party of the
second part to sell at a less price."
"The party of the second part, in consideration of one dollar
to him in hand paid by the party of the first part, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, and also in consideration of
the agreements aforesaid, hereby covenants and agrees with the
party of the first part, that he will go on and manufacture the
machines aforesaid as soon as the party of the first part discontinues the same, and that he will not sell any machine for a less

292

SUPREME COURT.
Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

profit than one kundred dollars, without the written consent of
the party of the first part, and that he will pay over to the party
of the first part one third part and share of the said profits upon
all machines which lie makes and sells hereafter, and that, for
any machines which he may manufacture, or have manufactured, before the discontinuing of the building of the same by
the party of the first part, shall be subject to the same restrictions of selling for at least one hundred dollars profit on each
machine, one third of which shall be paid to the party of the first
part."
The original and supplemental bills aver, that under this
agreement Kinsman prosecuted the business, and not only reimbursed himself for the cost of the machinery, tools, &c., and
all his other advances, but, in violation of his agreement, continued the manufacture and sale of the machines, so as to receive large profits, of which it prays an account, and also an injunction to restrain the further making or vending of the machines in violation of the agreement. A temporary injunction
was applied for and obtained on the third day of July, 1847.
On the 29th day of June, 1847, Kinsman made a transfer to the
appellant, Goddard, who was then a clerk in his employment,
of the tools, stock, &c., used in the manufacture; and, after
Kinsman was enjoined, the business was carried on in Goddard's
name. A supplemental bill was then filed, making Goddard a
party, charging him with notice of all the complainant's rights
at the time of the transfer to him, alleging the transfer itself to
have been only colorable, and praying an account and decree as
against him and Kinsman. The circuit court made an interlocutory decree, declaring Parkhurst's right to an account, referring
the cause to a master, to take and state the accounts, directing
the master, in taking thp accounts, to ascertain and report the
number of machines made and sold by Kinsman and Goddard,
or either of them; the advances made by Kinsman and Goddard, or either of them; and charging a profit of one hundred
dollars on each machine sold.
The master reported; and his report, not being excepted to
was confirmed, and a final decree made, that Kinsman and
Goddard should pay to the complainant the amount reported by
the master to be due from them. From this decree the appeal
now before us was taken.
The principal objection made by the appellants to the decree
of the court below is that Parkhurst was not the original and
first inventor of the thing patented. We are not satisfied that
this is made out. But we have not found it necessary to come
to a decided opinion upon this point, because we are all of
opinion that, under the agreement of the ninth of February,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Kinsman et al. v.

293

Parkhurst.

1846, the invalidity of the patent would not afford a bar to the
complainant's right to an account. Having actually received
profits from sales of the patented machine, which profits the defendants do not show have been or are in any way liable to be
affected by the invalidity of the patent, its validity is immaterial.
Moreover, we think the defendants are estopped from alleging
that invalidity. They have made and sold these machines
under the complainant's title and for his account; and they can
no more be allowed to deny that title and retain the profits to
their own use, than an agent, who has collected a debt for his
principal, can insist on keeping the money, upon an allegation
that the debt was not justly due.
The invalidity of the patent does not render the sales of the
machine illegal, so as to taint with illegality the obligation of
the defendants to account. Even where money has been received, either by an agent or a joint owner, by force of a contract
which was illegal,, the agent or joint owner cannot protect himself from accounting for what was so received, by setting up the
illegality of the transaction in which it was paid to him. Thus
where a vessel engaged in an illegal trade carried freight which
came into the hands of one of the part owners, and on a bill
filed by the other part owner for an account, the defendant relied on the illegality of the trade, but it was held to be no defence. Sharp v. Taylor, 2 Phil. Ch. R. 801. So in Tenant v.
Elliot, 1 B. & P. 3, the defendant, an insurance broker, having
effected an illegal insurance for the plaintiff, and received the
amount of a loss, endeavored to defend against the claim of his
principal by showing the illegality of the insurance, but the
plaintiff recovered. See also McBlair whGibbes, 17 How. 236.
• Here, however, as already observed, there was no illegality; it
is simply a question of failure of title, and as that does not
appear in any manner to have affected the profits which the defendants received, there can be no ground to allow it to be shown
in defence. Bartlett, ad'r, v. Holbrook, 1 Gray's R. 114; Wilder
v. Adams, 2 Wood. & Minot, 329, are in point.
Similar views* are decisive against the objection that this was
a contract in restraint of trade. It was certainly competent for
two persons, being joint owners of letters-patent, whether valid
or invalid, to enter into a copartnership for the manufacture and
sale of the patented machines, and to stipulate that one of them
should alone coiiduct the business. This was a provision for
the prosecution of the business in a particular mode, and not for
its restraint. It is a very common and not an illegal stipulation
in partnership articles, that neither partner shall carry on that
business for which the partnership is formed, outside of the
partnership and for his own account. Besides, if the contract
25*

294

SUPREME

COURT.

Kinsman et al. v. Parkhurst.

to refrain from the manufacture could not be enforced, as being
'against public policy, this would afford no answer to a claim for
an account of profits actually realized by prosecuting the business, there being no connection between the illegal stipulation
and the profits of the business.
It was insisted by the appellants that they did not act under
the complainant's title, but under some right acquired from one
Sargent. We are not satisfied that Sargent had even an inchoate right to a patent for the machines which the appellants
made and sold. But even if he had, the defendant, Kinsman,
could not secretly acquire the outstanding right of Sargent, if
any, and set it up against his joint owner, Parkhurst, in derogation of his rights under the agreement of the 9th of February,
which Kinsman entered into with knowledge of this alleged title
of Sargent; and Goddard is bound by the same equities, for he
not only purchased pendente lite, and with actual notice of the
suit, but we are satisfied the sale to him was made to enable
Kinsman to attempt to evade the injunction.
The appellant, Goddard, objects that he has been charged by
the final decree, jointly with Kinsman, for the profits on sales of
machines made before the transfer to him by Kinsman. If this
be so, it arises from the report of the master, who was directed
by the interlocutory decree to report the sales made by Kinsman
and Goddard, or either of them, and the advances and expenditures of them, or either of them.
If his report was in this or any other particular erroneous, it
was incumbent on the defendants to have pointed out the error
by an exception filed pursuant to the rules of the court on that
subject. But no exception was filed, the report was confirmed,
and the final decree was drawn up and entered without objection
by the appellant, Goddard, reciting that it appears by the report
of the master that the sum of $23,220-L-(& is due and owing by
Kinsman and Goddard to Parkhurst, and thereupon proceeds to
decree them to pay that sum. When a motion to dismiss the
appeal was made at a former day, on the ground that the master's report not having been excepted to, and the appellants not
having objected to the final decree, there was nothing open on
this appeal, the appellant's counsel declared that the appeal was
designed only to review the interlocutory decree which had decided the merits of the cause, and that, unless error was found
therein, there was no ground for the appeal. The motion to
dismiss the appeal was overruled, the court being of opinion
that it was open to the appellants to review the decision made
by the interlocutory decree. But the interlocutory decree does
not direct the master to charge Goddard and Kinsman jointly
with profits on sales made by Kinsman alone. If the master

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

295

Ransom v. Davis's Administrators.

put such an interpretation on the decree, it was an erroneous
interpretation, and should have been brought before the court
below by an exception. It is too late to object to it here, for
the first time.
The appellants also insist that they were charged with profits
not actually received, by reason of the failure of the purchasers
to pay, and other causes. But this was in accordance with the
agreement of the 9th of February, which stipulates that Kinsman shall be accountable for one hundred dollars profit oil each
machine made and sold by him. By force of this stipulation,
lie and Goddard, who acted with him under this agreement, took
the risk of bad debts. It appears, from the master's report, that
evidence, tending to show that some of these losses were attributable to the interference of Parkhurst, was offered to the master
and rejected by him. But, no exception having been taken to
bring this point before the circuit court, it is not open here.
We have considered all the objections to the decree of the
circuit court, and, finding them untenable, we order the decree
to be affirmed, with damages and costs.

JAMES L. RANSOM, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM WINN AND
ISABELLA DAvIs, ADmINISTRATORS OF Ttto1AS J. DAvis, DECEASED.
Where a petition is filed in a court of chancery by a creditor, praying to be admitted
as a party complainant in a suit then existing, but the naturd of the original suit is
not made to appear, the proceeding is irregular, and cannot be sustained.
Where a chancery suit involves matters of account, the action of a master should be
had in the inferior court, and the items admitted or rejected should be stated, so
that exception may be taken to the particular items or class of items, and such a
case should be brought before this court on the rulings of the exceptions by the
circuit court.

Tins case was brought up by appeal from the circuit court of
the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and
for the county of Washington.
Ransom filed a petition in a cause then pending in the circuit
court of the District of Columbia, and all that the redord exhibited with respect to said cause was its title, namely: William S. Herrman v. Isabella Davis and Thomas Winn,
administrators, Ignatius T. Davis, Francis R. R. Davis et al.,
heirs at law of Thomas J. Davis, deceased. In chancery.
But upon what ground Herrman filed a bill against the administrators and heirs of Davis, the record did not show. The
subsequent proceedings are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. W. S. Cox, for the appellant, and Mr.
Davis, for the appellees.

