197

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Lafayette's Heirs v. Kenton et al. and Carter et al.

THE

HEIRS

OF

GENERAL

LAFAYETTE, PLAINTIFFS

v. JOSEPH KENTON ET AL:

THE HIRS

oF

FAYETTE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. EDWARD

IN ERROR,

GENERAL LAC. CARTER ET

AL.
By acts of congress passed in 1803 and 1805, General Lafayette was authorized to locate land warrants upon any lands which were the property of the United States; to
have snrvefis executed, and to obtain a certificate from the register of the land office,
that the land surveyed was not rightfully claimed by any other person.
The location was made upon land in the vicinity of New Orleans, and included land
which was vacant, and also land which was claimed by individuals. But the entry
contained no exterior boundaries.
It was not until 1825 that the location was surveyed; and then there were marked
upon the plat such lands as were vacant, and such as were claimed by individuals.
The register certified that the lands contained in the survey were vacant, with the
exception of the parts designated as private claims; and a patent was issued for
such vacancies, having the survey attached to it.
These claims of individuals having been confirmed by operation of acts of congress,
are excepted from the grant of the patent. Apart from the documents which establish the titles of these individual claimants, the patent shows that nothing was
granted except the lands which were marked as vacant.

THESE cases were brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States, for the eastern district of Louisiana.
They were argued by r. Taylor, for the plaintiffs in error,
and Mr.Benjamin and M'. Tanin, for defendants.
The arguments of counsel were so connected with the maps
which were produced in court, that it would be difficult to
present to te reader a clear explanation of them without the
map.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
By an act of 1803, congress authorized the secretary of war,
to iasue to Major-General Lafayette land warrants, amounting in
all, to 11,520 acres. By the act of March 2, 1805, he was authorized to locate his warrants, on any lands, "the property of the
United States," within the Orleans territory; the locations to
be made with the register of a land-office established there, and
the surveys were to be executed under the authority of the surveyor of the public lands south of Tennessee. Patents were
directed to be issued, when surveys of the respective tracts were
presented to the secretary of the treasury, "together with a certificate of the proper register, (in each case,) stating that the
land surveyed was not rightfully claimed by any other person."
And the act further provided, that no location should include
any improved lands or lots.
By an act passed in 1806, entries were authorized for any
quantity of land not less than five hundred acres.
17*

198

SUPREME COURT.
Lafayette's Heirs v. Kenton et al. and Carter et al.

On the 26th day of November, 1807, General Lafayette (by his
agent) located 503 acres, calling for "vacant land situated beyond the line of six hundred yards lately abandoned by congress
to the corporation of the said city, round the fortifications of the
same."
Owing to the unsettled state of private land claims near the
city of New Orleans, the location was not surveyed until March,
1825, when the principal surveyor certified to the register that
he had surveyed for General Lafayette, " a tract of land situate
in the parish of Orleans, beyond the line of six hundred yards
abandoned by congress to the corporation of the city of New
Orleans, having such courses, distances, boundaries, and contents as are represented in the annexed plat of survey."
Pursuant to the act of March 2, 1805, the register certified
that "the lands contained in the survey returned to his office
were vacant, with the exception of the parts designated as private
claims."
On the 4th day of July, 1825, a patent issued, which, by its
recitals, describes the out-boundaries of the 503 acres, and then
the granting clause declares that there is "granted to said General Lafayette, and to his heirs, all such PARTS or PARCELS of the
tract of land above described as are ' not legally claimed' by any
other person or persons whomsoever."
From the recitals in the patent, it might be inferred that General Lafayette's entry had the same boundaries as described in.
the patent; the fact, however, is, that the description contained
in the patent is the first description, in words, of the land claimed
under the entry; the patent being, in fact, founded on the figurative plan, which is attached to and forms an essential part of the
patent, and to this plan we are forced to look for a certificate of
the register, "stating that the land is not rightfully claimed by
any other person."
Until the certificate was made, the secretary was not authorized to issue the patent, and, to enable the register to make the
proper certificate, he was compelled to delay till congress, either
directly or indirectly, through commissioners, ascertained the
rightful claims of others lying within the limits supposed to be
covered by General Lafayette's location; and as the location, in
the form it was surveyed, (and no doubt as claimed to exist
when it was made,) notoriously interfered with claims of diffbrent private individuals, and covered possessions protected by the
act of March 3, 1807, no reason could be urged, on behalf of
the locator, why a survey and certificate should be made and returned to the secretary of the treasury before the private claims
were duly ascertained ; it being the obvious object of the locator
to obtain "the parts or parcels of land," within his out-bound-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

• 199

Craighead et al. v. J. E. and A. Wilson.

aries, that should chance to be found vacant, after the private
claims had been acted on and confirmed, or rejected.
As respected these private rights and pretensions, congress
reserved to itself the power to deal with them by such means as
were deemed appropriate; and by the course of action it prescribed, General Lafayette was compelled to abide. The case of
West v..Cochran (17 How. 403) lays down the governing rule
on the subject.
The courts of justice have no power to revise what congress,
or commissioners acting by its authority, have done in their confirmations of the titles here assailed. Against the United States
these confirmations are conclusive, and they are equally so
against General Lafayette; this being a condition imposed on
his location by the act of 1805, above quoted, and which is
affirmed in his patent. Titles, covering the lands sought to be
recovered by the petitioners below, were confirmed to others
before the patent to General Lafayette was issued, which appears by documents found in the record. But, if these documents were wanting, we are of opinion that the patent, and the
figurative plan, with the designations on it, where the private
confirmed titles and the vacant lands are laid down on the plot,
and noted as private property or as vacant, furnish evidence that
nothing passed by the grant but the lands noted as being vacant.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment in thie circuit court be
affirmed in the respective cases cited in the caption.

JOHN

B.

CRAIGHEAD ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH E.

AND

ALEXANDER WILSON.
Where a case in chancery was referred to a master to state accounts between the plaintiffs and defendants, to ascertain how much property remained in the hands of the
latter, and how much had been sold, with the prices; to make allowances to the
defendants for payments made or incumbrances dischirged, and to ascertain what
might be due from either defendant to the plaintiffs, this was not such a final decree
as could be appealed from to this court.
Although the decree settles the equities of the bill, yet the amount to be distributed
amongst the parties depends upon the facts to be reported by the master ; and until
the allotment to each one of the share to which he might be entitled, .the decree
cannot be considered as final.

Tmis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States,
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
There were briefs filed in this case by Mr. .Robertson and Mr:
Taylor, for the appellants, and by 11r. Benjamin and Mr. .anin,
for the appellees; but the question of jurisdiction was not raised.
1;Q '

