418

SUPREME COURT.
. Stockton v. Ford.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr.
Justice NELSON dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. I dissent from the opinion of the
court, being of opinion that the grounds of objection are not
"distinctly and specifically" set forth in the protest, within the
meaning of the act of Congress, and that the protest did not
apprise the collector of the particular objection taken at the
trial, and which could easily have been removed by another
appraisement if it had been brought to the notice of the collector
in the pootest.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice NELSON concurred
with the Chief Justice.

RICHARD C. STOCKTON, APPELLANT, v. JAMES C. FORD.
In the case of Stockton v. Ford, reported in 11 Howard, 232, this court decided the
following propositions, namely: 'rWhere there was a judgment which had been recorded under the laws of.Louisiana
and thus made equivalent to a mortgage upon the property of the debtor, and the
plaintiff assigned this judgment, and was then himself sued and had an execution
issued against him, his rights under this recorded judgment could not be sold under
this execution, because he had previously transferred all those rights.
The attorney who had recovered the judgment which was thus recovered and assigned, and who stood as attorney to the assignee, was not at liberty to purchase it
at the sale on execution, for his own benefit. The purchase enured to the benefit
of the client."
'And in the report of the case it is stated at page 234, that the assignment was made,
inter alia, to cover the attorney's fees and other costs.
The court now decides,
1. That the present plaintiff being the same, the validity of the assignment, as to him,
was decided in the former case.
2. The question, under the assignment, for attorney's fees was necessarily involved,
and should have been made in the former trial. The former suit, therefore, constitutes a bar to the present.
3. The evidence now shows that no censure could be properly attributed to the attorney for his share in the transaction.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
A full history of the transactions which led to the dispute is
given in the report of the case of Stockton v. Ford, 11 How.
232.
It was submitted, on printed arguments, by M2r. Stockton and
Mr.Johnson, for appellant, and by MAfr. Duncan, for appellee.
The arguments were so connected with the facts of the case,
that it is impossible to give the points by themselves.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

419

Stockton v. Ford.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opifiion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The bill was filed by the plaintiff to charge the plantation and
slaves of the defendant with a judicial mortgage, originally obtained by one Prior, against the firm of N. and E. Ford and Co.
The plaintiff claims an interest in this mortgage, first, by purchase on execution against Prior; and second, by a trust created
in the assignment of the same by Prior, under which the defendant derived title to it. The bill sets out the sale of the mortgage and purchase by the plaintiff, and also the assignment of
the same by Prior to Jones, and by him to the defendant. The
assignment to Jones provided for the payment first of the
attorney's fees and all other costs out of the proceeds of the
judgment, and the balance to be applied to the debts of Prior
for which Jones was responsible, and the surplus, if any, to the
assignor.
The plaintiff prayed that the defendant might be decreed to
pay the attorney's fees and costs on obtaining the judicial mortgage, according to the condition of the assignment; and, also,
any balance that might be found due after satisfying the debts
for which Jones was responsible.
The defendant, among other defences, set up a former suit in
bar.
A previous bill had been filed by the plaintiff against the defendant, seeking to foreclose this judicial mortgage, in which
the same title as in this case under the execution and sale
against Prior was relied on. And among other defences to that
suit, the defendant set up the assignment of the mortgage by
Prior to Jones previous to the said sale on execution, and by
Jones to the defendant.
This right of the plaintiff to the judicial mortgage under the
sale on execution, and of the defendant under the assignments,
were directly involved in that suit, and presented the principal
questions in the case. The validity of the assignments over the
claim of the plaintiff was maintained by the judgment of the
court below, and which was affirmed on appeal to this court.
11 How. 232. This court, after a full examination of the
pleadings and proof, say, "that in any view, therefore, that can
be properly taken of the case, the plaintiff has shown no right
or interest in the judicial mortgage, which he seeks to enforce
against the plantation and slaves in question. The whole interest is in the defendant.
The court also observed, "that the assignment (to Jones) was
made upon, full consideration, without any concealment, or, for
aught that appears, intent to hinder and delay creditors ; and

420

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton v. Ford.

was well known to the plaintiff long before he became the purchaser at the sheriff's sale. It passed the legal interest in the judicial mortgage out of Prior, and vested it in Jones, as early as
the 12th of Mfarch, 1840, and we are wholly unable to perceive
any ground of equity in the plaintiff, or of those under whom he
holds, for disturbing it through a judgment against the assignor,
rendered nearly two years afterwards. The sheriff's sale, therefore, could not operate to pass any interest in it to the plaintiff."
One of the questions now sought to be agitated again is precisely the same as this one in the previous suit; namely, the
right of the plaintiff t 9 the judicial mortgage under the executioga and sale against Prior. The other is somewhat varied;
namely, the equitable right or interest in the mortgage of the
plaintiff, as the attorney of Prior, for the fees and costs provided
for in the assignment to Jones. But this question was properly
involved in the former case, and might -have been there raised
and determined. The neglect of the plaintiff to avail himself
of it, even if it were tenable, furnishes no reason for another
litigation. The right of the respective parties to the judicial
mortgage was the main question in the former suit. That issue,
of.course, involved the whole or any partial interest in the mortgage. We are satisfied, therefore, that the former suit constitutes a complete bar to the present.
The court, in the former suit, also expressed the opinion that
the plaintiff was not in a situation to maintain his claim of title
to the mortgage under the execution and sale against Prior; as
it appeared in that case that he was the attorney of Prior in the
judicial mortgage, and stood in that relation to Jones at the
time of the purchase, and, for aught that appears, had made the
purchase without his knowledge or consent; and that, under
such circumstances, the purchase would enure to the benefit of
the client and those holding under him.
It is due to the plaintiff to say, that the evidence in this case,
*explanatory of the point in the former, shows that he did not
stand in the relation of attorney to Jones at the time of the sale ;
or, at least, had no reason to suppose that he stood in that relation; and that no just ground for censure exists in the transaction against him: the explanatory evidence has fully removed it.
We think the decree below is right, and should be affirmed.

