DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

143

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

the county of Dallas, did not file his oath as assessor on or before
the 10th of January, as required by law. He did file an oath on
the 15th of March, but this was not a compliance with the law,
and conferred no power on him to act as, assessor. On the contrary, by his neglect to comply with the law, his office of sheriff
became ipso facto vacated, and any assessment made by him in
that year was void, and could not be the foundation for a legal
sale. The neglect, also, to file his assessment and give immediate notice on the 25th of March, so that the purchaser might
have his appeal at the next county court, was an irregularity
which would have avoided the sale even if the assessment had
been legally made.
The statute makes the time within which these acts were to be
performed material; and a strict and exact compliance with its
requirements is a condition precedent to the vesting of any
authority in the officer to sell.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the sale of the land of the
appellants was "contrary to law," and that the deed from Edward M. Harris, sheriff and collector of Dallas county, to William
Overman, set forth and described in the pleadings and exhibits
of this case, is void, and should be annulled.

EDWARD 0. RicaARDs, IsAAc BASSETT, AND ROBERT W. ABORN,
COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. SYLVANUS HOLMES, A. H.
HARPER, GEORGE A. DWIGHT ET AL.
Where there was a deed of trust to secure the payment of a note which had two years
to run, and the trustee was empowered to sell in case any default should be made in
payment of any part of the debt and interest, the trustee could sell the property if
the interest for the first year was not paid when due.
It was not necessary that the trust deed should describe the interest as being annual.
The trustee had power to adjourn the sale from time to time, if duly advertised, and
it should seem to him necessary in order to secure a fair price.
The creditor for whose benefit the sale was made had a right to request the auctioneer
to make a bid for him, if fairly used.
Assignors who did not indorse the note, but assigned it by deed, and covenanted that
it should be first paid out of the proceeds of sale of the property conveyed in the
deed of trust, cannot be held personally responsible. The covenant in the assignment was only that the note assigned should have a preference.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of
Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the appellants, and by Mr.

144

SUPREME COURT.
Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

Fendall and Hfr. Tracy, for the appellees. There was also a
brief filed by Tr. Bradley, as counsel for Southworth, Litchfield,
and Beach.
Mr.Bibb made the following points: 1. That the note was dated on the Ist of May, 1846, and payable in two years. The trustee had no right to sell until the Ist
of May, 1848, whereas he sold on the 21st of October, 1847.
2. The allegation set up that Holmes had verbally agreed with
Harper to pay the interest semi-annually, &c., cannot be permitted to vary the deed or enlarge the powers of the trustee.
Nor could the consent of Holmes impair the rights of Richards,
Bassett, and Aborn. They had a right to redeem the property
when the note became due, the property being worth more than
the lien upon it.
8. The notice of sale was not properly given.
4. The auctioneer was seller and bidder for Harper.
The trustee could not purchase the estate himself; he could
not buy as the agent of another; he could not employ the auctioneer to bid for the estate on behalf of Harper. Ex parte
Bennett, 10 Yes. 893 ; Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Yes. 248 ; Ex parte
James, 8 Ves. 345, 348, 850 ; Ex parte Lacey, 6 Ves. 6"25 ; Lister v. Lister, 6 Ves. 631, 632; Twining v. Morris, 2 Brown Oh.
Ca. 326; The York Buildings Co. v. McKenzie, 3 Brow. Par.
Ca., Appen.; Davoue v. Fanning, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 254, 257,
268, 269, 270.
According to established principles, such a sale as this cannot
stand in a court of equity.
The counsel for the appellees, after justifying the sale in other
respects, thus noticed one of the points of alleged defectiveness The trustee did not.bid at all; Harper's bid was regular. His
rights as a creditor, whose only security for his whole fortune
was the property advertised for sale, stood on ground as strong,
at least, as that of the owner of it. And, though it is not lawful for an owner to employ an agent "to take advantage of the
eagerness of bidders, to screw up the price," yet, as a "defensive
precaution," " a bidder may be privately appointed by the owner,
to prevent the estate from being sold at an under-value." 1 Sugden on Vendors, (9th ed.) 26, 27; Fonbl. Eq. Bk. 1, ch. 4, ยง 4,
n. X ; 1 Mad. Ch. Pr. (4th Am. ed.) 324, 325 ; Smith v. Clarke,
12 Ves. 477; Steele v. Ellmaker, 11 Serg. & R. 86 ; Jenkins v.
Hogg, 2 Const. Rep. (S. C.) 821; Wolfe v. Luyster, 1 Hall, N.
Y. R. 146; Phippen v. Stickney, 8 Metc. 384. Harper made
only one bid, and that for "defensive precaution." The bid was
made through the auctioneer, who was the agent of both parties.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

145

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

Smith's Mercantile Law, 301, and the cases there cited; Conelly v. Parsons, 3 Wes. 625, n.
It is denied that the property was sold at "a very inadequate
price," or that the amount at which it is said to have been assessed on the books of the corporation of Washington (of which
there is no evidence) is a true test of its value. But even if the
price were "very inadequate," the inadequacy would be no
ground for annulling this sale. 1 Fonbl. Eq. 128; 1 U. S. Digest,
344, pl. 33, and the cases there cited. It will be contended that
the sale was in all respects regular; and that, if it were not so,
yet the complainants cannot avail themselves of the imputed
irregularities.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court for -the
District of Columbia. The appellants filed their bill in that
court to set aside a sale, made to satisfy a prior incumbrance on
land, upon which they claimed to have a second incumbrance.
In the court .below, some question appears to have been made
concerning the priority of the incumbrances; but none is made
here, it being conceded, that though that claimed by the complainants was the earliest in date, the other was first recorded,
and takes precedence.
The sale in question was made under a deed of trust, whereby
Holmes, the debtor, conveyed to the defendant, Philip R. Fendall, in trust to secure the payment of a promissory note, bearing
date May 1, 1846, payable in two years from date, for $ 2,800
and interest, payable annually.
It is objected that the sale, which was made on the 21st of
October, 1847, after one year's interest had become due, but
before the principal sum was payable, was premature. This
depends upon the meaning and effect of the power of sale
contained in the deed. It was competent for the parties to
agree to a foreclosure by sale for non-payment of interest, and
the question is, whether they did so agree. The event in
which the trustee is empowered to sell is thus described in the
deed: "But if the hereinbefore described promissory note, with the
interest legally due thereon, shall not be fully paid off and discharged when said note shall be due and payable, and payment
of the same shall be demanded, or if any note or notes given in
substitution for or renewal of the hereinbefore described promissory note shall not be fully paid off and discharged according
to the tenor and effect of the said substitute or new note or notes,
together with the interest legally due on such substitute or note
or notes, so that any default be made in payment of any part of
VOL. XV11:.

1

146

SUPREM1E COURT.
Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

the aforesaid debt of two thousand eight hundred dollars and
interest, then so soon after such default, &c."
The omission to pay the first year's interest was a default
within the express words of this power. That interest was part
of the interest secured by the note, and a failure to pay it was a
"default in payment of part of the aforesaid interest." Tile
deed authorizes the trustee to sell for any such default, and,
consequently, the sale was not premature.
It was argued that the trust deed does not describe the note
as bearing annual interest, and, consequently, that the subsequent incumbrancer has a right to insist that, as against him,
there Was no power to sell for non-payment of such interest.
It is true the deed does not *purport to describe the interest
which is to become due on the note; but it clearly shows that
it bore interest at some rate, and payable at some time or times,
and this was sufficient to put a subsequent incumbrancer on
inquiry as to what the rate of interest and the time or times of
its payment were. The deed, in effect, declares, and its record
gives notice to subsequent purchasers, that its purpose is to
secure the payment of such interest as has been reserved by the
note; the amount, and date, and time of payment of which are
mentioned. We do not think the mere omission to describe in
the deed what that interest was to be, is a defect of which advantage can be taken by the complainants.
The complainants further insist that the property was not
duly advertised. The provision in the deed of trust upon this
subject is as follows: "It shall be the duty of the said Philip
R. Fendall or his heirs to enter upon the hereinbefore conveyed
piece or parcel of ground and appurtenances, and sell the same at
public auction to the highest bidder, or at private sale, for cash
or credit, according to his or their discretion, after having given
public notice of such sale, by advertisement, at least thirty days
previously thereto, in the National Intelligencer, or in some
other newspaper printed or published in the city of Washingtou
aforesaid."
Inasmuch as the trustee was empowered to sell at private sale
as well as at public auction, his power extended to a private sale
made at any time after thirty days' notice. Having given notice
for the space of thirty days that he was about to sell the property, he might, at any time after the expiration of that thirty
days, have proceeded to sell it at private sale. But this notice
should be such as to call for purchasers at private sale. The
notice given was of a sale at public auction. This did not call
for purchasers, except at the time and place mentioned in the
notice. No sale was made at the time and place designated in
the thirty days' notice, published in the National Intelligencer.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

147

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

At that time and place the attendance of bidders was so small,
that the trustee believed an attempt to sell for a fair price would
be fruitless; and he adjourned the sale for the space of fourteen
days, giving notice of such adjournment in the same newspaper of
the next day. At the time anl place thus fixed for the adjourned
sale another postponement took place, for the same reasons, for
one week; and the place of sale was changed from the premises
to the rooms of the auctioneer. Of this postponement, also, public notice was given on the next day, in the same newspaper.
There is no reason to suspect the least unfairness on the part
of the trustee, or any one concerned. His conduct seems to
have been dictated solely by an honest desire to obtain the best
price for the property. Nor is there any ground for believing
that either of these postponements prejudicedthe interest of the
complainants. They stand upon the objection, that though the
trustee might have sold on the first day, of which thirty days'
notice was given, he could not on that day adjourn the sale.
But we consider that a power to a trustee to sell at public
auction, after a certaini public notice of the time and place of
sale, includes the power regularly to adjourn the sale to a different time and place, when, in his discretion fairly exercised, it
shall seem to him necessary to do so in Qrder to obtain the fair
auction price for the property.
If he has not this power, the elements or many unexpected
occurrences may prevent an attendance of bidders, and cause an
inevitable sacrifice of the property. It is a power which every
prudent owner would exercise in his own behalf under the circumstances supposed, and which he may well be presumed to
intend to confer on another. This power of sale does not undertake to prescribe the particular manner of making the sale. It
is to be at public auction, and "after having given public notice
of such sale by advertisement at least thirty days "; but it assumes that the sale will be conducted as such sales are usually
conducted. A. sale regularly adjourned, so as to give notice to
all persons present of the time and place to which it is adjourned,
is, when made, in effect the sale of which previous public notice
was given.
The courts of several States have gone further in this direction
than we find necessary, though we do not intend to intimate any
doubt of the correctness of their decisions. They have held that
a public officer, upon whom a power of sale is conferred by law,
may adjourn an advertised public sale to a diffbrent time and
place, for the purpose of obtaining a better price for the property.
Tinkom v. Purdy, 5 Johns. 345; Russell v. Richards, 11 Maine,
371; Lantz v. Worthington, 4 Barr, 153; Warren v. Leland,
9 Mass. 265. If such a power is implied where the law, acting

SUPREME

COURT.

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

in inviturn, selects the officer, d fortiori it may be presumed to
be granted to a trustee selected by the parties.
The remaining objection is, that the defendant Harper, the
creditor for whose benefit the sale was made, through the trustee, requested the auctioneer to bid for him the sum of twentyfive hundred dollars; that the auctioneer did so, and there being
no higher bid, the property was struck off to Harper. It is insisted that this renders the sale void.
We do not deem it necessary to examine the numerous and
somewhat conflicting decisions upon the subject of by-bidding,
or bidding by persons standing in fiduciary capacities. This
case stands clear of those decisions and of the principles upon
which they rest. No decision lays down a positive rule that
such sales, though affected by such bidding, are, per se, and as
between all persons, void. They may be avoided by parties
whose just interests have been injuriously affected by such misconduct, provided the rights of innocent third persons are not
thereby disturbed.
It was for the advantage of these complainants, as subsequent
incumbrancers, that this property should sell for the best price
which could be obtained. Even improper practices to enhance
the price, if any such had been resorted to, could not be complained of by them. It is only some practice to prevent bidding,
or procure a sale for less than the property would have otherwise brought, which can be relied on by them to avoid the sale.
We have no doubt the creditor, for the satisfaction of whose
debt the sale was made, had a right to compete fairly at the
sale; but whether he had or not, his doing so could not be injurious to the complainants.
It is true he employed the auctioneer to bid for him; but this
fact alone could not depreciate the price. Such an authority
may be used for fraudulent purposes; but, if fairly used, its tendency is to enhance the price; and in this case there is no evidence that it was intended to be, or in fact was, unfairly used.
On the contrary, there seems to be no room for doubt that the
price bid by the auctioneer for Harper was more than any other
person was willing to give. It must be remembered, that the
auctioneer was not employed as the agent of the creditor to purchase the property for him at the least price at which it could
be obtained. Such an agency an auctioneer should not undertake. It is inconsistent with his relation to the seller, and with
the faithful discharge of his duty to the seller.
But an agency simply to bid a particular sum for a purchaser,
amounting to no more than receiving from the purchaser, before
the auction, a bid which is to be treated as if made there by the
purchaser himself, is not necessarily inconsistent with any duty

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

149

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

of the auctioneer, and does not enable any one to avoid the
sale.
And the same remark applies to the trustee. It was his duty
to obtain for the property the best price he could by the use of
due diligence in a fair sale. It would have been improper for
him, in behalf of the creditor, to employ the auctioneer to buy
at anything short of that best price. But there was no impropriety in his employing him to bid a particular sum for the
creditor, to prevent a sacrifice of the property.
We have considered all the objections to this sale made by
the complainants, and finding neither of them valid, the decree
of the court below is, in that respect, affirmed.
As to so much of the complainants' bill as seeks relief against
their assignors, in the event of not obtaining satisfaction from
the land, we are of opinion that these assignors are under no
such liability as is asserted by the complainants. The complainants purchased a negotiable note which was overdue. The
assignors did not indorse it, but simply assigned it by deed.
They entered into certain specific covenants concerning the
subject-matter, assigned; and their liability depends exclusively
on these covenants. Neither of these covenants appears to have
been broken. The only one concerning which any doubt has
been raised is the following: "And we do in like manner coyenant, promise, and agree, that
the said note of three thousand dollars, hereinbefore assigned,
shall be and is entitled to payment out of any sale of the premises conveyed in and by the deed of trust aforesaid, before the
other note therein specified, and shall have a prior lien on the
said premises, or the proceeds thereof."
We think the purpose and effect of this covenant was, not to
secure payment out of any sale which might be made by any
party under any title to the premises, but only to assure the
priority of payment of the note assigned, in preference to the
other note, out of any sale made under the particular title to
the premises described in the deed of assignment.
The covenant that the note assigned is due, is shown to have
been kept by the note itself, in the absence of other evidence.
The answer admits the receipt of moneys from the maker on
account of other debts, but denies any payment on account of
this note; and there is no evidence to the contrary.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, with costs.

