DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

87

Minter et al. v. Crommelin.

W LLumM J. MINTER, HmAx F.

SALTMARSH, AND ASHLEY PARKER,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. CHARLES CROMMELIN.*

Where a patent for land is issued by the officers of the United States, the presumption
is that it is valid and passes the legal title. But this may be rebutted by proof that
the officers had no authority to issue it on acount of the land's not being subject to
entry and grant.
The act of March 3, 1817, which was passed to carry into effect the treaty of August
9, 1814, with the Creek Indians, provided in the 6th section that no land reserved to
a Creek warrior should be offered for sale by the register of the land-office, unless
specially directed by the secretary of the treasury.
The secretary was authorized to decide whether or not the Indian had abandoned the
land. If abandoned, it became forfeited to the United States.
Hence, where such a reservation was offered for sale, and a patent issued for it, the
presumption is that the secretary had decided the fact of abandonment, and issued
the order for the sale.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Alabama,
by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary
act.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Bradley, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The material facts of this case are as follows: On the 12th April, 1820, a certificate, No. 28, issued from the
land-office of the United States to Tallasse Fixico, a friendly
chief of the Creeks, appropriating to his use and occupancy
fraction 24, T. 18, R. 18, east of Coosa River, in pursuance of
the act of congress -of 3d March, 1817, passed to carry into
effect the treaty of Fort Jackson, of August 9, 1814, with the
Creek Indians.
The reservee, Tallasse Fixico, was in possession of the land,
and while in possession, in 1828, he sold it, for a valuable con,sideration, to George Taylor, to whom he gave a deed and the
possession of the lend at the time of sale.
The said Taylor, while in possession, in July, 1834, sold to C.
Crommelin, the defendant in error, a portion of the land, about
forty acres. The purchaser received deeds for the same at the
time of sale, dated 12th and 14th July, 1834, and immediately,
or a short time thereafter, entered into possession, and has continued in possession until the present time.
On the 4th June, 1839, Isham Bilberry and Samuel Lee
obtained from the land-office at Cahawba, a pre-emption certificate, No. 35,014, in their favor, under the pre-emption act of
]Mr. Justice CAPBELL did not sit in this cause.

SUPREME

COURT.

Minter et al. v. Crommelin.

1834, for southeast fractional quarter of see. 24, T. 18, R. 18,
being a part of Tallasse Fixico's reservation, and embracing the
land in possession of the defendant in error, and which is the
land sued for, namely: the forty acres purchased by him from
Taylor.
On the same day, namely: 4th June, 1839, Bilberry and Lee
assigned the pre-emption certificate to the plaintiffs in error,
Hiram F. Saltmarsh, William T. Minter, and Ashley Parker, in
whose favor a patent was subsequently issued.
The state court charged the jury "that if they found the defendant held for a series of years, and continued to hold possession under deeds from Taylor, and that Taylor held possession
under Tallasse Fixico, and that the plaintiffs were never in possession; that then, the defendant held under color of title, and
was in a condition to contest the validity of the patent.
"2. That the certificate of possession which issued to Tallasse
Fixico, was an- appropriation of the land by the government
of the United States to a particular purpose; and that if Tallasse Fixico, in 1828 or 1829, did abandon said land, it was
not subject to entry under the pre-emption laws. That the
patent, under which the plaintiffs claimed title, was issued under
the pre-emption laws of the United States; that the land conveyed by said patent was not subject to entry under pre-emption,
and that, therefore, said patent had issued contrary to law, and
was void."
To this charge the plaintiffs excepted.
A verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant, and
the plaintiffs took up the cause to the supreme court of Alabama,
where the judgment was affirmed, to bring up which judgment
a writ of errror was prosecuted out of this court.
The state court in effect pronounced the patent, under which
the plaintiffs claimed title, to be void for want of authority in
the officers of the United States to issue it, on the supposition
that the land was reserved from sale when it was entered and
granted. The presumption is, that the patent is valid, and
passed the legal title; and, furthermore, it is primd facie evidence of itself that all the incipient steps had been regularly
taken before the title was perfected by the patent. It has been
so held by this court in many instances, commencing with the
case of Polk v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 98, 99.
But if the executive officers had no authority to issue the
patent because the land was not subject to entry and grant, then
it is void, and the want of power may be proved by a defendant
at law, 9 Cranch, 99. And the question here is, whether the
defendant has proved the want of authority ?
The 6th section of the act of 1817 provides that no land

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

89

McCready at al. v. Goldsmith et al.

reserved to a Creek warrior should be offered for sale by the
register of the land-office, unless specially directed by the secretary of the treasury. Both by the treaty and the act of congress
it was declared that if the Indian abandoned the reserved land,
it became forfeited to the United States. The fact of abandonment, the secretary was authorized to decide, and if he did so
find, he might then order the land to be sold as other public
lands. The rule being that the patent is evidence that all previous steps had been regularly taken to justify making of the
patent; and one of the necessary previous steps here being an
order from the secretary to the register to offer the land for sale,
because the warrior had abandoned it, we are bound to presume
that the order was given. That such is the effect, as evidence,
of the patent produced by the plaintiffs, was adjudged in the
case of Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 450, and is not open to
controversy anywhere, and the state court was mistaken in holding otherwise.
The defendant being in possession, without any title from the
United States, we deem it unnecessary to discuss the effect of
the parol proof introduced in the state circuit court to defeat the
patent.
It is therefore ordered that the judgment of the supreme court
of Alabama, be reversed.

ROBERT H. MCCREADY AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT BAY STATE, HER TACKLE, MACHINERY, &C., APPELLANTS,
v. GOLDSMITH, 'WELLS, AND OTHERS.
Where a large steamer was coming down Long Island Sound, on a foggy morning,
with a speed of sixteen or seventeen miles per hour, in the direct track of the coasting trade, and rundown a vessel which was lying at anchor, (the weather being perfectly calm,) the steamer was grossly in fault.
The vessel at anchor cannot be considered in fault for omitting to have hors blown
is notbeen
estabis done
in such would
a case have
usage whether
that thissuch
barrels
beaten.it isThe
or emptyand,
lisved;
moreover,
doubtful
a precaution
of
any service.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court decreed that the collision was caused by

the fault, want of precaution, and blamable conduct of the persons oi board of and managing each of the vessels, and ordered

the damages to be borne in equal moieties by them.
8*

Both par-

