DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

231

Ship Howard, &c. et al. v. Wissman.

TE SHP HOWARD, HER TACKLE, &C., WILLIAm F. SCHM-DT AND
GEORGE BELCHER, CLAIMANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. FaREDERICK
WISsnAN, LIBELLANT.
Where a cargo of potatoes was shipped at Hamburg to be delivered at New York, the
evidence shows that they were in bad condition when shipped, and consequently the
vessel is not responsible for their loss.

Tnis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Hr. Tohnson, for the appellants, upon
which side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Donohue, and by
Mr. Betts, for the appellees, upon which side there was also a
brief filed by .A. Curting.
. The points of law upon both sides were so connected with
the testimony that they could not be explained without giving an
abstract of the evidence.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding in rem, against a foreign vessel, by libel;
charging that the libellant shipped on her, at Hamburg, in Germany, 5,004 bushels of potatoes in good order and well conditioned for the purpose of shipping, and that, by the long and
wilful delay of the vessel at Hamburg, and on her voyage to New
York, (the port of destination,) and through the carelessness and
misconduct of the master and owner, the potatoes became and
were injured, decayed, and wholly lost to the libellant.
To this charge the respondents answer, that the decay of the
potatoes was caused by their lying in port for some time before
they were put on board; and that they were delivered to the
vessel in a damp and wet state, and Were not in a sound condition. The alleged negligence is denied generally.
On the foregoing issue the district court made an interlocutory decree, declaring that "the libellant recover in this action
against the ship, the value of the potatoes at Hamburg at the
time they.were laden on board, together with charges and expenses, unless it be proved by the claimants that they were not
then in a good, sound condition ; or that they perished afterwards, in consequence of inherent disease or defects existing at
the time of lading the same, and not from the prolonged detention in their transportation ; and it is further ordered, that it be
referred to a commissioner to ascertain and report the cause of
the destruction and loss of the potatoes, and their value at the
time of shipment."

232

SUPREME

COURT.

Ship Howard, &e. et al. v. Wissman.

The commissioner reported that he had heard the parties and
their testimony, and found that the potatoes were in a sound
condition, and that they did not perish afterwards in consequence of inherent disease or defects existing at the time of
loading the same, but that the cause of their destruction and
loss was the long and protracted voyage of one hundred and
nine days ; and that they were worth, when shipped, (including
charges,) 8 2,25671 .
This report was adopted by the district court, and a decree
made accordingly.
An appeal was prosecuted by the claimants to the circuit
court, where the decree below was affirmed.
The potatoes were shipped in bulk in the hold of the vessel,
which mode of shipment was adopted at the instance of the
libellants' agent, who superintended their stowage.
It appears that much rain fell during the time the potatoes
were lying in lighters, awaiting an opportunity to ship them,
being about a month; and it rained when they were alongside,
and putting into the vessel; and in our opinion it is satisfactorily established, that the potatoes were wet to a considerable
extent when delivered and stowed in the hold. Wulff, the
stevedore, under whose immediate supervision they were stowed,
deposes that they were wet, "and considering their condition,
and their being shipped in bulk, he thinks they should not have
been shipped across the Atlantic ; for said potatoes began to
steam before the sailing of the ship Howard."
The pilot of The Howard deposes, that he saw them steam out
of the fore-hatch, during the passage down the river, before the
vessel got outside.
Kumpel deposes, that he saw the potatoes in the lighters and
on board, and that they were wet. So the other witnesses prove.
Kundsten, mate of The Howard, deposes that the potatoes
began to have a bad smell when the vessel was fourteen days
out. The captain says he smelt them when they were only eight
days at sea.
It is proved by all the witnesses of both sides, that the potato
crop of 1849 was much blighted and diseased, all over Germany; and several witnesses declare, that potatoes grown that
year were generally unfit for shipment across the ocean.
The libellants' witness, Heidpriein, answers to cross interrogatories, that he purchased and sold that year 7,200,000 pounds of
potatoes; that the crop was generally unsound, and would not
stand being shipped in bulk for so long a voyage as from Hamburg to New York; says he shipped to Hamburg - about forty
German miles, (160 of ours) - by water, and that no cargo
arrived, after being on the way from four to fourteen days, with-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

233

Ship Howard, &c. et al. v. Wissman.

out the potatoes being in a bad condition.
And respecting
those shipped on The Howard, he states that Mr. Rawalle, Mr.
Wissman's agent, applied to him to purchase potatoes; and he,
having none to sell, told Mr. Rawalle of some for sale by Lehman and Cleve- which, not being sound, the deponent had
refused to buy- and he understood Rawalle purchased them.
Rawalle deposes that he got the potatoes he shipped of Deven
and Lehman, but declares they were not sick or diseased.
Baalmann deposes that he saw the potatoes in the lighters;
they were in a bad condition and diseased, he having made examination by cutting them with a knife, and found they were
not in good shipping order; and he knows that potatoes of that
year's growth, shipped in bulk to England, arrived there in a
worthless state, and had to be thrown overboard.
Wulff, the stevedore, says, that when he stowed the potatoes
he examined them, by breaking and cutting; they appeared to
be unsound and diseased.
The master of The Howard deposes, that the ship Miles
took a cargo of the potatoes purchased by Rawalle for Wissman, and what The Miles did not take were taken by The
Howard; that he, the master, purchased some of the potatoes
that were going to The Miles, for use on The Howard, which
proved to be diseased and unfit for use on being cooked.
The mate declares that the potatoes looked well outside, but
when cut open they had sickness in them; that the potatoes
loaded on both vessels came from the same man.
Arianson, master of the bark Miles, deposes, that more potatoes were sent to The Miles, when loading at Hamburg, than
he could take on board, and that the balance were sent to The
Howard; that the potatoes that he brought rotted. He discovered it five or six weeks after going to sea, by the smell,
which was two or three weeks before arriving at New York.
The owner having been committed to the primi Ifacie facts
of soundness and good condition by his contract of affreightment, it was properly imposed on him by the district court to
establish the contrary by due proof; and our opinion is, that the
proof produced by him does overcome the primdfacie presumption, and shows the potatoes of the libellant to have been unsound and unfit for shipment, and especially unfit to be shipped
in bulk and wet, as was done by the libellants' agent.
Rawalle was examined for the libellant several times. He
deposes, that the potatoes were put on board in good order:
that they were dry and sound; and in his opinion, if The Howard had sailed iu due time, according to her advertisement, they
would have arrived at New York in a sound condition.
As a dealer in this article, the witness had very ,-mall ex20*

234

SUPREME COURT.
Ship Howard, &c. et al v. Wissman.

perience compared with various others examined; none of
whom express the belief that this cargo, stowed in bulk, could
have reached the port of destination uninjured. But what appears to us far more satisfactory than the speculations of witnesses is, that the cargo of The Miles was lost by decay, she
being loaded at the same time and in the same manner as was
The Howard, and with part of the potatoes taken from the
same lighters-although The Miles made her voyage in due time.
Our conclusion is, that the libellant's case has no merits. It
is therefore ordered, that the decree of the circuit court be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions to
dismiss the libel with costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
In the opinion just pronounced, so far as it goes to demonstrate the entire want of justice in the demand of the libellant,
I entirely concur, the testimony in this case having satisfactorily ascertained that the loss of the cargo was inevitable from
the character of the subject of which that cargo consisted, and
that by no degree of diligence or care could it have been transported in good condition to its point of destination. But, independently of these considerations, and in advance of them,
there is another which of itself, in my judgment, should have
prevented the claim of the libellant from being established or
entertained at all in the district and circuit courts, and which
should operate with equal effect in preventing its being entertained here.
This case is one of contract between the owner of property
and the master of a vessel to transport a cargo of potatoes from
Hamburg and to deliver them in New York. It is nothing
more than a contract between the owner of property and a
carrier to convey a given subject for hire. It was a contract
made upon land to be terminated and executed upon the land
for a stipulated compensation, and not strictly or properly a
maritime contract, in any sense beyond any other contract, in.
the performance of which a party or agent would be compellable to cross the ocean or even to pass a river. It did not begin
and terminate on the sea. Upon this contract an action might
have been instituted in a court of law either upon the charterparty or the bill of lading, in conformity with ancient and wellsettled practice, and could have been as speedily and efficiently
decided in such a court as it could be in the present form of
proceeding, less familiar to the common understanding and
habits ot the country. dubious and undefined in its claims to
power, and attended with expenses beyond those incident to the
usual tribunals of the land.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

235

McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

My opinion is, that for want of jurisdiction in the case presented upon the face of the libel, that libel should have been
dismissed by the circuit court, and that this court should now,
for that cause, order it to be dismissed.

JOHN F. MCKINNEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MANUEL SAVIEGO,
AND PnLAR, HIS WIFE.
Where a person, who owned land in Texas whilst it was a part of Mexico, removed
into Mexico prior to the declaration of independence by Texas, and continued to
reside in Mexico until her death, her danhter, who was also a citizen of Mexico,
could not, as heir, recover the land in Texas.
By the laws which governed Texas before the revolution, the proprietor of land must
have resided within the jurisdiction of the Mexican government, and foreigners
could not inherit land.
The constitution of Texas considered as aliens all those who did not reside there at
the time of the declaration of independence, unless they were afterwards naturalized; and also decreed that no alien should hold land in Texas, except by titles
emanating directly from the government of that republic.
The legislature of Texas had power to modify these rules, but did not change them in
this respect when it introduced the common law by statute. Upon the death of the
ancestor the estate was cast upon the State, without the necessity of an inquest of
office.
The constitution and laws of Texas provide for the case of an alien heir who may
inherit from a citizen, but not for an alien heir inheriting from an alien.
The treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo provides for those INexicans who inhabited territories ceded to the United States, but had no relation to Texas.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district
court of the United States for the district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was submitted on printed arguments by fr. Hale, for the
plaintiff in error, and by iUf. ITghes, for the defendants.
The arguments involved many points of the old Mexican law,
but the principal one was thus stated by Mr. Hale, in his additional brief: The plaintiffs, in their petition, describe themselves as aliens,
and in the thirteenth instruction which they requested, they assume that both the female plaintiff and her mother were aliens to
the republic of Texas, and that the former is still an alien to the
United States. It is evident, therefore, that at the time of the
death of Gertrudis Barrera, the female plaintiff was, with respect
to the land in Texas, the alien child of an alien, and the first
question is, could she take the estate by inheritance ?
The tenth article of the general provisions of the constitution

of the republic of Texas, Hart. Dig. p. 88, provides that "no
alien shall hold land in Texas, except by titles emanating directly

