16

SUPREME COURT.
Hill's Executors et al. v. 3teek, Adm'r, &c.

the former have by express stipulation or by necessary implication assumed.
The appellee, then, having unquestionably forfeited every pretension of right as against Mexico, deserted and assailed by im,
the United States, as the successors to the sovereignty of Mexico,
can sustain no obligation with respect to him in connection with
this claim. I think, therefore, that the decision of the court below should be reversed, and petition of the appellee dismissed.

WILLIAM J.

MCLEAN AND JOHN M. BASS, EXECUTORS op HENRY

HILL, DECEASED, THE SAID HENRY R. W.
HILL AND
WILLIAMr
J.
McLEAN BEING THE SURVIVING PARTNERS OF
THE FIRM OF N. AND J. DICK AND Co., APPELLANTS, V.
JAIIES L.
MEEK, ADMINISTRATOR OF JOSEPH MEEK, AND
JAMES L. MEEK AND JOSEPH MEEK.

R.

W.

The record of a debt against an administrator in one State is not sufficient evidence of
V the debt against an administrator of the same estate in another State.
The case of Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44, examined and affirmed.
fn this case, even if there were other evidence of a demand, it would be for a debt
upon open account, which would be barred by the statute of limitations in Missis.

sippi, and therefore the decree of the circuit court, dismissing the bill, is affirmed.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi.
The case was this.
Joseph Meek, a citizen and resident of Davidson county, State
of Tennessee, died on the 12th of February, 1838, leaving property in the States of Tennessee and Mississippi. He left three
children, namely: James L. Meek, Joseph Meek, and a daughter,
who was married to John Munn.
Jesse Meek, the brother of the deceased, was appointed his
administrator in both States, namely, in Mississippi on the 30th
February, 1838, and in Tennessee in September, 1838.
The estate in Tennessee was insolvent, and in November, 1840,
a bill was filed in the chancery court at Franklin, in the State
of Tennessee, by Jesse the administrator, and by John Munn
and wife, alleging the insolvency of the estate and praying for
its administration according to the laws of that State in case of
insolvent estates. To this bill the creditors were made parties
defendants.
The minor sons were also made defendants by
their guardian.
Jesse Meek's letters of administration in Mississippi were
revoked on 28th December, 1841, and John Munn appointed

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

17

McLean et al. v. Meek.

on the same day administator de bonis non. He continued to
administer until 12th February, 1849, and on the next day
James L. Meek was appointed in his place.
In the progress of the administration in insolvency in Tennessee, the claim of N. and J. Dick and Co., (the surviving
partners of which firm were the appellants,) for $21,460.80 was
presented to the clerk and master, who had been directed by
the court to report on the debts filed against the estate. The
claim was allowed for $20,445.67, which report was confirmed
by the court. Upon this claim, Dick and Co. received two
sums, namely, one of 8 300 and the other of $ 1,987.13.
On the 29th of'August, 1850, Hill and McLean, as surviving
partners of the firm of Dick and Co., filed their bill in the circuit
court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi against James L. Meek, as administrator, which was afterwards so amended as to be against said Meek in his individual
capacity, and also against Joseph Meek, one of the heirs.
The only evidence relied upon by the complainants was a
transcript of the record from the chancery court of Tennessee.
The circuit court dismissed the bill, and the complainants
appealed to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by JIfr. Benjamin, for
the appellant, and Mr. Harris,for the appellee.

.lM,. Beijamin referred to the cases ofAspdenv. Nixon, 4 How.
467, and Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44, and said: These authorities, rightly construed, are conclusive against
the appellees. In the present case, the administrator in Tennessee and in Mississippi is the same person; and in the
proceedings in chancery in Tennessee, which resulted in a
decree establishing the claim of the appellants, the present
defendants were parties, as shown by the foregoing statement
of facts.
In addition to this consideration, the present defendant,
James L., as administrator de bonis non of Joseph Meek, is
privy with his predecessor, Jesse, in the trust resulting from the
administration. The principle is ruled expressly in Stacy v.
Thrasher, as being the law of Mississippi. See the language of
Judge Grier, at page 60.
Mr. Hfarris referred to the case of Stacy v. Thrasher, and
contended that, as a simple contract debt, it was barred by the
statute of limitations. Hutch. Miss. Code, 830-3.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Hill and McLean sued James L. Meek, administrator of
2*

18

SUPREME

COURT.

McLean et al. v. Meek.

Joseph Meek, by bill in equity, in the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi, for upwards of
$ 20,000, alleged to be due the complainants by Joseph Meek at
the time of his death.
He died in February, 1838, and was then domiciled in Davidson county, Tennessee. In September, 1838, Jesse Meek was
appointed administrator of Joseph Meek's estate in said county.
In November, 1840, the estate was alleged to be insolvent, and
a bill was filed in the chancery court exercising jurisdiction in
Davidson county, by Jesse Meek, the then administrator, and
John Munn and his wife, who was a daughter of Joseph Meek,
setting forth the insolvency, and praying for judicial administration of the assets among the creditors of the deceased,
according to the statute of that State. To this bill the creditors
were the proper defendants, and entitled to share the assets
ratably. The other children of the deceased were also made
defendants, and acted by their guardian.
Nathaniel and James Dick and Co. presented a claim for allowance of $21,445, and which was allowed by the chancery court
in May, 1846, and about $2,000 of it was afterwards paid out
of the assets distributed; and for the balance remaining unpaid
the present bill was filed, seeking a discovery of assets from the
administrator in Mississippi, and payment therefrom.
The evidence relied on to sustain the suit and establish the
demand, was a copy of the record from the chancery court of
Tennessee; and the principal question is, whether this proceeding bound the administrator or affected the assets in Mississippi.
Jesse
There is one circumstance worthy of explanation.
Meek administered in Mississippi, 30th February, 1838, on
Joseph Meek's estate, but his letters were revoked in 1841, and
John Munn was appointed administrator de bonis non, and afterwards James L. Meek was appointed, and superseded Munn;
and James L. is here sued.
During the contest in the Tennessee court, when Dick and
Co. established their demand, Jesse Meek was the Tennessee
administrator, and Munn and Joseph L. Meek were successively
administrators in Mississippi.
These administrations were independent of each other; the
respective administrators represented Meek, the deceased intestate, by an authority coextensive only with the State where the
letters of administration were granted, and had jurisdiction of
the assets there, and were accountable to creditors and distributees according to the laws of the State granting the authority.
No connection existed, or could exist, between them, and therefore a recovery against the one in Tennessee was no evidence
against the other in Mississippi. Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44,
lays down this distinct rule.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

19

Kissell v. St. Louis Public Schools.

But if there was evidence of the demand, as alleged, and which
we do not doubt exists, yet it is only evidence of an open account
existing at the time of Joseph Meek's death, in 1838, and therefore subject to be barred by the act of limitations in Mississippi
barring such claims, if suit is not brought to enforce them within
three years next after the cause of action accrued.

The answers

of the administrator and heirs of Joseph Meek rely on the act
of limitations as a bar to relief, and which bar would necessarily
be allowed, if the cause was remanded, so that further evidence
might be introduced. As it now stands, however, there is no evidence of the demand, and therefore we order that the decree of
the circuit court shall be affirmed.

JACOB KISSELL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE BOARD OF THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF THE ST. Louis PUBLIc SCHOOLS.
The act of congress passed on the 13th of June, 1812, (2 Stats. at Large, 748,) reserved for the support of schools in the respective towns or villages in Missouri "all
town or village lots, out-lots or common-field lots, included in such surveys," (which

the principal deputy-surveyor was directed in a preceding section to make,) "which

are not rghtfuly owned or claimed by any private individuals, or held as commons
belonging to such towns or villages, or that the President of the United States may
not think proper to reserve for miltaT purposes, provided that the whole quantity
of landlands
contained
in the lots reserved shall not exceed one twentieth part of the
included in the general survey of such town or village."
whole

The act of 26th of May, 1824, (4 Stats. at Large, 65,) directed the individual claimants to present their claims within a specified time, after which the surveyor-general
was to designate and set apart the lots for the support of schools.
The act of 27th of January, 1831, (4 Stats. at Large, 435,) relinquished the title of the
United States in the above lots to the inhabitants of the towns, and also in the lots
reserved for the support of schools, to he disposed of or regulated as the legislature
of the State might direct.
In 1833, the legislature incorporated a board of commissioners of the St. Louis public
schools, and, in 1843, the surveyer returned a plat in conformity with the above
laws.
The title to the lots thus indicated by the surveyor as school lots enured to the benefit
of the school commissioners. Until the survey, the title was like other imperfect
titles in Louisiana, waiting for the public authority to designate the particular land
to which the title should attach.
The certificate of the surveyor is record evidence of title, and the question is not open
whether or not these lots were out-lots or common-field lots, or other lots described
in the statute. The title is good until some person can show a better.
Such a better title was not found in an entry under the pre-emption lavs of April 12,
1814, and 29th of April, 1816. The land in question was within the limits of the
town of St. Louis, and was also reserved from sale. For both reasons it was not
subject to pre-emption.
The ignorance of the pre-emptioner that the land was reserved, does not prevent the
entry from being void.

TIs case was brought up from the supreme court of Missouri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.

