DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

243

Calcote v. Stanton et al.

doubtless, comprised all the questions which the counsel in the
court below, representing the United States, supposed could be
material. They are presented very fully and lawyer-like upon
the record, and are involved in the judgment rendered in the
court below,
The attorney-general, however, avers, that there are other questions than those appearing on the record, which he deems material to be brought to the consideration, of the court in deciding
upon the force and effect of these acts of congress referred to, and
without which he is unwilling to submit the case to the final determination of this court; and asks, therefore, for a withdrawal
of the appeal. Without expressing any opinion whether there
may or may not be questions presented, other than those appearing upon this record, bearing upon the general matters involved
in the litigation, the court are of opinion that the grounds stated
by the attorney-general, and his opinion expressed as the legal
representative of the government, are sufficient to justify us in
granting leave for the discontinuance.
Some technical grounds have been presented, depending upon
the rules and practice of the court for the dismissal of the case
from the docket, and of the writ of error, which we have not
deemed it important to notice, as we think the motion should be
granted upon the general ground stated.
Motion to withdraw and discontinue the appeal by writ of
error in this case granted.

JAzES L. CALCOTE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK STANTON
AND HENRY S. BUCKNER.
This court has no jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the judiciary act, of a case
like the following, namely: Where an assignee of some creditors of a person who had taken the benefit of the
bankrupt act of the United States, filed a bill against the bankrupt to set aside the
discharge as void upon the ground of fraud. The defendant demurred to the bill
upon the ground of staleness, want of equity, and the statute of limitations.
It does not follow that the supreme court of the State, in dismissing the bill, placed
any construction whatever upon the bankrupt act; and moreover, if they did, the
decision must have been in favor of the privilege set up by the bankrupt and not
against it.

Tins case was brought up from the high court of errors and
appeals of the State of Mississippi, by a writ of error issued
under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
Mr. Benjamin moved to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction,

244

SUPREME

COURT.

Calcote v. Stanton et al.

none of the cases provided for in the 25th section being applicable here. He then examined the provisions of the section, and
contended that the construction placed by the court of appeals
of Mississippi upon the fourth and fifth sections of the bankrupt
act was not such as to give this court jurisdiction to review its
decision. Besides, that court considered the claim to be barred
by the statute of limitations.
The motion was opposed by ifr. Day and 141r. Johnson, who
entered into an elaborate review of the judgment of the Mississippi court with a view of showing that, by necessary inference,
that court must have decided against the right and title set up
under the bankrupt act, because there was no other sufficient
ground upon which to rest their judgment.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a motion to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction. It is a writ of error to the high court of errors and
appeals of the State of Mississippi.
The plaintiff in error, who was complainant in a bill in equity
before the chancellor of that State, claims jurisdiction for this
court to review the judgment of the court of appeals, under the
25th section of the judiciary act, because the title to his demand
comes through a bankrupt assignee, and therefore from an authority exercised under an act of congress, and because the judgment of the state court was against his claim. He contends that
his case is within the third clause of this section, which authorizes this court to review the decision of a state court "where is
drawn in question the construction of any clause of the constitution, or of a treaty or statute, or commission held under the
United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up or claimed, &c."
It is not enough to give jurisdiction to this court, under this
clause, that the decision of the state court was against a party
claiming title under some statute of, or commission held under,
the United States. The origin of the title may be but an accident of the controversy, and not the subject or substance of it.
The suit must have drawn in question the construction of such
statute or commission, and the judgment of the state court must
have been adverse to the claim set up under them. "The record
also must show, if not ipsissimis verbis, at least, by clear and
necessary intendment, that such question of I construction' was
raised, and must have been decided in order to induce the judgment. It is not enough to show that the question might have
arisen, and been applicable to the case, unless it is further shown
on the record that it did arise, and was applied by the state

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

245

Calcote v. Stanton et al.

court to the case." The cases which establish these principles
are too numerous for quotation.
The record before us presents no evidence that such a question did arise, or could have been decided.
The bill shows that, twelve years after the defendants were
discharged under the bankrupt act, the complainant got an
assignment of certain claims against them from creditors who
had received their dividends of the bankrupt's assets, without
questioning the legality of their discharge; that being thus possessed, he set about "to ferret out the frauds, devices, combinations, priorities, preferences, &c., &c., practised, done, and given
by the defendants"; and that he had discovered numerous instances of preferences given by the defendants to indorsers and
other favored creditors previous to their bankruptcy, in consequence of which it was alleged that their certificate of discharge
was void. The balances claimed under these assignments, with
interest, would amount to near a million of dollars. The averment of the bill, that the assignments to the complainant were
for "value received," would be satisfied by the consideration of
a dollar or less. The respondents demurred to the bill, and set
forth numerous causes of demurrer; the chief of which were a
want of equity in the bill, and the bar of the statute of limitations, or the staleness of the demand. But in no one of them is
any objection interposed which called for a construction of the
bankrupt act, where the complainant claimed any title or exemption under it. The only "privilege or exemption" which could
have been "drawn in question" under the act were those of the
defendant, the validity of whose discharge under it was impugned.
But as the decision was in their favor, the case is not brought
within our jurisdiction. See Strader v. Baldwin, 9 How. 261.
The whole argument for plaintiff in error was expended in
endeavoring to prove that the bill ought not to have been dismissed for want of equity or staleness; and, assuming this to be
so, it was contended that the court could not have done so for
these reasons, and consequently their decision must have been
the result of some misconstruction of the bankrupt law as to the
rights claimed by the complainant under it. But, as we have
already shown, if the plaintiffs could successfully establish both
their premises and conclusion it would not avail to give us
jurisdiction. And we may add, moreover, that we see no reason, from anything that appears on this record, why the state
court might not have dismissed the bill as devoid of equity, and
as exhibiting a claim which, if not champertous, is on its face a
litigious speculation in stale, abandoned, and, as to much the
larger portion, wholly unfounded demands.
The writ of error is therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
21 *

