110

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

The record certified in this cause consists of "an agreed statement of facts," which the parties submitted to the court on the
rules taken by the plaintiffs against the defendants, and the
judgment rendered thereon, and a judgment rendered on a motion
for a new trial, being the proceedings after the submission of
the case.
The case stated is, that the plaintiffs recovered a judgment
against Victor Feste in the circuit court of the United States.
That an execution issued thereon, and a seizure was made of
immovable as well as movable property; which was sold, and
the proceeds held by the marshal.
While these proceedings were pending, Madame Feste recovered, in one of the state courts, a decree against her husband,
Victor Feste, for the separation of property and the amount of
dowry brought in marriage; and thereupon served a notice upon
the marshal, claiming to have satisfaction of her legal mortgage,
in preference to the execution creditor, from the moneys in his
hands, and obtained a rule from the court requiring him to
answer her claim. The plaintiffs, upon their part, (as the case
btates,) also obtained a rule, to enforce the payment of the money
to them on their execution. To settle these conflicting claims
was the object of the agreed case thus submitted to the court.
Two questions arise in lirnine, either of which is, in our
opinion, decisive of this cause: 1st. That this is not such a
transcript as will satisfy the 11th and 31st rules of this court,
under the decision of Keene v. Whittaker, 13 Pet. 459; and, 2d,

that this is not such a judgment as this court can re-examine,
according to the principle of Bayard v. Lombard, 9 How. 530.
And we agree with the defendants upon both these questions.
The cause is dismissed with costs.

JECKER, TORRE, AND CO., ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE CARGO OF
THE SHIP ADMITTANCE, AND FESSENDEN AND FAY, CLAIMANTS

OF THE SHIP ADMITTANCE, V. JOHN B. MONTGOIERY,

LIBEL-

LANT.
In a state of war, the nations who are engaged in it, and all their citizens or subjects, are enemies to each bther. Hence, all intercourse or communication between
them is unlawful.
Cases mentioned, by way of illustration, in which property of a subject or citizen,
| found trading with an enemy, has been adjudged to be forfeited as prize.
The interposition of a neutral'port through which the property is to pass, does not
prevent it from being confiscated.
In the present case, the evidence shows that the owners of the ship and cargo knew
that the destination of the voyage was to an enemy's port. Even if the owner of the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

111

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.
vessel was ignorant of it, the fate of the vessel must be decided by the acts of those
persons who had her in charge.
It is generally the duty of the captor to send his prize home for adjudication; but circumstances may render such a step improper, and of these he must be the judge. In
making up his decision, good faith and reasonable discretion are required. In the
present case he was excusable for not sending home the vessel.
Generally, the proceedings for the condemnation of property as prize ought to be instituted in the name of the United States. The circumstances, which led to the use
of the name of the captor, and the fact that no objection was made to it in the court
below, prevent this court from pronouncing the objection to be fatal.
The proceeds of sale were properly deposited in the treasury of the United States.
Tis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of
Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Itr. Goxe and Mrt. Nelson, for the appellants,
and M-. Key and Mr. Johnson,for the appellees. The arguments
consisted chiefly in comments upon the evidence upon both sides,
and, for the appellants, in the legal objection that the libel should
have been filed in the name of the United States, instead of an
individual.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree in admiralty by the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, by which
decree the ship Admittance, claimed by the appellants, Charles
B. Fessenden and Richard S. Fay, as owners, and the cargo of
the same ship claimed by the appellants, Jecker, Torre, and Co.
and Manuel Quintana, were upon a libel filed by the appellee,
John B. Montgomery, condemned as prize of war.
It will serve to explain the nature of the present controversy,
and the character of the decree of the circuit court above mentioned, to refer to the proceedings heretofore had therein upon a
libel filed by the claimants of the cargo for restitution, and to
the decision of this court upon cross-appeals from those proceedings, both by the claimants and the captor, out of which last-mentioned decision the case before us has arisen.
By the decision of this court just referred to, (see 13 Howard,
p. 498,) we hold the following propositions to have been expressly ruled: 1. That the admiralty court of the District of Columbia had
jurisdiction of the libel for the condemnation of the property in
contest, although such property was not brought within its jurisdiction ; and if they found the subject liable to'condemnation,
might proceed to condemn, although not in fact within the custody or control of the court.
2. That the admiralty court in the District of Columbia, having jurisdiction of the case, it was its duty to order the captors

112

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

to institute proceedings in that court to condemn the property as
prize, by a day to be named in the order; and in default thereof
to be proceeded against upon a libel for an unlawful seizure; because the property of the claimant is not devested by the capture, but by condemnation in a prize court- is not devested
until condemnation, though such condemnation will relate back
to the capture.
3. That the grounds alleged for the seizure of the vessel and
cargo, namely, that the vessel sailed from New Orleans with the
design of trading with the enemy, and did in fact hold illegal intercourse with them, are sufficient, if supported by testimony, to
subject both vessel and cargo to condemnation.
4. And if they were liable to condemnation, the reasons assigned in the answer for not bringing the vessel and cargo into a
port of the United States for trial - namely: that it was inpossible so to do consistently with the public interest-is sufficient,
if supported by proofs, to justify the captors in selling vessel and
cargo in California, and to exempt the captors from damages on
that
' 5. account.
That to a libel for restitution, probable cause for seizure
is no defence ; but is so only against a claim for damages, in
cases in which the property has been restored or lost after
seizure.
Under the authority of the rulings just enumerated, and in
obedience to the mandate founded thereupon, the libel in the
cause now before us was filed; and the case made by the parties
presents, as the material questions for consideration, the inquiries:
1. Whether the vessel sailed with the design of trading with the
enemy, and did in fact hold illegal intercourse with them. 2.
Admitting that the vessel and cargo were in the first instance
liable to condemnation, whether the reasons assigned for not
bringing them within the United States were so supported by
proof, as to justify the captor in not bringing them within the
United States, and in selling them in California, without a forfeiture of their rights as captors.
As a principle applicable to the first of these inquiries, it may
be averred as a part of the law of nations - forming a part, too,
that in a
of the municipal jurisprudence of every country -"
state of war between two nations, declared by the authority in
whom the municipal constitution vests the power of making
war, the two nations and all their citizens or subjects are enemies
to each other." The consequence of this state of hostility is,
that all intercourse and communication between them is unlawful. Vide Wheaton on Maritime Captures, cap. 7, p. 209, quoting from Bynkershoeck this passage: ""Ex naturabelli commercia
inter hostes cessare, non est dubitandtrn. Quamvis nulla specialis

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

113

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

sit commerciorun proldbitio, ipso tamen jure beli, commercia
inter hostes esse vetita, ipsae indictiones bellorum satis declarant.
Upon this principle of public law, it has been the established
rule of the high court of admiralty in England, that a trading
with the enemy, except by a royal, license, subjects the property
to confiscation. The decisions of that court show that the rule
has been rigidly enforced, as, for instance, where the government
had authorized a homeward trade from the enemy's possessions,
but had not specifically protected an outward trade to the s'ame;
and again, in instances where cargoep have been laden before the
war, but where the parties had not used all possible diligence to
countermand the voyage after the first notice of hostilities ; and
this rule has been enforced, not only against subjects of the
Crown, but likewise against those of its allies in the war, upon
the assumption that the rule was founded on the universal principle which states allied in war had a right to apply to each
other's subjects.
ide Wheaton on Captures, p. 212; ana 1
C. Robinson's Adm. R. 196, The Hoop.
The same rule has been adopted with equal strictness by this
court. In. the case of The Rapid, reported in 8 Cranch, 155, the
claimant, a citizen of the United States, had purchased goods in
the enemy's country a long time before the declaration of war,
and had deposited them on an island near the bouidary line
between the two countries. Upon the breaking out of hostilities,
his agents had hired the vessel to proceed to the place of deposit
and bring away these goods. Upon her return the vessel was
captured, and, with the cargo, was condemned as prize of war
for trading with the enemy. In applying the law to this state
of facts, this court said, and said unanimously: "That the universal sense of nations has acknowledged the demoralizing effects
that would result from the admission of individual intercourse.
The whole nation are embarked in one common bottom, and
must be reconciled to submit to one common fate. Every individual of the one nation must acknowledge every individual of
the other nation as his own enemy, because the enemy of his
country. But, after deciding what is the duty of the citizen,
the question occurs, what is the consequence of a breach of
that duty ? The law of prize is a part of the law of nations.
In it, a hostile character is attached to trade, independently
of the character of the trader who pursues or directs it. Condemnation to the use of the captor is equally the fate of the
property of the belligerent and of the property engaged in
anti-neutral trade. But a citizen or an ally may be engaged
in a hostile trade, and thereby involve his property in the fIte
of those in whose cause he embarks." Again, the court say:
"If by trading, in prize law was meant that signification of
10*

114

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

the term which consists in negotiation or contract, this case
would not come under the penalties of the rule. But the object and spirit of the rule is to cut off all communication or
actual locomotive intercourse between individuals of tle belligerent nations. Negotiation or contract has, therefore, no
necessary connection with the offence. Intercourse inconsistent
with actual hostility is the offeiee against which the operation of
the rule is directed."
The case of The Joseph, reported in 8 Cranch, p. 451, was
that of a vessel owned by citizens of the United States, that
sailed from lience before the war, with a cargo on freight on a
voyage to Liverpool and the north of Europe, and thence back
to the United States. After arriving and discharging her cargo
at Liverpool, she took in another at Hull, and sailed for St.
Petersburg. At St. Petersburg, she received news of the war
with England, and sailed to London with a Russian cargo consigned to British merchants; delivered her cargo and sailed for
the United States in ballast, under a British license, and was
captured. In the opinion of this court in this case, delivered by
Washington, Justice, it is said: "That after the decision in the
cases of The Rapid and of The Alexander, it is not to be contended, that the sailing with a cargo on freight from St. Petersburg to London, after a full knowledge of the war, did not
amount to such a trading with the enemy as to have subjected
both the vessel and cargo to condemnation as prize of war, had
she been captured on that voyage. The alleged necessity of
undertaking that voyage to enable the master out of the freight
to discharge his expenses at St. Petersburg - countenanced, as
the master declares, by the opinion of our minister at St. Petersburg, that by undertaking such a voyage he would violate no
law of the United States - although these considerations, if
founded in truth, present a case of peculiar hardship, yet they
afford no legal excuse which it is competent to this court to admit as the basis of its decision."
The same course of decision which has established that property of a subject or citizen taken trading with the enemy is forfeited, has decided also that it is forfeited as prize. The ground
of the forfeiture is, that it is taken adhering to the enemy, and
therefore the proprietor is pro hac vice to be considered as an
enemy. Vide also Wheaton on Captures, p. 219, and 1 C. Robinson, 219, the case of The Nelly.
Attempts have been made to evade the rule of public law, by
the interposition of a neutral port between the shipment from
the belligerent port and their ultimate destination in the enemy's
country ; but in all such cases the goods have been condemned,
as having been taken in a course of commerce rendering them

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

115

Jec ker at al. v. Montgomery.

liable to confiscation ; and it has been ruled that, without license
from government, no communication, direct or indirect, can be
carried on with the enemy; that the interposition of a prior port
makes no difference; that all trade with the enemy is illegal,
and the circumstance that the goods are to go first to a neutral
port will not make it lawful. 3 0. Robinson, 22, The Indian
Chief; and 4 0. Robinson, 79, The Jonge Pieter.
Having thus stated the law with regard to maritime captures,
it remains to be ascertained how far the case before us upon
the pleadings and proofs, falls within the scope or the terms of
that law.
The libel propounds, that the libellant, as the commander of
the United States ship Portsmouth, did, on the 7th of April,
1847, at the port of San Josd in lower California, in the Republic of Mexico, seize and take possession of as lawful prize,
a certain ship or vessel called The Admittance - one Peter
Peterson being the master - with her cargo, provisions, tackle,
and all other appurtenances to the said ship belonging. That
the said ship is a merchant vessel belonging to citizens of the
United States, and that the cargo of said ship is believed by the
libellant to have belonged to certain merchants resident in
Mexico. That about the month of October, 1846, the said
ship with her cargo, left the port of New Orleans for a port in
the Republic of Mexico, into which port the captain intended to
discharge the cargo. That for some time prior to the sailing
of this ship, and upon the day of her seizure, open and public
war existed between the United States and the Republic of
That in consequence of said
Mexico and its dependencies.
state of war, and in discharge of his duty, the ship Admittance,
with her cargo, was seized by the libellant as prize of war.
The libellant further propounds, that Peterson, as master of
the said ship, did sail from the United States with the intention
of trading, and in fact did trade and otherwise hold illegal intercourse with the enemies of the United States, whereby the
said ship, her cargo, tackle, and appurtenances, became subjects
of lawful prize. All which illegal intention and acts of the
master more fully appear by the papers of the said ship, and by
other papers received from the master by the libellant, numbered
from one to fifteen inclusive; -from the deposition of William
Bell, the first mate of The Admittance, and* from the log-book
all of which it is prayed may be made parts of the libel ;
which concludes with a prayer for condemnation of ship and
cargo, and for the dismission of the libel previously filed by
Torre, Jecker, and Co., praying restitution of a portion of the
cargo.
To the libel of Captain Montgomery were filed an answer on

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

behalf of Fessenden and Fay, who intervened as owners of the
ship, and separate answers on behalf of Jecker, Torre, and Co.,
and of Manuel Quintana, as owners of the cargo.
These answers, so far as they are made up merely of general
denials of the charges propounded in the libel, require no special
animadversion. So far, however, as the specific facts alleged in
them by way of exculpation, the compatibility of those facts
with the established law of prize, or with the proofs adduced in
the case, become a question, the statements in these answers
are matters of essential importance, requiring particular examination.
The respondents Fessenden and Fay have in their answers
observed an entire silence with respect to a knowledge on their
part as to the destination of the ship or cargo; whilst they are
very explicit in the assertion of their belief, that the cargo was
put on board by the charterer, and that the ship sailed under a
full persuasion that a treaty of peace would speedily terminate
the then existing war between the United States and Mexico,
and that they never were informed, nor do they believe, that the
cargo was to be landed or disposed of in Mexico until after the
termination of the war. Personally they say, that they know
nothing of what occurred in relation to the ship and cargo in
the Pacific; but from what they have learned they believe, and
therefore aver, that there was no trading with the enemy at any
time during the voyage. This statement, which implies knowledge in the respondents of the existence of war between the
United States and Mexico at the time of chartering of their ship,
and knowledge likewise that the cargo put on board was destined
for the port of a nation, at the time of the shipment at any rate,
in open hostility with the United States, will, as to its verity, be
further tested by a comparison with the testimony furnished by
the papers found in the captured vessel and by the examination
of witnesses. And in this connection it may be observed, that
the bare permission by the owners of the use of their vessel in
hostile or piratical enterprises renders such vessel liable to capture and condemnation equally with her employment in similar
offefices under the immediate command of such owners themselves. Vide the case of The United States v. The Brig Maleck
Adel, 2 How. 234; The United States v. The Schooner Little
Charles, 1 Brok. Rep. 347; The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 14; 1 C.
Rob. R. 127 ; The Vrow Judith.
Comparing this answer with the papers found on board the
captured vessel, we see it expressly stipulated in the charterparty, the very contract by which the ship was hired, and which
was signed by these respondents, that the ship shall proceed to
New Orleans, and there take from the charterers Wylie and

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

117

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

Ygana, 1,100 bales of cotton, to be delivered at the port of San
Blas to the order of the shipper, the consignee paying freight for
the room occupied in the ship by the cotton, eleven hundred dollars, payable on delivery of the cargo ; the cargo to be received
at New Orleans and discharged at San Blas with despatch. The
charter-party further provides, that if on the arrival of the ship
off San Blas, the port is blockaded, or other obstructions prevent
the discharge of the ship, she shall proceed to the Sandwich
Islands, and there remain until the port is open, the said Wylie
and Ygana paying in addition to the charter the further sum of
one thousand dollars per month during such detention. We
will hereafter state what is conceived by this court to be the
proper construction of this phrase, "If the port is blockaded, or
other obstructions prevent the discharge of the ship." Independently of this phrase, however, we have, on the face of this contract, the declaration that the shipment was made to an enemy's
port; that the delivery was to take place at that port; that
the interposition of the neutral island of Honolulu was not for
the purpose of trade with, or transshipment at that island, but
solely for the purpose of affording an opportunity to enter into
and discharge at a port known to be an enemy's port, in which
the consignees of the cargo resided, and the delivery at which
port was made a precedent and necessary condition to the payment of freight.
Upon a comparison of the bill of lading with the charter-party,
the terminus of the voyage and the destination of the cargo are
more clearly shown. The language of the bill of lading runs
thus: ",Shipped in good order and well conditioned, by Wylie
and Ygana, on board the good ship Admittance, whereof is master for the present voyage Peterson, and now lying at New
Orleans, and bound for Honolulu, two thousand seven hundred
and seven small bales of cotton, being marked and numbered as
in the margin, and are to be delivered." Where ? Not at Honolulu, where there was no consignee, apparent or mentioned not at San Blas, as an incidental point in the track of the voyage
to Honolulu, but at "the aforesaid port of San Blas," the predetermined limit of the voyage, and to Don Lewis Rivas Gongora, resident at San Blas, the correspondent and consignee of
the shipper.
Taking, in connection with the charter-party and the bill of
lading, the instructions from the respondent, Fessenden, to the
master of the ship before sailing from New Orleans, it seems
almost incredible that the owners should have been ignorant of
the character of the voyage, and of the hazards incurred by their
vessel resulting from that character. How, upon any other view,
can be accounted for the extreme caution enjoined upon the

118

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

master with respect to the danger of entering a Mexican port danger expressly distinguished from that arising from the probability of capture by vessels of the United States ; such as it is
said might arise from the disposition of the Mexican government, under the plea of the right of war to confiscate the vessel,
notwithstanding the consignees might have obtained permission
to land the cargo ? It is absurd to suppose that this caution
could have had any possible reference to a state of re-established
amity between Mexico and the United States, as the vessel of a
friendly nation could incur no risk of confiscation by entering
the port of a friend. We think that it was to dangers and
hazards which might proceed from the Mexican authoritieshazards and dangers incident to an existing and known state of
war, which were in the contemplation of the owners when, in the
charter-party, they speak of "other obstructions," (beyond that
of blockades,) "which might prevent the discharge of the ship at
San Blas," an enemy's port. This interpretation of the conduct
and purposes of the owners and charterers is strongly corroborated by, and explains that portion of the instructions to the master
which tells him, "you will perceive from this that you nust be
very cautious about going into a Mexican port, for, although the
consignees may have authority to land the cotton, yet they might
seize the vessel after being discharged, unless the vessel as well
as the cargo had permission from the Mexican government."
This language would be unintelligible, unless it had reference to
a known belligerent attitude of the two nations, forbidding intercourse or traffic between their -espective citizens, and to a contemplated dispensation from the existing prohibitions by one of
the belligerents. We are, therefore, upon a just construction
of the answer of the claimants of the vessel, of the charter-party
signed by them, of the bill of lading, and of the instructions to
the master, impelled to the conclusion, that these claimants of
the vessel were aware of the character of the voyage for which
they had hired her, and were willing, nevertheless, to incur the
hazards of the enterprise in consideration of the profits it promised them.
Looking next beyond the evidence of intention and knowledge as deducible from the ship's papers proper, to the acts of
the master in execution of the objects and purposes of the voyage, the following facts are shown by the testimony of the witnesses, Bell, Martin, and Graves, all of them belonging to the crew
of The Admittance, and the first-named being the mate of the
ship: That she sailed directly to San Bias ; that upon her arrival
off this port, then being an enemy's port, and in the possession
of the enemy, she remained before it three days and nights, during which time the master opened an intercourse with the port,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

119

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

receiving at different times communications therefrom, to which
lie replied; that whilst off San Bias the captain showed no
American ensign, but after receiving the communications from
the shore lie ordered the chief mate not to head the log-book,
and also directed the concealment of the ship's name by covering her stern with painted canvas, and proceeded along the
coast as far as 188 north, looking for some bay or inlet on the
coast of Mexico where the cargo might be delivered; but finding no suitable place, the ship wa6 headed for San Jos6, California. It is further proved by the witnesses, Mesroon and Bell,
that The Admittance entered the port of San Jos6 before it was
captured by the forces of the United States, and when it was
still a Mexican port, in the possession of the enemies of the
United States; and the witnesses, Bell and Graves, both of the
crew of The Admittance, swear that the captain, before the
seizure, landed goods at this hostile port. Upon every correct
view, then, of the facts of this case, and of the law of prize as
applicable to these facts, it is clear that the ship Admittance
was properly subject to seizure and condemnation as prize of
war.
We have seen, by the authorities cited, that intercourse with
the enemy is sufficient cause for personal punishment, and for
the confiscation of property; that it is a cause originating in,
and inflexibly enforced by necessity for guarding the public
safety. In this cause are established against the claimants of
this vessel, not only intercourse, but trading, in its common acceptation. Moreover, it is a settled principle, that if the owners
had not anticipated a violation of the public law, the fate of their
vessel, with respect to an infraction of that law, must depend
upon the conduct of the agent with whom they have intrusted
its management.
With respect to the respondents, Jecker, Torre, and Co., and
Quintana, claimants of the cargo, the written documents found
on board the captured vessel, and surrendered to the libellant by
the master, fasten upon these claimants not only a knowledge
of the design, under the pretext of a voyage to the Sandwich
Islands, of trading with citizens of the United States, a belligerent nation, but they fix upon those parties strenuous and active
efforts to possess themselves of the fruits of that traffic -the
cargo of the ship; and to obtain them not even by the circuitous voyage to Honolulu, but by direct transit to and within the
territory of the enemy's nation. It is a circumstance of much
significance disclosed by these papers, that there appears to have
existed a perfect understanding and preconcert between these
claimants, the charterers of the vessel, and the master. The
arrival of the master is anticipated and waited for, and no

iO

SUPREME

COURT.

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

sooner does his vessel appear on the Mexican coast, (the war
still continuing,) than she is boarded from the shore by the
agents of the claimants, bringing assurances of arrangements
made for the violation of the law- of war, and of the safety with
which that violation might be accomplished.
Thus, on the 12th of February, 1847, a letter, from which the
following extracts are taken, was addressed by the agent of the
claimants, Jecker, Torre, and Co., Louis Rivas Gongora, to the
master of The Admittance: "CAPT. P. PETERSON, Ship Admittance, off San Blas.

"SIR: I have been informed of your sailing from New Orleans
with a cargo of cotton to my consignment, and have also received a copy of Messrs. Wylie and Ygana's instructions for
your guidance; also a copy of your charter-party. But as it
will be more for the convenience of all parties concerned, that in
case of your not being allowed by the blockading vessels to enter
San Blas or Manzanilla, you should not proceed to the Sandwich Islands, which are very distant, but in the first place to San
Jos6 near Cape San Lucas, which is in possession of the Americans, I have to request that if you find the port of San Blas
blockaded, and should be warned off, you will, as is directed in
your instructions, proceed to Manzanilla, where, if you are allowed to enter, you will find an agent meeting you there, who
will receive your cargo. If San Blas is open when you arrive,
you will come into the bay immediately and anchor, putting
yourself under the orders of Don Eustaquio Pasiere, who will
proceed to discharge your cargo; and as it is of much importance that the cotton should be on shore as soon as possible, I
hope you will do everything on your part to commence and to
finish discharging with the least possible delay. If you are permitted to enter San Blas or Manzanilla, you must come in under
British colors, the name of the vessel and your own remaining
without alteration, still reporting yourself from New Orleans;
but you will be careful not to deliver any of the papers of the
ship or cargo to any one except to Don Eustaquio Pasiere."
Again, on the 27th of the same month, this person thus addresses the master from Tepic: "CAPT. P. PETERSON, Ship Admittance, off San Blas.

"SiR: I had the pleasure to write to you on the 12th of this
month, which will be delivered to you along with this. But as
at present certain circumstances have taken place which, I think,
make it too dangerous for you to come into San Bias, I have to
request that you will proceed immediately to Manzanilla, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

121

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.
put yourself under the orders of Don Manuel de la Quintana,
who has gone to meet you there, and who will deliver to you a
letter, authorizing him to act as your consignee. He will discharge your vessel, pay your freight, and transact all the business
of your vessel the same as if I was present. You will please
enter Manzanilla under English colors, and, as the war continues,
you will take care that it shall not be known that your vessel is
American."
In proof of the agency of Rivas, as the representative of Jecker,
Torre, and Co., and as affecting them by his acts, reference may
be made to a communication from that firm, dated Mazatlan,
April 1, 1847, addressed to the master of The Admittance, which
communication was doubtless prepared on entire ignorance of the
seizure of that vessel, which had occurred only three days previously at San Jos6. In this communication it is said: "Should
this find you at San Josd, we have to request you to proceed at
once to San Blas, referring you at the same time to the accompanying letter for you from Don Luis Rivas de Gongora, of Tepic.
Mr. Rivas has furnished us with copies of your letters to him, of
the dates of the 3d and 4th of March, by which it appears you
entertain fears of being seized by an English or American cruiser
should you follow his recommendation to discharge under English colors." They then refer the master to Mr. Mott and Mr.
Bolton, for assurances that his apprehensions are groundless, and
state, "that in less than a month previously an American vessel
discharged at San Blas without let or hindrance; that the difficulty with regard to the vessel in a Mexican port had been overcome by an order of the supreme government, by which vessels
of any nation were permitted to enter, provided that the captain
would make a declaration to the effect that he belonged to a
friendly or neutral nation, no papers confirming that assertion
being required of him."
We think, then, that by the evidence found in the possession
of the master of The Admittance, there is shown a complicity
in all the respondents in premeditating, and as far as they had
power in executing, a scheme for effecting intercourse and trade
with the open enemies of the United States - an offence such as
rendered all the means and instruments for the accomplishment
of such a scheme lawful prize of war.
But it has been insisted, that should it be conceded that there
existed originally sufficient grounds for capture and condemnation, still, the captor had forfeited all right of prize by omitting
to send the vessel and cargo to the United States for adjudication, and by selling them without the justification of necessity
in a foreign country. The libellant has alleged, in justification
VOL. XVIII.

11

122

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

of the disposition of the vessel and cargo, " that be was at the
time of the cdpture of The Admittance at a great distance from
the United States, and, without weakening inconveniently the
force under his command in his own ship, he could not have
spared a sufficient prize crew and officers to command the captured ship, and to bring her into the United States."
The exception here taken brings up the inquiry, as to the duty
and power of a captor to send in his prize for adjudication, and
as to the discretion vested in him in deciding upon the extent
of that duty, and the feasibility of that power under existing circumstances. This inquiry has been treated with so much force
and perspicuity by Mr. Justice Curtis, in a case adjudged by him
between a portion of these respondents as claimants of the ship,
and the libellants, that it cannot be more clearly and at the same
time more succinctly elucidated than it will be by reference to
the opinion of that judge in the case alluded to, (vide Fay et al.
v. Montgomery, 1 Curtis's R. 266.) In that case, the judge remarks: "The grounds on which restitution is claimed are thus
stated in the libel, I that the seizure and detention were without
any legal, justifiable, reasonable, or probable cause; and even if
there had been probable cause for the seizure of the said vessel,
the said Montgomery was legally bound to send the same to the
United States for trial, which might easily have been done, but
which the said Montgomery illegally and unjustifiably omitted
to do, and thereby illegally converted the same to his own use.'
Here (says the judge) are two distinct grounds : the first being
that the seizure was an act of illegal violence ; and the second,
that, by not sending the vessel to the United States for trial, the
respondent had illegally converted it to his own use." After
commenting upon the evidence which led his mind to the conclusion that there was properly a question of prize to be tried,
the judge remarks: "And this brings me to consider the other
ground stated in the libel, that by his omission to send the vessel
to the United States for trial, the respondent illegally converted
the vessel to his own use. That captors may so act towards
prize property as to forfeit their rights as captors, and render
themselves liable to make restitution, with or without damages,
is clear. But before the court can so declare, a case of forfeiture
of rights, free from all reasonable doubt, must be made out. In
considering this part of the case, the question is, whether the
allegation that the respondent omitted to send the vessel to the
United States for trial, when he could safely and properly have
done so, and thereby illegally converted the property to his own
use, is made out in proof." The answer of the respondent to
this part of the libel states: " That it was impossible for him,
consistently with the public interests committed to his direction,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

123

Jecker et al. v. Montgomery.

to have sent the ship Admittance to any port of the*United
States." The judge proceeds to say: "1Before considering the
facts upon which the forfeiture is asserted, one principle should
be stated, which is entitled to an important effect on this part of
the case. It is, that an honest exercise of discretion, necessarily
arising out of his command, cannot be treated as such misconduct in the commander of a public ship of war, as will forfeit
his fair title, and render him liable to be treated as a trespasser.
This principle is too obviously just to require the support of
authority; but it will be found to have been laid down and
applied iu the case of Dinsman v. Wilkes, in 12 How. 890.
"Now it must be admitted, that the question whether the
necessities of the public service will allow the commander of a
ship of war, in time of war, upon a remote station on the other
side of the globe, to spare one of his officers to go home in
command of a prize, is one depending on his discretion, necessarily arising out of his command. In the first instance, he
alone has the power to decide the question-he alone has the
needful knowledge of facts, and he is bound to exercise his
judgment upon them. Certainly his judgment is not conclusive- good faith and reasonable discretion are requisite; but it
would not only be a hardship, but injustice, to impose on the
commander the duty of determining such a question, and, when
he has determined it, to attribute to him as an act of misconduct that he did not come to a different conclusion. It is true,
that it is a clear duty of a commander to send in his prize for
adjudication, but this is not an absolute obligation. It depends
on his ability to perform it; and of this, as already said, he
must judge in the first instance; and if he decides with reasonable discretion and an honest purpose to do his duty, I cannot
consider him as guilty of misconduct which works a forfeiture."
The judge then, after an examination of the proofs in the
case, and of the law as above expounded by him, comes to the
following conclusion: "Keeping these principles in view, I am
not satisfied that, in omitting to send the vessel to the United
States, Captain Montgomery violated any known duty, or acted
with so little discretion as to render him liable as a trespasser."
And he closes his review of the evidence with this very forcible
view of its just import and character: "One of the lieutenants
of The Portsmouth was serving on shore- two only remained;
and it does not appear that a single passed-midshipman was on
board. Lieutenant Revere [orle of the remaining lieutenants
on board] has given an opinion-no doubt an honest one-that
he might have been spared; but it is an opinion formed under
no responsibility of command; and I am not prepared to say
that a sloop of war on that coast, at that time, officered by only

124

SUPREME COURT.
Jecker et al. v. Montgomery:

two lieutenants, ought to have been left with only one, in order
to send home a prize-and still less, that the commander erred
so grossly, in not detaching this officer on such service as to
forfeit his legal rights thereby."
The facts which are applicable to this part of the case now
before us -are essentially, if not literally, those adduced in the
trial before the judge whose opinion has been just quoted; and
the very clear exposition of those facts, with the legal deductions from them, as set forth in that opinion, command our
entire approbation, and are regarded as conclusive against the
appellants upon the question of forfeiture by the appellee of his
right of prize.
Another exception urged in the argument as fatal to the decree
of the circuit court demands our notice, and it is this: That the
proceedings instituted in the district court for the condemnation
of the vessel and cargo as prize of war were in the name of the
libellant, the captor, whereas they should have been commenced
and prosecuted in the name of the United States. This irregularity, for such it must be admitted to be, may have proceeded
from a misapprehension of the opinion of this court in the case
of Jecker, Torre, and Co. v. Montgomery; (see 13 How. 498;) in
which opinion it is stated to be the duty of the district court to
order the captor to institute proceedings in that court for the
condemnation of the property as prize of war, by. a certain day
to be named by the court. The exception thus urged is not
raised in the answers or in any other form of pleading in the
court below. The parties have gone to trial upon allegations
connected with the merits, and upon such testimony as they
have chosen to introduce. It would seem to be a sufficient
answer to this exception to say, that after its waiver or after an
omission to urge it in the court below, and after going into an
extended range of testimony as applicable to the merits of the
case, to permit an exception entirely distinct from the merits, in
the appellate court, would be extending an improper license to
the party starting such exception, and might be productive of
injustice to his opponent. The exception is unquestionably
technical or formal. It embraces neither the question of power
of the captor to seize, nor that of the character of the subjects
of capture as lawful prize of war. Moreover, this exception, if
allowable, would seem to have no other object or purpose, but that
of securing the ends which the proceedings and decree of the
court have in fact accomplished; for it is seen that the libel,
though filed in the name of the captor, was founded upon the
public authority of the United States, and the decree pronounced in the case is in favor and in the name of the government, by whom it is shown the proceeds of the condemned

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

125

Secker et al. v. Montgomery.

subject have been actually received. It is plain, therefore, that
every purpose which the most formal proceeding could have
effected, and nothing beyond this, has been accomplished by the
decree in this case; and the proposal now pressed upon the
court is, that in virtue of a formal exception, which either has
been waived or omitted in the proper time and place, the merits
of this controversy voluntarily submitted, and fully examined,
should be entirely lost sight of, and that the party who alone,
within the purview of the exception itself, could regularly claim
the subject of the controversy, should for the mere form be required to surrender that subject. Such a proposal should be
regarded as neither equitable nor reasonable, and should be
especially discountenanced by a tribunal which acts upon principles of an enlarged public policy -less fettered perhaps that any
other by narrow technical*rules.
This case bears a strong resemblance to that of Benton v.
Woolsey and the Bank of Utica, reported in 12 Pet. 27, in
which the district attorney of the United States filed an information in his own name, in behalf of the United States, in the
district court for the northern district of New York, to enforce a
mortgage given to the United States by Woolsey, one of the
defendants. This court in that case hold this doctrine : "Some
doubts were at first entertained by the court whether this proceeding could be sustained in the form adopted by the district
court. It is a bill of information and complaint in the name of
the district attorney, in behalf of the United States. But on
carefully examining the bill, it appears to be in substance a proceeding by the United States, although in form it is in the name
of the officer; and we find that this form of proceeding in such
cases has been for a long time used without objection in the
courts of the United States held in New York, and was doubtless borrowed from analogous cases in the courts of the State
where the State was plaintiff in the suit. No objection has
been made to it either in the court below or in this court, and
we think that the United States may be considered as the real
party, although in its form it is the complaint of the district
attorney."
The objection which has been made to the deposit in the
treasury of the money arising from the sale of the captured
property in this case appears to be without weight. Since the
act of congress of the 8d of Mfarch, 1849, it appears to be the
intention and the positive mandate of congress, that all prize
money arising from captures by vessels of the navy of the United
States, whether received by marshals for the sale of prizes,
or in the hands of prize agents, should be deposited in the
treasury of the United States. Vide ยง 8th of the act, Stats. at
11*

126

SUPREME COURT.
Ham'v. State of Missouri.

Large, vol. ix. p. 378. It does not clearly appear in whose hands
the proceeds of the sale of The Admittance and her cargo were
at the date of the above statute. But if they were in the possession of Captain Montgomery at or after that time, either as captor
or prize-master, or whether they were in the hands of any other
person, it was within the scope and objects of the law to place
the proceeds of the prize sale in the treasury of the United
States; and accordingly it is shown by the certificate of the
treasurer of the United States, that the sum of sixty-seven thousand dollars, as the proceeds of the sale of The Admittance, were
on the 26th of December, 1849, by William Speiden, purser of
the navy of the United States, deposited in the treasury of the
United States.
Upon a consideration of the facts and the law of this case,
we are of the opinion that the decree of the circuit court be
affirmed.

ADAx HAi,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

Fhe act of congress passed on the 6th of March, 1820, (3 Stats. at Large, 547,) accepted by an ordinance declaring the assent of the people of Missouri thereto,
adopted on the 19th of July, 1820, granted to the State for the use of schools the
sixteenth section of every township in the State, which had not been sold or otherwise disposed of.
This expression, ,"otherwise disposed of," does not include the case of an imperfect
title, claimed to be derived from the Spanish governor, which had been rejected by
the board of commissioners in 1811.
The claim was confirmed in 1828 so far as to relinquish all the title which the United
States then had ; but at that time the United States had no title, having granted the
land to Missouri in 1820, which they had a right to do.
The proviso in the act of March 3, 1811, which forbade lands claimed before the
board of commissioners from being offered for sale until after the decision of congress thereon, did not prevent a donation for schools, and, moreover, contemplated
only a temporary suspension for the purposes of investigation.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of the State
of Missouri, by a writ'of error issued under the 25th section of
the judiciary act.
It is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .M2r. Geyer, for the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
_Mr. Geyer made the following points:1. The reservation by the act of March 3, 1811, is something
more than "a direction" to the officers to refrain from selling
the land claimed. It severed the land embraced by the claim
from the public domain, and appropriated it to the satisfaction

