DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

297

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

Where a chancery suit involves matters of account, the action
of a master should be had in the inferior court, and the items
admitted or rejected should be stated, so that exception may be
taken to the particular items or class of items, and such a case
should be brought before this court on the rulings of the exceptions by the circuit court.

The bill is dismissed at the plaintiff's costs, without prejudice.

JoHN DOE, ex dem. JAmEs B. McCALL, HENRY V. McCALL, AND

MRY

SIDNEY MCCALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.
CARPENTER AND JoHN A. REITZ.*

WVILLIARD

Where there was a decree of a court of chancery for the partition of real estate, an
agreement to divide which had been previously made, but one of the parties to the
agreement had conveyed all his interest in the estate to one of the complainants.
and died before deeds of partition were executed, and the bill was filed against his
heirs simply for partition, the decree of the court and deeds executed under it only
operated upon the parties jointly interested in the property.
Two of the heirs were non-residents, and did not appear; the third was an infant.
Therefore, in an action of ejectment by the heirs, evidence was admissible to show
that the deed from their ancestor had been obtained by fraud. The proceedings in
chancery did not involve this question, nor was it adjudicated upon by the court.
Nor is the question of fraud appropriate to the proceeding in partition ; if raised, the
proceedings are usually suspended, and the question sent to a court of law.
The recitals in the deeds of partition have no binding force beyond what is derived
from the decree.
The defendants were jointly interested with the complainants in one parcel embraced
in the partition suit. The ancestor having conveyed away the property covered by
the deed alleged to have been fraudulently obtained, the heirs had no interest in the
partition of it.
These proceedings being in ren, only operated in respect to the title as against them,
upon that part of the property in which they had a joint interest.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an ejectment, brought by the McCalls against Carpenter and Reitz, to recover six blocks, seventy-two lots, and
one half block, in Lamasco city, in the county of Vanderburgh,
in the State of Indiana, of which blocks and lots Carpenter and
Reitz were in possession.
The claim of the plaintiffs was founded upon the following
circumstances :Prior to the 21st of March, 1840, certain persons were possessed of the city of Lamasco, and also of the southeast quarter
of section 23, in town 6, south of range 11, west; consisting of
* lr. Justice CURTIS, apprehending that one of his connections was interested in
the subject-matter of this case, did not sit therein.

298

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

160 acres. They owned this property in the following proportions, namely:John Law, 1; William H. Law, 2 ; Boston and Indiana Land
Company, J; Lucius H. Scott, j-; James B. McCall, J.
On the 21st of March, 1840, the proprietors (the Boston Land
Company subsequently acquiescing) signed an agreement, under.
seal, to divide the town lots and also the quarter section amongst
them. The town lots were divided into eight subdivisions,
whereof each proprietor of - had two, and the quarter section
was also divided into eight parts, allotted in the same proportion.
Before deeds of partition could be exchanged, McCall sold
and conveyed to Hugh Stewart all his undivided interest in the
town property, without including his share in the quarter section. This deed purported to be executed on 18th June, 1840.
It was not in the record, being offered in evidence upon the trial,
but rejected.
Shortly after the execution of this deed to Stewart, McCall
died, leaving three infant children, two of whom were non-residents of the State, the lessors of the plaintiff in error. These
children thus became the unquestioned heirs of their father's
interest in the quarter section, which was not included in the
deed to Stewart.
In order to bring about a partition, regularly, two bills ought
to have been filed: one for the partition of the town property, in
which the interest of the father of the infants appeared to be
held entirely by Stewart, they themselves having none; and the
other by their co-tenants in the quarter section in which Stewart
had no interest, and, therefore, should not have been a party.
It so happened, however, that at the March term, 1842, of the
Vanderburgh circuit court, a bill was filed by John Law, William H. Law, Lucius H. Scott, and Hugh Stewart, in their own
right, and also the trustees of the Boston Land Company. The
nature of the bill and the proceedings under it are stated in the
opinion of the court; as are also the proceedings in the ejectment which gave rise to the case now under consideration.
It was submitted on printed arguments by .lIr. Dunn, for the
plaintiffs in error, and Hr. Baker, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Indiana.
The suit in the court below was an action of ejectment by
the plaintiffs to recover the possession of certain town lots in
the city of Lamasco. They proved on the trial, that their father, James B. McCall, was the owner of an undivided fourth

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

299

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

of a certain part of said city, and had been in the possession of
the same, and died in 1840; and that they were his heirs at
law.
The defendants set up, in bar of the action, certain proceedings in partition, embracing the premises in question, in the circuit court of the fourth judicial district of Indiana.
The bill in partition was filed by .thetenants in common of
the town lots with McCall in his lifetime, against his children
and heirs, the present plaintiffs. The two sons were non-residents of the State, at the time, and did not appear or answer
to the bill. The dauglter was a resident of the State, and was
served personally with the subpona.
She and the younger
brother were under age, for whom guardians ad litem were
appointed by the court.
The bill, after setting out the interests of the respective
tenants in common, and that partition had been agreed upon
between them, describing particularly the manner in which the
partition was to be made, and the portions assigned to each in
the arrangement, charges, that after the agreement, J. B. McCall
sold and conveyed all his undivided interest, to wit, one undivided fourth part of the town property, to Hugh Stewart for the
sum of 8 11,500, and that shortly afterwards, and 'before he executed deeds of partition, according to the agreement, departed
this life, leaving three children, his heirs at law, James B. McCall,
non-resident of this State, and Henry McCall, also a non-resident,
and Mary S. McCall, who are infants under the age of twentyone years. The bill further charges, that the several proprietors,
including Stewart, the grantee of McCall, had already interchanged deeds of partition, according to the agreement, or were
ready to do so; and that they were ready to execute to the heirs
deeds of all their right to subdivision No. 3 and 6 of the southeast quarter of section twenty-three, in town 6, and of all other
portions to which the heirs were entitled; and then closes by
stating, that, inasmuch as your orators are unable to obtain relief
in the premises, except by an interposition of the court of chancery, they, for the purpose of perfecting their several titles to
their respective portions of said property, pursuant to the agreement in partition, pray that the heirs be made defendants; that
a guardian ad litem be appointed for the two infant heirs, that
they may answer the bill; and if the same should be found true,
that the court would appoint three commissioners to make deeds
of partition, &c.
The bill was taken as confessed against the adult heir, and
against the others upon the answer put in by the guardian; no
proof, for aught that appears, having been given. The court
decreed that the prayer of the complainants be granted; and

300

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

that C. D. Bourne, C. Baker, and J. E. Blythe be commissioners
to make deeds, &c., to the complainants, agreeably to the partition mentioned in the bill, and pursuant to, and agreeable with
the said sale and conveyance made by James B. McCall, deceased,
of his undivided interest in said town property, to the complainant, Hugh Stewart.
Deeds were executed in pursuance of the directions in the
decree, and reported to the court and confirmed.
It' appeared that McCall, besides being a joint owner in the
town property which he had conveyed to Stewart, also owned,
jointly with the complainants, (except Stewart,) one fourth of
the southeast quarter of section No. 23, township 6, adjoining
the town, and which descended to his heirs and was embraced in
the bill of partition.
The counsel for the plaintiffs, when this record of partition
was offered in evidence by the defendants, objected to the admission, on the ground that the decree was void for want of
jurisdiction of the court; and also for fraud apparent on the
face of the proceedings. The objection was overruled. It appeared that the defendants claim title from Stewart, the grantee
of McCall.
They then rested, and the counsel for the plaintiffs then produced and read the conveyance from their father to Stewart
mentioned in the bill of partition, and offered to prove that the
conveyance was obtained by fraud on the part of Stewart, and
also, that, at the time of its execution, their father was of unsound mind and incapable of making a valid contract; that said
unsoundness was well known to Stewart, and that he took advantage of it in obtaining the deed ; that the consideration of
$11,500 mentioned was never paid, that $ 6,000 in depreciated
state scrip was all that was ever paid or agreed to be paid, and
that the defendants purchased of Stewart with full knowledge of
all the facts ; that the real estate purported to be conveyed by the
deed was worth at the time at least $ 20,000.
To all which evidence the defendant's counsel objected, on
the sole ground that the plaintiffs were barred by the record of
the proceedings in partition, which objection was sustained by the
court, and the evidence excluded.
The jury, under the direction of the court, rendered a verdict
for the defendants.
We think the court erred in excluding this evidence.
The binding effect of the decree, in the chancery suit, is sought
to be maintained upon the ground that the proceedings were
instituted not only for the purpose of making partition, but also
to quiet the title between the parties, and especially the title of
Stewart under the conveyance from McCall, and that the chil-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

30

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.
then and heirs were made parties for this reason, and that the
proceedings, in this aspect, being in the nature of proceedings
in rem, would operate upon the title and bind the heirs, whether
they appeared or not, if notice had been given in conformity with
the statute or law of the State.
But we think the obvious answer to this view is, that the bill
has not been framed in any such aspect, or for any such purpose,
either in the body of it or in the prayer. There is no suggestion
of any imperfection in the title of Stewart, under the deed of
McCall, or of any imputation or questioning of the genuineness
or validity of it; nor does the prayer ask for a decree to confirm
the deed or the title to Stewart.
. The only pretext for the ground now taken to bind the heirs,
is in the allegation as follows, namely: "As your orators are unable to obtain relief in the premises, except by the interposition
of a court of chancery, they, for the purpose of perfecting their
several titles to the respective portions of said property, agreeably with and in pursuance of said agreement of partition,
would respectively pray," &c., and then follows the prayer for
partition.
Now, it is manifest that this allegation refers simply to the
subject of providing for the mutual releases or conveyances of
the joint interest in the property, so that each might become
vested, severally, with the title to his respective share, and
nothing beyond this, as is further evinced by the prayer of the
bill, which is, that if the allegations in the bill should be found
true, not that Stewart should be quieted in his title under
McCall, but that three commissioners be appointed to make
the partition, &c. So in respect to the decree. It simply orders that the prayer of the bill of the complainants be granted,
appoints the commissioners, and directs them to make the
partition, by the execution of the deeds of conveyance, release,
and partition to the complainants, according to their respective
rights, &c.
The deeds of the commissioners have also been referred to as
helping out the binding effect claimed for these proceedings.
The deed of the commissioners to Stewart may be taken as a
sample of all of them. It recites their appointment, the object
of it, to wit, execute the partition deeds, &c., and adds: "and
to perfect the title of said Hugh Stewart to the interest heretofore conveyed to him in said property, by the said McCall in
his lifetime," - they then go on and convey "all the right, title,
and interest, claim and demand whatsoever of the said James
B. McCall, deceased, at the time of his death, and of his heirs,
naming the three defendants, since his decease, or at any other
time, and of all or any other heirs or heir whatsoever, of the said
voL. xVwii.

26

802

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

James B. McCall, deceased," &c. ; seeking to bind those not
made defendants as well as those who were.
The answer to all these recitals is, that they have no binding
force or effect beyond what is derived from the d-cree of the
court appointing the commissioners; and as that simply conferred
authority on them to execute mutual conveyances and releases
for the purpose of making partition between the parties, any recital going beyond this is nugatory. Neither should the simple
confirmation of the deeds by the court be construed as itending
to go beyond the terms and directions of the decree.
The case, then, is brought down to the question, so far as the
effect and operation of the chancery suit are concerned, whether
or not these defendants are estopped by the decree from impeaching the deed of their father to Stewart. And, in respect
to this question, we may concede that, for the purposes of partition, the court, under the statute and law of Indianai had jurisdiction of the subject-matter and were competent to make the
partition.
The point is, whether or not the right of the plaintiffs to impeach this deed was involved in these proceedings, so as to be
deemed res judicat, and all further examination or inquiry
foreclosed.
As we have already seen, the question as to its validity was
not presented upon the pleadings in that suit, nor did it beconie
the subject of inquiry or examination in the course of the proceeding, nor did it enter into the decree of the court in the
determination of the case. And the better opinion is, that no
such question could have been raised by the defendants iii that
proceeding, if they had sought to invalidate the deed.. The most
that the court would have been justified in doing, in the usual
course of proceeding, would have been to have stayed the suit
in partition till the question could have been settled at law. The
proceedings in partition are not appropriate for a litigation between parties in respect to the title.
As to the binding effect of judgments or decrees, the general
rule is, that the judgments of courts of concurrent jurisdiction
are not admissible in a subsequent suit, unless they are upon
the same matter, and directly on the point ; when the same
matter is directly in question, and the judgment in the former
suit upon the point, it will then be as a plea, a bar, or as evidence, conclusive between the parties. 2 Phillips Ev. 13. So a
judgment is conclusive upon a matter legitimately within the
issue, and necessarily involved in the decision. 4 Cow. 559; 8
Wend. 9: C. & H. notes, part 2, note 22.
Testing the ease by this principle, it seems quite clear that
the proceedings in partition constituted no defence to this

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

303

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

action; no question was made upon the deed by the pleadings,
nor any judgment given upon it; nor was any such question
necessarily involved in the partition suit.
Besides, . two of the defendants, plaintiffs here, were nonresidents of the State, ,and neither appeared, nor were served
As to them, the proceedings were
personally with process.
purely in rem, and the decree acted only upon the res or subjectmatter. And, as to the subject-matter, the bill on its face
shows, that these two plaintiffs had no interest in nor connection
with the partition, except as respected the southeast quarter of
section twenty-three. This tract was not included in the deed
to Stewart, and of course descended to the heirs. Being tenants
in common with the complainants, the decree of partition
might operate upon it and bind them. But, as to the premises
now in dispute it could have no effect, as it appears, by the
averment of complainants themselves, the defendants had no
interest in it. The title was in Stewart. The decree, therefore,
operating simply in rem, could only operate upon such interest
or estate of the defendant as was shown in the bill, and properly
the subject of the partition against them. Beyond this, it was
ineffectual, either as to its direct operation, or when in question
collaterally.
Proceedings of this character are allowed to conclude the
rights of the absent party, only as it respects property, whether
real or personal, involved in the suit, the property of the party
proceeded against. They act upon the thing, and bind the party
in respect to it. Now, that in this Qase, so far as the two nonresident defendants were concerned, was their interest in the
southeast quarter of section twenty-three ? They were strangers
as regarded any other piece or parcel of land involved in the
proceedings.
Then, as to Mary, the daughter, the process was served personally upon her; she was an infant, and appeared by a guardian
ad litem. But this was simply an appearance, as the representative of her interest in the undivided parcel which had descended
to the heirs. The bill shows that" she had no interest in the
partition, except as to this; all the other parcels of which partition was sought belonged to other parties, and concerned them
alone; as to these, John Doe might have been made a party
with as much propriety as this defendant. It may be, as we
have already said, that these proceedings conclude the question
of partition from afterwards being agitated, a question which it
is not now necessary to decide; but we think it clear that they
cannot conclude the title even of a party to them, whom the
proceedings themselves show had no interest or concern in the
question of partition.

304

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

Upon the whole, after the best consideration we have been
able to bestow upon the case, we think the court erred in excluding the evidence offered to impeach the deed of McCall to
Stewart, and that the judgment below should be reversed, and
a venire de novo awarded.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
The circuit court of Vanderburgh county, Indiana, exercising
chancery jurisdiction, in 1842, pronounced a decree, appointing
three commissioners to make deeds of conveyance, release, and
partition to the plaintiffs in the suit, of certain lots in the town
of Lamasco, in that county, and which embrace the land included in this suit, according to an agreement for a partition
made by a portion of the plaintiffs and James B. McCall, the
ancestor of the lessors of the plaintiff in this cause, and also of
a sale* and conveyance by him to one Stewart of his undivided
interest in the property, and directed that the deeds should convey the fee-simple to the complainants respectively.
The deeds were executed by the commissioners, were reported
to the court, and were confirmed by an order.
This decree was rendered in a chancery cause, prosecuted by
persons who had held in common the site of the town of Lamasco with McCall, and who had entered into the agreement,
by which specified lots were set apart to each of the tenants,
and for which mutual conveyances were to be made, and one
Stewart, on whose behalf it was alleged that, after the agreement,
and before deeds were made, McCall had so'N and conveyed
to him his entire undivided interest in the tract.
The object of the bill was to perfect in the complainants, according to the agreement of partition and the sale and conveyance to Stewart, their titles.
One of the children of McCall
was served with process, and two were called in by publication,
and a guardian ad litern was appointed for the minors. The
prayer of the bill was for the appointment of commissioners to
make the conveyances according to the agreement and the sale.
The defendants claiming to hold the lands under these complainants, offered the record of the proceedings in evidence
upon the trial in the circuit court, which was opposed, for the
reason that the court had no jurisdiction, and for fraud, apparent
on the face of the bill, the evidence was admitted as conclusive
of the title, and an issue was formed on the bill of exceptions
for this court.
The decree operates upon a title to lands within the county

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

805

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

and State where the circuit court, that rendered it, was held.
That court possesses, under the constitution and laws of Indiana,
a general chancery jurisdiction, and a special authority to appoint commissioners to execute decrees like the present. One of
the defendants was before the court by process, and was defended
by a guardian, and the others by publication, according to the
authorized practice of that court. This being the state of the
record -the jurisdiction of the court spreading over the subjectmatter, and embracing the parties - the inquiry arises, on what
principle can its authority be impeached in a collateral proceeding ? It is said, that, it being apparent from the bill that James
B. McCall had sold his entire interest in the town of Lamasco
to Stewart, that Stewart might have completed his agreement
for a partition, and that the heirs of McCall, having inherited no
estate, were not proper parties to the bill, and that the deeds of
conveyance, release, and partition, under the decree, did not conclude their rights. But who is to decide whether they were
proper parties to the bill, and whether it was proper to terminate
all contest upon the title, by requiring them to release their rights,
whatever they might happen to be, to the plaintiffs ? Upon
whom was the duty devolved by the constitution and laws of
Indiana, to determine whether the bill was framed according to
the course of chancery practice, and the decree a proper expression of chancery jurisprudence ? Certainly not this court,
nor the circuit court of the United States for Indiana.
A court of the State of Indiana, with a plenary jurisdiction
in chancery, having the subject-matter and parties within that
jurisdiction, has pronounced the decree, from whence comes the
power of this court to pronounce its jurisdiction usurped, and
its decree a nullity ? This court, of old, was accustomed to say,
"that ajudgment or execution irreversible by a superior court,
cannot be declared a nullity by any authority of law, if it has
been rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter, with authority to use the process it
has issued; it must remain the only test of the respective rights
of the parties to it." And also, "the line which separates error
in judgment from the usurpation of power is very definite, and
is precisely that which denotes the cases where a judgment or
decree is reversible only by an appellate court, or may be declared a nullity collaterally, when it is offered in evidence in an
action concerning the matter adjudicated, or purporting to have
been so. In the one case it is a record imputing absolute verity;
in the other, mere waste paper. 10 Pet. 449.
We have only now to ascertain the extent of the jurisdiption
of courts of chancery in the matters of partition, and to quiet
title by removing dormant equities, and the effect of decrees in
26*

306

SUPREME

COURT.

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

such cases. The first branch of the inquiry is satisfactorily
answered by Judge Story. "In all cases of partition," he
says, "a court of equity does not act merely in a ministerial
character and in obedience to the call of the parties who have
a right to the partition, but it founds itself upon its general jurisdiction as a court of equity, and administers its relief ex cequo et
bono, according'to its own notions of general justice and equity
between the parties. It will, therefore, by its decree, adjust
all the equitable rights of the parties interested in the estate, and
courts of equity, in making these adjustments, will not confine
themselves to the mere legal rights of the original tenants in
common, but will have regard to the legal and equitable rights
of all other parties interested in the estate, which have been
derived from any of the original tenants in common."
Such being the enlarged jurisdiction upon the subject-matter,
the question arises as to the effect of the decrees upon the titles
that are, or might have been, involved in a suit of that nature.
In Reese v. Holmes, 5 Rich. Eq. 531, the court determined
that the parties to such a record were concluded by the decree
from showing that they had a greater estate than, or one derived
from a different source from, that set out in the proceedings and
established by the decree.
The court said, "If any relievable fraud or mistake entered into
the decree when it was pronounced, the party affected by it
might have been heard, if he had come within a reasonable
time, with a direct proceeding to set the proceeding aside; but
while it stands, it is the standard to which every party taking
under it must resort for the measure of his rights, and cannot be
set aside or modified collaterally." In Stewart v. Migell, 8 Ind.
Eq. 242, the court decide that a bill cannot be supported to set
aside a decree formerly made between parties, though it be alleged that the facts found by the court did not exist; and that
the decree was conclusive, in respect to the thing which the parties had, or admitted, or it was declared they had, and also in
respect to the share to which each was entitled in severalty, and
to the parcel so allotted. In Mills v. Witherington, 2 Dev. &
B. 433, where land belonging to one in severalty was included
in the petition as land held in common, and allotted to another
in severalty, it was held, in an action of ejectment, that the lessor
of the plaintiff, who had been a party to the judgment, "was
concluded, bound, and estopped, to controvert anything contained in it." In Clapp v. Bromagham, 9 Cowen, 537, the court
say, "that the judgment in partition, it is true, does not change
the possession, but it establishes the title, and in an ejectment
must be conclusive." 1 Md. Ch. Dec. 455; 14 Geo. 521; 17
Vesey, 355; 29 Maine, 128.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

807

Ex parte: William Wells.

I do not consider it necessary to inquire, whether the fact of
an absolute sale and a perfect conveyance by McCall to Stewart
did not relieve the heirs from the duty of completing the agreement of their ancestor; nor do I consider it necessary to inquire
whether, having such a sale and conveyance, Stewart had a good
case to go into chancery to cut off possible but unpublished equities ; nor do I consider it necessary to inquire whether there was
sufficient or any evidence to support the 'decree. Those questions were all subject to the jurisdiction of the circuit court of
Vanderburgh county, and might have been revised in the supreme court of Indiana.
Those courts had entire jurisdiction of the parties and the
cause, and its decree cannot be collaterally impeached. I am
authorized to say that Mr. Justice DANIEL concurs in this
opinion.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF WILLIAM WELLS, ON A PETITION
FOR A WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
The second article of the Constitution of the United States, section two, contains this
Provision, namely: "The President shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons
r offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment."
Under'this power, the President can grant a conditional pardon to a person under sentenco of death, offering to commute that punishment into an imprisonment for life.
If this is accepted by the convict, he has no right to contend that the pardon is absolute and the condition of it void. And the court below was justifiable in refusing to
discharge the prisoner, when the application was placed upon that ground.
The language used in the Constitution as to the power of pardoning, must be construed
by the exercise of that power in England prior to the Revolution, and in the States
prior to the adoption of the Constitution.
The manner explained in which it was exercised in England and in many of the States.
The language of the Constitution is such that the power of the President to pardon
conditionally is not one of inference, but is conferred in terms ; that language being
to "grant reprieves and pardons," which includes conditional as well as absolute
pardons.
The acceptance, by the convict, of the condition, was not given under duress in tte
legal acceptation of that term.

Tins was a motion for a writ of habeas corpus, founded on a petition by Wells, setting forth the following circumstances, viz.: That Wells was convicted of murder, at the December term,
1851, of the criminal court for the county of Washington,
District of Columbia, and was sentenced by said court to be
hanged on the 23d of April, 1852, on which said 23d of April,
Mr. Fillmore, then President of the United States, granted "a
pardon of the offence of which he was convicted, upon condition
that he be imprisoned during his natural .life, that is, the sentence
of death is hereby commuted to imprisonment for life in the
penitentiary at Washington."

