DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

409

Stanford v. Taylor.

agents. The case of natural persons, and of other foreign corwhich might or
considerations,
porations, is attended with otherthis
we give no opinion.
might not distinguish it; upon
This decision renders it unnecessary to consider the questions
arising under the counts on the policy.
It was objected that the judgment recovered in the commercial
court was against "the president, directors, and company of the
Lafayette Insurance Company," while this action is against the
"Lafayette Insurance Company" ; but the declaration describes
the judgment correctly, and then avers that the judgment was
recovered against the defendants by that other name. We must
assume that this fact was proved; and the only question open
here is, whether, if a mistake be made in the name of a defendant, and he fails to plead it in abatement, the judgment binds
him, though called by &wrong name. Of this we have no doubt.
Evidence that it was an erroneous name of the same person must,
therefore, be admissible; otherwise, a mistake in the defendant's
name, instead of being available only by a plea in abatement,
would render a judgment wholly inoperative.
In the case of the Medway Cotton Manufactory v. Adams,
10 Mass. 360, the plaintiffs, a corporation, declared on a promissory note made to Richardson, Metcalf, and Co., and averred
that the maker promised the corporation by that name. The
defendant demurred to the declaration, and assigned, in argument, the same cause which has been relied on at the bar in this
case, - that it was not competent to prove by parol evidence that
the promisce of the note was the corporation, the name not being
the same. The court held otherwise, and overruled the demurrer.
A similar decision was made in an action of debt on bond by
the supreme court of New York, in the case of New York African
Society v. Varick et al. 13 Johns. 38. See, also, Inhabitants,
&c. v. String, 5 Halst. 323; and the authorities cited in the cases
in New York and Massachusetts.
The decision of the circuit court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.

JOSHUA R. STANFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CLAY TAYLOR.
Where an imperfect Spanish title to land in Missouri was confirmed by the commissioners, but the claim required a survey to ascertain its limits and boundaries, evidence cannot be received that the survey was erroneously made, by showing pos35
VOL. XVIII.

410

SUPREME COURT.
Stanford v. Taylor.

session, by the confirmee, of land in a different place than that where the survey
placed his land.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Tohnson, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Williams, for the defendant.
M1r. Lawrence made the following points, namely:This survey was entirely erroneous, as plaintiff claims and offered to show, for reasons:
1. That the location was such that it did not include the possession as required by the commissioners' certificate.
2. It did not adjoin Robert in any way, but was put three
arpens west of it.
8. It was made upon the grant to Mad. Papin, long before surveyed and patented to her representatives, and held by them.
4. It was in violation of the instructions of the surveyorgeneral.
This survey was, therefore, void in every respect that could affect the plaintiff's rights under the confirmation. A survey, if
necessary at all, is not final or unalterable. If wrong, it may
(most certainly should) be corrected by the courts.
Kittridge v. Landry, 2 Rob., Lou. 72; Latiolais v. Richard,
6 Mar. Lou. (N. S.) 213; Fay v. Chambers, 4 Lou. An. R.
481.
It may be conceded that a survey by a government officer,
made in a case of a confirmation for land, of which there had
been no possession, and which is undefined and floating, should
possess something of the nature of conclusiveness. But where
there has been possession, and that possession is shown, and the
land confirmed is for a definite location "conformable" to that
possession, no act of survey ought to affect the rights of the confirmee. To say that it could, would be to place every man's
titles at the mercy of an executive officer.
The act of surveying is merely ministerial in its character,
and if performed in open violation of facts and law -as it was
in this case- it goes for naught, and should be disregarded
entirely.
The true effect and force of a survey is properly declared in
the fourth instruction of circuit court of Missouri, in the case of
West v. Cochran, when it is stated to be primd facie evidence
of its conformity to the confirmation. The strong reason why
this should be its only effect is, that it is made the duty of government to survey the land of a confirmee, and to so survey it

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

411

Stanford v. Taylor.

that it shall agree with the decision of the board. The land
surveyed should be the same as that possessed originally.
The survey is intended only as an official designation of the
land confirmed, for the purpose of obtaining patent evidence of
title. When it violates the description in the concession, and is
at variance with the decision of the commissioners, it is no
survey; and the courts should at once proceed to correct that
which the executive department has done under mistake, and in
violation of a right confirmed by law. This case differs from
that of West v. Cochran, 17 How. 403.
In that case, it is shown by the record, that Brazeau (through
whom the plaintiff claimed) had never been in possession of the
ground claimed by him. Nor had he, or any assignee or representative of his, ever had proper registry of the claim; nor did
any one come before the board of commissioners as a claimant
under the act of 1807.
The proofs and offers of proofs by plaintiff made out a good
primd facie case in ejectment.
Defendant showed no title in himself, and plaintiff ought to
have been allowed to show the erroneous character of the surveys produced by the defendant. 9 Pet. 171; 10 Ib. 326, 340 ;
United States v. Levy, 13 Pet. 83; 15 Ib. 172; 16 lb. 146, 228;
8 How. 295; 10 Ib. 541; 11 Tb. 115.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, Stanford, sued Taylor in ejectment, claiming
title to the land in dispute under a concession from "Don Francisco Cruzat, lieutenant-governor, dated in 1785, who decreed as
follows :"In view of what is set forth in the present memorial, presented by Angela Chovin, widow of the deceased Miguel Bolica,
of this town of St. Louis, under date of the sixth of May of the
current year, I have granted to her, in proprietary title, for her,
her heirs, and others who may represent her right, forty arpens
front of land upon forty in depth, along the river called De los
Padres, (Des Pares,) from the north to the south, which is
bounded on the one side by the lands of Louis Robert, and on
the other by the domain of the king," &c.
This claim was confirmed in general terms to Jean F. Perry,
as assignee, by the board of commissioners sitting at St. Louis,
in 1811, for 1,600 arpens, "situate in the district of St. Louis,
on the River Des Peres," and ordered to be surveyed "conformably to the possession, by virtue of a concession, or order of survey, from Francis Cruzat, lieutenant-general."
The plaintiff derives title under Perry.
The survey directed to be made by the board of commis-

412

SUPREME COURT.
Stanford v. Taylor.

sioners was not executed till 1834, when the surveyor-general
ordered the land to be located west of Louis Robert's tract, and
on both sides of the River Des Pares. But the plaintiff insists
that the land granted and confirmed adjoins Robert's tract
on the east, and that the location is so plainly apparent on
the face of the concession as not to require a survey; and, furthermore, he offered to show by proof that the possession of
Perry, the confirmee, was part of a tract of land east of the tract
of Louis Robert, of seven by forty arpens, and adjoining it;
and, if located there, would include the premises in controversy.
The court rejected the evidence offered, and permitted the defendant to give in evidence the official survey of the tract of
1,600 arpens; to overcome the effect of which, the plaintiff
offered to prove that the official survey was improperly made
west of Robert's tract, and not adjoining it; whereas it should
have been made east of the same. This evidence was also
rejected, when the court instructed the jury as follows: "The
parties agreeing that the official survey of confirmation, under
which the plaintiff claims the land in dispute, does not include
the premises sued for, the jury ought to find for the defendant."
To the rejection of the parol evidence, and to the charge of
the court, the plaintiff excepted.
The law is settled, that where there is a specific tract of land
confirmed according to ascertained boundaries, the confirmee
takes a title on which he may sue in ejectment. The case of
Bissell v. Penrose, 8 How. 317, lays down the true rule.
But where the claim has no certain limits, and the judgment
of confirmation carries along with it the condition that the land
shall be surveyed, and severed from the public domain and the
lands of others, then it is not open to controversy, that the title
attaches to no land; nor has a court of justice any authority in
law to ascertain and establish its boundaries, this being reserved
to the executive department. The case of West v. Cochran, 17
How. 403, need only be referred to as settling this point. And
the question here is, whether the concession to Perry is indefinite and vague, and subject to be located at different places.
It is to be forty by forty arpens in extent; it is to lie along
the River Des Pares, from the north to the south; and to be
bounded on the one side by the lands of Louis Robert, and on
the other by the domain of the king. On which side of Robert's
land it is to lid we are not informed, further than that it is to
lie along the river from north to south. The record shows, that
if surveyed west of Robert's tract, the forty by forty arpens
includes the River Des Pares; but, if surveyed east of Robert's
The uncertainty of outland, it will not include the river.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

413

Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

boundary in this instance is too manifest, in our opinion, to require discussion to show that a public survey is required to attach
the concession to any land.

JAMES C. CONVERSE, ADMINISTRATOR OF PHILIP GREELY, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. BENJAMIN BURGESS, NATHAN
B. GIBBS, AND B ENJAmIN T. BURGESS, COPARTNERS, UNDER THE
FIRB OF BENJAMIN BURGESS AND SON.
Where merchant appraisers were appointed, under the tariff acts of 1842 and 1846,
to review the decision of the public appraisers, it was a question of fact for the
jury to decide, whether the examination of samples drawn, some weeks before their
appraisement, was a substantial compliance with the law which required them to
examine one package, at least, of every ten packages of goods, wares, and merchandise.
Being a question of fact for the jury, evidence was admissible tending to show that
they had not complied with the law.
The protest being "that the goods were not fairly and faithfully examined by the appraisers" was a sufficient notice of the grounds upon which the importers contended
that the appraisement was unlawful. It was not necessary to set forth, specifically,
the reasons upon which the charge was founded.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court. It
is, only necessary to add the protest and evidence offered as they
were stated in the bill of exceptions, namely: "I this day pay to Philip Greely, jr., collector of this port, on
behalf of Messrs. B. Burgess and Sons, the sum of sixteen hundred forty-three dollars and -,%,more or less, claimed by him as
due to the United States from them, on merchandise imported
by them in the brig Eliza Burgess, under protest, with the intention of reclaiming the same or any part thereof, as may be found
to have been illegally paid by them. Said sum is claimed by
advance of value on the merchandise by the appraisers, thereby
increasing the duties and assessing a penalty, - all of which we
protest against on the ground of fair valuation in the invoice,
and that the goods were not fairly and faithfully examined by
the appraisers.
"N. B. GIBBS."
The plaintiffs further offered to prove, under said protest, that
the merchant appraisers did not examine or see any of the original packages of the merchandise in question, and only saw samples which had been taken on the 26th of April, 1850, from one
in ten of the packages described in the invoice, and that such
35*

