THE DECISIONS
Or

T

SUPREME COURIT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V. PEARSON B. READING.

Where there was a grant of land in California, subject to the .condition that the
grantee should build a house upon it, and have it inhabited within a year from the
date of the grant, and also that he should obtain a judicial possession and measurement or survey of it, the evidence shows sufficient reasons for a non-compliance on
the part of the grantee.
This court again decides, as in Fr6mont v. United States, 17 How. 560, that a mere
omission to comply with these conditions would not necessarily amount to a folfeiture, unless there were circumstances which showed an intention to abandon the property.
Although the title did not become definitive until tbe grant was approved by the departmental assembly, yet an immediate interest passed by the grant from the governor,
whose duty itwas (and not that of the grantee) to submit the case to the departmental assembly, and if they should reject it, then to lay the se before the supreme
government of the Republic.
If the governor failed to execute this duty, the title remained as it was after tbe grant
wvas issued, and is sufficient for confirmation under the aet of congress, passed on
March 3, 1851, (9 Stats. at Large 631.)
The evidence in the present case shows that the grantee was a naturalized citizen of
the Mexican Republic, and the fact that he joined the troops of the United States
when war broke out with Mexico, furnishes no evidence of his intention to abandon
the property, nor any reason why the grant should be forfeited.

TmIs was an appeal from the district court of the United States
for the northern district of California.
The claim was originally presented to the board of cominssioners, who confirmed it in December, 1852, to the extent and
quantity.of six square leagues and no more, as described in the
Mexican grant, if that quantity be contained within the boundaries called for in the grant, and if less, then they confirmed it
for that smaller quantity
The United States appealed to the district court, which affirmed the decision of the commissioners. An appeal brought
the case up to this court.
VOL. XVlII.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
United States ,v.Reading.

The title of Reading is set forth in the opinion of the court,
except the conditions of the grant, which were as follows,
namely.
"In the name of the Mexican nation I have granted to him
said land, subject to the approval of the most excellent departmental assembly, and to the following conditions: 1. He shall not sell, alienate, or hypothecate it, nor impose on
it any tax, entail any other incumbrance, nor shall lie donate it.
2. He shall not hinder the cultivation or other profits which
the natives of that region may derive from said land.
3. He may inclose it without prejudice to the crossing roads
and public uses; he may enjoy it freely, appropriating it to the
cultivation which best suits him, but within a year he shall build
a house and it shall be inhabited.
4. The land which has been granted is of the extent of which
mention has already been made. The judge who shall give the
possession shall cause it to be measured according to ordinance,
and the overplus which may result shall remain to the nation for
convenient uses.
5. If he contravene these conditions, he shall lose his right to
the land, and it shall be denounced by any othet person."
The case was argued by 2Lir. Cushin, (attorney-general,) for
the United States, and by .Itr. Lawrence and 01'. Bibb, for the
appellee. There was also a brief filed upon the side of the appellee, by Mr. Volney B. Howard.
Mr. Cushing made the following points:1. Reading not being a Mexican citizen, could not take and
hold a grant of land in a Mexican territory.
For the rule of naturalization prior to 10th September, 1846,
see Scmidt's Laws of Spain and Mexico, 353. For additional
provisions made then, see Leyes y Decretos, 1844-1846, p. 423.
2. Reading was not entitled to take and hold lands in California, which was frontier territory.
3. The grant was not approved by the departmental assembly.
4. Without the approbation of the departmental assembly,
there was no grant passing any title. Fifth regulation of November 21, 1828.
5. Reading would have no claim, in law or equity, upon
Mexico to completd and confirm his incipient title, if she had not
transferred California to the United States by treaty.
6. Reading abandoned whatever claim he had, before the final
conquest by the United States.
Mr..Bibb contended that, with respect to the condition of obtaining the approval of the departmental assembly, it was the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

3

United States v. Reading.

duty of the governor, and not the grantee, to lay the case before
that body. Fifth and sixth regulations of 1828. The omission
or neglect of the governor to do this, could not deprive the
grantee of his vested interest. 5 Cranch, 242; 9 How. 833.
So also are the legal maxims, Nemo punitur sine injuria,facto,
seu defalta. Nulprenadaadvantage de son tort demesne. Coke's
2 Inst. 287, 718, and maxims at the end of that volume. Domat's Civil Law, Book I. title 1, ยง 5, par. 17, p. 29; Pothier on
Obligations, part 2, chap. 3, par. 212; Co. Litt. 205 b; 2 Comyn's
Dig. Condition, (D. 7,) p. 327; 5 Finer, Condition, (N. c,) pleas
28, 25, p. 246.
With respect to the other condition subsequent, namely, the
judicial mensuration and marking out of the b6undaries, the
evidence shows that the grantee was not to blame.
The United States have not claimed nor attempted to exert
the power to annul Mexican grants for non-performance of conditions. 9 Stats. at Large, 633, ยง 11, et seq.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We find in the record of this appeal, that Reading, the appellee, was an immigrant from the United States, in the then
Mexican territory of California, in the year 1842, and that he
afterwards became a citizen of the Mexican republic. After
residing there for two years, he petitioned the governor, Michel
Torena, for a grant of land called Buena Ventura, situated on
the bank of the River Sacramento, bounded on the north by
vacant lands; on the east by the River Sacramento, and on the
south and west by vacant lands, according to a plat annexed to
his petition. -The governor referred the petition to the secretary
of state for information concerning it. The secretary, inreply,
says, the petitioner was a proper person for the governor's favor,
and, upon the official certificate of Jno. A. Sutter, (who was military commandant of the northern frontier of California, and
charged with civil jurisdiction also,) he declares that the land
asked for was vacant, and could be granted. The governor
directed the title to be issued, and it was prepared for his signature.

It is as follows:
"Citizen Michel Torena, General of Brigade of the Mexican
Army, Adjutant-General of the Staff of the same, Governor,
Commandant-General, and Inspector of the Department of
the Californias.
"Whereas, Don Pearson B. Reading -a Mexican by naturalization-has made application, for his personal benefit, for the
land known by the name of Buena Ventura, on the margin of

4

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Reading.

the River Sacramento, from the creek called Lodo, (Lodoso,
Muddy,) which is on the north as far as the Island de Sangre,
with six square leagues in extent; and the proper proceedings
and investigations having been previously complied with, according to the provisions of the laws and regulations concerning
the matter, by virtue of the authority vested in me, in the name
of the Mfexican nation, I have granted to him said land, subject
to the approval of the most excellent departmental assembly."
There are also conditions annexed to the grant, which may be
seen in the reporter's statement of the case. The grant was
signed by the governor, and countersigned by the secretary of
state, on the 4th of December, 1844, and.entered into the archives of the Territory on the same day, with an order from the
governor that the title, "being held as valid," should be delivered
to the interested party for his security and other purposes.
The power of the governor to make such a grant of land is
admitted. The regularity and genuineness of the entire proceeding, and its entry into the archives of the Territory, are not
disputed; but Reading's right to a confirmation of it is denied,
upon several grounds. Each objection shall have due consideration, not because all of them require it, but to prevent the same
points from being urged again in cases of a like kind.
It is said, the grant was provisional only, having been made
subject to the approval of the departmental assembly; and, as
that had not been given, that it passed no such interest in the
land to Reading as entitled him to a confirmation of the grant.
Other objections were urged against the confirmation of it,
arising out of the national status of Reading when he received
the grant, and also out of the fact, that, in the war between
Mexico and the United States, he left the standard of the former,
and joined the American forces which invaded California. And
it was said, as it had been in Fr6mont's case, that he lost whatever
right he had to the land, and subjected it to be denounced by any
other person, because he had not complied with the condition to
build a house upon it, and to have it inhabited within a year
from the date of the grant, and because he had omitted to obtain
a judicial possession and measurement, or survey of it. The
last two objections are charges of negligence, which must be
determined by the proofs in the cause. In our opinion, they
do not show either negligence or omission in the particulars
mentioned. The witness, Hensley, says, it was upon his suggestion that Reading applied for the land. He knew the locality
of it, from having been there. After stating that he had seen a
paper purporting to be a grant of the land, dated in December,
1844, he says that Reading visited it in August, 1845, and that
they were ten days together upon the land, looking for suit-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

United States v. Reading.

able locations for fields and building sites. That Reading then
put upon it a Frenchman named Julian, to build a house for
him and to keep possession of it; that, at that time, Reading
placed upon the land horses and cattle. That the house was
built. It was afterwards burnt by the Indians, and Julian was
killed by them. Ford, another witness, who went to that part
of the country in March, 1846, as one of a military company to
quell an outbreak of the Indians, confirms Hensley's statement
in respect to Julian's possession of the land for Reading, but
says that he had been forced by the Indians to abandon the
house he had built; and that the horses which had been put
upon the land, or others belonging to Reading, had been driven
from it by Julian, as it was impossible to keep them there on
account of the hostilities of the Indians. And Sutter accounts
very satisfactorily for Reading's absence from the land during
the years of 1845 and 1846, in his reply to the question, if it
would have been safe for Reading to have resided personally on
his ranche during the revolution and hostilities of those years,
when he says, Major Reading had hardly time to do so, as he was
nearly all the time required by me to do service. Sutter had
said before, in his answer to another question, that he had been,
in the years 1844-1846, military commandant of the northern
frontier of California, and was also charged with the civil jurisdiction in all that region of country; and, as such, that he had
official power to order Reading upon military duty, and that
he had done so. It appears also from his testimony, that he
kept Reading so employed in the service of Mexico, with the
exception of short intervals, from the early part of the spring of
1845 into a part of the year 1846, until Col. Fr6mont invaded
Upper California, when, shortly afterwards, Reading joined him.
The facts of the case, in respect to the occupation and cultivation. of the 'land by Reading's agent, disprove the objection.
Such an agency for building a house, and having it inhabited
by the agent, was as good a compliance with the condition requiring that to be done, as if it had been done personally by
Reading. The objection, that he had disregarded the condition
of the grant, in not having obtained judicial possession and a
survey of the land, is answered by the declaration of Sutter, the
only person officially authorized to give it, and without whose
permission no survey could have been made. He says, that
Reading applied to him in the spring of the year 1845, to be put
in judicial possession of the land, but that he had not complied,
because his military engagements in the field against the Indians, just before and following the application, had disabled
him from doing so; and that the revolution which followed Col.
Frgmont's coming was his reason for not having given to Read-

6

SUPREM E COURT.
United States v. Reading.

ing judicial possession, according to the prayer of his petition
for that purpose.
We have noticed these minor objections against the confirmation of this grant, that the real merits of the transaction might
be known, and not because it was essential to the decision of
the case. For, even if the proofs in the case, in respect to the
grantee's occupancy of the land, had been otherwise than they
have been shown to have been, his title to it would not have
been lost, because the conditions annexed to the grant had not
been fulfilled ; unless it could be shown that there had been on
his part such unreasonable delay or want of effort to fulfil those
conditions as would amount to all intention "to abandon his
claim" before the Mexican power had ceased to exist, and that
he was now endeavoring to resume it, from its enhanced value
under the government of the United States. This court, considering, in Frdmont's case, 17 How. 560, the same objections
which are now under our consideration in this, uses the following language: "Regarding the grant to Alvarado, therefore, as
having given him a vested interest in the quantity of land therein specified, we proceed to inquire whether there was any breach
of the conditions annexed to it, during the continuance of the
Mexican authorities, which forfeited his right, and revested the
title in the government. The main objection on this ground is
the omission to take possession, to have the land surveyed,
and to build a house on it within the time limited in the conditions. It is a sufficient answer to this objection to say, that
negligence in respect to these conditions and others annexed
to the grant, does not, of itself, always forfeit the right of the
grantee."
"It subjects the land to be denounced by another, but the conditions do not declare the land forfeited to the State upon the
failure of the grantee to perform them. The chief objects of these
grants was to colonize and settle the vacant lands. The grants
were usually made for that purpose, without any other consideration and without any claim of the grantee on the bounty or
justice of the government. But the public had no interest in forfeiting them, even in these cases, unless some other person desired
and was ready to occupy them, and thus carry out the policy of
extending its settlements. They seem to have been intended to
stimulate the grantee to prompt action in settling and colonizing
the land, by making it open to appropriation by others in case of
his failure to perform them. But, as between him and the government,there is nothing in the language of the conditions, taking them altogether, nor in their evident object and policy, which
would justify the court in declaring the land forfeited to the government, where no other person sought to appropriate them, and

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

7

United States v. Reading.

their performance had not been unreasonably delayed. Nor do
we find anything in the practice and usages of the Mexican tribunals, as far as we can ascertain, that would lead to a contrary
conclusion."
*It was also urged, that no title passed by the grant, as it had
not received the approval of the departmental assembly. Our
examination of the decrees of the 18th of August, 1824, and of
the 21st of November, 1828, leads us to a different result. A
right and title passed by the governor's grant, but its definitive
validity was suspended for the approval of the assembly; and
so it continued to be suspended, until its approbation had been
given, when the title became definitive. But if that was refused,
it did not take away, nor in any way qualify, the grantee's title,
but only kept its final validity in suspense until the grant had
been rejected by the supreme government of the republic; it
being the duty of the governor, after its rejection by the assembly, to forward the documents of title to the supreme government for its decision.
Further, we must infer from the same decrees, and particularly
from the 5th article of that of the 21st of November, 1828, that
it was the duty of the governor, and not that of the grantee, to
forward grants of land given by him to the departmental assembly. The latter might very well, after that had been done
by the governor, solicit the approval of the assembly, personally
or by an agent, by all those considerations which had gained him
the governor's favor. But if the governor failed to transmit the
documents, from any cause whatever, the grantee's title continued to be just what it was when the grant was given. Nor
could any neglect or refusal of the governor to transmit his
grantee's documents of title to the assembly take from him his
right in the land, if the grant had been made with a due regard
to what the decree of the 18th of August, 1824, required, and
in conformity with the cautionary regulations of that of the
21st of November, 1828. In other words, from our reading of
those decrees, the governor could not either directly recall a
grant made by him, or indirectly nullify it when it had been conferred conformably with them. Those decrees prescribe a course
of action for such grants, and impose upon the governor the execution of it. When, then, the archives of the Territory of
the Californias do not show that the governor's grants of land
had been sent to the departmental assembly; or that, having
been sent, they had been rejected, and that after such rejection
they had not been sent, by the governor making the grants, to
the supreme executive government for its final decision - the
titles of the grantees are just what they were in their beginnings,
and are sufficient, now that the territory has been transferred to

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Reading.

the United States, for confirmation under its statute of the 3d
of March, 1851. Such grants, so circumstanced, are equitable
titles, protected by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and by the
laws and usages of nations concerning the rights of property,
real and personal, of the inhabitants of a ceded or conquered
country. And, we may add, they are protected by the usages
of Mexico in respect to such grants, the archives of California
showing that a very large portion of the land in the occupation
of its inhabitants was held by titles wanting the approval of the
departmental assembly. And we entirely concur with Mr.
Commissioner Hall, in the opinion given by him in the case,
that the want of such approval in so many instances, as are
shown by the archives of the territory, was owing to the fact
that the political affairs of the territory had been in confusion
for several years preceding its cession to the United States.
That the assembly had seldom been called together, and when
assembled its sessions had been- brief, and occupied with the
consideration of pressing matters of a public character; and
that the governors making grants had very much neglected to
present them to the assembly for approval. We are of the opinion that Reading's right to a confirmation of his grant cannot be
refused on account of its not having had the approval of the
departmental assembly.
We will now dispose of the objections to a confirmation of
this grant, connected with Reading's national status, when lie
received his documentary title, and with his having subsequently
joined the forces of the United States in the war with Mexico.
It is said he was not a naturalized citizen of the Mexican republic when the grant was conferred, and that, if he was, his title
was forfeited to Mexico, for having fought against her; and, if
not forfeited, that his course in that particular should be taken
as full proof of his intention to abandon all right and title to
the land.
The case, as it is made in the record, does not require from
us a particular consideration of the circumstances under which
foreigners might receive and retain grants of land, by the decrees
of 1824 and 1828. It is enough to say, that the Mexican republic, from the time of its emancipation from Spain, always
dealt most liberally with foreigners in its anxiety to colonize its
vacant lands. It invited them to settle upon her territory, by
promises of protection of them and their property. And, by the
first article of the decree of 1828, for colonizing her vacant lands,
foreigners were included with those to whom the .governors of
the territories might make grants of land for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiting them.
But the fact of Reading's Mexican naturalization is not an

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

9

United States v. Reading.

open question in this case. The record admits the regularity
and genuineness of his documentary title for the land. The
admission is as good for all of the necessary recitals in them, as
it is for the main purpose for which they were inserted in those
documents. That was a grant of the land. The recitals are
those "requisite conditions," stated in the second and third paragraphs of the decree of November 21, 1828, concerning which,
the governor is enjoined to seek for information, which, when
affirmatively ascertained, make the foundation for the governor's exercise of his power to grant vacant lands.
In his petition for a grant, Reading says he is a native of the
United States, and had resided in the country since the year
1842. The governor states him to be a Mexican by naturalization, in the grant, and "that as the proper proceedings and
investigations had been previously complied with, according to
the provisions and laws and regulations concerning the matter,"
he, in virtue of the authority vested in him, grants to the petitioner the land known as Buena Ventura, on the margin of the
River Sacramento, from the creek called Lodo, (Lodoso,
Muddy,) which is on the north as far as the Island de Sangre,
with six square leagues in extent, subject to the approval of the
departmental assembly, and on the conditions annexed to the
grant. Now this is not merely the language of clerical formality, though it might be the same from usage in like cases, but
it is a declaration of the governor's official and judicial conscience; that his power to make the grant has been used in a fit
case, for the approval of it by the departmental assembly, or for
the decision of the supreme executive government, in case the
action of the assembly should make it necessary for him to carry
it there for its decision.
We consider it conclusive of the fact of the petitioner's Mexican naturalization, precluding all other inquiries about it, in our
consideration of this case, by the record.
The last objection was that Major Reading having joined the
forces of the United States in the war with Mexico, had forfeited his right to the approval of his grant by the authorities of
Mexico, which the United States might take advantage of to
defeat his claim; and, if not so, that the fact itself raised a
strong presumption that he meant to abandon it. As to the last,
there is nothing in the record from which such an intention can
be inferred, and the fact itself is insufficient for such a purpose.
There is much to show the reverse, if the circumstances and
condition of the country are considered, when Reading joined
Colonel Fremont. There had been in the year 1845 a successful
revolution in California, by which Torena, the governor, had
been depsed; his powers had been assumed by Colonel Don

10

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Reading.

Jos6 Castro, without any authority from the supreme executive
government of Mexico. It was followed by Indian outbreaks,
with marked hostility to the foreigners who bad settled in California, and more so against those from the United States than
to any other class. If they were not instigated, they certainly
were not discouraged by the existing government. Its conduct
indicated its wishes, if not a fixed design, to drive the naturalized immigrants from the United States from their homes and
from the territory. In such a state of things Col. Fr6mont carried the war into California. Neither the supreme government,
nor the territorial, gave protection to its inhabitants, and it had
become part of the war policy of Mexico to suspect the fidelity
of settlers from the United States to their Mexican allegiance,
and plans were formed to get rid of them. We take the fact
from other authentic sources, and Sutter speaks of it in the
record, with positiveness as to himself. Reading had good
cause for like apprehensions, and having joined Colonel Frdmont
under such circumstances, his conduct may be said to have been
blameless of all treachery to Mexico.*
But if they were otherwise, and Reading had voluntarily, and
without circumstances to excuse it, abandoned his Mexican
allegiance for that of his nativity, the United States could not
urge it as a cause for the forfeiture of his title to land acquired
from Mexican laws, and in the mode in which those laws had
been executed by the governors of the states and territories of
that republic.
War has its incidents and rights for persons and for nations,
unlike any that can occur in a time of peace, and they make the
law applicable to them. One of them is, that by the law of
war either party to it may receive and list among his troops such
as quit the other, unless there has been a previous stipulation
that they shall not be received. But when they have been
received, a high moral faith and irrevocable honor, sanctioned
by the usages of all nations, gives to them protection personally,
and security for all that they have or may possess. They are
exempt also from all reproach from the sovereignty to which
their services have been rendered. Nothing that they claim as
their own can be taken from them, upon the imputation that
they had forfeited or meant to relinquish it by the abandonment
of their allegiance to the sovereignty which they had left.
The reverse would partake of Sir Guy Carleton's "impossible
infamy," t though when used by him in reply to a letter from
* See Senate Document, report by General Cass, of 23d of February, 1848, on California claims. Statement of Samuel L Hensley, Richard Owens, and deposition of
Win. N. Lokes. ,
t Col. Benton's Thirty Years' View, vol. L p. 90.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

it

United States v. Reading.

General Washington, not so well applied, as it might be, if the
United States was allowed to interpret the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, so as to take for itself Reading's land, because he had
-joined its forces in the war with Mexico.
Having considered every objection made to the confirmation
of this grant, and believing no one available for such a purpose,
it only remains-for us to declare our affirmance of the award of
the commissioners, and the decree of the district court.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
I agree that the grant to Major Reading describes the land he
applied for so that it can be ascertained and surveyed; and
secondly, that he took possession and built a house on it within
a year after the execution of the grant, in compliance with its
material condition, and that the judgments of the board of commissioners, and of the district court of California, were proper.
But there are no facts in the case on whi6h any question can
be raised, whether the grantee, Reading, was subject to be denounced for failing to take possession and building a house;
and therefore I cannot agree that the doctrine should be introduced into the opinion here, as it may embarrass the court in
other cases in which the question will properly arise.
Nor can I be committed to the assumption extracted from the'
Fr6mont case, and sought to be sanctioned in the principal
opinion, that a Spanish concession, authorizing the grantee to
occupy and cultivate, is indefeasible iiR its operation, although
the land was 'never possessed nor occupied, unless some person
shall denounce the land as forfeited, and obtain a second concession for it from the governor. The assumption signifies that
every incipient concession made by Mexican authority secured
the land to the claimant without the performance of any one
condition; that the claimant is only bound to prove that the
concession was signed by a person holding the office of governor at the time; or, in other words, that the grant was not
forged. How ruinous such an assertion may eventually prove
in the cases of old and abandoned claims is quite manifest, as
it must apply in all cases where the same land is covered by
different grants; the oldest will of course be the better title,
unless the younger grantee can show that the land had been
denounced, and the first grant revoked by the authority that
made it. When such a case is presented, and we are called on
to consider this doctrine of a "denouncement," I wish to be free
to do so, unaffected by previous assertions and dicta in cases
that did- not involve the question, and in which it was never
considered by me.

12

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Reading.

That the Fremont case did not involve the doctrine is mauifest; it was a floating claim for 50,000 arpens of land, subject to
be located by selection and survey in any part of a large section
of country bounded by rivers and mountains; and the opinion
of this court was, that Alvarado took, and Colonel Frdmont
held, as assignee of Alvarado, a pervading interest in the entire section of country, and that the land might be taken anywhere within it, so that the rights of others were not disturbed.
The rule is, so far as I know, throughout the former dominions
of Spain on this continent, where donations of land have been
made for the purposes of cultivation or pasturage, and where
the donations imposed the condition that the grantee should
occupy and cultivate the land, and he failed to do so or abandoned it, that the claim under it was defeated.
It is assumed that the Frdmont claim stood on the footing of
that of General Greene, for 25,000 acres derived from North
Carolina, to be located and surveyed within the military district
by commissioners designated for that purpose.
General Greene's grant, in effect, was a floating claim, just
such an interest in the lands as was reserved for the officers and
soldiers of the North Carolina line, by virtue of warrants issued to
them, and which might be located in a land-office in any part of
the military district. This is the doctrine held by the courts of
Tennessee, where the land lies, in reference to General Greene's
grant, and the interest that warrant holders had in common with
General Greene, as will be seen by the case of Neal v. E. T. College, 6 Yerger, 190.
General Greene acquired no specific land; he acquired by the
act of the legislature a promise of the specified quantity, to be
ascertained by a subsequent survey and allotment. And this
was the condition of the Frdmont title, as this court decided.
Now, how was it possible for any one to apply to a Mexican
governor, and ask for Alvarado's land, because he did not inhabit
or cultivate it, or because he had abandoned it? He never had
any land ; he only had a promise of land, or a common interest
in a large tract of country ; and the idea of any one denouncing
a holder of this floating claim, and asking for the particular land
it covered; would have been unmeaning and idle.
The Frdmont case, therefore, furnished no grounds for raising
or deciding the question of denouncement, and the repeal of the
first grant and of re-grant to another. What is now claimed for
the opinion in that case, as part of the court's legitimate decision, can only be treated as an assertion, and as part of the
reasoning of the court in coming to a conclusion on other questions involved in the controversy.
Cases of denouncement in advance of a second grant for the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

13

United States v. Reading.

same land are unknown in California, so far as we are advised;
and the result of holding this proceeding necessary before a second grant could' be made, (although no survey of the first had
been secured, nor any possession taken,) must result in the conclusion that, among several concessions for the same land, the
oldest will hold it; and those in possession under younger grants
must yield the possession. This is the common-law doctrine on
which the Fremont case is supposed to have been decided. But
is this the true rule as regards double grants, according to the
Spanish law, as administered in countries formerly owned and
governed by Spain ?
The law has been established in Louisiana for nearly forty
years, that where the Spanish authorities have granted the same
land twice, and the younger grantee has taken possession and
performed the conditions of inhabitation and cultivation, he is
entitled to hold the land ; and this was held in contests between
the first and second grantees, and in cases where no denouncement had been made in favor of the younger grantee. Boissier
et al. v. Metayer, 5 Mar. R. 678, (1818;) Gonsanlier's Heirs v.
Brashear, 5 Martin's N. S. 33; Baker v. Thomas, 2 Louisiana
R. 634; Brossard v. Gonsanlier, 12 Robinson's R. 1.
The correctness of these decisions I have never doubted ; and
they have been substantially followed by this court, when it
held, as it has often done, that a concession or first decree for
land, over which no ownership was exercised or possession taken
during the existence of the Spanish government, was inoperative,
and imposed no obligation on the United States to confirm the
title. It was so held in the case of The United States v. Boisdord, 11 'How. 96, which has been followed in various other
cases since.
With this explanation, I concur in the affirmance of the
judgment.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.

I conaur.

Mr. Justice DANIEL, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the decision of the court in this
case.
Waiving in its consideration every exception to the proofs of
the naturalization of the appellee, and those also taken to the
locality of the subject claimed by him as being forbidden territory, there are other grounds of objection which appear to be
conclusive against the pretensions of the appellee.
This was an application to the board of commissioners, for the
confirmation of a grant or title alleged to have been made to the
appellee by the Mexican government, anterior to the cession of
VOL. XViii.

2

14

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Reading.

California to the United States. To entitle the applicant to
such confirmation, it was indispensable for him to show that he
occupied such a position with respect to the .Mexican government as would have enabled him to perfect his title, had there
been no relinquishment of the sovereignty of the country by the
granting power. It cannot be denied, that a necessary ingredient
in a complete title under the Mexican government, was the approbation of the departmental assembly ; and the very act itself
of the application to the commissioners for a confirmation of title
concedes the position, that without such an approval the title
must be defective. I cannot concur with the court in thinking
that the excuse offered for not obtaining the approbation of the
departmental assembly, was a sufficient one ; and much less can
I suppose that, by such an excuse, an indispensable requisite to
the completion of titles could be wholly dispensed with. To
tolerate such a position, would render the validity of titles to
any and every extent dependent upon the ignorance, the diligence, or the corruption of persons interested in reducing them
to such an attitude of uncertainty. Even should it be admitted
that there was no particular limit prescribed as to the time of
obtaining the sanction of the departmental assembly, and that
the appellee might have been excusable for omitting or failing
in this requisite, for the time being, still, the conclusion remains
unshaken, that, without such approbation, there could by the law
of Mexico be no title. If this be true, the objection operates
a multofortiori if it be shown that not only was that requisite
of approbation wanted, but that its obtention was, by the conduct of the appellee himself, rendered impossible; and under
this aspect of the case is presented the stronger ground upon
which the claim of the appellee should have been condemned
and rejected. This is an application for the confirmation of a
grant or title alleged to have been made by the lexican government to the appellee, as one of the citizens of the Mexican
republic.
In order to have invested the appellee with any right as derived from that republic, had its sovereignty over the country
remained unchanged, he surely would have been bound to show
the continuation of his allegiance to that republic, and the maintenance of those relations, and the fulfilment of those duties, in
the existence of which the bounty of the State to him had its
origin and motive; at all events, he would be compelled to show
himself exempt from the violation of the most sacred obligations
which any citizen or subject can sustain to that country and
government to which his allegiance is owing. Should he violate
such obligation, and become a rebel or traitor to that government, he not only can have no merits in the view of that gov-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

15

United States v. Reading.

ernment, but he becomes obnoxious to the forfeiture of both property and life.
In this case, the appellee seeks the confirmation of a claim
derived confessedly from the republic of Mexico ; at the same
time, by his own showing, and by the testimony of others, it is
established undeniably, that before his title was perfected, he became a rebel against that republic, and made every exertion for
its destruction. Nay, this case exhibits the inconsistency of urging a right founded on duties sustained to the Mexican republic,
with the assumption at the same time of merit deduced from
the admitted facts of hostility and faithlessness to that government. The appellee can have no rights to be claimed fr6m or
through the Mexican government, to which he became an open
enemy. By his conduct lie completely abrogated every such
right, and became, as respects that government, pinishable as a
state criminal; and thus not only failed to obtain that sanction
without which his title was defective, namely, the approbation of
the departmental assembly of Mexico, but, by his own voluntary.
conduct, rendered its procurement, upon every principle of public law, public or political policy or necessity, or of private moral':
ity, altogether impossible.
Were the appellee urging a claim as one deduced from the
government of the United States, and originating in services rendered to them, he might then plead his merits with reference to
this government in support of his title; but he is claiming a title
from Mexico under the stress of Mexican laws; and he proves
that by those laws, as they would be under like circumstances
by the laws of every country - by the first of all laws, that of
self-preservation - his pretensions must be repudiated and condemned. Strange as it may be, we have heard it earnestly
pressed as commending this claim to the favorable consideration
of this court, that the appellee, after obtaining his incipient grant
as a Mexican citizen, and upon the foundation and principles of
duty to Mexico, deserted that country when in flagrant war with
an enemy, and contributed his utmost exertions for her conquest
by that enemy. Were the pretensions of the appellee based upon
services rendered to the United States, and were the origin and
character of these pretensions to be sought for in the bounty and
power of the United States, there might be consistency and integrity in this argument; but so far is this from being true as
to the origin and nature of these pretensions, it is shown that
these had their origin in that bounty which he has forfeited, and
under those obligations which were binding upon the appellee,
and which he has deserted and betrayed. The only obligations
sustained by the United States to the citizens of Mexico are
those which, by their substitution for the government of Mexico,

16

SUPREME COURT.
Hill's Executors et al. v. 3teek, Adm'r, &c.

the former have by express stipulation or by necessary implication assumed.
The appellee, then, having unquestionably forfeited every pretension of right as against Mexico, deserted and assailed by im,
the United States, as the successors to the sovereignty of Mexico,
can sustain no obligation with respect to him in connection with
this claim. I think, therefore, that the decision of the court below should be reversed, and petition of the appellee dismissed.

WILLIAM J.

MCLEAN AND JOHN M. BASS, EXECUTORS op HENRY

HILL, DECEASED, THE SAID HENRY R. W.
HILL AND
WILLIAMr
J.
McLEAN BEING THE SURVIVING PARTNERS OF
THE FIRM OF N. AND J. DICK AND Co., APPELLANTS, V.
JAIIES L.
MEEK, ADMINISTRATOR OF JOSEPH MEEK, AND
JAMES L. MEEK AND JOSEPH MEEK.

R.

W.

The record of a debt against an administrator in one State is not sufficient evidence of
V the debt against an administrator of the same estate in another State.
The case of Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44, examined and affirmed.
fn this case, even if there were other evidence of a demand, it would be for a debt
upon open account, which would be barred by the statute of limitations in Missis.

sippi, and therefore the decree of the circuit court, dismissing the bill, is affirmed.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi.
The case was this.
Joseph Meek, a citizen and resident of Davidson county, State
of Tennessee, died on the 12th of February, 1838, leaving property in the States of Tennessee and Mississippi. He left three
children, namely: James L. Meek, Joseph Meek, and a daughter,
who was married to John Munn.
Jesse Meek, the brother of the deceased, was appointed his
administrator in both States, namely, in Mississippi on the 30th
February, 1838, and in Tennessee in September, 1838.
The estate in Tennessee was insolvent, and in November, 1840,
a bill was filed in the chancery court at Franklin, in the State
of Tennessee, by Jesse the administrator, and by John Munn
and wife, alleging the insolvency of the estate and praying for
its administration according to the laws of that State in case of
insolvent estates. To this bill the creditors were made parties
defendants.
The minor sons were also made defendants by
their guardian.
Jesse Meek's letters of administration in Mississippi were
revoked on 28th December, 1841, and John Munn appointed

