OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE

ET AL. V.

GRIBBLE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-1146.

Decided June 17, 1974

Application for stay, pending disposition of appeal by Court of
Appeals, of District Court's order denying applicants' motion for
a preliminary injunction to halt construction of the Warm Springs
Dam Project in California on the ground that the Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) filed by the Army Corps of Engineers
concerning the project did not adequately deal with alleged seismic
and water poisoning problems presented by the project and failed
to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA),
is granted, the Council on Environmental Quality, the agency
ultimately responsible for administration of the NEPA, in a letter
applicants filed with this Court, taking the position that the
EIS is deficient in the respects noted.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants brought an action on March 22, 1974, in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
California and sought a preliminary injunction to halt
further construction in connection with the Warm Springs
Dam-Lake Sonoma Project on Dry and Warm Springs
Creeks in the Russian River Basin, Sonoma County,
California. The applicants alleged, inter alia, that the
Environmental Impact Statement filed by the Army
Corps of Engineers concerning the project did not comply with the requirements of the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969, 42 U. S. C. § 4321 et seq.
A hearing was held in the District Court on the motion
for a preliminary injunction. On May 23, 1974, the Dis1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

417 U. S.

trict Court rendered an oral ruling denying applicants'
motion for the injunction.' A written opinion was filed
thereafter. Applicants filed an application in the Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for an injunction pending appeal, which was denied on May 24, 1974.
Application was then made to me as Circuit Justice
for the Ninth Circuit seeking a stay of the order of the
District Court as well as a stay restraining further construction work on the Warm Springs Dam Project. Because of the seriousness of the claims made by the applicants, I issued an order, on May 30, 1974, staying
further disturbance of the soil in connection with the
dam (other than research, investigation, planning and
design activity) "pending reconsideration of the application when the memoranda of the Solicitor General and the
Environmental Protection Agency are received."
A response has been filed, along with further materials
submitted by the applicants supporting their request
for a stay. After consideration of these submissions, I
have entered an order continuing my earlier stay order
pending disposition of the appeal in this case by the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The Warm Springs Dam will be an earth-fill dam,
holding back a reservoir of water, across Dry Creek, a
major tributary of the Russian River in Sonoma County.
The dam was first authorized, in smaller form than is now
contemplated, in the Flood Control Act of 1962, Pub. L.
87-874, 76 Stat. 1173, 1192. On January 1, 1970, the
National Environmental Policy Act, which requires the filing of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for
major federal actions significantly affecting the quality
of the human environment, 42 U. S. C. § 4332 (2)(C),
1 The order did prohibit respondents from disturbing certain
archaeological sites pending compliance with Executive Order 11593,
36 Fed. Reg. 8921, 3 Ck R 154 (1971 Comp.).

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE v. GRIBBLE
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

became law. A draft EIS was not distributed until
June 1973, and the final EIS was not filed with the
Council on Environmental Quality until December 4,
1973. I am informed that approximately $35 million
has been expended on the project already, and that
another $7 million will be expended before this case will
be heard and determined by the Court of Appeals.
The applicants for this stay focus on two extremely
serious challenges to the adequacy of the EIS.
First, they note that the dam will sit atop a geologic
fault running along Dry Creek. There are other
faults nearby. A town of 5,000 people is nestled below
the dam and the wall of water it will restrain. At the
District Court hearing on applicants' motion for a preliminary injunction, substantial questions were raised
about the integrity of the dam should an earthquake
occur. There seems to be a recognized "credibility gap"
as to the safety of the project; recommendations were
received by the Corps from its own staff for further
study; and reservations about the safety factor were
expressed by the State of California. A contract has
been made for further dynamic analysis of the safety
of the dam. Should that analysis indicate that the dam
is potentially risky, the Corps would have "no choice"
but to consider abandoning the entire project. Tr. 18281829, 1832.
Second, challenges were made at the hearing to the
adequacy of the EIS regarding expected poisoning of
water in the reservoir behind the dam. The water will
be used by consumers in the surrounding county. There
were allegations at the hearing that the waters will be
poisoned by mercury carried from an abandoned mercury
mine which will be inundated when the dam is built, and
that asbestos, fluoride, and boron particles will also leach
into the waters. It is contended that the EIS is deficient
in its treatment of these significant environmental effects.

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

417 U. S.

The District Court rejected these contentions, finding that the Corps adequately dealt with the seismic
problem and the water-poisoning problem. It found the
EIS adequate. The Solicitor General argues that the
District Court's findings are not "clearly erroneous" and
will be upheld by the Court of Appeals, and that therefore I should deny the requested stay.
Here, however, the views of the two federal agencies
most intimately familiar with environmental issues and
the requirements of the National Environmental Policy
Act have been filed with the Court. They undermine the
determination of the District Court.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
written to the Solicitor General expressing some doubt
about the treatment of the water-poisoning issues in the
final EIS. - The EPA goes on to say, however, that:
"We wish to emphasize that the CEQ [Council on
2 "[C]ertain
water quality related issues, which potentially
impact the environment and which were not analyzed in the final

environmental impact statement, came to light during the hearing
on plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction. These issues include potential contamination of the reservoir water by boron and
fluoride concentrations in the streams which would feed the reservoir
and by asbestos concentrations in the serpentine rock underlying
the reservoir site. Moreover, with respect to mercury contamination, we understand from a hasty and admittedly incomplete reading of the transcripts of the hearing and the affidavits submitted,
that the Corps has agreed to perform pre-inundation studies to
predict the biomagnification effect of mercury concentrations in sediments and algae in the reservoir site.
"We believe that the foregoing issues should have been raised and
should have been discussed in the final impact statement. We cannot say, however, because we were not present during the proceedings and have not had sufficient opportunity to review the evidence,
that these issues would, at the same time, have caused EPA to
express environmental reservations as to the construction of the
project, within the context of our own NEPA review procedures."
Letter of June 4, 1974, from Alan G. Kirk II, Assistant Administrator

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE v. GRIBBLE
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

Environmental Quality] is the Executive Office
charged with NEPA administration and ultimately
with evaluating the performance of Federal agencies in complying with the Act. We understand
that the Council has expressed concern over the
adequacy of the final environmental statement on
the Warm Springs project and the issues raised by
the Council clearly fall under its administrative responsibilities relative to NEPA." Letter of June 4,
1974, from Alan G. Kirk II, Assistant Administrator
for Enforcement and General Counsel, Environmental Protection Agency, to Robert H. Bork,
Solicitor General.
The applicants have filed with this Court a letter from
the General Counsel of the CEQ to the Solicitor General
expressing the views of the Council on the adequacy of
the Warm Springs Dam final EIS. Letter of June 11,
1974, from Gary Widman, General Counsel, Council on
Environmental Quality, to Robert H. Bork, Solicitor
General. In that letter, the Council expresses the view
that the plaintiffs and the public are likely to be irreparably harmed if an injunction pending appeal is denied.
The Council continues:
"It is the Council's position that the best interests
of the Government would be served by halting construction work (excluding environment study and
testing) until the appeal is decided on the merits.
"In its letter of February 14, 1974, the Council
advised the Corps that its Environmental Impact
Statement ('EIS') was not adequate in several
respects. The Council asked for further study and
consideration of the earthquake hazard, the problems of stimulating population growth in the area,
for Enforcement and General Counsel, Environmental Protection
Agency, to Robert H. Bork, Solicitor General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

417 U. S.

the calculation of benefits and costs, and further
asked consideration of an alternative project (enlargement of the existing Coyote Dam) that would
not raise similar environmental problems. The letter asked the Corps to delay action on the project
until such further study and consideration was
completed.
"Information revealed at trial strongly reinforced
our original reservations about the seismic and other
problems, and raised new concerns over potential
hazards created by chemicals in the water, and in
the fish. In its letter to you, the EPA now agrees
that the project's adverse environmental effects were
not adequately raised or discussed in the EIS. The
alternative projects (one of which was mentioned
in our letter of February 14) have apparently not
received the further study which we suggested.
Therefore, if asked, CEQ would reaffirm its original
advice to the Corps, that sound policy would require
construction work on this project to be halted,
pending further analysis of the problems and consideration of available alternatives."
The Council goes on to express in more detail its reasons
for concluding that the EIS is deficient:
"At the hearing in the District Court, plaintiffs
questioned highly responsible experts, including one
originally retained by the Corps, and others who
were associated with State and Federal Government
agencies who testified to professional reservations
about the hazards that could be created by the
dam. . ..
"Upholding the District Court's finding of adequacy
of the statement, and the Court's approval of the
Corps decision to proceed, will permit construction

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE v. GRIBBLE
1301

1307

Opinion in Chambers

of a dam in the face of statements by responsible
experts that the EIS information is insufficient to
answer problems of earthquake hazards created by
a fault underlying the dam, and water quality
hazards raised by the presence of mercury, boron,
fluoride and asbestos in the site area (all of which
may be carried into reservoir water by underlying
hot springs). Whatever disagreement there may
have been on this issue of adequacy of information,
the Corps nevertheless stated during and after the
hearing that there would be additional studies on
the issues of seismicity, water quality and archaeology, and it recognized that the results of those
studies may lead to a conclusion that the dam should
not be built."
The Council cites numerous ways in which the Warm
Springs EIS may flout Council guidelines, including lack
of research and analysis supporting its conclusions and
lack of presentation of responsible opposing scientific
opinion and of critical comments by responsible governmental agencies. It is the view of the CEQ that denial
of an injunction could further jeopardize the possibility
of obtaining objective agency choice between alternative
projects should an appellate court overturn the decision
of the District Court,3 that further construction could
3 See

Power Reactor Co. v. Electricians,367 U. S. 396, 417
LAS, J., dissenting):

(DOUG-

"But when that point is reached, when millions have been invested,
the momentum is on the side of the applicant, not on the side of the
public. The momentum is not only generated by the desire to salvage an investment. No agency wants to be the architect of a 'white
elephant.'"
See also Arlington Coalition on Transportation v. Volpe, 458 F. 2d
1323, 1333 (CA4 1972):
"Further investment of time, effort, or money in the proposed route
would make alteration or abandonment of the route increasingly

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

417 U. S.

impair the freedom of choice of local voters who will be
considering the project, and that "it is both contrary to
law and an irreparable detriment to plaintiffs and the
public to permit the construction to proceed in such
circumstances."
The mandate of the National Environmental Policy
Act regarding Environmental Impact Statements is stated
in the Senate Report:
"(c) Each agency which proposes any major
actions, such as project proposals, proposals for new
legislation, regulations, policy statements, or expansion or revision of ongoing programs, shall make a
determination as to whether the proposal would
have a significant effect upon the quality of the
human environment. If the proposal is considered
to have such an effect, then the recommendation or
report supporting the proposal must include statements by the responsible official of certain findings
as follows:
"(i) A finding shall be made that the environmental impact of the proposed action has been
studied and that the results of the studies have been
given consideration in the decisions leading to the
proposal.
"(ii) Wherever adverse environmental effects are
found to be involved, a finding must be made that
those effects cannot be avoided by following reasonable alternatives which will achieve the intended
purposes of the proposal. Furthermore, a finding
less wise and, therefore, increasingly unlikely. If investment in the
proposed route were to continue prior to and during the Secretary's
consideration of the environmental report, the options open to the
Secretary would diminish, and at some point his consideration would
become a meaningless formality."

WARM SPRINGS DAM TASK FORCE v. GRIBBLE
1301

1309

Opinion in Chambers

must be made that the action leading to the adverse
environmental effects is justified by other considerations of national policy and those other considerations must be stated in the finding.
"(iii) Wherever local, short-term uses of the
resources of man's environment are being proposed,
a finding must be made that such uses are consistent
with the maintenance and enhancement of the longterm productivity of the environment.
"(iv) Wherever proposals involve significant commitments of resources and those commitments are
irreversible and irretrievable under conditions of
known technology and reasonable economics, a finding must be made that such commitments are warranted." S. Rep. No. 91-296, pp. 20-21 (1969).
The tendency has been to downgrade this mandate of
Congress, to use shortcuts to the desired end, and to present impact statements after a project has been started,
when there is already such momentum that it is
difficult to stop. There are even cases where the statement is not prepared by a Government agency but by a
contractor who expects to profit from a project. One
hesitates to interfere once a project is started, but if the
congressional mandate is to be meaningful it must be
done here.
As the EPA observed, the CEQ is the Executive Office
charged with administration of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the Environmental Impact Statements. The NEPA requires all federal agencies both to consult with the CEQ to insure that environmental factors are adequately considered and to assist
4 See Life of the Land v. Brinegar, 414 U. S.1052; Power Reactor
Co. v. Electricians,367 U. S.396.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

417 U. S.

the CEQ. 42 U. S. C. §§ 4332 (2)(B) and (H). The
CEQ is given the authority under NEPA to
"review and appraise the various programs and activities of the Federal Government in the light of
the policy set forth in subchapter I of this chapter
[which includes the EIS requirement] for the purpose of determining the extent to which such programs and activities are contributing to the achievement of such policy, and to make recommendations
to the President with respect thereto." 42 U. S. C.
§ 4344 (3).
The Council's members must be qualified "to appraise
programs and activities of the Federal Government in the
light of the policy" set forth in subchapter I of the Act.
42 U. S. C. § 4342.
The Council, ultimately responsible for administration
of the NEPA and most familiar with its requirements for
Environmental Impact Statements, has taken the unequivocal position that the statement in this case is
deficient, despite the contrary conclusions of the District
Court. That agency determination is entitled to great
weight, see, e. g., Trafficante v. Metropolitan Life Ins.,
409 U. S. 205, 210; Griggs v. Duke Power Co., 401 U. S.
424, 433-434; Udall v. Tallman, 380 U. S. 1, 16, and it
leads me to grant the requested stay pending appeal in
the Court of Appeals to maintain the status quo in the
construction of the Warm Springs Dam.

