OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Opinion of 'the Court.

LA LTR v. NASH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROfIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE N ORTHERIN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued April 7,1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

On the facts proved the court holds that this suit was properly brought in
the name of the plaintiffs in error, but that they were. acting as trustees
for 6thers for whose benefit its results were to be applied, and it affirms
the judgment of the court below.
To constitute a collusive-Assignment under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, when ihe title mnade by the transfer is complete so as to give the
assignee power to maintain suit in his own name, it must appear that
the object of the transfer was to create a case cognizable under the act
of 1875.

LN equity to foreclose a mortgage. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
.1&. Laurence .Maxwell, Tr., for appellants.
.21r. John Cofey for appellees.
shell filed briefs for same.
MR. CeEF JuSTICE WA=TE

Mr. David Suart Houn-

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage made by
John Nash and Ellen Nash, his wife, to Hugh Colville, under
date of December 4, 186, on certain lands in Logan County,
Ohio, the separate property of the wife, to secure a note of
the husband for $13,000, payable to the order of Colville, in.
three years from date, with interest at the rate of eight per
cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, and the chief contro, ersy on the .appeal is as to the amount that is due. In the
view we take of the case little else is involved except questions of fact. From the testimony we find that for many
years prior to July 4, 1879, the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati was an unincorporated banking association, having its
office in Cincinnati, Ohio. John Nash, a manufacturer, doing

IANIER v. NASH.

405"

Opinion of the Court.

business 'in that city, either alone or with others, under the
name of John Nash. & Co., had long been a customer of the
bank, making deposits and getting discounts of his business
paper as occasion required.
Some days before December 4, 1876, Nash, being in want of
$12,000 to settle a debt which he owed for iron and to meet
some other liabilities, applied to Colvlle, the cashier of the
bank, for a loan of that amount on real estate as collateral
Colville, after consultation with the directors, agreed to let
him have the money, and he thereupon procured the execution by his wife of the mortgage now in suit, and another on
a house and lot she owned in 'Cincinnati to secure another
note of his for $7000, payable to the order, of Colville in three
years from date, with interest at the rate of eight per cent.
per annum, payable semi-annually. He then took the two
notes and mortgages to the bank 'and placed them as collateral security fbr his own note for $12,000 at sixty days, which
was discounted and placed to his credit in account. At the
time this was done it was hoped and expected that Nash
would get some one to lend him the money on the mortgages,
and thus enable him to take up his note to the bank. .
When this arrangement was made, Nash or his fnm was
indebted to the bank for notes of his customers that had
been' discounted' and not paid at maturity to an amount
between $4000 and $5000. As the notes which had been
disc6unted were protested and came back, he gave his own
notes or those of his firm for the same amount, payable at a
future day, which, were discounted and the old paper -retained
as collateral. An effort has been made in this case to shoW
that, at the time the $12,000 was lent, it was agreed that the
mortgages should be placed as collateral' to the old debt as
well as the new, but the preponderance of the evidence is decidedly the other way, and we have no .hesitation in finding
that no such agreement has been proven.
Nash continued in business until January, 1878, when he
failed and made an assignment. In the meantime he had
borrowed from the bank another $1000, which it is conceded
was secured by a pledge of the notes and mortgages as collat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.
er'J. He renewed all his notes to the bank as they became
due; until near the time of' his failure, paying the interest
thereon at each renewal. No payment of interest was ever
made, however, on the mortgage notes, and on the 10th of
Mlay, 1879, a suit was begun by Colville, who was a citizen of
Kentucky, in the Oiruit'Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, for the foreclosure of that for
$7000, on account of default in the payment of interest.
White this' suit was peiiding a corporation was organized
under the name of the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati,,which
became in fact the successor of the old bank by taking its
good assets and assuming its liabilities. Among the other
assets transferred to the corporation were the debts of N'ash
and his firm, and their' collaterals. Ihmaking this transfer
Colville indorsed the note for $13,000 in blank, and the note
and the mortgage for its security were delivered to the newv
bank. He also made aui'assignment of his interest in the suit
then pending on the 'ther note and mortgage. The president
and cashier of the new bank were different from those of the
old bank, but some,'if not all, the directors of the new were
the same as those in the old.
On the 30th of August, i879, a decree ro 'confeso' Was
entered in the suit for the foreclosure of the $7000 mortgage,
under which a sale of th6 mortgaged property was made,
which realized $6532.72 over' and above the costs and- ex penses, and this amount was paid, to the new bink on the
28th of November, 1879.'The note of $13,000 felldue December 7,'1879, abfd on th6
12th of November, next, before its maturity, it was sent'by
the president of the new bank to Winslow, Lanier & Co., the
plaintiffs in this suit, enclosed in a letteri of which the following is a copy:
"CmcnqATi, 0., .-Nbv. 12; 1879.'
"Mess. Winslow, Lanier & Co., New York.
"GEmq's: I enclose herewith note of John Nash with mortgage, dated Dec. 4th, 1876, at 3 years, with interest at 8 per
cent., for $13,000; the first two years' interest paid.

LANIER v. NASH.
Opinion of the Court.

"I will thank you to place this note to the credit of the
bank under discount, and oblige,
"Yours, very resp'y,
"(Signed)
CHAS. B. FOOTE, P2s't."
Accompanying the note when sent was this guaranty written on a separate piece of paper:
"The Commercial Bank of Cincinnati hereby guarantees
collection and payment of the note of John Nash to the order,
of Hugh Colville, dated Dec. 4, 1876, for $13,000, at 3 years,
with interest at eight per cent. annually, and the Tortgage
securing th same, if purchased by Mess. Winslow, Tanier &
Co. The first two years' interest has been paid.
CHAs. B. FOOTE, Pree't."
"(Signed)
Winslow, Lanier & Co. were bankers in the city of New
York, and had been for many years the correspondents of the
old bank in that city, and the new bank continued the same
business relations with them on its organization. ,On the
receipt of the note the credit was given for the amount of
the note and one year's interest, less the discount until maturity, as re'quested. Afterwards the president of the Commercial Bank wrote Winslow, Lanier & Co. as follows:
"ComrsRciA BAx, CiNiNNATI, 0., .ffov. 28, 1819.
"Mess. Winslow, Lanier & Co., New York.
"G1rrs: I have to ak you to notify John Nash and wife,
(West Liberty, Logan Uounty, Ohio,) immediately by letter
that you hold the note and mortgage for $13,000 and int., requesting payment accordingly at maturity.
"In your letter to them please say nothing concerning the
first two years' interest, a.s the sum collected by us from other
collections may not prove to be sufficient to pay the entire two
years' interest, as it was supposed it would.. In case this debt
should not be paid at maturity I have further to ask that you
do not charge it to our ac., but hold it so that suit can be
brought by you if necessary. I enclose a letter to me from
our att'ys, King, Thompson & Maxwell, which please read
Very respectfully,
and"return to me.
B. FooTE, P's."
"HAS.

OCTOBER TERMf,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

"CnwmNNAI,

Dec. 3, 1879.

"Mess. Winslow, Lanier & Co., New York.
"G n'us: I have your favor of 1st inst. It was intended
that the guaranty of this bank for the collection and payment
of the note of Jno. Nash, -dated Dec.. 4, 1876, at 3 years, with
'8 per cent. interest, should continue in full force until the final
collection of the debt. This guaranty is hereby confirmed
and continued in full force until the final collection of the
note. I enclose confirmation from Ir. Sherlock to the same
effect.
Very resp't,
"(Signed)
CHAs. B. FoOTE, Pres."
"Coma-ERoiAI BA-Nx, GCmN A&i, Omo, Dec.. 10, 1879.
"Mess. Winslow, Lanier & Co., New York.
"G ENTS: I have your favor of 8th inst. inclosing copy of a
letter' from Mess. Avery & L'Hommedieu, attorneys for John
Nash. I shall be obliged if you will reply to Mess. Avery &
L'Hominedieu, -notifying them that unless the debt is immediately paid or satisfactorily arranged the note and mortgage
will be put in suit by you.
"In case suit becomes necessary I will thank you to place
the paper in the hands of the Hon. R. P. Ranney, Cleveland,
Ohio, (unless you prefer other counsel,) with instructions [to]
bring suit in U. S. Circuit Court to foreclose the mortgage in
your name.

"cYou will please refer Judge Ransey to Mess. King, Thomp-

son & Maxvell, our att'ys, for any information required for
the suit.
"Of course we bear all the expenses.

"(Signed)

"Wery resp't,

CnAs. B.

FOOTE,

Pe8."

"CommRcim B .K, CnraxT, 0., Feb. 20, 1880.
"Mess. Winslow, Lanier & Co., New York.
" .Gwrs:
-Your favor of the 19th inst. is at hand. I will
thank you to send the note and mortgage of John Nash to
Judge Ranney, of Cleveland, in accordance with the terms of
my letter of the 10th of Dec.
"Very resp't,
"(Signed)
CiAs. B. FooTE, .PT'e't."

LANIEIR v. NASH,
Opinion of the Court.

In accordance with these directions the note and mortgage
were sent to Mr. Ranney, who began this suit for the fore'
closure March 19, 1880. Both lash and his wife answered
the bill, denying that the plaintiffs were the- holders and
owners of the note, and claiming that if they were they
took them subject to all defences which would have been
good against Colville, thb payee and mortgagee, and that the
anount realized from the sale of the property covered by the
$7000 mortgage should be allowed as a credit on the other.
The Circuit Court sustained this defence and gave a decree
accordingly. From that decree this appeal was taken.
The facts established by the evidence, taken together, show,
as we think, that when the suit was begun Winslow, iLanier &
Co. had such, a title to and interest in the note and mortgage
as gave then the right to sue therefor in their own names.
They had actually discounted the note and 'placed the proceeds to the credit of the bank in their general account, and-it
does-not appear that this credit had ever been cancelled when
the suit was brought. But it is equally apparent that they
are not either hi law or equity entitled to protection' as innocent holders for value against the 'defences of, Nash and wife
to the note and mortgage in the hand of Colville or the 61d
bank. As between the'old bank and the new we entertain no
doubt that the new bank is to be treated in all respects as the
successor of the old, taking the assets that were turned over
as they stood and assuming the liabilities. 'All the knowledge
of the old"bank as to"the rights of the'parties'to the securities
transferred is'chargeabld in laiw oil tho new.
The tiansfer from the new bank 'to Winslow, Lanier' & Co'
shows on its face that it was not made in the usual course' of
buSiness between a western bank' and its New York" correspondent. The note, which was originally for three yeais,and
secured by mortgage, had less than thirty days to run, and
was.payable at the Cincinnati bank. It was not even indorsed
by the bank in the usual way, but, instead, a formal guaranty
of collection and payment, on a separate paper, was sent forward to take effect if the purchase was made. The letter
accompanying the papers contained not a word of exTlanation,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of'the Court.

and. even before the maturity of the note the bank began to
give directions in respect to the course to be taken for its collection, accompanied by a request that if payment was not
made the note should not be charged back in account, but
held "so that suit can be brought by.you if necessary." These
directions were continued after maturity, and so far as appears
always followed, even to the time and manner of commencing
suit. Under these circumstances we cannot look on Winslow,
Lanier & Co. in any other light than as trustees for the bank,
and proceeding for the collection on its account the avails to
be credited when realized.
In this court it was claimed in argument that the trans. er
was collusive for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by
the Circuit Court of the United States, and, therefore, should
have been dismissed below under the authority of ยง 5 of the act
of March 3, 181-5, c. 137, 18 Stat. 4:70',but we find no sufficient
evidence to justify us in reversing the decree and sending the
suit back for a dismissal. The transfer was undoubtedly made
for the purpose of putting it in the power of Winslow, Lanier
& Co. to bring a suit, but this, for anything that now appears,
might as well have been begun in a state as in a federal court.
The object of the bank seems to have been not to give jurisdiction to the courts of the United States, but to create an
ownership which would cut off .the anticipated defences of the
mortgagors. That of itself is not enough to make it proper
for the courts of the United States to refuse to take jurisdiction if the title made by the transfer is complete, and such as
will enable the assignee to maintain a suit in his own name at
all. To justify a dismissal it must appear that the object was
to create a case cognizable under the act of 1875.
This disposes of the whole case, and the decree is consequently
.ffirmed.

