OCTOBER TEJAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

It only remains to notice the exceptions taken to the exclusion of the testimony 'ffered, that the law of INew York
required an oath or ceitificate to be annexed to the assessment
roll substantially different from the oath actually annexed,
and, the claim that the plaintiff has a right to recover the
taxes assessed in 1873 and collected in 1874. The exclusion
of the testimony as to the alleged defect in the assessment
roll was correct under the stipulation of the parties, that the
plaintiff would not claim a right to prove any failure of the
assessors to take the proper oath. A defect in the form o
the oath annexed, ft there be one, could have no bearing upon
the question at issue. The claim for the taxes assessed in
1873 is open to similar objections to those presented against
the clann for the taxes of the other years. If the assignors
of the plaintiff had any just grounds of complaint to the
assessment as excessive they should have pursued the course
provided by statute for its correction, or resorted to equity to
enjoin the collecion 'of the illegal excess, upon payment or
tender of the amount due upon what they conceded to be h
just vhluation.
t foZlows that tie ,udghent of the court below must be
atffre , and it i, so ordered.

FROST v. SPITLEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U NITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Argued April 19, 20, 18S7. -Decided

,

May 2, 1887.

A bill in equity to quiet title cannot be maintained, either under the general jurisdiction in equity, or under the statute of Nebraska of 1873, by
one having an equitable title only.

Tins case, so far as is material to the understanding of the
appeal, was a bill in equity by Martin Spitley, a citizen of
Illinois, against George W Frost and wife, citizens of Ne-

FROST -v. SPITLEY.
,Statement of Facts.

braska, Thomas 0. Durant, a citizen of New York, .and The
Credit Mobilier of America, a corporation of Pennsylvania,
alleging that the'plaintiff was entitled to two lots of land in
the city of Omaha, county of Douglas, and State of Nebraska,
under a sale on execution against Frost to one Sohn I. Redick,'
and a conveyance from Redick to the plainitiff,' and praying
for a decree quieting the plaintiff's title and ordering'a conveyance to him of the legal estate. Fiost' and wife, by
answer and cross bill, denied the validity of the, sale on
execution, and -claimed the land as a homestead. After the
completion of the pleadings between Spitley and Frost and
wife,' the case was referred to a master, whose report was confirmed by the Circuit Court, and a final decree was eiit~red
for Spitley on his bill against Frost and wife, their cross bill
was dismissed, and they appealed td this court; Durant and
the Ciedit Mobilier were not served with process, the 'record
did not show publication of the notice ordered to them upon
either bill, they did not appear in the cause, no decree was
rendered against them, and they were not made parties to the
appeal.
The material facts, as appearing by the admissions in the
pleadings, the master's report, and the evidence taken in the
case, were as follows:
Prior to 1866, the Credit Mobilier, in whose employ Frost
-was, purchased the land in question, took the title in the
name' of Durant, its president, and built a house upon it for
the use of: Frost and his family, under an agreement between
the corporation and Frost, by which the title was to be conveyed to.him upon a final settlement between them. - Frost
and his 'family forthwith took possession of the land, and
thenceforth occupied it as a homestead, and were in possession when this-bill was filed.
On November 11, 1870, Redick, who was an attorney, and
Frost made and signed the following agreement: "In consideration of $2500 as attorney's fees, I agree with Hon. G. W.
Frost that I will bring suit and procure, through the courts or
otherwise, to him a good title to the premises he, said Frost,
now occupies as his residence in the city of Omaha; and in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886:

Statemeut of Facts.'

case [of] any settlement or arrangement of the suit, then said
Frost is to pity in proportion only; and in case said Frost
fails to procure said title at all, then the said attorney is to
have a mere nominal fee for.his services, to wit, $100.',
Redick accordingly, on April 29, 1871, brought a suit in
equity on behalf of Frost against the Credit Mobilier and
Durant in the courts of Nebraska, and in that suit on March
27, 1876, obtained a decree that upon Frost's paying to said
defendants within thirty days the sum. of $302.71 remaining
due from him to them, they should convey the land to him.
That sum was not paid within the time fixed, Frost contending that :Redick, by the agreement between them, was bound
to pay it. On November 11, 1876, said defendants executed
a quitclaim deed to Frost, but it was never delivered to him
or recorded. Durant afterwards brought an action of ejectment for the land against Frost, which was pending until
June 8, 1880, when IRedick, having been made a defendant
therein on the ground of his having succeeded to Frost's
rights in the property under the proceedings stated below,
paid that sum, with interest, and the action of ejectment was
thereupon dismissed.
On June 26, 1877, IRedick brought an action at law to recover his fee of $2500 against Frost in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of lebraska, in which, on
July 30, 1877, he obtained a writ of attachment, on which
this land was attached, and was appraised at $6000; on March
1, 1878, recovered judgment; and on July 1, 1878, obtained
an order of sale as upon execution, on which this laird was
appraised, "after deducting all prior liens thereon," at $500,
the appraisers adding, "The said defendant's only interest in
said property, as appears by the records of Douglas County,
Neb., being that of occupancy and possession, we appraise
the said interest as above;" and the marshal, on August 24,
1878, after thirty days' advertisement of "the property de-scribed in this order," sold by auction Frost's interest in these
lots to Redick for $350. Frost's solicitor, at the time of the
sale, gave notice to the marshial that Frost claimed the land
as his homestead, and afterwards moved the court to set aside

FROST v. SPITLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the sale for this and other reasons. But the court, upon a
hearing, confirmed the sale, and directed the marshal to execute and deliver to IRedick a deed in the usual form, which
was accordingly done; and IRedick, on September 8, 1880,
conveyed to Spitley, the present appellee.
2MP. John Z.
L

bster for appellants.

No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTIOB GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The opinion of the Circuit Court proceeded upon the grounds
that Frost's homestead right, as against the contract made by
him with Redick in 1870, and the judgment and execution
afterwards obtained by Rediok on that contract, was governed
by the homestead act of Nebraska of 1866, by which no consent of the wife to an alienation of the homestead was required; and that the sale on execution, confirmed by the court,
cut off the right of homestead. 5 McCrary, 43. But it is
unnecessary to consider the validity of either of those grounds,
because, even if they are well taken, Spitley's bill cannot be
maintained.
At the time of the sale on execution of Frost's interest in
the land, the legal title was, and it still remains, in Durant.
Although Frost, under his agreement with Durant and the
corporation, and the decree which he had recovered against
them, had been entitled to a deed of the land upon the payment of a'certain sum of money, he had not paid the money,
nor had any deed been delivered to him; so that his title,
either by virtue of the agreement and decree, or by virtue of
his.occupaticdf of the land as a homestead, never was anything
more than an equitable title. The sale on execution against
him (if valid and effectual) and the deed of the marshal passed
only his equitable title to Redick; IRedick's payment to
Durant of the money unpaid by Frost did not divest Durant
of his legal title; and Redick's subsequent conveyance to
Spitley could pass no greater right than IRedick had. Spitley's

OCTOBER TEAM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

title, therefore, at best; is :but, eqitable, and- not leg-al; and
Frost, and not Spitley, is in actual possession of the land.
Under the jurisdiction and practice in equity, independently
of statute, the object of a bill to removd a cloud upon title,
and to' quiet the possession of real estate, is to protect the
owner of the legal title from being disturbed in his possession,
or harassed by suits in regard to that title; and the bill cannot be maintained without clear proof of both possession and
legal title in the plaintiff. Akxander v. Pendleton, 8 (ranch,
462; Piersoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95 ;- Orta v. Smith, 18 How:
263 ; Crews v. Burcham, 1 Black,. 352; Ward v. Cliamberlain,
2 Black, 430. As observed by Mr. Justice Grier in Orton v.
Smith, "Those only who have a clear legal and equitable title
to land, connected with possession, have any right to claim
the interference of a- court of equity to give them p6ace or
dissipaie a cloud on the title." 18 How. 265. A person out
of possession cannot maintain such a bill, whetlier his title is
'legal or equitable; for if his title is legal, his remedy at law,
by action of ejectment, is plain, adequate and complete; and
if his title is equitable, he must acquire the legal title, and then
bring ejectment. United States v. Wilson, 118 V. S. 86;
Fussell v. Gregg, 113 U. S. 550.
It is possible that one who holds land under grant from the
United States, who has done everything in his power to entitle
him to a patent, (which he cannot compel the United States
to issue to him,) and is deemed the legal, owner, so far as to
render the land taxable to him by the state in which it lies,
may be considered as having sufficient title to ustain %bill in
equity to quiet his right and possession. Carroll v. Saford, 3
How. 441, 463; 'Fan TFyc v. .Knevals, 106 U. S. 36Q:370;
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 1II U. S. 151, 169. But no such
case is presented by the record before us.
In Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, the 'suit was founded on a'
statute-of Oregon, authorizing "any person in possession" to
bring the suit; the court, after observing that "his possessiir
must be accompanied with a claim of right, legal or equitable,"
held that the plaintiff proved-neither legal nor equifable title;
and consequently the question whether an equitable title only

VROSTC v. SPITLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

would have been sufficient to maintain the suit was not adjudged. In Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bink, 112 'U. S. 405,
the decision was based upon a statute of Indiana, under which,
as construed by the Supreme Court of that state, an equitable
title was sufficient, 'either to support or to defeat the suit.
Jefferson Railroadv. Oyler, 60 Indiana, 383; Burt v. Bowles,
69 Indiana, 1. See also G',issom v. 2lfoore, 106 Indiana, 296.
A statute of Nebraska authorizes an action to be brought
"by any person or persons, whether in actual possession or
not, claiming title to real estate, against any person or persons
who claim an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining such estate or interest, and quieting the
title to said real estate." Nebraska Stat. February 24, 1873,
Rev. Stat. 1873, p. 882. By reason of that statute, a bill in
equity to quiet title may be maintained in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska by a person
not in possession, if the controversy is one in which a court of
equity alone can afford the rdlief prayed for. Holland v.
(JAallen, 110 U. S. 15, 25. The requisite of the plaintiff's possession is thus dispensed with, but not the other rules which
govern the jurisdiction of courts of equity over such bills.
Under that statute, as under the general jurisdiction in equiy,
if'is "the title," that is to say, the legal title, to, real estate,
that is to be quieted against claims of adverse estates or interests. In State v. Sioux. City & Paoi* .Railroad,the Supreme Court of Nebraska said, "Whatever the rule may be as
to a party in actual possession, it is clear that a party not in
possession must possess the legal title, in order to maintain the
action." 7 Nebraska, 357, 376. And in Holland v. Challen,
above cited, this court said, "Undoubtedly, as a foundation
for the relief sought, the plaintiff must show that he has a
iegal title to the premises."
The necessary conclusion is, that Spitley, not having the legal title of the lots in question, cannot maintain his bill for
the purpose of removing a cloud on the title; he cannot maintain it for the purpose of compelling a conveyance of the legal
title, because Durant, in whom that title is .vested, though
named- as a defendant, has not been served with process or

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

appeared in the cause; and for like reasons Frost and wife
cannot maintain their cross bill.
Decree 'reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
wiah directions to di.smiss the apellee's bill, and the affellants' cross bill, witlhout prejudice, the appellee to pay the
costs in this court and in the Circuit Court.

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD COMPANY v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued April 21,1887.-Decided May 2,1887.
An appeal lies to the general term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia from a denial by that court in special term of a motion for a
new trial, made on the ground that the verdict was against the weight
of evidence; but the legal discretion of that court respecting the disposition of such a motion is not reviewable in this court.
Stewart v. Elliott, 2 Mackey, 307, overruled.
When Congress adopts a state system of jurisprudence, and incorporates
it, substantially in the language of the state statute creating it, into the
Federal legislation for the District of Columbia, it must be presumed to
have adopted it as understood in the State of its origin, and not as it
might be affected by previous rules of law, either prevailing in Marylaud,
or recognized in the courts of the District.

Tins was an action at law, brought by the defendant in
error, in the Supreme Court in the District of Columbia,
against the plaintiff in error, to recover damages for personal
iijuries alleged to have been caused by the negligence of the
defendant's servants in the management of its cars while running upon a street railroad in the city of Washington. On
the trial of the cause, and after the testimony for the plaintiff
was closed, the defendant asked the court to instruct the jury
that, upon the testimony offered in behakU of the plaintiff, he
was not entitled to recover. This was refused, and an exception taken. The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $5000, on which judgment was rendered. The defendant thereupon filed a motion for a new. trial on the

