CONCORD v. ROBINSON.

1655

Statement of :Facts.

There is no material difference between the legislation of New'
Jersey on this subject and that of New York, as considered
in the case of The ftercantile 3ationdBanke of the City of
-ew Fork v. The 2fayor, Aldermen and Commoswiy of the
City of Hew York, and George T. .MLean,Receiver of Tawee,
just decided. This case is, therefore, necessarily governed by
the decision in that.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
MR. JusTIcE' BRAD= and.M. JUsTICE BLATOHPOED took no
part in the decision of this case.

CONCORD v. ROBINSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued. March 24, 1887.-Decided April 4, 1887.
A grant to a municipal corporatibu of power to appropriate moneys in aid

of the construction of a railroad, accon~panied by a provision directing
the levy and collection of taxes to meet sucli appropriation, and prescribing no other mode of payment, does not authorize the issuing of
negotiable bonds in payment of such appropriation.
The power given by' the act of March 24, 1869, of the legislature of Illinois, relating to the Chicago, Danvlle and Vincennes Railroad, to townships, towns, and cities, which had voted to contribute aid in the construction of said road, to borrow money and issue bonds in payment of
such contributions, if not acted upon prior to Tuly 2, 1870, ,was withdrawn by the c6nstitution of Illinois of 1870, and could not, thereafter,
be exercised.
Subscriptlons and donations In aid of railroads, .voted by municipal corporailons of Illinois, prior to July 2. 1870, such vote beingoauthorized by
laws 'in force when it wes taken, could be completed after that date,
according to the conditions attached to the vote, or upon terms that did
not increase the public burdens, notwithstauding the provision in the
constitution of 1870, that no municipality "shall ever become subscriber
to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make
donation to, or loan its credit In aid of, such corporation."

THis was an action at law to recover on coupons attached to
negotiable bonds issued by the plaintiff in error. A jury was

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Crourt.

waived at the trial. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued
out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
-Yr. ffenry -Decker for plaintiff in error. XrT. Zewis Hf.
Bisbee and -r. John P. Ahrens were with him on the brief.
31r. George A. Sanderm for defendant in error..
MR.

JuSTICE

HAuLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action upon negotiable coupon bonds signed by
the supervisor and clerk of the town of Concord, a municipal
corporation existing under the township organization law of
Illinois. They were executed in 1871. Each bond purports,
upon its face, to have been "issued under and by virtue of a
law of the State of Illinois to authorize cities, towns or. t6wnships within certiin limits to appropriate moneys and levy a
tax to aid the construction of the Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad," and pledges the faith of the township for
the payment of the principal and interest. The act here referred to was passed March 7, 1867. 1 Private Laws Ill. 1867,
p. 842. It authorizes all incorporated towns and cities, and
towns acting under the township organization law, within certain territoria limits, (which includes the town of Concord,) to
appropriate such sum of money as they deem proper to the
Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company to aid in
the construction of its road, "to be paid to said company as
soon as the track of said road shall have been located and
constructed through said city,- town, or township, respectively;" provided, the appropriation is first sustained at the.
polls by a majority of the electors of the municipality. The
act authorized and 'euiredthe authorities of said townships,
towns,.or cities, respectively, "to levy and collect a tax, and
make such provisions as may be necessary and proper for the
prompt payment" of the appropriation. It neither expressly
nor by implication invested the municipal corporations, embraced by its provisions, with the power to issue commercial
paper in payment of an appropriation so voted. We held in

CONCORD v. ROBRJNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Claibornne Cku~y v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 406, 406,-which was
decided after the judgment below was rendered, - that "mere
political bodies, constituted as counties, are for the purpose of
local police and administration, and having the power of levying taxes to pay all public charges created, . . .have no power

or authority to make and utterncommercial paper of any kind,
unless such power is expressly conferred upon them by law, or
clearly implied from some power expressly given, which cannot be fairly exercised without it." No such implication arises
from the grant to a municipal corporation of power to appropriate moneys in aid of the construction of a railroad, accompanied by a provision directing the levy and collection of taxes
to meet such appropriation, and prescribing no other mode of
payment.

TFels v. S'uemisors, 102 U. S. 625, 631; 632 ; Ogden

v. County of .Daviess, 102 U. S. 634, 639. The provision in
the act of 1861 that the money should be paid as soon as the
road was located and constructed through the city, town, or
township voting the appropriation, is inconsistent with the
idea that such apprdpriation could be met, in the firsb instance,
by-negotiable bonds which might pass into the hands of 4ona
fide holders for value, and .1ecome- binding, whether the road
was, or not, so located or constructed.
The clause requiring such provisions to be made as are necessary and proper for the prompt payment of the appropriation
has reference only to the collection and application of taxes
levied to meet the appropriation.
For these reasons .the court erred.in holding that the validity of the bonds was sustained by the act of March T,1861.
2. The suggestion, that the bonds were authorized by the
act of February 26, 1869, 3 Private. Laws Ill. 1869, p. 355,
entitled "An act to legalize ,certain aids ,heretofore voted and
granted to aid in the construction of the Chicago, Danville
and Vincennes Railroad," is without force. That act, by its
very terms, has reference only to aids voted and granted prior
to its passage. The aid in the present case was voted subsequently.
3.'Nor, in our judgment, can the bonds be sustained as
valid obligations of the town by the provisions of the act of

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

March 24, 1869, 3 Private Laws Ill. 1869, p. 356, entitled -"An
act to enable towns, townshipsj citie3, or counties along the line
of the Chicago, .Danville and Vincennes Railroad to contribute
toward the construction of said railroad." The first section of
that act authorizes the several countie&through which the road
shall pass, by action of the board of supervisors, or by action
of the county court in counties not acting under township organization, to make appropriations or loan their credit in such
sums and upon such terms and conditions as they deem proper,
to-aid in the construction of such road; provided, the appropriation is first voted by the electors. The second section provides that "the legal voters of any town, township or city
along the lne of said railroad, whether said railroad shall run
int6 or through said town, township, or city, or not, may, by
a majority of the legal voters voting at any election held for
the purpose,. make appropriations or donations to aid in the
construction of .said railroad, and the proper authorities sJ3d
levy am~d collect taxes, in the manner that other taxes are levied
and collected, to promptly meet any obligations assumed
under and by virtue of this act." "
The fourth section provides that "the authorities of any
township, town, or city - such township, town, or city having
voted to contribute aid in the construction of said -railroad may borrow.money to promptly meet such contribution, an'd
issue bonds of such township, town, or city,....
. andjhall
have power to levy and collect such taxes as may be necessary to pay accruing interest or pay the principal sum."
This last section, it is contended,, gave the supervisor and
town clerk of Concord authority to issue negotiable bonds in
payment of the appropriation or contributioD voted by the
township
of Concord. In this view we do r6t concur..
The constitution
of Illinois adopted in 1670 provides that
"no county, city, township, or other municipality shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private
corporation, or make* donation to o loan its credit in aid of
such corporation: P'ovided, however, That the, adoption of
this article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any
such municipality to make such subscriptions [or donations.-

CONCORD v. ROBINSON.
Oplnion of the Court.

CI iago &_Iowa .Railroadv. Pin ney, 74 Ill. 271T; Fairfiekl
v. County of Ga~lktin, 100 U. S. 4'7, 50], where the same have
been authorized under, existing laws, by a vote of the people
of such municipalities prior to such adoption." The corporate
authorities of Concord - the electors of the township -voted,
November 20, 1869, in favor of levying a tax for the purpose
of raising the sum of $25,000 in two years, "to be donated to
the Vincennes, Danville and Chicago Railroad 'Company.
[meaning the Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad
Company], pro'vided said company run said railroad through
the villages of Concord and Sheldon." The road was never
constructed into or throu'gh either of said villages. It did not
touch either township; nor did the electors of Concord township ever vote upon the subject of issuing bonds in payment
.of th6 donation so voted. If, under these circumstances, the
authorities of that township ever had power, under the act of
March 24, 1869, to issue bonds to meet that donation, that
power was withdrawn by the constitution of 1870, before the
bonds in suit were issued. The section of -that instrument relating to municipal subscriptions to railroad corporations went
into operation July 2, 1870." Zouisvilke v. a/ving8 Bank,,104:
UT. S. 469 ; SchaZl v. Bowman, 62 1E1. 321. Since that day no
municipal corporation of Illinois has possessed authority to
subscribe to the stock of a railroad or private corporation, or
to make donations to or loan its credit to them, except that a
subscription or donation, lawfully voted by the people before
the adoption of that section, could, be completed upon the
terms and conditions approved by the electors. There is nd
saving of the right of such corporation to loan their credit to
railroad corporations, *here such loan of credit was not 'embraced in a vote previously taken, under existing laws, and
which was favorable to a subscription of stock or a donation.
The township of Concord voted a donation merely, to be niet
by taxation within the period of two years, and to be paid if
the railroad was constructed through the villages of Concord
and Sheldon, and not a donation to be met by iterest-bearing
bonds covering a period of ten years. -Some question is made
as to whether the township did not, by the vote at the special

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

election of June 30, 1870, lawfully rescind the vote of November 20, 1869. Upon that question we express no opinion; and
it may be assumed, for the purposes of this case, that the election of June 30, 1870, did not affect the legal right-of the railroad company to claim the donation voted November 20, 1869,
upon the terms and conditions annexed thereto by the electors.
But that is the utmost the company could have claimed. It
certainly could not, prior to the adoption of the constitution of
1870, have demanded, as of right, that bonds be issued; for
the people did not vote for issuing bonds, and the act of March
2 ,1869, did not make it imperative upon the township authorities to issue bonds to meet a donation. It only declared
that, they "may borrow money . . . and issue bonds,"
and in that way pay the contribution which had been voted.
The constitution took away all power to impose upon the
township any greater burdens than the people had by vote
lawfully assumed under existing statutes. These bonds were
issued in 1871. Purchasers were bound to know that neither
the act of 1867, under which they were issued, nor the act of
February 26, 1869, conferred authority to issue them. If they
purchased them in the belief that the recital in the bonds of
the act of 1867 was a mere mistake, and, that the act of March
24, 1869, gave the requisite authority, they were informed by
the latter act that the township authorities were not obliged
to issue them, and, by the constitution of 1870, that the power
to do so was taken away. They were bound to know that the
power of the township, after July 2, 1870, was restricted by
the constitution to a completion of such subscription or donation as had been lawfully voted before that date; if not upon
the precise terms and conditions attached thereto by the vote
of the people, upon subh terms as did not increase the burden.
The bonds contain no recital that they are issued .pursuant to
a vote of the people had before the adoption of the constitution of 1870, and there is consequently, no pretence to say
that the township is estopped to deny the authority of its supervisor and clerk to execute them. Crow v. Oxford, 119 U.
S. 215.
If it be suggested that the railroad company acquired a

-

