PENINSULAR IRON CO. v. STONE.
Opinioii of the Court.

PENINSULAR IRON COMPANY v. STON'E.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA, EASTARN DIVISION.
Argued April 18, 1887. -Decided

May 2,1887.

The rights of each and all of the parties in this case being separate and distinct, but depending on one contract, they elected to join in enforcing
the common obligation; and, as one citizen of Ohio is a necessary party
on one side, and another citizen of that state a necessary party on the
other, with interests so conflicting that the relief prayed for cannot be
had without keeping them opposed, the cause is remanded (with costs
against the appellants in this court) to the Circuit Court with directions
to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.

Tins was a bill in equity to compel an accounting. The cse
is stated in the opinion of the court.
.fr. Andrew Howell for appellants. The court did not desire
to hear furthu, argument. .1r.W. A. Underwood filed -an
argument and b±'ef for appellants.
-Y. JamesH.
H 1,zderson filed a brief for appellees.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTI,"-, WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal .rom a decree dismissing the bill in a suit
in equity begun by certain citizens of Michigan and Samuel M.
Carpenter, Charles Wason, and Leander M. Hubby, citizens of
Ohio, qgainst Andros B. Stone, a citizen of New York, The St.
Louis, Keokuk and Northwestern Railway Company, an Iowa
corporation, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company, an Illinois corporation, and Dan. P. Vels, a citizen
of Ohio, to bring the defendants Stone and Eels to an accounting under a certain contract made by Stone with the complainants and others, by which he was to purchase the property of
the Mississippi Valley and-Western Railway Company, about
to be sold under a decree of foreclosure, and-hold the same in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

trust for such of the holders of the bonds secured by the foreclosed mortgage as should surrender their bonds to him for use
in paying the purchase-money, and contribute such further
sums in cash as should be necessary to enable him to meet the
obligations of his bid at the sale. According to the allegations
of the bill the defendant Eels became a trustee of the proceeds
of a sale of the purchased property, made by Stone for the
benefit of the parties in interest, which he has misappropriated
and claims to hold in connection with Stone, adversely to the
complainants and others in like interest. The character of the
controversy is such that all the citizens of Ohio, who are parties to the suit, cannot be placed on one side so as to give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction, under the construction which was
given the second section of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18
Stat. 470, in the Rewval Cases, 100 U. S. 457, the first section
being the same as the second so far as this question is concerned.
v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267, decided in 1806, it
In &Srawbridge
"Where
the interest is joint, each of the persons
was held.:
concerned in that interest must be competent to sue, or liable
to be sued, in those courts." "But," it was added, "the court
does not mean to give an opinion in the case where several
parties represent several distinct interests, and some of those
parties are, and others are not, competent to sue, or liable to
be sued, in the courts of the United States." In -New Orleans
v. Winter, 1 Wheat., 91, decided in 1816, a suit had been
brought in the District Court for the District of Louisiana by
the heirs of Elisha Winter, deceased, to recover possession of
certain lands under an alleged grant from the Spanish government. One of the plaintiffs could sue in the courts of the
United States, but the others could not, and the question of
jurisdiction in the District Court was raised. Chief Justice
Marshall, in 'delivering the opinion of the court, after referring
to what had been decided in Srawbridge v. Curtiss, said: "In
this case, it has been doubted, whether the parties might elect
to sue jointly or severally. However this may be, having
elected to sue jointly, the court is incapable of distinguishing
their case, so far as respects jurisdiction, from one in which

PENINSULAR IRON CO. v. STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

they were compelled to unite." It was consequently held that
the District Court had no jurisdiction, and its judgment was
reversed. This rule has been adhered to steadily-ever since;
Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 287; Coal Company v.
Blateoford, 11 Wall. 173, 114; Sewing -Machine Cases, 18
Wall. 553, 574; arid in removal cases, under §.2 of tlie act of
1875, it has uniformly been applied, unless there is a separable
controversy. ?emoval. CasRes, 100 U. S.457; Blake v..X'_02n,
103 U. S. 336-, H gde v. Rule, 101 U.- S. 407, and numerous
cases since.
In the present case the rights of each and all of the parties
depend on the alleged contract with Stone, and although; as
between themselves, they have separate and distinct interests,
they join in a suit to enforce an obligation which is common
to all. There is but a single cause of action, and while all the
complainants need not have joined in enforcing it, they have
done so, and this, under the rule in _Sew Orleans v. Tinter,
controls the jurisdiction. It is, therefore, a suit to which citizens of Ohio are parties on one side and a citizen of Ohio a
party on the other, with interests so conflicting that the relief
prayed cannot be had without keeping them on opposite sides
of the matter in dispute. It follows that the Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction, and could not render a decree dismissing the billon its merits. For this reason the decree must
be reversed, ComtinentaZ Insuran'ee Co. v. Rfhoads, 119 U. S.
237, 239, and cases there cited; but as the error is attributable
to the present appellants, whose duty it was-to make the jurisdiction appear, the reversal will be at their costs in this court.
Rveriart v. Huntville College, 120 U. S. 223.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded,with directions to disw'iss the bill for want ofjurisdiction,and without prejudice.

