.UNITED STATES v: McDOUGAT'L'S ADMS'R.
Syllabus.

From this order the jailer was allowed an appeal to this
court by the circuit judge, and the case was docketed here as
"an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Virginia." The form of the docket
entry here does not change the character of the proceeding
from which the appeal was taken, and that was clearly under
§ 752 of the Revised Statutes, before the judge sitting as
a judge, and not as a court. The act of March 3, 1885, c. 353,
23 Stat. 437, gives an appeal to this court in habeas coepus
cases only from the final decision of a circuit court.
The order of the judge that the papers be filed, and his
order recorded in the circuit court, does not make his decision
as judge a decision of the court. Neither does our Rule 34,
117 U. S. '708, adopted at the last term, have that effect
The-purpose of that rule was to regulate proceedings on
appeals under § 763, from the decision of a judge to the
circuit court of the district, as well as under § 764, as
amended by the act of March 3, 1885, from a circuit court to
this court. 'Power to make such a regulation was given to this
court by § 765 of the Revised Statutes.
Appeal dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. McDOUGALL'S ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 7,18S.-Decided March 28, 1887.

The fact that Congress, by several special acts, has made provision for the
payment of several claims, part of a class of claims upon wlich the
respective claimants could not have recovered in an action in the' Court
of Claims in the exercise of its general jurisdiction, furnishes no reason for holding the United States liable in an action in that court for
the recovery of such a claim which Congress has ilade no provision for.
The fact that the Court of Claims has r-ndercd judgment against the
United States'at various times upon claims of a particular class, from
which juugments the Executive Department of the Government toolk no
appeal, furnishes no reason why judgment ,shouid be given against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
United States in an action in the Court of Claims on another claim of
the class, if the United States are not otherwise liable therefor.
No statute of the United States, either in express terms or by implication,
authorized the Executive in holding treaties with the Indians to make
contracts of the character sued on in this action.
No officer of thegovernment is authorized to so bind the United States by
contracts forthe subsisteice of Indians not based upon appropriations
made by Congress, that a judgment may be given against them in the
Court of Claims in the exercise of its general jurisdiction; and this rule
is not affected by the fact that the United States were greatly benefited
by the contracts.
No opinion is expressed upon the point whether a claim presented to an
Executive Department, after the expiration of the period within which
-it would have been cognizable by the Court of Claims, (had suit been
brought thereon without first filing it in the Department), and by the
'Department referred to the Court of Claims under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 1063,-is barred by the statute regulating the limitation of suits in
that court.

Tm was an appeal from a judgment rendered by the Court
of Claims against the United States in favor of the appellee
as administrator of the estate of George McDougall, deceased.
The Court of Claims made the following finding of facts:
I. This claim has been pending in the Interior Department
and before Congress for many years, but has never been
finally disposed of.
IL Under the act of September 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), Redick
McKee, George W. Barbour, and Oliver M. Wozencraft were
duly appointed agents for the Indian tribes within the State
of California. On October 9, 1850, Oliver M. Wozencraft,
George W. Barbour, and Redick McKee were appointed commissioners "to hold treaties with tle various Indian tribes in
the State of California," as authorized by the act of 30th
September, 1850. Upon the passage of the act February 27,
1851 (9 Stat. 586), they were informed that their offices and
functions as commissioners were abrogated and annulled.
They were at the same time directed not to suspend negotiations," but to enter upon their appointments as agents, and
were as such designated under the act of 1851, to negotiate
with the Indians of California, under the instructions already
given.
The instructions referred to did not extend to and embrace

UNITED STATES v. MocDOUGALL'S ADM'R.
Statement of Facts.

contracts for the subsistence of the, Indian tribes, but only
authorized such commissioners to hold treaties with such Indians.
III. Among the instructions given the said commissioners,
under date of October- 15, 1850, were the following:
"As set forth in the law creatinig the commission, and the
letter of the Secretary of the Interior, the object of the government is to obtain all the information it can with reference
to tribes of Indians within the boundaries of California, their
manners, habits, customs, and extent of civilization, and to
make such treaties and compacts with them as may seem just
and proper.
"On the arrival of Mr. McKee and Mr. Barbour in California they will notify Mr. Wozencraft of their readiness to enter
upon the duties of the mission. The board will convene, and
after obtaining whatever light may be within its reach, will
determine upon some rule of action most efficient in attaining
the desired object, which is by all possible means -to conciliate
the good feelings of the Indians and to get them to ratify
those feelings by entering into written treaties, binding on
them, towards the govermnent and each other. You will be
able to judge whether it is best for you to act in a body or
separately in different parts of the Indian country."
Again on May 9, 1851, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs wrote to the commissi6ners, using the following
words:
"What particular negotiations may be required it is inpossible for this office to foresee; nor can it give any specific directions on the subject. M[uch must be left to the discretion of
those to whom the business is immediately intrusted."
rV. When the commissioners arrived in California they
found open hostilities existing between the Indians and the
whites, and a general war had been agreed-upon by the Indians. The governor of California had, at the request -of
Adam Johnston, the Tndian agent, called out a portion -of the
militia of the state, and had organized a ailitary force to
operate against the Indians. To avoid the threatened, and
quell the actual, hostilities, the commissioners at once began

OCTOBER TERME,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

to negotiate treaties with the Indians, by which they were required to leave their mountain resorts, to abandon their lands
to the whites, to descend to the plains, and reside peaceably
upon a tract -of land selected for them. In return the coinmissioners promised the Indians that the United States would
give them seeds to plant and implements to work with; establish schools, and appoint persons to teach them how to cultivate their lands and provide for their own wants.
V. The policy adopted by the commissioners included the
"subsistence" of the Indians, and large quantities of beef.
and other provisions were stipulated for in the various treaties, and the office was notified that the same policy would
have to be pursued throughout the whole state, and that this
system-was thought much better than the system of annuities. The letters in which these statements were made were
written on Mtay 1, 1851, and May 13, 1851.
On June 27, 1851, the Indian Office wrote to the commissioners, suggesting to them "that when the appropriation of
$25,000 for holding treaties was exhausted, they should close
their negotiations and proceed with the discharge of their duties as agents simply, as the Department could not feel itself
justified in authorizing anticipated expenditures beyond the
amount of the appropriation made by Congress."
On the 16th July, 1851, the office wrote to Barbour, one of
-the commissioners, saying: "In the copies of treaties made
with the several Indian tribes heretofore transmitted to this
office there are provisions for delivering them sundry articles in
1851, which cannot be complied with, as Congress will not be
in session in time to make the necessary appropriations. Should
you conclude other treaties, you will fix the time and payments,
under any stipulation, at a period sufficiently in the future to
allow of Congressional action to meet the requisitions ;"
and on the 9th July, 1851, the office wrote to Wozencraft,
spealing of the "treaties you have concluded or may hereafter
negotiate," and directing him to transmit in every case the
estimate of money that will be required, &c. On August 9,
1851, after the Indian Ofice had notified the commissioners
that the "appropriation for holding treaties," was exhausted.

UNITED STATES v. McDOUGALL'S AD2I'R.
Statement of Facts.

the commissioner wrote to Redick McKee aclmowledging the
receipt of the joint letter of the commissioners, in which they
stated that the policy of furnishing "subsistence must be pursued throughout the whole state;" and in this letter of acknowledgment he made no complaint and gave no advice or
instruction to the contrary. And on September 15, 1851, he
wrote to Wozencraft acknowledging copies of treaties "and
return of expenditures, contracts, and disbursements."
On
y 17, 1852, the Indian Office wrote Agents McKee
and Wozencraft saying: ". . . I have therefore to request
that, at the earliest practicable period, you make a full and
detailed report directly to this office of all contracts, debts,
and liabilities made and incurred by the agents of the Department in California."
Agent Wozencraft negotiated over one hundred treaties.
No disapproval or complaint of the actions of the commissioners, agents, or sub-agents, who were connected with the
foregoing transactions, either by the President, Secretary of
the Interior, or Commissioner of Indian Affairs, appears.
The agent, Wozencraft, without specific instructions so to
do, made and entered into the following articles of agreement
with the late George McDmgall, who died fay 14, 1872, and
whose administrator now brings this suit: Articles of agreement entered into this fifth day of April,
A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-two, between 0. M. Wozencraft, United States Indian agent for California, of the
first part, and George McDougall of San Francisco, of the
second part.
The said party of the first part agrees to contract with the
party of the second part for two thousand and five hundred
head of cattle, to be delivered as follows, viz., one thousand
head to be delivered to Stephen Iutchinson, United States
Indian trader, resident at San Gorgonia, for the Cohaulla tribe
of Indians; five hundred head to be delivered to J. T. Ruclde,
United States Indian trader, resident at Tamacula, and one
thousand head to be delivered to the Indians at Aqua Callienti, near Womer's Ianche.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

In consideration for which the party of the first part is to
pay the party of the second part at the rate of twelve and
one-half (12j) cents per pound (weight net), the weight to be
estimated and agreed upon between the United States Indian
traders and the party of the second part.
It is further understood that if there' should be no appropriation by Congress this present session for the payment of
this contract, then the parties of the second part are to receive
fifteen and one-half cents per pound.
It is also further understood that one-half of the cattle contracted for may be "torones," at the option of the party of
the second part; and it is further understood the cattle are to
average five hundred pounds in weight each, if not, the weight
to be made up by additional cattle, so that the original estimate may be complete.
It is further understood that the delivery of the cattle is to
commence on the first of May next ensuing.
San Francisco, April 5, 1852.
0. M. WOZENCRAFT, [sEA.]
U. S. Indian Agent.
GEORGE McDOUGALL, [sFAT.]
Witness:
J. T. RU0XLE.

VII. In pursuance of this contract this decedent delivered
to J. S. Ruclde and Stephen Hutchinson, United States Indian
traders, one thousand head of catle, averaging 650 pounds
each, and took from them the following receipt:
Los ANGELES, .Aay 17, 1852.
Received of George McDougall, the contracting party for
supplying the "Cow-we-ha," "San Louis," and "Dieganian"
tribes of Indians with beef cattle, one thousand head of cattle,
averaging six hundred and fifty pounds weight each.
J. S. BUCKLE,
United States Indian Traderfor the "San Louis"
Indians and "KDieganiam."
STEPHEN HUTCINSON,
United States Indian Traderfor the " Cow-u'e-has"
Tribe of Indians.

UNITED STATES v. McDOUGALL'S ADM'R.
Statement of Facts.

The parties to whom the property was delivered were those
nominated in the contract, and were licensed United States
Indian traders, and the weight of the beef was agreed upon
by the parties designated by the contracting parties, viz., McDougall and Ruede & Hutchinson. It was customary, .at
this time, to estiiate the weight of cattle, and not to sell
them by actual weight.
The prie6 for beef at that time is shown to have been frequently as high as twenty cents per pound, by wholesale.
VIII. Claims similar to the one at bar have been paid by
the United States government 4s follows: John C. Fremont
(10 Stats: p. 804), $183,025, with interest at ten per centum
per annum from June 1, 1851; Samuel J. Hensley (12 Stat.
p. 847), $96,576; Samuel Norris, $69,900 (2 0. Cls. 155); Fremont's case, $13,333.33 (2 0. Ols. 461); Fremont & Roache's
case (4 C. Cls. 252), $46,666; Belt's case (15 C. Cls. 92).
$10,715.19.

The drafts' upon which Samuel Hensley recovered were
drawn by Wozencraft upon the Secretary of the Interior, and
-were dated February 11, 1852, and the agreement under
which the said drafts were drawn was dated February 10,
1852. The contract with Samuel Norris 'was made by same
party on December'31, 1851. The contracts upon which Belt
& Co. recovered were entered into between Belt and Subagent Johnston at various times from August 5, 1851, to January 31, 1852, and on August 12, 1851, the Interior Department
approved "of the motive which prompted him (Agent Johnston) to furnish additional subsistence to the Indians," and
informed him that an appropriation would be made.
Wozencraft reported the' arount of the government's indebtedness to McDougall as amounting to $101,500.
IX. The Indians who were dispossessed of their lands under
these treaty stipulations ceased their warfare and ever after.
remained peaceable, but never recovered possession of their
lands, although the treaties were not ratified by the Senate,
but the United States assumed title to said lands and disposed
of them in the same manner as other portions of the public
domain have been disposed of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

M3r. Attorney General and Mr.H~eber T .3ky for appellant.
Xr. Jame W. Den)er and MrM. Jon Paul Jone8 for appellee.
MN.

JUSTICE

HL&wN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question discussed by counsel is as to the liability
of the United States, under the written agreement between
McDougall and Wozencraft of April 5, 1852, for the cattle
delivered by the former. The argument in support of the
judgment below proceeds mainly, if not altogether, upon the
ground that the allowance by special acts of Congress of claims
shnilar to the one here in suit, in connection with the failure
or refusal of the proper officers to prosecute appeals from
judgments in the Court of Claims against the United States
upon contracts like the one in suit, constitute a sufficient basis,
in law, for a recovery in this case.
Tracing the history of the claims referred to, we find that,
by an act approved July 29, 1854, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed, out of any money not .otherwise appropriated, to, pay to John C. Fremont the sum of one hundred
and eighty-three, thousand eight hundred and twenty-five
dollars, with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum
from:June 1, 1853, "in full -f his account for beef delivered to
Commissioner Barbour for the use of the Indians of California
in 1851 and 1852." 10 Stat. 804.
. In Tensley's case the Court of Claims delivered an opinion,
which was transmitted to Congress February 2, 1850. H. IR.,
35th Cong., 2d Sess., R. C. Cls. No. 189.. It is immaterial to
the present inquiry that that court had no power at that time
to give a judgment for money against the United States; for,
if it had been then invested with all the jurisdiction itnow has,
the government would have succeeded. Its conclusion, upon
the whole case, was that "the United States are not legally
liable upon the contract claimed upon, because it was not made
by their authority." At the same time the court disposed of
McDougall's case -involving the identical claim presented in

UITED STATES v. M DOUGLL'S, ADM'R.

97

OpInIon of the Court.

this case- and held, upon the grounds stated in Hensley's
suit, that the United States came under no legal liability to
MIcDougall by reason of his agreement with Wozencraft, or of
anything done under it. Congress, nevertheless, made provision, by special act of June 9, 1860, to pay Hensley's claim, 12
Stat. 847, but failed or refused to make an appropriation to
pay McDougall:
Norris also sued upon a similar contract; but, for the reasons. given in Hensley's case; his- claim was also rejected.
Congress, however, by joint resolution of June 22, 1866,'
referred that claim back to the Court of Claims "for examination and allowance," and directed "that in fixing tjhe amount
to be paid the claimant, the rule shall be the actual value of
the supplies furnished at the times and places of delivery, of
which due proof shall be made by the claimant." 14 Stat.
608. In obedience to that resolution, and not because of any
change of opinion in the court as to the legal rights of Norris*
under his written.agreement with Wozencraft, the Court of
Claims gave'judgment against the United States, at its December Term, 1866, for $69,900. .-Yorris v. United States, 2 0.
Cl. 155.
Subsequently, in .Fremont v. United States, 2 0. Cl. 461,
judgment was given against the United States upon one of
this class of claims. That judgment did not proceed upon the
ground that the claimant was entitled to recover if the case
stood on the contract there in question- a contract similar to
McDougall's - but upon the ground that the foregoing acts of
Congress constituted a clear and, distinct legislative recognition of the obligation of the United States to .pay the fair
value of the subsistence furnished for the Indians, as well
under the contracts with Fremont, Hensley, and Norris, as
under similar contracts with other parties. This decision was.
followed in Fremont,&c., v. United States,4 C. Cl. 252. Finally,
in Belt v. 1?'nited States, 15 C. Cl. 92, 106, upon a review of
the circumstances connected with this class of claims, the court
below adjudged that the United States were in law liable for
the value of the subsistence furnished to Indians in California
under the ageement there in suit, and which was similar to the
voL. cxxI-7

OCTOB] R TERM, 188.
Opinion of the Court.

one of April 5, 1852, with McDougall. In none of the cases,
in which judgments were rendered against the United States,
were appeals prosecuted to this court.
The judgment in the present case was not .accompanied by
an'opinion of the court below, for the' ieason; perhaps, that the
claim of McDougall's administrator is covered by the decision
in Belt's case. After a careful examination of. the opinion in'
the latter case we are unable to find any solid ground upon
which to hold the United States legally liable upon the agreemenit between Wozencraft and. McDougall,'or for the value of
-the cattle delivered underit. That.CongresS, by special acts,
made provision for the payment of particular claims of the
same class furnishes no ground whatever' for the assumption
that the government, recognized its legal liability for theamount of such claims, much less for the amount of all other
claims of like character, Such legislation may, well furnish
the basis for an appeal -o the legislative department of the
government to place all claimants, of the same class, upon an
equality. But we are aware.of no principle of law that would
justify a court in treating the allowance by Congress of particular claims as a recognition by the government of its liability upon every demand of - like character in;the hands of
claimants. We may properly .take judicial notice of the fact
that many claims against the United States cannot be enforced
by suit, but provision' for which may, and upon grounds of
equity and justice ought to be, made by special legislation.
But the discretion which Congress has in such matters would
be'very seriously trammelled, if the doctrine should be established, that it cannot appropriate money to pay particular
claims, except at the-risk of thereby recognizing the legal
liability of the United States for the amount of other claims
of the same general class.
The same considerations apply to the suggestion that the
liability of the United States to McDougall's administrator, as
upon contract, may arise from the failure or refusal- of their
law officers to prosecute appeals from judgments. against the
'government in suits brought by other parties, holding similar
claims. The question to be determined is, not whether the

UNITED

STATES v. McDOUGALL'S

ADI'R.

- Opiuion of the Court.

representatives of the government have heretofore been guilty
of neglect in not prosecuting such appeals, but whether, in the
ease in hand; the'plaintiff has a valid claim in law against'the
United States.
Coming then to the inquiry whether the United States. is
legally liable on the contract between Wozencraft andI Mc.Dougall, we are met at the threshold by the fact, found by
the court below, that although the instructions to Wozencraft
and his colleagues did not extend to or embrace contracts for
the ubsistence of the Indian tribes in California, they yet
pursued the policy of providing for such subsistence in advance
of the ratification by the Senate of treaties made with those
tribes. That such a policy was, under all the circumstances,
vital to the ends which those in charge of Indian affairs desired to accomplish, may be conceded under the facts found
by the Court of. Claims; and it may be that, information of
the proceedings of Wozencraft and his colleagues in making
coiftracts for the supply of the Indians with provisions, beef,
&c., and in all other respects, was giVen to the pioper department at Washington, and that what they did was either
approved or was not'repudiated. While all this may be,
admitted, the, question comes back upon us, what statute, in
express words or by necessary implication, invested Wozencraft with power to bind the United States by such a contract
as that made with McDougall, even had he been previously
directed or authorized by the Interior Department to make cnntracts of that character in holding treaties with the Indians.?
It is suggested that such aiithority may be found in the act
of June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. '735, c. 162, the l3th section of which
provided that "all merchandise required by any Indian treaty
for the Indians, payable after making of such treaty, shall be
purchased under the direction of the Secretary of War [afterwards changed to Secretary of the Interior, 9 Stat. 395, c. 108,
§ 5], upon- proposals to be received, to be based on notices previously to be given; and all merchandise required at the
making of any Indian treaty shall, be purchased under the
orders of the commissioners, by such persons as they shall
appoint, or by such persons as shall be designated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

President for that purpose; and all other purchases on account
of the Indians, and all payments to them of money or goods,
shall be made by such person as the President shall designate
for that purpose.

.

.

.

And the superintendent, agent, or

sub-agent, together with such military officer as the President
may direct, shall be present and certify to the delivery of all
goods and money required to be paid or delivered to the Indians." The 7ith section of the same act provides that "it shall
be the general duty of Indian agents and sub-agents to manage
and superintend the intercourse with the Indians within their
respective agencies agreeably to law; to obey all legal instruc:
tions given to them by the Secretary of War [afterwards
changed to Secretary of the Interior], the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs, or the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and
to carry into effect such regulations as may be prescribed by
the President." These statutory provisions, it is argued, conferred authority upon officers of the executive department to
purchase, without limit as to amount, "merchandise required.
to the making of any Indian treaty," and invested the President, through others, with power as well to make "other
purchases on account of the Indians," as to make "payments
to them of inoney or goods."
This, in our judgment, is too broad a construction of the
statute. Congress 'did not intend to invest the President or
the head of a department, or any officer of the government,
with unrestricted authority in the making of treaties with
Indians, or in regulating intercourse with them, to purchase
merchandise for them, or to make payments of money or
goods to them. It appropriated certain sums to enable the
President- to hold treaties with the various Indian tribes in
California. To the extent of such appropriations the President, through persons designated by him, could purchase merchandise, required in the making of a treaty, and could make
payment of money or goods on account of the Indians. But
no officer of the government was authorized to bind the
United States by any contract for the subsistence of Indians
not based upon appropriations made by Congress. It is not
claimed that the agreement between Wozencraft and -Mc-

UNITED STATES v. McDOUGALL'S ADW'R
Opinion of the Court.

Dougall was made with reference to such appropriations. On
the contrary, Wozencraft and his colleagues were informed by
a communication from the Indian office, under date of Ruie
27, 1851, that "when the appropriation of $25,000 for holding
-treaties was exhausted, they should close their negotiations
and proceed with the discharge of their duties as agents siniply, as the Department could not feel itself justified in authorizing anticipated expenditures beyond the amount of the
appropriation made by Congress." The findings show that
when the written agreement with McDougall was made, Wozencraft and his colleagues knew that the appropriations had
been exhausted. Besides, the contract on its face shows that
it was made with reference to appropriations to be thereafter
made. The parties evidently relied upon Congress'recognizing the wisdom and necessity of the policy adopted for the
pacification of the Indians in California, and, by legislation,
supplying the want of authority upon the part of Wozencraft
and his colleagues to contract, in behalf of the'TUnited States,
for the subsistence *of the Indians in advance of the ratification of the treaties negotiated with them. That the policy
pursued by Wozencraft and his colleagues was the only one
that would have given peace to the inhabitants of California;
that the Indians were induced by the promises of subsistence
held out to them to abandon their lands to the whites, and
settle upon reservations selected for them ; and that the United
States thereby acquired title to the lands so abandoned, are
considerations to be addressed to Congress in support of a
special appropriation to pay the claim of YcDougall's administrator. They do not, in our judgmuent, establish or tend to
establish, a claim against the United States enforcible by suit.
It appears, from the finding of facts, that McDougall did not
die until after the expiration of nearly twenty years from the
time his claim accrued, nor until after more than nine years
from the passage of the act giving jurisdiction to the Court of
Claims of suits against the United States founded upon conract, express or implied. It is stated that McDougall's claim
was pending in the Interior Department at the time of his death
in 18T2. When itwas presented to that Department i not

OCTOBER- TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

stated. It may not have been so presented until after the
expiration of the period within which it would have been cognizable by the Court of Claims, had suit been.brought thereon
without first filing the claim in the Department. Whether, in
that event, the bar of limitation was removed by the mere
fact that the claim was transmitted to the court below by the
Interior Department, is a matter upoii which we express no
opinion.. No such question is formally raised, and, in'view of
the conclusion reached, it is -not necessary to determine it..
We rest our decision solely upon the ground that the contract
of April 5, 1882, imposed no legal obligation upon the United
States.
ne jidgment
reversed, witk direotions to dismiss the

ROYALL v. VTRGINIk
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPkAL.

OF THE STATE OF

VIRGfNUA.
Argued Match 18, 1887.-Decided March 28,1887.

An information being filed against Royall for practising as a lawyer without having first obtained a revenue license, he pleaded-payment of the
license fee partly in a coupon cut from a bond issued by the State of
Virginia under the provisions of the act of March 30, 1871, and partly in
cash. The Commonwealth demurred to this plea. Held: that the demurrer admitted that the coupon was genuine and bore on Its face the
contract of the state to receive it in payment of taxes, &c., anal that this
showed a good tender and brought the case within the ruling in Royall
v. Virginia, 116 U. S.572.

Ow the 9th of February, 1887, an information was filed in
the. Husting's. Court of Richmond, Virginia, against .Royall
that he "unlawfully did, practise his profession as a lawyer in
the courts of this Commonwealth, by prosecuting and defending actions and other proceedings without haying first
obtained the revenue license required by law so to do." To
this Royall-pleaded -asfollows:

