SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

017

Opinion of the Court.

shells called "rose murex," "motto cowries," "banded snails,"
" Japan ears," "turbo shells," "red ears," and "pearl snails."
The same conclusion is arrived at as in the Wiegmann case,

and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 19, 1887. -Decided May 2, 1887.

The first claim in letters-patent No. 127,933, granted to the Buffalo Dental
Manufacturing Company as assignee of George B. Snow, June 11, 1872,
for a new and useful improvement in steam bell-ringers is limited to a
combination in which the piston and piston-rod are detached from each
other, and is not infringed by the use of steam bell-ringers constructed
and operated in conformity to the drawings and specifications of letterspatent granted August 25, 1871, to Charles H. Hudson for- a new and
useful improvement in steam bell-ringing apparatus.

Tins was a bill in equity to restrain an alleged infringement of letters-patent.
Decree dismissing the bill, from
which tihe complainants appealed. The case is stated in the

opinion of the court.
A&. James A. Allen for appellants.
Ar. George Payson for appellee.
Mit. JusTIcE M.AITHEws delivered the -opinion of the court..

The appellants, who were complainants below, filed their
bill in equity August 7,1882, against the defendant, to restrain the alleged infringement of letters-patent No.127,933,
granted to the Buffalo Dental Manufacturing Company, as
assignee of George B. Snow, on June 11, 1872, for a new and

OCTOBER TER3M,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

useful improvement in steam bell-ringers; the Buffalo Dental
Manufacturing Company being a joint stock association under
the laws of the state of New York, of which the appellants
were the sole officers, directors, shareholders, associates, and
persons in interest. The specifications, with drawings annexed, of this patent are as follows:
"Specification describing certain Improvements in Steam
Bell-Ringing Apparatus, invented by George B. Snow, of Buffalo, in the county of Erie, state of New York.
"This invention relates to the construction of a steam bellringer in such a manner as to prevent any apparent leakage,
either of water or steam, without resorting to the use of
stuffing-boxes; and, also, to cause the admission and release
of the steam directly by the motion of the piston, and without the use of any intermediate parts between the piston and
valves.
"CReferringto the annexed draing,-Figure 1 [page 620] is
an elevation of the device as applied to the bell of a locomotive.
Fig. 2 [page 621] is a vertical section of the steam-cylinder on
the plane a b, on an enlarged scale.

"A is a single-acting steam-cylindet, connected to the crank
B on the bell-yoke by the slotted rod 0. This rod should be
of such a length that the piston G will be forced to the bottom of the cylinder as the crank B passes its lower centre, the
slot through which the crank-pin passes being long enough to
allow the crank to pass its upper centre freely, notwithstanding the disproportion between the throw of the crank B and
the length of stroke of the piston-rod D. The piston G is disconnected from its rod D, to prevent any lateral strain being
communicated to it, thereby decreasing to some extent the
wear of the piston in the cylinder. The piston should be
considerably longer than its length of stroke. The pistonrod D passes through a sleeve in the cylinder-cover I, which
should be long enough to steady it and act as a guide, and is
limited in its upward motion by the collar ci. E is a conical
exhaust-valve, seating upward against the bottom of the piston G. F is the steam-valve, also conical, and seating upward, containing within itself the tail of the exhaust-valve E,

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

619

Opinion of the Court.

such an amount of motion being permitted between the two
that the steam-valve F will be raised to its seat and the exhaust-valve E be opened as the piston approaches the upper
end of its stroke. Exhaust-passages 21 m are formed in the
piston G, which communicate with the holes m!in the side of
the cylinder by means of annular grooves turned in the side
of the piston, the openings m' being of such a nunber and so
disposed as to insure a constant communication with the passage M. The thimble Hi forms an annular space around the
cylinder, from i-hich the steam escapes through the passage 0.
If the piston is closely fitted, it will wear a long time withinvery
the
little leakage, and what there may be will be caught
annular grooves in the side of the piston, and passed at once
through the exhaust-passages m', thus preventing -any leakage
around the piston-rod D. It is advisable to use a packing of
a single ring at the lower part of the piston, not so much to
avoid leakage as to sustain the piston at the upper end of its
stroke by the elasticity of the ring, until it is brought to the
bottom of the cylinder by the return swing of the bell.
"The bell being set in motion, the crank B drives the piston
to the bottom of the cylinder, closing the exhaust-valve and
forcing open the steam-valve, admitting steam to the cylinder
from the space S. As the piston is driven upward the exhaustvalve is carried with it, and as the piston approaches the end of
its stroke the steam-valve is also raised to its seat, after which
the exhaust-valve is opened. As the pressure is relieved, the
exhaust-valve drops, leaving the passage X entirely clear during the return stroke, which is made by the momentum of the
bell on its return.
"The arrangement of valves shown is not essential, as the
exhaust-valve may be placed in a cavity in the body of the
cylinder opening into the exhaust-passage, and both the steam
and exhaust-valves be closed by the direct impulse of the
steam, the openings m' being made low enough in the cylinder
to allow the piston to pass them at the upper end of the
stroke; or, by using a piston in the form of an invetted cup,
the steam and exhaust may be worked through openings in
the side of the piston and cylinder, the expansion of the steam

620

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

621

Opinion of the Court.

D

l0

*doing the work. The disadvantage of the first of these plans
is, that the valves are closed so violently that they soon wear
out; of the second, the difficulty of getting rid of water of
condensation.
"Having thus fully described my device, I claim as my invention -

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Couit.

1. The combination of the cylinder A, piston G, piston-rod
D, slotted rod C, and crank B, when constructed and operated
substantially as described.
"2. The combination of the valves E and F, both seating
upward, with the piston G and passages _Y m m' for the purpose of admitting steam to and exhausting it from under the
piston G, substantially as described."
The infringement alleged is of the first claim only, and consists in the use by the defendant below of steam bell-ringers
constructed and operated in conformity to the drawings and
specifications of letters-patent granted August 25, 1874, No.
154,394, to Charles H. Hudson for a new and useful improvement in steam bell-ringing apparatus. The specifications and
illustrative drawings of that patent are as follows:
"To all w~wm, itmay concern :
"Be it known that I, Oharles H. Hudson, of the city and
county of Dubuque, Iowa, have invented a new and useful
improvement in steam bell-'ringing apparatus, of which the
following is a specification:
"This invention relates to steam-engines, designed for ringing bells on locomotives and in other places; and consists in
the construction and arrangement of parts, as hereinafter described, and specifically indicated in the claim.
"In the'accompanying drawings, Figure 1 [page 623] represents a vertical section of Fig. 2 on the line -- x; and Fig. 2
[page 623] is a horizontal section taken on the line y y, Fig. 1.
"Similar letters of reference indicate corresponding parts..
"This bell-ringing engine may be worked with either steam
or air.
"A is the cylinder; B the piston. 0 is the piston-rod. D is
the valve-ring. E is a rod, which is hinged to the piston-rod
at the point F. This rod E slides in the tube G, which is attached to the bell-crank. This connection is such that the
lower end of the tube G will be at the shoulder H when the
bell-crank is at the lowest point, and the piston at the bottom
of the stroke. The movement of the tube upon the rod E will
allow the bell to be turned over and the bell-craik to go to its
highest point freely, while the piston is at the lowest point.

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

023

Opinion of the Court.

*0

"I is the exhaust-port; J the inlet-port. The valve-ring D
is so arranged in regard to the ports, that the movement of the
piston to the lowest point moves the valve-ring down, and
closes the exhaust and opens the inlet port. When the piston
moves to the other end of the stroke the ring is moved in the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

other direction, and the inlet is closed arid the exhaust is
opened. K is the inlet-passage. L is the exhaust-passage. M
is a small opening into the exhaust-passage, to allow any steam
which may pass the piston to escape. 0 0 are ports or passages in the lower head of the double piston, to permit the
steam (or air, if used) to act against the lower head of the
cylinder.
"When the bell is in motion, the bell-crank will press the
tube down on the rod and force the piston to the bottom of
the stroke, and thereby close the exhaust and open the inlet
ports. When the crank has passed the centre of the stroke,
the steam admitted by the movement of the valve-ring presses
the piston up and throws up the bell. The tube-connection
allows the bell-crank to move freely upward after the piston
has reached the end of its stroke, cut off the steam, and open
the exhaust-port. The-return swing of the bell is followed by
the same action of the parts.
"N is a small set-screw in the tube G, the end of which enters a groove, or acts agaihst a flat side of the rod E, to prevent the piston-rod from turning. Any other suitable device
may be adopted for the purpose.
"I do not claim, broadly, the combination of a valve-ring
with a piston and cylinder for cutting off admission and escape
of steam alternately; but,
"Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and
desire to secure by letters-patent "In combination with the vertical cylinder A, having inlet
and exhaust ports K J and I L m, the double piston B having
openings or passages 0 0 in its lower head, and the valve-ring
D, arranged below the upper head thereof, as shown and described, to bperate as specified."
The question of infringement turns upon the construction to
be given to the first claim of the patent sued on, to determine
which it is necessary to consider the state of the art at the time
of its date. This is shown by a prior patent issued to Snow,
No. 11,307, dated July 11, 1854, and which had expired before
the granting of the patent sued on.
The specifications and accompanying drawings of that pat.are as follows:

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY' CO.

625

Opinion of the Court.

".To whom t m y concer:
"Be it known that I, G. B. Snow, of Buffalo, in the county
of Erie and State of New York, have invented a new and useful method of employing steam to ring the .bells of locomotives,

and other bells; and I do hereby declare that the following is
a full, clear, and exact description of the same, reference being
had to the accompanying drawings forming part of this specification, in which "Fig. 1 is a longitudinal vertical section of the apparatus I
employ applied to a bell
voL. cxx--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"Fig. 2 is a plan of the same.

"1Similar letters of reference indicate corresponding parts in
both figs.
"My invention relates to the application of steam powettto
the ringing of the bell, and it consists of a novel combination

and arrangement of a direct acting engine with the bell in
such a manner-that the bell; being swung by the engine in one
direction, is allowed to swing in the opposite direction by its
own gravity and momentum, and is caused thus continuously,
automatically, to work with the same freedom, but greater

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

027

Opinion of the Court.

regularity and consequent increased clearness of note, as is
obtained by the ordinary manual process of ringing.
"To enable others to make and use my invention I will -pro-*
ceed to describe its construction and operation:
"A in the drawing is the bell, which is suspended by a yoke,
B, of the usual kind, furnished with a lever, C, for the purpose
of ringing it. D is the steam-cylinder, which is placed in a
suitable position for its piston E to connect with the yoke, and
by its movement to swing the bell. The bore of the cylinder
for a locomotive engine would require to be of a diameter about
one and a quarter (1J) inches, and of a length about four and
a half (4-) inches. The piston-rod F works through a stuffingbox at one end of the cylinder, which is closed, and it carries a
cross-head, G, which works on a fixed guide-rod, H. The other
end of the cylinder is open to the atmosphere. At the closed'
end of the cylinder there is a valve-box or steam-chest, K,
which receives a steam-pipe, c, from the boiler, and has a steamport, a, leading to the cylinder and an exhaust-port, b, leading
to the atmosphere. The slide-valve I which this valve-box
contains ,has a rod, e, passing through a stuffing-box and furnished with two tappets, d d', between which it is embraced by
a fork on the cross-head G. These tappets are adjusted so
that the fork shall come in contact with th6m to open or close
the 'team-port at the proper time, and thus regulate the movement of the piston. The cross-head is connected with the lever
C of the bell-yoke B by a chain, J.
"Fig. 1 of the drawing represents the steam-port a open,
and the steam acting on tbe piston, which has nearly terminated its stroke, owing to the cross-head having come in contact with the tappet d' and being about to move the valve to
close the steam-port and open the exhaust-port. As soon as
the steam is shut off and the momentum of the bell is spent
the latter will swing back, drawing with it the piston, until
the cross-head strikes the tappet d and'moves the valve far
enough to open the steam-port and close the exhaust-port,
when the motion of the bell will be again reversed.
"The motion which is thus given to the bell is precisely
similar to that produced in ringing by hand, and could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Coult.

be produced by the direct application of steam power to swing
it in both directions, whi6h mist produce too positive a moti*on
and could not allow it to swing with the same freedom as
when the power is only applied in one direction and the bell
is allowed to return under the influence of gravitation alone.
"I do not claim of itself as new ringing bells by the application of steam power, as such, in a positive manner, by rigidly
connecting the engine with the bell in both directions of the
swing of the latter, has befor6 been done, nor do I claim the
several devices herein named individually as new, but I do
claim as new and useful, and desire to secure by letters-patent,
the manner herein described of ringing the bell by the application of steam power and the gravity and momentum of the
boll'combined'by means of the direct acting engine attached
by chain, or other equivalent mechanical device, to the bell,
and arranged, combined, and operating with the bell as specified, and so that the bell is swung in one direction by the
engine and then let loose or free to swing back inthe opposite
direction by its own gravity and momentum to produce the
ring or sound, and the steam alternately admitted to and
exhausted from the engine by the action of the engine and
movement of the bell combined, substantially as specified,
and whereby the same freedom in the swing of the bell to
produce a long and clear sound, as is produced by the ordinary
manual process, but with greater regularity and consequent
increased cle~amess of note, is automatically obtained, as
herein set forth."
On final hearing in the Circuit Court, the bill was dismaissed
for the reasons stated by the circuit judge in his opinion, as
follows:
"Although the complainants' -patent of June 11, 1872,
sugests the principal and the most valuable parts of the combination found in the defendant's steam bell-ringer, the plain
and explicit language of the specification requires a construction of the first claim which will enable the defendant to escape
liability as an infringer. The first claim must be limited to a
combination in which the piston and piston-rod arp detached
from each other.

SNOW v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILWAY CO.

629

Opinion of the Court.

"The patentee doubtless considered that the detachment
of the piston and piston-rod would assist materially in effecting one of the two expressed objects of his invention, viz., the
prevention of leakage of steam. To prevent the escape of
steam around the piston-rod, he proposed to confine the steam
behind the piston instead of introdcing it into the cylinder
in front of the piston, as was done in his earlier invention.
Accordingly, he located the steam passages behind the piston,
and adopted a tightly fitting piston; 'and, in order that the
piston might remain tight, he adopted a detached piston-rod
to relieve the piston from lateral strain. The specification
states that ' the piston is diicomiected from its rod to prevent
any lateral strain being communicated to it,
thereby decreasing, to some extent, the wear of the piston in the cylinder;'
and further, 'if the piston is closely fitted,it will wear a long
time with very little leakage, and what .there may be will be
caught in the annular grooves in the side of the piston and
passed at once through the exhaust passages, thus preventing'
any leakage -through the piston-rod.' The drawings show a
detached piston-rod, and all the coperative devices are conformed and adjusted to a detached rod, such as the long sleeve
in the cylinder, to guide it, and the collar on the end of the
rod to limit its movements.
"It is impossible to ignore the particular construction of
these two parts which is thus pointed out as material. As the
defendant's bell-ringer does not contain such-a piston or piston-rod, infringement is not shown. The bill is therefore
dismissed." 18 Fed. Rep. 602.
On this appeal, it is argued on behalf of the appellants, that
this construction of their patent is too narrow; and it is now
contended thal the detachment of the piston and piston-rod is
not an essential part of the description and claim of the invention patented. We cannot, however, but agree with the circuit judge, that the language of the specification limits the
first claim to a combination in which the piston and pistonrod are detached from each other. In describing his invention
in the introductory part of the specification, the patentee manifestly divides it into two parts; the first relates "to the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

struction of a.steam bell-ringer in such a manner as to prevent
any apparent leakage, either of water or steam, without resorting to the use of stuffing-boxes;" the second, "to cause the
admission and release of the steam directly by the motion of
the piston, and without the use of any intermediate. parts
between the piston and valves." The first claim covers the
first part of this invention by "the combination of the cylinder
A, piston G, piston-rod D, slotted rod C, and crank B, when
constructed and operated substantially as described." The
second claim, which we need not further consider here, because not involved in the case,, covers the second part of the
invention.
In the description of the device, with reference to the drawings, the specification says: "The piston G is disconnected
fromn its rod D, to prevent any lateral strain being .communi7
cated to it, thereby decreasing to some extent the wear of the
piston in the cylinder."
It is not admissible to adopt the argunent made on behalf
of the appellants, that this language is to be tfalen as a mere
recommendation by the patentee of the manner in which he
prefers to arrange these parts of his machine. There is nothing in the context to indicate that the patentee contemplated
any alternative for the arrangement of the piston and pistonrod. The arrangement of the valves, as shown in the drawings, he declared not to be essential, and explained how they
might be otherwise adjusted, and the comparative advantage
and disadvantage of those plans; but no such language is used
in reference to the connection between the piston and its-rod.
And when we compare the device as described in the specifications of the patent sued on with that of the patent of 1851, in
which it was necessary to use' stuffing-boxes, and consider that
one of the express objects expected to be accomplished by the
improvement contained in the patent of 1872 was to prevent
leakage of water or steam without resort to stuffing-boxes, the
conclusion seems unavoidable that the patentee intended the
detachment of the piston from its rod- asan essential part of
the combination to be covered, by the first claim.
The decre 'of the Circuit .Court is therefore
.Affirmed.

