MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.

325'

Statement of Facts.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UlITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued March 8, 9,10,11,1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.
It does not satisfactorily appear that the grant of Governor Armijo of"1841
to Beaubien and Miranda, since ascertained to amount to 1,714,764.94:
acres, was of that character which, by the decree of the Mexican Con
gress of 1824, was limited to eleven square leagues of land for each
grantee.
It does appear that, though the attention of Congress was turned to' this
question, it confirmed the grant in the act of June 21, 1860, to the full
extent of the boundaries as described in the petition of claimants.
In such case the courts have no jurisdiction to limit the grant, as the Cbnstitution, by Article IV, § 1, vests the control of the public lands
in Congress. Tameling v. United States .Freehold Go., 93 U. S. 644.
While courts of equity have the power to set aside, cancel, or correct
patents or other evidences of title obtained from the United States by
fraud or mistake, and-to correct under proper circumstances such mistakes, this can only be done on specific averments of thq mistake or the
fraud, supported by clear and satisfactory proof.
The general doctrine on this subject is, that, when in a court of equity it is
proposed to set aside, to annul, or correct a written instrument, for
fraud or mistake in the execution of the instrument itself, the testimony
on which this is done must be clear, unequivocal and convincing, and it
cannot be done upon a bare Dreponderance of evidence which leaves the
issue in doubt.
Where the purpose is to annul a patent, a grant, or other formal evidence
of title from the United States, the respect due to such an instrument,
the presumption that all the preceding steps required bylaw had been
observed, the importance and necessity of the stability of titles dependent on these official instruments, demand that the effort to set them
aside should be successful only when the allegations on which this. at-tempt is made are clearly stated and fully proved.
In this case the evidence produces no conviction In the judicial mind of the
mistakes or frauds alleged in the bill, and the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing it Is affirmed.

TEm United States filed this bill in equity tc set aside a
patent dated May 19, 18,79, granting to Charles Beaubien and
Guadalupe Miranda, 1,714,764.94 acres of land in New Mexico
and Colorado. The location of the land! is shown on Map

OCTOBER TERM, 188&.
Statement of Facts. ,

No. , in the opinion of the court. After. the taking of proof
by complainant -an auiended bill was filed December 5, 1883.
The respondents demurred, and the demurrer being overruled
"answered, and, after hearing, the bill was dismissed. From
this decree the United States appealed.
The Republic of Mexico.in 1841 made a grant, of land to
Beaubien and Miranda, acconipanied by juridical possession,
according to the forms of Mexican law. A sketch of the
official disefio, forming part of the giving of possession is .in
the opinion of the court, Map No. 1. The description will be
found in the opinion of the court, post, 361.
On the -15th of September, 1857, the surveyor general of
New Mexico, pursuant to § 8 of the act of Congrqss of July
22, 1854, establishing the office of surveyor general of New,
Mexico, &c., reported the grant to Congress for confirmation
as "a good and valid grant according tothe.laws 'and customs
of the Government of the Republic of Mexico. and the decisions of. the Supreme Court of. the United States, as well as
the treaty of Guadalupe-Hidago." The grant was accordingly confirmed, as recommended by the surveyor" generalJune 21, 1860, 12 Stat. 71.
in 1869, having previously become the proprietor of the
grant, Maxwell applied to the land depAtment for its survey,
claiming that it comprised about 2,000,000 acres lying partly.
in Colorado, but mainly in New Mexico. The matter of the,
survey was in due course tak6n to the Secretary of theInterior, and on the 31st of December, 1869, Secretary Cox decided that the confirmed grant was limited to two tracts 'of.
. eleven square leagues each. In 1871, the Maxwell Land-'
Grant and Railway Company, having meantime become the
owner of the grant, renewed the application for a survey and
.patent under the claim as pit forth by Maxwell in 1869: this
application was refused by Secretary Delano upon the ground
that the decision'of Secretary Cox was final as to the extent
of the grant so far as the Executive Departments were concerned. In March, 1877, the Maxwell L and-Grant and Railway Company made another application for a patent upon -the
claim of lcality and extent as theretofore. A survey was.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT -.CASE.'

.327

.Afimnent for Aopellant.

ordered and executed the sanme' year, anal the patent issued'
under the survey.May 19, 1879.
I ThesQ were the facts as claimed by the United States, and
in this court their counsel maintained that the decree dismiss-,
mg the bill was erroneous i the following respects:
cFirst. The grant of. the Republic of Mexico could nbt
'under Mexican .laws, exceed altogether twenty-two, square
leagues, equivalent to 97,424.8 acres of land, to be found
within the outboundaries designated,
';Yecond. Th repQrt of the surveyor general of September
17, 1857; recommended the*grant for confirmation -for no
greater quantity of land than twenty-two square leagues.
" Third. The confirmatory act of June 21, 1860, did not
operate as a grant d novo for the land in excess- of twentytwo square leagues.
"Fourth. The survey under which the patent issued and
the patent itself, included, in addition to the twenty-twb
square leagueg, many hundred thousand acres within th put%oundaries designated in the grant proceedings, not included
in the grantas confirmed, and also several hundred thousand
acres (about 400,000) lying upon the outside of the eastern
and northern outboundaries, also not included in the eonfirmed grant.
* '"Fifth. The patent was issued by the officers of the Land
Department to include the lands within the outboundaries
set down in the. grant proceedings, in excess of twenty-two
square leagues, inadvertently and by mistake caused by ignorance of the law and of their authority in- the premises; and
to include the. lands outside the outboundaries, inadvertently,
and by mistake produced by the frauds and deceits practised
upon the Commissioner of the General Land Office by the
owners of the grant and their agents, and by Surveyor General Spencer, and the deputy United States surveyors, Elkins
and Marmon, in the interest of such owners.
.Y. Asistant Attorney General Mawry for appellant.
,The grant to Beaubien and Miranda is a Mfexican grant and
not a United States, grant. Since the cha ge of sovereignty:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Mr. Maury's Argument'for Appellant.

it has never been.treated as aything but a Mexican granf,
pure and simple.
The surveyor-general who passed upon it under the eighth
section of the. act of July 22, 1854, in his report recommending the confirmation of the grant, commends it to Congress as
"a good and valid grant aceordingto the laws and customs of
the Government of the Republic of .Mexico. and the decisiaoi8
f the Supreme Court of the United States as well as the
treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo of February 2, 1848, and is
therefore confirmed to Charles Beaubien and 0uadalupe ,'iVanda, and is transmitted for the action of Congress in the
premises." And Congress, in passing on this grani by the act
a1pproved June 21, 1860, expressly confirms the Same "as
,recomiendedfor conJfmation by the surveyor general" of
New Mexico.
IBeing a Mexican grant in the beginning, and subject to the.
laws and customs of Mexido, it is for this court to determine
whether there exists any authorized process of .ev6lution, by
which this original Mexican grant of twenty-two square
•leagues to Beaubien and Miranda. could have grown and expanded into the princely domain covered by the patent. Certainly there is nothing in the treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo
that wArrants the exaggeratio n which has been given to this
grant, 'for the treaty merely provides for the protection of
persons and property in the ceded territory, which, indeed; is
no more than is guaranteed by the law of nations in such
cases. That there is nothing in the laws of Mexico or the
United States that justifies the exaggeration complained of,
we shall now proceed to show.
One of the earliest things done by the govermhent of Meexico after throwing off the Spanish yoke, was to -adopt the" decree or law of the 18th of August, 1824, for the colonizatibn
of the public domain, and the regulations of 1828, authorized
by that decree or law, for carrying it into effect. It cannot be denied, without ignoring the repeated decisions of this
court, that the grant to Beaubien and Miranda was subject
to the decree and regulations just nentioned, and, consequently, that it, in common with all grant3 of the public

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Maury's 4rgument for Appellant.

domain oT Mexico, not made to emprnesamos or contractors
'stipulating to introduce and colonize many families on the
land granted as a consideration for the grant, was, when made,
subject to the limitation imposed by the 12th article of the
decree or law of the 18th of August, 1824, which is in these
words: "It shall not be permitted to unite, in the same hands,
with' the right of property, more than one league square of
land, suitable for irrigation, four square leagues in superficies,
of arable land, without the facilities of irrigation, and six
square leagues * superficies, of grazing land," making in all
eleven square leagues as the maximum quantity that'could be
covered by a grant to any one person not an empresario. In
'Fan Jeynegan v. Bolton, 95 U. S. 33, which was an action of
ejectment, based on a title derived from Mexico, the court
says: :" The grant is not set forth in the record; but we must
presume that it was in the ordinary form of grants made by
former governors of California, under the Mexican coloniiation law of 1824, as 'under no other law were those governord
empowered to make.e rants of the publlc domain." In United
States v. Vigil, 13 Wall. 449-451, this court says: "It has.
been 'epeafd7y decided by this court,that the only laws, in force
in the territories of .3exico for the disposition of the public
lands, 'with the exceptions of those relating to missions and.
towns, are the act of the .fexeican Congress of 1824 and the
.'regulations of 1828." The same doctrine is lad down or
recognized in the following cases: Fremontv. United States,
17 How. 542; United .States v. Cambuston,20 How. 59;- United
States v. Workman, 1 Wall. '745; UnitedStates.v. Jones, 1 Wall.
766; United States v. Hartnell, 22 How. 286; United States v,
.D'Aguirre,1 Wall. 311; United States v. Pico, 5 Wall. 536;
United States v. Vigil, 13 Wall. 449; Colrauo County v. Cornmissioners,95 U. S. 259; United States v. Falejo, 1 'Black, 541
Horns&y v. United States, 10 Wall. 224.
Turning now to the petition of Beaubien and Miranda
asking for the grant, we find that, after indulging in certain, general observations about the physical and moral development and improvement of the particular region wherein
they~desired-to seat the solicited grant, the say: "Under the

330

OCTOBER- TER,

1886:

Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellanu.

above conviction we both request y6ur excellencjr to be pleasd',
to grant us a ,tract of laiid for the purpose of.improving it,
'%without ijury to any third party,' and raising sugar beets,
'whichwebelieve will grojy Fell and produce an abundant
crop, and in time to, establish manufactories of. cotton and
w6ol and raising stok of every description." They then go:
on to describe' the locality of the solicited grant by reference
to natural 'objects.
It. is thus perfectly obvious, tha this grant is one of the
ordinary Mexican grants to colonists, and ,is
marked by no
-feature to distinguish -it in principle from the gtants passed
.upon by this court iii. th6 cases above referred to or to take it
out of the operation of the 12th article of the colonization act
'of. 1824. "The conclusion, then;is inevitable, that at the tinie
of 'the conquest and cession it was not possible for Beaubien
'and Miranda to lay claim to more than eleven square leagues
,e~ch, according to the land measure adopted by thi§. bourt in.
the .United States v: Perot,,98 U. S. 428, 430:
. f, then, the grant has, expanded to the gigantic proportions
of the patent, it must, have been because the United 8tates
has not only confirmed the grant as made by Mexico, but has
enlarged it with a prodigal hand. It becomes necessary, then,
to inquire whether anything has been done by the United
'State since the conquest and cession to warrant the contention
that the grant has been enlarged as well as confirmed.
To remove all doubt as to land titles in New Mexico,
clainied to be founded on- Spanish or Mexican grants, Congress, by an act approved the 22d July, 1854, proviie4. (§ 1)
for the appointment of a surveyor general for that territory,
'and further provided (§ 8): That, it shall be the duty of the
surveyor general, under such instructions as may be given by'
the Secretary of, the Interior, to ascertain the origin, nature,
character, and ext~fit of all claims, to lands under the laws,
usages, and customs of Syain and .exeoi
; and for this pur-,
pose may issue notices, summon witnesses, administer oaths,
-and do and perform all other necessary acts in the premises.
He shall make a full report'on all suck claims as originated
before the cession of the erritory to'the United States by the
-

, MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Maury!s Argument for Appellant.

treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, of eighteen hundred and fortyeight, denoting the various grades of titles, with"his decision
as to the.validity or invalidity of each'of the same under the

laws, usages, and customs of the country before its cession 4o
the United States.... Such report to be made according to.
the form which may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior; which report shall be laid before Congress for such
action thereon as'may be deemed just and proper, with a view
to congulfr bonafld. grants, and give full eect to the treaty of
eighteen hundredandforty-eight, bettoeen the United ,States and
Mexico.
If anything is plain, it is that Congress intended to respect
only such claims to land as should be valid "under the laws,
usages, and customs of Spain, and .Mexico;" and that the
power.of the surveyor general to make inquisition into land
titles should be limited to those "laws, usages, and customs,"
and that it should be his duty to report to, Congress, through
the Secretary of the Interior, his decision as to the validity
or invalidity of such' titles, according to those "laws, usages,
and customs." It is equally clear that Congress reserved to
itself a revisory jurisdiction Over the decisions of the surveyor
general for "such action thereon as may be deemed just aiad
proper, with a view to oonfiirm bona fde grants and give full
effect to the treaty'ofeighteen hundred andforty-eight, between
the United States and Afexico."
Congress having therefore limited its appellate function to
the confirmation or rejection of grants, good or invalid, according to the "laws, wsages, and customs of the country," and protected by the treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, it -may be safely
said to be impossible to understand that Congress, in confirming a claim reported valid by the surveyor general, could have
meant to do more than confirm the same as it ekisted at the
time of the cession under "the laws, usages,- and customs")
then*in force, it being to be conclusively presumed, in' every
case of this description, that Congress acted within the limitations imposed on itself by the 8th section of the act of 1854
(supra), and no language used by it, while avowedly exercising its revisory power over the- decision of the surveyor

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1886. '
Mr. Maury's Argumeut for Appellant.

general,,can be held to-import an intention:to augment as wellas confirm a. Spanish or Mexican grant unless so explicft las t&
convel that, sense. This brings us to a consideration of the
proceedings aftbr the cession, looking to the confirmation of
the grant to Beaubien and Miranda.
On the 23d of February, 1857, the claimants filed their petition in the office of the surveyor general, asking the confirmation, of their grant. On the 17th of' September, 1857, the,
surveyor general decided that the grait was "good
and
valid" "according to the haws and usages. of the Government
of the Republic of .lexeico and the decisions of the Suprenw
Court of the United States as well as the treaty of GuadalupeIlidalgo, of February 2, 1848," and confirmed the same to th6
grantees. This report was transmitted to the Secretary of the
Interior with a letter dated 12th January, 1858.
1
These proceedings deserve attention in more than one particular. It will.be observed that the petitioners, Beaubien and
Miranda, state, in presenting their case, "that said tract has
.never been surveyed, 'and they cannot, therefore, furnish any
certain estimate of its contents." Plainly, then, the, surveyor
general had no data before him from which he could form an
idea of the area embraced by the outboundaries given in the
petition, and which were those established by the alcalde in
delivering judicial possession. It is. obvious, then, that the
surveyor general, in confirming this grant as good and valid
according to the laws and usages of Mexico and the decisions
of this court, cannot be understood as sanctioning the grant
to a greater extent than eleven leagues apiece to each of the
grantees, which is all they could claim under the laws, usages,
and decisions referred to and relied upon by the surveyor
general The decisions of this court, to which he refers, are
undoubtedly those in the cases of Arguello v. United States,
18 How. 539; United States v. Reading, 18 How. 11, decided
in 1855, and Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, decided
in 1854. In whibh 'Cases the Mexican law of 1824: and the
regulations of 1828, pursuant thereto, are recognized as governing Mexican grants to colonists, like Beaubien and Miranda,
at the time of the cession.

MA

WELL LAND GRANT CASE.

333-

Mr.-Afaury's Argument for Appellant.

It was Upon this presentation that the Beaubien and Miranda grant came before Congress for the action calfed for by
the 8th section of the act of 1854. It was not until 1860 that
Congress took the required action. By an act approved the
21st of June, in that year, entitled "An act to confirm certain
private land claims in the Territory of New Mexico," this
grant,-With others was declared to be confirmed "as recommenredfor eonfrimatiom by the surveyor general of that ternitory;" that is to'say, Congress confirmed it in so far as it had
validity by the laws, usages, and decisions relied on by the.
surveyor general, who being, as we have seen, ignorant of the
area comprehended within the outboundaries given in the
petition and accompanying exediente appealed to those laws,
fisages, and decisions as furnishing the limitations 'to Which
the grant was subject.
Now this is the whole foundation on which rests the claim
to the _principality covered, by the patent. That every presumption is against the claim seems obvious. In the first
'place, Beaiibien and Miranda were the beneficiaries of 'Mexico,
and whatever consideratio;. moved from them to Mexico as
4n inclucemet'to the grant ceased to exist after the cession,
when a new and a radically different plan for settling the'
county, by small homestead donations of one hundred and
sixty acres to each grantee, was introduced by the new soy-,
ereignty.
Such grants as Beaubien and Miranda claimed were againsrt
the policy of the new government - a policy declared and
established by the ,act of 1854 (&ipra), and it would seem improbable in the highest degree that Congress should ha've,
intended to go beyond its. 4uty of confirming the grant as
authorized at the cession, and to augment it by a vast additional concession, thus placing, with wanton, prodigality, in
the hands of two foreigners, a vast area that should have been'left open to entry by our own people. It is quite safe to say
that no Congress would have dared to do an act knowingly,
which looked so much like belittling and undervaluing an
acquisition for which our people had given their blood and
treasure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellant.

As confirmatory of this reasoning, to show the original extent of the grant, we would refer again for a moment to .the
expediente. It seems that proceedings under the original petiion by Beaubien and Miranda had been suspended in. consequence of certain representations which had been made to the
authorities by one Martinez, a priest. In reply to, and refutation of, these representations Charles IBeaubien, for himself
-and Miranda, filed a petition in which he states that the proposed grant to him and Miranda "does not exceed #fteen or
eigkteen " leagues, a declaration of great significance, as having
been made at a time when there was no apparent motive for
fraudulent exaggeration. And the facts that he locates the
lands solicited at the place El Rincon. del Rio Colorado, "ineluding the Rayado and Pofiil rivers, &c.," and that the governor general -refers to the lands as the Rincon del Rio Colorado,
'coupled -with the testimony before the surveyor general in
support of the application for confirmation, show that the
owners of the grant themselves looked upon the tract of country which could be readily irrigated from the rivers mentioned
as the seat of the soliciti1d grant, and nothing is better settled
in proceedings of this character-than that the grant must not
exceed the limit stated in the petition applying for it, which
is the foundation on which every step leading to the concession is based.
But supposing, in view of the array of facts and arguments
above presented, that it is not clear that Congress intended to
confirm the grant to Beaubien and Miranda and at the same
time make them a large grant de novo, then the rule is that
the doubt must be resolved in favor of the Government, as'.
this court has repeatedly laid down.
In Leavenworth, &c., Railroad Company v. UnitedStates, 92
U. S. 733, 740, the court say; "If rights claimed under the'
Government. be set up against it, they must be so clearly de,
fined that there can be no question of the purpose of Congress
to confer theim. In other words, what is not given expressly or
by necessary implication,is withheld." In Slidell v. Grandjeda, 111 U. S. 412, 437, th'e court say: " It is also a familiar
rule of construction, that where a statute operates as a grant

MAXWELL LAND-1RANT 'CASE
31r. Maury's Argument-for Appellant.

of Public property to an individual or the relinquishment of
a public interest and thie is'a doubt as to the meaning of its
terms or as &oits. general purpose, that conshuction, should be.
ddopted which will siypfprt the claim of the Government rather
than that of the individual. Nothing can be infe&ed against
the state." And in -Dubucue&}PaoifAailvoadv. litchfeld,
2a How. 66, 88, it is laid dlown, with reference to a land grant,
that "all grants of. this description 'are strictly construed
against the grantees; nothing passes but what is conveyed in
clear and eIlicit language." And this is the doctrine declared in the great cases of hiarles River BJhidge v. TFarrem
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, Providence Bank v., Billings, 4 Pet. 514,
and Jaekson v. -Tanphire,3 Pet. 289.
If the question involved were whether the United States
had exempted the land in controversy from taxation, and the
argument in support of the pretension were no stronger thali
the argument relied on to sustain the claim 'to more than
twyenty-two square leagues of land, the decision would. be
against the exemption set up, inevitably, for the want of a stifficiently clear indication of purpose to grant it; and yet the
two .cases are identical in principle, for how can a distinction
be drawn between surendering the power through which the
property of Government is obtained, and giving away theproperty itself? And why should' not the presumption in.
favor of the Government be stronger, if anything, in the case.
of a pure donation, like the case in hand, than in the case of
a contract containing- a consideration to support the claimed'
immunity from taxation?
Now it would seem iinpossible, that the candid inquirer
would be able to find in this case anything to compel the
conclusion that Congress intended to withdraw from entry by
our own people an immense area of valuable land not covered
by any grant, merel, for the aggrandizement of two foeigners who had no claims whatever on the United States further
than to be protected in their persons and property.
.Inarriving at the intention of Congress in the confirmatory
act of the 21st June, 1860 (supra),it is important to keep in
mind that the great majority of grants made by Mexico - that

-06

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellant.

have come under judicial or congressional review since the
cession were made without any previous survey whatever, and
with 'no other guide as to locality than such references to conspicuous natural objects as occurred to the unlettered pioneers
as sufficient to indicate the particular parts of the country out
of which they wished the grants solicited by them to be
carved when surveys could be made.
The observations of Mr. Justice Miller in Rodigues v. Nited
States, 1 Wall. 5S2, 587, 588, descriptive of Mexican grants in
California, are equally true of grants by the same authority
in New Mexico. He says: "Some idea of the difficulties
which surround these cases may be obtained by recurring to
the loose and indefinite manner in which the Mexican goveinment made the grants which we are now required judicially
to locate. That government attached no value t- the land,
and granted it in what to us appears magnificent quantities.
Leagues instead of acres were their units of measurement, and
when an application was made to the government ior a grant,
which was always a gratuity, the only, question was whethei
the locality asked for was vacant and was public property.
When the grant was made, no surveyor sighted a compass or
stretched a chain. Indeed, these instruments were probably
not to be had 'n'that region.
"A sketch called a-diseno,,which was rather a map than a
plat of the land, was prpa;ed by: the applicant. 'It gave, in a
rude and imperfect manner, theshape and general outline of the
land desired, with .son of the more promiient natural objects
- noted on it,'and a reference to the adjoining tracts -wned by
individuals, if there w6re Lni, . or to such other objects as were
supposed to constitute the boupJaies. Their ideas of the relation of Vhe points of the compass to the objects on the map were
very inaccurate; and *asthesesketches were made by uneducatedherdsmen of cattle, it is easy to imagine how imperfect they.
were. Yet they ax noy oftej the most satisfactory and
sometimes the oily evidenoe bylwhicb-tb locate these claegim."
Observations of substantially the same character were made
by the House Committee on Private Laud 'Claims, with reference. to land claims in '14ei Yexico, communicated to Con-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellant.

gress for confirmation,, in their' report recommending the
passage of the bill which soon became the act of 21st June,
1860.
Knowing then, as Congress did undoubtedly, that there was
no way of ascertaining the areas of a majority of these grants
without surveys, and that the rude descriptions usually accompanying applications to the Mexican authorities for grants
of land did not pretend to be more than indications of the particular regions where the applicants desired their grants to be
located,, it seems in the highest degree unreasonable to say
that Congress, by.confirming such grants, intendea that the
confirmation should be commensurate with these exaggerated
and proverbially inaccurAte descriptions. Congress knew it
could work no prejudice to the public good to confirm these
grants as reported, because what they lacked in definiteness
of description was supplied by the Mexican law forbidding
more-than eleven square leagues to come into the hands of
any one person, not an emresario. Congress was well
aware that, when the necessary surveys were made, by government authority, all uncertainty would be rendered certain,
and that ali lands in excess of what could be lawfully held
would at once fall into the public domain and be thrown open
to entry by our own: people. The Supreme Court in Fremont's case, and other cases, had settled the validity of grants
of this description, and seeing that great delays had already
occurred through the nonaction of Congress, and that uncertainty about titles in New Mexico was extremely unfavorable
to the settlement and development of the country, Congress
determined, as was .its duty under .the treaty of peace and
cession, to confirm these grants in their then condition, without waiting for surveys.
Now the position taken by the Government is met by the
defendant, the Maxwell Land-Grant Company, not so much
by an attempt to refute the reasohfing by which that position
is supported as by an appeal to the decision of this court in
the case of Tameling v. Urnited States Freehold Company , 93
U. S. 644. That case involved a portion of the Sangre de
Cristo grant, which was confirmed by the same act of ConvoL. cxxi-22

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellant.

gress as confirmed the Beaubien and Miranda grant, and as
the Sangre de Cristo grant had its own peculiar and distinguishiig facts, it is apparent that before the case relied on can
be held to control the case at bar, it must be shown that the
two grants as reported to Congress were alike in every material particular, for it will be observed that the decision in the
Tameling case turns upon the intention of Congress in confirming the grant "as recommended for conflrmatiom by the surveyor general," words of qualification which are applied by
Congress to all the grants confirmed'at the same time, and,
therefore, the terms of recommendation, used by the surveyor
general, with reference to each grant confirmed, formed au
much a part of the law as if they had been recited in it.
The grant in the Tameling case belonged to the same description of grants as the grant now in question, and was at the
time of the conquest and cession governed by the law of 1824,
and, we have no doubt, would have been confined within the
limit of that law as to quantity but for the extraordinary way
in which the surveyor generial recommended it to Congress for
confirmation. Referring to the act of judicial possession, the
surveyor general says, "the justice of the peace, ;Tos6 Miguel
Sanchez, placed the parties-in -6ssession of the land, with the
boundaries containedin the petition,vesting in them, their children and successors, ' title in fee to said lands." He then
goes on, with remarkable ignorance.of the subject and the
decisions of this court, and attributes the most extraordinarv
powers over the public lands to the Mexican departmental.
governors. He says: "The supreme authorities of the remote
-province of New Spain, afterwards the Republic of Mexico,
exercised from time immemorial certain prerogatives and
powers, which, although not positively sanctioned by Congressional enactments, were universally conceded by the Spanish
and Mexican:governments; and there being no evidence that.
these prerogatives and powers were revoked or repealed .by
the supreme authorities, it-is to be presumed that the exercise
of them was lawful. The subordinate authorities of the provinces implicitly obeyed these orders of the governors, which
were continued for so long"a period:until they became the uni-:

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Manry's Argument for Appellant.

versal custom, or unwritten law of the land wherein they did
not conflict with any subsequent Congressional enactment.
Such is the principle sanctioned by the Supreme Court of the
United States, as expressed in the case of F'remont v. The
United States, 17 How. 54:2, which decision now governs all
cases of a similar nature." He then concludes by declaring
"that a legal title vests in Charles Beavien, to the land
embraced within the limits contained in thepetition.'
Now, it would seem reas6nable that the confirmation of the
Sangre de Cristo grant " as recommended"-should have been
held to carry the title to the whole tract, the confirmatory'
law opeiating as a patent, and, like a patent, being 'open to
correction in a direct proceeding for that purpose. To be sure
it would have been more satisfactory, perhaps, if the court
had said more, with a;view to repelling the idea that the language used in the act of confirmation was not Ptrong enough
to compel the conclusion that Congress, without any apparent
reason, had determined to depart from the line of proceeding
it.
had chalked out for itself in the act of 1854 (supra)merely
for the purpose of aggrandizing a foreigner at th- expense of
our own people.
That Congress was misled by the surveyor general's statement that the Sangre de Cristo grantee had both seisin and
title up to the outboundaries given in the petition would seem
clear from its action upon the Scolley claim, and upon the
Vigil and St. Vrain claim, which latter being discovered to be
for a quantity of land largely in excess of what was allowed
by the law of 1824,- was cut down to the maximum permitted
by that law, notwithstanding the surveyor general's repetition
in that case of the gross errors of law contained in his Sangre
de Cristo report about the powers of Mexican governors,
which Congress, with a full knowledge of the decisions of
this court, seems to have treated as unworthy of notice.
Turning now to the report of the surveyor general on the Beaubien and Miranda claim, we find his recommendation to Congress
essentially different from that made by him in his Sangre de
Cristo report. In place. of giving boundaries and deciding
that the claimants'had seisin and title clean up to those bound-

340

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Mr. Maury's Argument for Appellant.

aries, he does as he shaould have done in the Sangre de Cristo
and like cases recommended by him, that is to say, he decides
that the grant is good'and valid "according to the laws and
customs of the Government of the ]Republic of 3fexico and the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, as well
as the treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgoof February 2, 1848, and
istherefore conf med to Charles Beaubien, and Guadalupe
3firanda, and is transmittedfor the action of Congress in the
premises." It is as thus recommended that the Beaubien and
Miranda grant was confirmed by Congress, and if there is any
similarity between the confirmation thus made and the confirmation in the Tameling case, we have failed to discover it.
But, after all, the decision in the Tameling case ends with
that case, as it is hardly probable that another case just like
it will arise again.
To show how inadequate was the consideration given by
Congress to these Mexican claims, and that in disposing of
almost every case from New 'Mexico Congress was content to
follow the lead of the surveyor general, who was no lawyer,
we refer again to the succinct report of the House Committee
on Private Land Claims, made at the 1st session of the 36th
Congress, already referred to more than once; and we respectfully submit'that these considerations with reference to the
way in which Congress passed on Mexican land claims should
be allowed to have great weight with the court in construing
the confirmatory act of 1860.
If the above reasoning is sound, it follows inevitably that
the patent in question is void because embracing a large
extent of country which the Executive Department had no
power to dispose of in that way. This court has again an4
again held that the defence of -purchaser bona fide is no
answer to a bill filed to. cancel a patent for want of authority
in the land office to issue it, and that, like the judgment of acourt proceeding without jurisdiction, it can be assailed on
.thant ground whenever and wherever relied on. It is unnecessary to cite authority on a point so well established.
Whether, then, the excess in the patent be determined by
the limit of the Mexican law of 1824, or by the outboundaries

M1AXWELL LAIND-GRANT CASE.

341'

3Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

named in the original petition for the grant, the action of the
land office as to such excess was unauthorized, and the patent,
being an entirety, thereby rendered void in toto. -But in the
case at bar, as has been fully shown by the brief of the
United States special attorney [post], we have, in addition to
want of authority, instances of fraud and misrepresentation,
used for the purpose of enlarging the outboundaries of the
grant to Beaubien and Miranda, of which the defendant, the
faxwell Land-Grant Company, had notice, as we contend.
It was intimated in the court below by the counsel for the
defendant thit the grant to Beaubien and Miranda was an.
empresario, but this was manifestly a mere afterthought, for
there is not a syllable in the'record to countenance any suchidea. Froi the beginning the grant has been treated by the
parties interested as an ordinary gran~t to individuals for their
own use. To make the grant valid as an emres8ario the approval of the supreme government was necessary, but the
approval obtained was that of the departmental assembly,
which was only sufficient to perfect the ordinary colonization
grant-.
In the protracted and earnest discussion of this claim before
the Department of the Interior, it was not hinted that the
grant was an empresario, so far as the record shows; an omission which is inexplicable if it had been supposed there was a
pretext for advancing such a claim. Evidently'the court lbelow attached no importance to the point, for it does not notice
it in its opinion.
In conclusion we would call attention to the point made in
the brief of the special counsel [post], that there was no juris*
diction in the land office to order the Elkins and Marmon survey, the decision of Mr. Secretary Cox, on this very grant,
that it miust be restricted to twenty-two squar'e leagues, being
then in full force.
It is respectfully submitted that the decree should be
reversed.
.A r. .TA. Bentley, special counsel for the United States, in
addition to arguing the points maintained by Xr. .aury,
contended as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

The outboundai s. The eastern and northern lines of the
patented lands lie several miles outside of the corresponding
outboundary -lines of the confirmed grant and include several
hundred thousand acres of the public domain outside the
true outboundaries of the grant- on the east and north, which
the land officers had no authority, for the purpose -of the
grant, to include in the patent.
(1) The outboundary lines specified by Surveyoi General
Pelham in his report of the grant for confirmation are to be
followed'in locating the outboundary lines upon the ground.
After what was said by this court in the Tameling Case, as to
the 'office'and force of, the report of the surveyor general,
argument of counsel,'will be powerless to shake the proposition that the confirmed repqrt has all the' force of law; it
was incoiporated int6 "the act of confirmation for the purposes 'of the grant; to settle its object, its locality, and its
extent.'
After distinguishing the plan adopted by Congress for the
investigation of the Mexican grants in California by procedure
essentially judicial in character, from that adopted for the
New MTexico 'grants by the political branch of the govenment, through inquiries by the surveyor general, reserving
final action to Congress, the court say: "Such action (the
final action by Congress confirming the grant) is of course
conclusive, and therefore not subject to review in this or any
other forum. It is obviously not the duty of this court to sit
in judgment upon either the recital of matters of .fact by the
surveyor general or' his decision declaring the validity of the
grant." The description, therefore, recited by the surveyor
general to identify the grant petition, he' having referred to
no other description by which the grant was to be located, is
the governing description in the location of the outboundary
lines upon the ground, and will prevail over the description of
the alcalde in the act of possession if they are found to disagree with each other.
The conflict, however, which the Commissioner of the General Land Office supposed existed, but did not describc, between the description in surveyor general Pelham's report

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT -CASE.

30'.

.Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellaht.

and that bf the alcalde's certificate of possession, does not in
fact exist. The description adopted by the surveyor general
is substantially the same as that employed by Beaubien and
Miranda in petitioning for the grant. A comparison of the
-descriptions of the petition for the grant, of the alcalde's
juridical possession certificate, and of the surveyor general's
report will set at rest the question of conflict.
In order to test, if not to contradict the official translation
of the description in the petition for the grant, the defendant
called Rafael Romero, an expert in the translation of the
Mexican-Spanish into English.. From a comparison of all
these documents it is seen that the outboundaries of the grant
as described in the petition are substantially the same as the
description in the surveyor general's report, and both are in
agreement with the translation produced by the defendant's
expert, Romero; while the alcalde's certificate in terms adopts
the description in the petition with the plat as correct, and
certifies that the two are in conformity with each other and
with the certificate, as to the identity of the land referred to.
There can be, therefore, no conflict between the description, of
the outboundaries of the grant as given by the surveyor general, by Beaubien and Miranda in their petition for the grant,
and by the alcalde in his certificate of the act of possession.
All that can be said is, that the alcalde adopted the natural
object boundary calls of the petition, but added some artificial
calls consisting of stone mounds in entire consistency with the
natural objects.
The eastern outboundary line-of the grant as designated. by
the alcalde, and as designated by the surveyor general, is, then,
tied to the natural objects mentioned in the petition for the
grant, and the same is also true in respect to the northern
outboundary line, that is to say, the eastern line commencing
below the junction of the Raydo (now -Cimarron)"with Red
River at the first hills east of Red River, follows northerly
along the first hills east of and along Red River to opposite
the junction with Red River of a stream called Una de Gato
River, flowing south out of the table-lands which constitute
the northern boundary, and continuing, follows the first hills

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
31r. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

east of the Una de Gato to the summit of the table-land, and
the northern line follows along said summit northwesterly to
the top of the mountain which divides the waters of the rivers
running to the east from those running towards the west.
The plat of the alcalde purports to lay down the. rblative
positions, upon the ground, of the natural objects in the outboundary lines of the grant, and the places of his stone
mounds in relation to these natural objects, and of the principal streams of water within these lines,. including the Colorado River and its affluents, the Rayado and its affluents,
and the Vermijo. The Colorado is represented as making a
bend, forming an angle a little greater than a, right angle, at
the junction of the Una de Gato, and as having a general
course below the said junction through the grant, not less
than 15 degrees east of south. The Una de Gato is represented as a stream.flowing south out of the table-land and
emptying into the Colorado at the upper end of the bend.
The table-land is represented as commencing on the west near
to the Sierra Madre and falling off a little to the south of
east, extending beyond the head of the Una de Gato, and
named upon the plat -as "table-land of the Chicorfia or
Chacuaco," and the first hills east of the Colorado and -the
Una de Gato are shown as a continuous line from the southeast to the northeast corner of the grant, following along the
course of the two streams in an unbroken northerly direction
to the table-land.
The natural objects upon' the western and southern outboundaries are as specifically marked upon the plati but the
recital of their detail is not necessary for the purpose of- this
argument.
The alcalde's certificate states that in the execution of the
act of -possession he erected seven mounds on the outboundaries of the grant. Mound No. 1 on the east side 'the Red
(Colorado) River. Mound No. 2 in an easterly direction in
the first hills east of the river. Mound No. 3 on the north
side of the Chicorica or Chacuaco table-land. Mound- No. 4
on the summit of the mountain. Mound No. 5 on the Cuesta
del Osha, 100 varas north of the road from Fernandez to

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT .CASE.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

Laguna I9egra. Mound :No. 6 on the eastern point of the
Gonzalitos table-lands and Mound No. 7'on the west side of
the Red (Colorado) River opposite to the first mound: The
plat certified to be correct by the alcalde, as before shown,
shows that the relative positions of all these mounds, but particularly of the first four, correspond -with the natural objects
described in the report of the surveyor general, and shows
that the third mound was placed upon the table-land near the
head and to the east of the Una de Gato in a line with the
first hills east of the Colorado. extended northerly along the
first hills east of the Una de Gato, and the fourth mound on
the Sierra Madre in a line with the general course of the
table-lands called by the alcalde Chicorica, or Chacuaco.
If the plat can be depended upon as a generally correct
outline of the country it purports to represent, explained by
the petition for the grant and the alcalde's certificate, there
ought to be little difficulty in locating upon the ground, the
eastern and northern outboundaries of the grant as confirmed.
The government insists that the plat is a correct general
outline of the country. The defendant denies that it is so,
and claims that it is radically incorrect in the representation
of the 'Una de Gato River and in the location of the third
mound, asserting that the Una de Gato River referred to by
the alcalde is a stream having its source some eighteen miles
almost directly east of the bend in the Colorado, and forming
a junction with that river more than eight miles below the
bend, and that the alcalde's third mound was erected upon the
northwest point of what is now known as San Francisco mesg,
twelve miles to the northwest of the head of the stream
claimed by the defendant as the Una de Gato.
The government contends, on the other hand, that the
stream now called Dillon's Caion is the Una de Gato of
Beaubien and Miranda and of the alcaldef and necessarily also
of Surveyor General Pelham; that the Raton M ountains,
dividing the waters flowing into the Colorado from those
flowing into the Las Animas is the table-land forming the
northern boundary of the grant; and that the third mound
was erected on said table-land at the head of the Una de

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

Gato (now Dillon's Cailon), and east rather than northwest of
the stream. Nearly the whole ef the oral testimony and
much of the documentary evidence bears pro or con upon
these opposing claims, and the establishment of the government's contention upon this question will necessarily be fatal
to the defendants' case.
(2) Raton3 ountai _Mesa. The summit of Ratgn Mountains, extending from the Sierra Madre in a general course a
little south of east to the Raton pass, is the "table-land" of
Surveyor General Pelham's report, and also of the " C hicorica
or Chacuaco" of the alcalde's certificate; and the stream, in
nature flowing down from the Raton Mountains and forming
a junction with the Colorado or Red River, at the bend, now
known as Dillon's Carion, is the Una de Gato of the alcalde,
as well as of Surveyor General IPelham.
While the word "mesa" employed in the proceedings of
Mexico to describe the contour of the earth's surface along
the northern outboundary of the grant and translated .into
English "table-land," suggests to the American uplifted fiat
lands having precipitous edges like the formation to the east
of Raton pass, it is the term used. by the :Mexicans to denote
fiat lands at the top of hills and mountains without regard to
whether the edges are precipitous or sloping.
The summit of Raton Mountains west of Raton pass to the
Sierra Madre is "mesa" within the significance of that term
as used by the Mexicans.
There is no ground, except the summit of Raton Mountains
south of the Arkansas River, the contour of which answers to
that designated by the Mexican authorities and by Surveyor
General Pelham as the northern line of the grant, i.e., which
presents a "mesa" or table-land formation from which the
drainage flows south into Red River above the bend, and extending out to the eastward from the Sierra Madre far enough
to cover the river until it turns to the south.
The defendants maintain that, notwithstanding the correspondence of the topography of the Raton Mountains with
the ground called for along the northern .outboundary, and
notwithstanding the fact that there cannot be found. any other

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

ground which will answer the call for that line, still, the
mountains west of Raton pass are not the ground intended by
the authorities of Mexico as the northern outboundary of the
grant, because that locality is not known as "Ohicorica or
Chacuaco mesa," and there is a Chicorica mesa east of the
pass where defendants claims the alcalde erected the third
mound.
Appellant says in response, that the alcalde's description of
the eastern and northern lines of the grant has been shown to
be essentially identical with the description in the petition for
the grant and the plat, and also with the description contained'in the surveyor general's report. The alcalde has
simply applied the name of."Ohicorica or Ohacuaco mesa"
to the table-land along the north line, which is not given a:
name either by the petitioners for the grant or by the surveyor general. The alcalde's certificate of possession declares,
"IWe _r'oceeded to erect the mounds according as the land is
described in the accomanying_petition, and which correslonds
with the plat to which I attach my rub'ic."
Two years before the alcalde set up the mounds, the petitioners for the grant identified the north line by describing.
the contour of the earth along where it ran, making reference
to no local name to aid identification. This would have scarcely
occurred if a distinguishing name generally known had at that
time been associated with the place.
The form of expression used by the alcalde, "Chicorica or
Chacuaco mesa," indicates that the alcalde was uncertain
which, if either, name belonged to the place he had in mind,
or that the two names were applied to the place interchange-'
ably. These words have not the same significance, and, except their use by the alcalde inthe plat and certificate of possession, and their employment by Griffin upon his fraudulent
plat of 1870, to simulate the alcalde's applica.tion of the names,
I think no instance can be found where .the words have been
used in a manner to leave room for inference, even, that they
were, or might properly be applied to the same place.
It will be borne in mind that at the time of the grant. proceedings, and for several years later, the country in question

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

was not inhabited by civilized men. Jones says that as late
as 1846, 1847, and 1848, it was inhabited by "Indians, wild
horses and buffalo;" and Silva says that when he first became acquainted with the country there were no civilized
people from the Sierra Madre to -Bent's Fort on the Arkansas.
The limited vocabulary of the Indians, and the necessarily
imperfect understanding of the Indian languages by the early
hunters, travellers and traders, together with the gradual application of names to localities and objects in nature which
before had been unnamed or included in some general Indian
name not fully understood, incident to the occupation of the
country by the Mexicans and Americans, will largely, if not
altogether, account for the uncertainty and inconsistencies ap?
parent in the testimony of the witnesses who testify at this
late day in regard to the names in the country in question, and
suggest an explanation of how the alcalde came to apply the
names Chicorica or Ohacuaco to the table-land west of theRaton pass. A brief analysis of the testimony of some of
the more important of these witnesses upon this point will
show the situation with sufficient clearness.
It shows that there was a country in the Raton Mountains
including some, if not all the high mesas east and southeast of
Raton pass, to which the Indians previous to their migration
applied the name Chicorica; that those most familiar with the
Indians did not gather from them the same idea of its locality
and extent, and it may very well be supposed that the alcalde
living at Taos thought the names Chicorica and Ohacuaco
'were properly applicable to the whole Raton range of tablelands whether east or west of Raton pass.
Thte Unca de Gato River. The claim that the branch of the
Chicorica, running out from the south side of San Isedro and
LTna

de Gato mesas, is the Una de Gato of the grant, rests

upon the evidence showing that from a date several years
later than the grant down to the present time, that stream
has been called Una de Gato, and the testimony of witnesses
Silva and Wooton that they knew it by that name before the
--grant.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

It has already been noted, that the country was occupied by
Indians until several years subsequent to the grant. Now,
Una de Gaio is the name given by the Mexicans to the black
locust, on account of the resemblance of its thorns to cat's
claws, and it is alleged it was applied to this stream because the
locusts grew along its banks; but it cannot be assumed that
because Silva, Wooton, and perhaps other hunters were familiar with this insignificant stream before the occupation of
the country by the Mexican people and called it _Una de Gato
its existence was known to the peoplb of Taos or other Mexican towns. If it had been a large stream, an imlortant object in nature, or upon a route of travel, that presumption
might perhaps have been indulged, but it was neither; it is
simply one of the branches of a larger stream lying entirely
out of ihe way of the routes of travel in the days of the grant.
Nor does the fact that the petitioners for the grant and the
alcalde mentioned a Una de Gato River as one of the natural
objects of description argue irery 'strongly for the defendants'
Una de Gato when it is remembered that the black locust
abounds on all the mountain streams in that country.
Besides this, the neighborhood furnishes several examples of
two .or more streams and places called by the same name.
There is the Trinchera, a branch of the Las Animas and-also
a branch of the Rio Grande; the Ute, a branch of the Red,
also of the Cimarron and of the Sangre de Oristo; the Willow,
a branch of the Cimarron and of the Ohicorica. There are
also two branches of the Las Animas called San Francisco,
and two towns within the Vigil and St. Vrain grant called
La Junta. Nor will the circumstance that the name of the
stream claimed by the government as the Una de Gato is now
known by another name add to the strength of the defendants' claim. Ahogadere mesa has become San Francisco, and
the lower waters of the Rayado have now become the Cimarron.,
But space need not be consumed in illustrating how the
alcalde may have applied the name Una de Gato to what is
now Dillon's Cation, nor how that name may have given place
to the name by which it is now known. History is full of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

accounts of the process of displacement of savage races by
civilization, showing the gradual change of name, one for
another, to designate objects in nature, and the application
of names to places before unnamed'as settlement progressed
and the particular knowledge of the geography of the country
advanced. This is certain, the name Una de Gato was not
applied to the stream by the Indians, but by MNexicans, and
therefore it may be assumed to be a name of comparatively
latb date, and as we hope to satisfy the court that neither
Silva nor Wooton, whose testimony alone dates the name
of this stream as Una de Gato earlier than the grant, are to
be believed in any point in support of the defendants' claim
-unless they are themselves corroborated by reliable witnesses,
we say without hesitation that the testimony does not name
the stream 'Una de Gato until several years later than the
grant, 1848 or 1849, when Jones testifies that he knew it by
that name; or possibly it might be inferred from Bransford's
testimony that the name had been given it as early as 1846.
The Una de Gate Creek does not answer the description of
the Una de Gato of the grant. It does not form a junction
with Red River, but is simply a branch of the more important
stream, Chicorica, emptying into the latter four and a half
miles above the junction with the Red, which strean joins the
Red more than nine miles below the bend,' where the -Unade
Gate of the grant is represented by the alcalde to form a junction with it; and besides it comes into the Chicorica from an
easterly direction, and not from the northerly, as the course
of the -Una de Gato is represented by the alcalde. The claim
of the defendants that 'Una de Gato Creek is the Una de
Gato of the grant is as absurd a geographical proposition as
the declaration that the Platte, a tributary of the Mxissouri at
Omaha, or the Tennessee, a tributary of the Ohio at Paducah,
are tributaries of the Mississippi at St. Louis and Cairo, respectively, would be.
Elkins and Marmon's field notes in their 36th, 37th and
39th mile on east line, show that the Chicorica stream is a
considerable stream, carrying "plenty of fine water." It is
impossible to believe that the alcalde in delineating this grant

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Air. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

upon the plat called the Chicorica below the junction of the
Una. de Gato, a mere branch, by the name of the branch.
Such a designation would have been the introduction into the
geography of the grant, of a rule of nomenclature of streams
wholly at variance with the universal usage of mankind, in
their designation by name-that of absorbing the branches
into the principal streams at their junction.
The presumption of the general correctness of the alcalde's
plat in delineating the territory of the grant, and the natural
objects referred to by him in their relation to each other, cannot, owing to its official and solemn character, be overcome
by slight or uncertain evidence in respect to the names of
objects otherwise described; and if objects in nature are
found in general correspondence to the plat; they will be
adopted as the objects referred to by him in disregard of the
names which he may have applied to them, unless other
objects in nature bearing the names used, are found which
equally well answer his description. .Yames used to designate
objects in nature, introduced into descriptions of lands, give
way to descriptions of localities by contour of the ground intended, if the same are definite enough to secure identification
without reference to the names. If the names used are inconsistent with the rest of the description, or tend to make uncertain what otherwise would be certain, they will be treated
as surplusage.
Outside of the presumption of the geheral correctness of
the plat in its delineation of the ground, it carries evidence on
its face that it truthfully shows the relations, one to another,
of the principal natural objects laid -down upon it as far as
they were known to the alcalde.
Recurring again to the fact that the country, down to the
date of the grant and several years later, was unoccupied by
civilized inhabitants, but occupied by the Indians alone, except upon the routes of travel, it may now be added that
along such routes, the country was more or less known to the
civilized people of the neighborhood and to travellers. Besides the prominent features of the land, like the Sierra Madre
and Raton Ranges and isolated mountains like Eagle Tail,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

which could be seen from a distance, the topography was quite
particularly known along the travelled route from Bent's Fort
on the Arkansas towards Santa F6 and Taos, over Raton pass,
via Stockton (Clifton) crossing of Red River and Rayado, and
along the old Fort Leavenworth route, crossing Red River at
Rocky Ford below the junction of the Rayado (Cimarron).
Comparatively correct information may therefore be attributed to both the petitioners for the grant and the alcalde in
respect to the topography in the immediate vicinity of those
routes of travel, and they may be supposed to have known
the general course of Red River at these crossings, and also
of the drainage courses from the Raton divide in the neighborhood of the route over Raton pass; while neither can be
presumed, at that day, to have had any particular knowledge
of-the geography and topography of the country at any considerable distance away from either route.
What do we find upon the plat?
(1) That the general course of Red River in the immediate
vicinity of the crossings is correctly laid down from northwesterly to southeasterly, while. the variable courses of the
river, as it exists in nature, between the crossings for a dis-.
tance of thirty miles, about which no particular knowledge is
supposable, is incorrectly assumed to be the same as at the
crossings.
(2) That the great bend in the river a mile or more above
the Stockton crossing, in near proximity to which the IRaton
route lay, is correctly set down.
(3) That a drainage stream from the -aton divide having
its course from the divide southward and emptying into the
river at the bend; along which that route follows, for more
than two miles above the junction, and from there to the top
of the divide, a distance of seven miles, passes along a little
to. the east of it, is correctly delin6ated and named by the
alalde Rio del -Una de Gato.
(4) That the watercourses of the grant on the Raton route
from Stockton crossing to the Rayado are laid down with
their names as then known with comparative exactness.
(5)'That the mesa Rayado and Gonzalitos on the southern

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
31r. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

boundary in view from both the Raton and Leavenworth
routes, are represented with comparative truth.
(6) That the headwaters of the Rio Fernandez, embracing
the soutliwest corner of the grant as in nature, are correctly
laid .down.
(7)That three prominefit peaks in the Sierra Madre, on the
western boundary, to wit, Boundary peak, Costilla and Baldy,
or perhaps Taos peaks, are correctly noted at the headwaters
of the streams of- the grant shown on the plat, although unnamed by-the alcalde.
(8) That the foot-hills along the Sierra Madre and Raton
ranges are delineated by properly waved lines with a'comparatively proper trend as they exist in nature, as is also the
line of the first hills east of Red River to the summit of Raton
divide.
(9) That the northern line of the grant, upon the top of the
watershed from which the waters flow south into Red River
above the bend, is correctly noted by proper lines denoting
the watercourses from the northern boundary to the Red
River.
It is true. that some of these objects, perhaps most of them,
are to some extent out of place as they exist in nature, as
might be expected would be the case with a plat drawn without scale, and without actual measurement under a compass
and chain, but their relations to each other as laid down are so
truthful to nature that their identification cannot well be mistaken, and show beyond a doubt that it was faithfully drawn
to represent as truthfully as might be what was matter of
knowledge as well as what was matter of estimation and judgment. So truthful, indeed, that' the principal error in the
course of Red River between the crossings on the Raton and
Leavenworth routes, resulting in a plat showing the bend in
Red River to be a considerable distance to the westward of
the Leavenworth crossing, when in nature it is almost directly
to the north of it, and the course of the river between the
crossings the same as at the crossings, shows that in making
his plat the alcalde faithfully adhered to the knowledge he
possessed and filled up the intervening spaces upon his judgVOL. cxx-23

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

ment, informed by that knowledge, and adds to, rather than
detracts from the authority of the plat whenever it represents
objects which were known at the time.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the stream now called Dillon's
Caion -a name evidently later than the grant proceedings -and from its location near the route of travel over Raton pass,
between the Arkansas and Taos and other settlements in New
Mexico, presumably known to the alcalde, corresponds in the
place of its source, its course to and place of junction with
Red River, with the stream marked upon the alcalde's, plat
and named by him Ri6 del Una de Gato, and neither the Una
de Gato Creek, now claimed by the defendants, nor any-other
stream in the country, does so coi'respond, Dillon's Cafion,
whether rightfully or wrongfully named Una de Gato by the
alcalde and by whatever nami e it may have since been known;
is the Una de Gato of the grant.But other .circumstances confirm this conclusion. According to the plat the third mound of the alcalde was erected
upon the summit of the divide between the waters flowing
south into Red River above, the. bend, in a line parallel with
the general course of Red River below the bend extended, and
near the head of the stream named by him Una de Gato, but
on the east side of it. If Una de Gato Creek now claimed, be
assumed as the Una de Gato of the grant, the place of the
third mound as claimed by the defendants is more than six
miles north, and more than seven miles west of the extreme
headwaters of the Una de Gato and entirely out of correspondence with the representations of the alcalde's plat and of his
certificate of possession.
Another matte of great significance is, in that country
the -water fall is so light that the lands are incapable of producing crops without artificial irrigation, and when inaccessible to the streams of water, of little value for grazing
pirposes; therefore, the natural water courses were regarded
as of the utmost importance to the enjoyment of the lands,
and a principal feature everywhere. It will be observed that
the plat is drawn to exclude from the eastern outboundaries of
the grant a4 lands east of Red River watered by streams

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

which flow into it south of the bend, and to include the lands
watered by the streams flowing into it from the west, above
the Leavenivorth crossing, and from the south slope of the
divide drained by the river above the bend. INow, the Chicorica is a considerable stream, and with its various branches
waters a large tract of country immediately adjacent to the
Raton route and joins Red River a few miles below Stockton
crossing. Owing to its command of a large tract of country
in plain view of the fRaton route, and the fact that it also lay
in the route of the Indian traders, buffalo hunters, and travellers from Stockton crossing via Manca de la Burka pass to the
plains beyond, its existence and location must have been
known to the petitioners for the grant and to the alcalde, and
if it had been intended to include those lands-within the outboundaries of the grant, the purpose would have been indicated by incorporating the stream into the plat.
It is certain that the particularity and correctness of detail
just pointed out, which characterizes the plat, would not have
omitted to note the Chicorica with, equal correctness, as a
tributary of Red River, joining it on the east and below
the bend, so as to carry the land embraced by its waters, if
that ,had been the intention of the petitioners and of the
alcalde.
Third Xound. The third mound was not erected by the
alcalde upon the northwest extremity of San Francisco mesa.
For the purposes of this case the alcalde's certificate of possession, reciting his proceedings and the date and order
thereof, is conclusive upon the defendant and the government
alike. The'statement that he. commenced on the east of Red
River and erected a mound, arid went to the first hills east of
the river and erected another mound, and proceeded thence
from south to north on a line"nearly parallel with Red River
and erected a third mound, &c. ; and the seventh and last
mound on the west side of Red River opposite the first, all
which was done between the 13th day of February, 1843,
when the alcalde recorded his decree to proceed to put the
petitioners in possession, and the 22d of the same month, the
date of the certificate is verity, and not the subject of contra-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mr. Bentley's Argument for Appellant.

diction,for the reason that the certificate was incorporated into
the report of the surveyor general, and thence into the act of
Congress confirming the grant.
The claim that the third mound was erected on the northwestern extremity of San Francisco mesa rests wholly upon
the testimony of the witnesses Silva and Wooton that they
saw the alcalde place a moulid there, and that the fourth
mound was erected on a certain high peak of the Sierra Madre,
sixteen miles to the north of the 37th parallel, upon the testimony of Silva alone.
A careful analysis of their testimony shows that these witnesses are unworthy of belief, and the position of the government that the plat of the alcalde sets down his stone mounds
and the natural object of the outboundaries in their true positions as related to each other, stands unshaken.
The claim of the government that the northern outboundary
line of the grant is along the top of, the Raton Mountas, is
supported by the nearly contemporaneous grant made to
Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St. Yrain, popularly known as the
Las Animas grant, the southern boundary of which is upon the northern boundary- of the grant in question. An examination of the plat, although a very rude one, and far from correct
as the ground is now k-nown, and containing err6rs, which, without particular knowledge of the topography, tend to mislead,
shows clearly enough that the southern boundary was intended
to correspond with the northern boundary of the Beaubien
and Miranda grant, and to be upon a divide from which the
waters flow northward into the Arkansas, and that it was intended to include within the boundaries of the grant, the lands
embraced by the watems of the Las Animas, Huerfaro, and
Apishapa rivers.
XP. Bentley also argued at some length that frauds were
practised upon the government, by means of which "the
patent was made to include several hundred thousand acres
outside the true boundaries on the east and north," herein
discussing the maps in the case; also that the decision of Secretary Cox in December, 1869, was so far final as to debar

MAXWELL ],AND-GRANT CASE.

357

Opinion of the Court.

subordinates from subsequently reopening it; and, further,
that the defendant was not a bona #de purchaser for value
after issue of the patent. It is not practicable to report his
contentions on these points as fully as his arguments on the
other points above reported.
.Mr. Frank iS
Mm.

JUSTICE

nger and Mr. Oarles E. Gast for appellees.

MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The case was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado.
The decree from which this appeal is taken dismissed a bill
brought in that court by the United States against the M,axwell Land-Grant Company, the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company, the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad
Company, and the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad
Company. It was brought by the Attorney General of the
United States, and its purpose was to have a decree setting
aside and declaring void a patent from the United States
granting to Charles Beaubien and .Guadalupe Miranda, their
heirs and assigns, a tract of land described in a very extensive
survey, which is made a part of the patent. It is stated in
the brief of the Assistant Attorney General in this court that
the patent conveys 1,714,764 4 acres of land, lying partly in
the territory of New Mexico and partly in the state of Colorado. This patent is. dated May 19, 189, and seems to be
regular on its face in every particulai. - The bill to set this
patent aside was filed in the Colorado Ctrcuit Court on August
25, 1882, which was a little over three years after the patent
was issued. By virtue of certain mesne conveyances, and
other transactions not necessary to be recited here, it may be
stated that the title conveyed by the patent to .Beaubien and
Miralida enured immediately upon its being issued to the benefit of the Maxwell Land-Grant Company, a corporation which
has the beneficial interest in the grant, so far as appears in
this record, and the contest is mainly if not exclusively between the United States and that company

OCTOBER TERM1,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The original bill filed in the case assailed the grant mainly
upon the ground that the patent was issued by the Executive
Department of the government upon the false representations
of the defendant, the Maxwell Land-Grant Company, and
those whose estate the company has in the land, and of whose
fraudulent actings and doings in the premises the company
had notice at the time it acquired the title. This bill recites the original grant of January 10, 184:1, by the Republic of Mexico, which it declares was in due form of law, made
to Beaubien and Miranda, citizens of said republic, and it
gives the description of the land and its boundaries which is
here the subject of controversy. The bill also declares that
said grant and the proceedings had in regard thereto were in
due form of law and in accordance with the usages and customs of that country, as more fully appeared by reference to
the grant and act of possession, copies of which weire annexed
thereto, and that it was duly accepted by the graiieseeF, who
immediately thereupon entered into possession of the premises, and that they, and those holding under them, have ever
since been in the quiet, peaceable and exclusive possession
thereof.
The bill then declares that the Surveyor General of the
territory of New Mexico, under the act of 1851, made a
report in favor of this grant; that on June 21, ,1860, the
Congress of the United States confirmed and ratified it as
recomnended; and that the patent was afterwards issued
upon a survey made by order of the government under the
instructions of the Surveyor General of New Mexico, approved by the Conuiissioner of the General Land Office,
which patent is made an exhibit to the bill. This original'
bill then goes on to charge that the survey on which this
patent was issued was falsely and :fraudulently made, and that
the Maxwell Land-Grant Company, and certain parties who
made this survey under a contract with the government, conspired to cheat and defraud the government of the United
States by including a larger amount of land than was intended
to be embraced by the original grant of the Republic of Mexico; and it especially charged that about 265,000 acres, to wit.

MVTAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opiion of the Court.

all the lands lying and being in the county of Las Animas, in
the state of Colorado, were fraudulently included in this survey, and were of the value of two millions of dullars. The
main purpose of the bill, and the only specific prayer for relief, is, that the survey may be declared void so far as it includes lands within the state of Colorado, though it concludes
by praying for general relief.
It is quite obvious that the ground of relief set out in this
bill is that the excess of 265,000 acres lying w.ithin the present
state of Colorado was included within the survey by fraud,
and that this fraud should be remedied. No attempt is made
in the bill to assail the remainder of the grant or to ppint out
any reason why the patent should not be good for all the
lands in New Mexico. After answers had been filed to this
bill, and a large amount of testimony taken, there was filed,
on the 5th day of December, 1883, an amended bill, which it
is now insisted is substituted for the original bill. In this
amended bill, for the first time, it is set up, as a ground for
setting aside the patent and survey on which it was made, and
having them declared void, that under the laws of Mexico at
the time it was made, no such grant could exceed eleven square
leagues to each individual, and that by virtue of those laws,
therefore, the grant to Beaubien and Miranda could not exceed twenty-two leagues, the equivalent of which is 91,424
acres. The bill then sets out with something more of particularity the errors supposed to exist in the survey on which
the patent from the United States was based, and the frauds
connected with-that survey by whicl the officers of the government were imposed upon and induced to issue the patent.
Much of the testimony, and perhaps most of it, was taken
before this amendment was filed, and it is strongly.insisted in
the brief of the appellees, that the reason for filing it was that
the testimony taken in regard to the frauds, and in regard to
the mistake of the officer of the government in running the
boundaries of the grant, had failed to establish such fraud and
mistake.
Answers and replications were filed in due time, and a
large amount of testimony taken, which, vith. the pleadings,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

documents and proceedings of the court, and other public
bodies, constitute a printed record of nearly nine hundred
pages.
The questions which are presented by this record and which
demand our consideration may be divided into three:
- First. Do the colonization laws of M[exico, in force at the
time the grant was made to Beaubien and Miranda, namely,
the decree of the Mexican Congress of August 18, 1824, and
the general rules and regulations for the colonization of the
territories of the Republic of Mexico of November 21, 1828,
render this grant void, notwithstanding its confirmation by the
Congress of the United States?
Second. If the grant be valid, is there such a mistake in the
survey on which the patent of the United States was issued as
justifies the court in setting aside both patent and survey?
Third. Was there such actual fraud in procuring this survey
to be made and the patent to be issued upon it as requires that
the patent be get aside and annulled?
As regards .the first of these propositions, it is undoubtedly
true that the decree of the Mexican Congress of 1821, in regard
to, grants of the public lands, declared, by Article 12, that "it
shall not be permitted to unite, in the same hands, with the
right of property, more than one league square of land suitable
for irrigation, four square leagues in superficies of arable land
without the facilities of irrigation, and six square leagues in
superficies of grazing land."
It has been repeatedly decided by this court that it was the
practice of the government of Mexico, under that article, to
limit its grants of public lands in the territories to eleven
square leagues for each individual.
But Article 14 of the siame decree speaks of "the contracts
which the empresarios make with the families which they
bring, at their own expense, provided they are not contrary to
the laws;" and Article 7 of the Rples andRegulations of 1828
speaks of "grants made to empresarios,for them to colonize
with many families." It is a well known matter of Mexican
history, that, by reason of there being vast quantities of unoccupied and unprofitable public land owned by the government

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

in its territories, contracts were made with individuals called
empresarios,by which they were given very large bodies of
land without any regard at all to the eleven league limitation,
in consideration that they should bring emigrants into the
country and settle them upon these lands with a view of
increasing the population and securing the protection thus
afforded against the wild Indian tribes on the Mfexican borders.
There are many things in the history of this grant to Beaubien and Miranda which would seem to indicate that itwas
understood by'the Mexican authorities to be a grant of the
class just described.
In the petition of Beaubien and Miranda to Governor
Armijo, on which the grant was founded, dated January §,
1841, there is a very animated description of the -condition of
the Territory of New Mexico and its natural advantages,
which were undeveloped for want of an industrious population.
It also contains a description of the land, by its boundaries,
which was granted by the governor in compliance with this
petition, and as this description and its true construction is the
foundation of the controversy in this suit with regard to the
accuracy of the surveys, it is given here:
"The tract of land we petition for to be divided equally
between us commences below the junction of the Rayado
River with the Colorado, and in a direct line towards the east
to the first hills, and from there running parallel with said
river Colorado in a northerly direction to opposite the point of
the Una de Gato, following the same river dlong the same hills
to continue to the east of said Una de Gato River to the summit of the table-land (mesa); from whence turning northwest,
to follow along said summit until it reaches- the top of the
mountain which, divides the waters of the rivers running
towards the east from those running towards the west, and from
thence following the line of said mountain in a southwardly
direction until it intersects the first hills, south of the Rayado
River, and following the summit of said hills towards the east
to the place of beginning."
The authoritative grant of Governor Armijo, dated three
days later, is in the following language:

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"cS..TA Fi, January 11, 1841.

"In view of the request of the petitioners, and what they
state therein being apparent, this government, in conformity
with law, has seen proper to grant and donate to the individuals
subscribed the land therein 'expressed, in order that they may
make the proper use of it which the law allows.
Looking to this question of the nature of the grant, as to
whether it was an ordinary grant,.it appears by the record
that Beaubien made application in April, 1844, to the governor of the Department, stating that a curate named Martinez was seeking to invade and dispute the rights of the said
Beaubien and Miranda in a part of the lands included in their
grant. In this petition, remonstrating against a recognition
of the claim of Martinez which had been made by the Territorial government, he says:
"And not only does the suspension of labor on those lands
injure us, for the reason. of having incurred heavy expenses,
but also a considerable number of families and industrious
men, who axe willing and ready to settle upon those lands,
and to whom we have given lands, a list of which individuals
I accompany in order that your excellency, seeing their number, may determine what may be proper."
This shows that the grantees were engaged in settling famoflies within the boundaries of their grant.
This matter was referred to the Departmental Assembly,
who made a report upon the subject, confirming, the gant of
the governor to Beaubien and Miranda, and deciding against
the claim of Martinez and his .associates. The Assembly in
making their report upon this subject declare the statement§
by which Martinez and his associates had obtained certain
privileges within the boundaries of the grant to have been
false, and proceed as follows: "And in view of the documents
w-hich accredit the legitimate possession of Miranda and Beaubien, and their desires that their colony shall increase in prosperity- and industry, for which purpose he has presented a
long list of persons to whom they have offered land for culti-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT

CASE.

Opinion of the Court.

vation, and who shall enjoy the same rights as the owners of
the lands; that the government, having dictated the step for
the sole object of ascertaining the truth, that the truth having
been ascertained, and the right of the party established, is of
the opinion that the aforesaid superior decree be declared null
and void, and that Miranda and Beaubien be protected in
their property, as having been asked for and obtained according to law."
To this the governor ordered the response to be made, that,
in accordance with the opinion of the Departmental Assembly,
thus certified to him, "the order of the 27th of February,
issued by this government, forbidding the free use of the land
in question, is repealed, and Messrs. Beaubien and Miranda
are fully authprized to establish their colony according to the
offers .made by them when they petitioned for the land which
has been granted to them."
It would seem from these orders, decrees, and resolutions of
the governor and Departmental Assembly of the Territory of
New Mexico, that they must have supposed that the grant
was intended for families to be settled upon, and was not one
of those in which an individual could only receive a definite
quantity of land for the purpose of his own settlement and
cultivation. There would have been little cause for the frequent use of the words "colony" and "colonization" and such
expressions as "settling families" in the colony, unless such
was the view which the granting power took of the nature of
the grant.
The effect of the action of the Departmental Assembly in
regard to these grants of land within the territories over
which they iaad jurisdiction is one which has been frequently
considered in this court, and the importance of their action
fully stated. Eornsby et aZ. v. United States, 10 Wall. 224;
United States v. Osio, 23 How. 273.
The final confirmation of this grant by the Congress of the
United States in 1860 affords strong. ground to believe that
that body viewed it as one of this character, and not one governed by the limitation of eleven square leagues to each
grantee. The act by which that was dk'ne was approved

OCTOBER TER-,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

June 21, 1860, and is entitled."An act to confirm certain priVate land claims in the Territory of New Mexico." 12 Stat.
71. These claims, having been reported favorably to Congress for confirmation by the surveyor general of the Territory of New Mexico, were numbered in conseoutive order,
and referred to in'that act by their numbers. The one now
under consideration was number fifteen. The first section of
that act reads as follows:
"That the private land claims in the Territory of New
Mexico, as recommended for confirmation by the surveyor
general of that territory, and in his letter to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, of the twelfth of January, eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, designated as numbers one, three,
four, six, eight, nine, ten, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,
seventeen, aid eighteen, and the claim of E. W. Eaton, not
entered on the corrected list of numbers, but standing on the
original docket and abstract returns of the surveyor general
as number sixteen, be, and they are hereby, confirmed: Provided, That the claim number nine, in the name of John
Scolley and others, shall not be confirmed for more than five
square leagues; and that the claim number seventeen, in the
name of Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St. Vrain, shall not be confirmed for more than eleven square leagues to each of -said
claimants."
It will be very clearly perceived by the proviso of this act
that the attention of the framers of the statute was turned to
the law of Mexico which limited the ordinary grant of land
to each individual to eleven square leagues; for, in regard to
claim number seventeen, it was expressly provided that it
should not be confirmed for more than eleven square leagues
to each of the claimants. As the claim of 'Beaubien and
Miranda was like that of Vigil and St. Vrain in number seventeen, a grant to two persons, it must be obvious that the
attention of the framers of the act was called to the fact,
that, in the one instance, however large the claim might be, it
should only be confirmed, for eleven square leagues to each
grantee, according to the law of 1824, while in regard to the
other, in a like grant to two persons, which the surveyor gen-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

eral and the Commissioner of the General Land Office, .as
well as the Congress of the United States, must have known
included many times eleven square leagues, they made no
such restriction.
The second section of the act of 1860 declares: "That in
surveying the claim of said John Scolley it shall be lawful for
him to locate the five square leagues confirmed to him in a
square body in any part of the tract of twenty-five square
leagues claimed by him; and that in surveying the claims of
said Cornelio Vigil and Ceran St. Vrain the l-cation shall be
made as follows, namely: The survey shall first 18e made of
all tracts occupied by actual settlers, holding possession under
titles or promises to settle, which have heretofore been given
by said Vigil and St. Vrain, in the tracts claimed by them,
and after deducting the area of all such tracts from the area
embraced in twenty-two square leagues, the remainder shall
be located in two equal tracts, each of square form, in any
part of the tract claimed by the said Vigil and St. Vrain selected by them; and it shall be the duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico immediately to proceed to make the surveys -and locations authorized and required by the terms of
this section."
The fair inference from all this is, that Congress, in passing
this statute, considered some of the grants as being of the character to which the limitation applied, and did not so consider
others, though they included immense areas.
But whether, as a matter of f.act, this was a grant, not limited in quantity, by the Mexican decree of 1824, or whether
it was a grant which in strict law would have been held by
the Mexican government, if it had continued in the ownership of the property, to have been subject to that limitation,
it is not necessary to decide at this time. By the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, under which the United States acquired
the right of property in all the public lands of that portion of
New Mexico which was ceded to this country, it became its
right it had the authority, and it engaged itself by that treaty
to confirm valid Mexican grants. If, therefore, the great surplus which it is claimed was conveyed by its patent to Beau-

OCTOBER TERMT,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

bien and Miranda was the property of the United States, and
Congress, acting in its sovereign capacity upon the question of
the validity of the grant, chose to treat it as valid for the
boundaries given to it by the Mexican governor, it is not for
the judicial department of this government to controvert their
power to do so. Tamneling v. United States Feehold Co., 93
U. S. 644.
This case of Tameling, while it cannot be said to be conclusive of the one now before us, for the reason that that was an
action of ejectment founded upon a title confirmed by an act
of Congress, in which the title' could not be collaterally assailed for fraud or mistake, and the present is a suit attacking
the patent and the survey -upon which it issued directly by a
bill in chancery to set them aside for such fraud and mistake,
still the opinion announces principles which, as applicable to
this case and as regards the question of the extent of the
grant, it would seem should govern it. The title in that case
was confirmed to Tameling's predecessor in interest by the
same act which confirmed the grant now in question to Beanbien and Mirandat, the one being number fourteen and the
other number fifteen, as enumerated in the section of the
statute already recited. In rcgard to that statute, and its
effect upon the title confirmed by it, this court (p. 662) says:
"No jurisdiction over such claims in New Mexico. was conferred upon the courts; but the surveyor general, in the exercise of the authority With which he was invested, decides them
in the first instance. The final action on each claim reserved
to Cofgress-is, of course, conclusive, and therefore not subject
to review in this or Any other forum. It is obviously not the
duty of this court to sit in judgment upon either the recital
of mitteis of fapt by the surveyor general, or his decision declaring, the validity of .the "grant. Theyr'are emboied in his
reort; wliicli:Wa-% laid .b~fore Congress for its consideration
.
Congress acted upon the claim 'as recC.
and- Etion,: .
omn.endea.for donfirmation by.the .urveyor general.' The
co firmation.-.being., ab~oute 'nd onconditional, without any
limitation as. to -quantity, we m'Ust regard it as effectual and
operatiVe foi'the entire tract.* The:laintiff in error insists

V AXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

that, under the Mexican colonization laws in force whefi the
grant was made, not more than eleven square leagues for
each petitioner could be lawfully granted. As there were in
the present instance but two petitioners, and the land within
the boundaries in question is largely in excess of that quantity, the invalidity of the grant has been earnestly and elaborately pressed upon our attention. This was a matter for the
consideration of Congress; and we deem ourselves concluded
by the action of that body., The phraseology of the confirmatory act is, in our opinion, explicit and unequivocal."
It will be seen that the same question was raised in that
case, as in this, in regard to the effect of the decree of the
Mexican Congress of 1824 in limiting the extent of the grant,
which by its boundaries very largely exceeded the quantity
which the two petitioners in that case, as in this, would be
entitled to. The cases were numbers fourteen and fifteen out
of a series of eighteen or twenty. They were confirmed by
the same section of the same .statute and were in immediate
contiguity in the context. In both there were two claimants
under the same grant, who would have been entitled, under
the decree of 1824, if applicable to the ease, to twenty-two
square leagues, that is, to eleven square leagues each. They
were recommended for confirmation by the same surveyor
general who had investigated the titles and who was authorized by the statute which created his office to pass upon the
extent as well as the validity of the grants. The question
was, therefore, in the Tameling case precisely the same as in
the present, and it is not perceived how the questions of
reforming the grant by a direct proceeding in chancery, and
giving a construction to it -in an action of ejectment, can be
decided upon any different principles. If the Mexican government had no power to grant anything beyond twenty-two
square leagues in either case, the excess of the grant beyond
that was void. This objection could as well be taken in an
action of ejectment, where no particular twenty-two leagues
had been set apart out of the much larger grant covered by
the boundaries, as it could by a bill in chancery to set aside
or correct the patent. The principles of law applicable to .the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

.Opinion of the Court.

issue are the same in both cases, and the declaration of the
court in the Tameling case, that this was matter for the consideration of Congress, and it deemed ifself concluded by the
action of that body, is as applicable to the present case as it
was to that.
The argument is here much pressed that the power of the
surveyor general of New Mexico, in investigating and reporting upon these Mexican grants, was limited to ascertaining the
validity of the claim as a grant by the. Mexican government,
and not to its extent, and that the act of Congress confirming
the report of that officer and confirming the grant was not
intended to be conclusive in regard to the boundaries or the
quantity. But § 8 of the act of July 22, 1854, 10 Stat.
308, under which the report of the surveyor general was made
in regard to these claims, directs him to ascertain the extent,
as well as other elements of the claims to be referred to him.
The language of that section is as follows:
"That it shall be the duty of the surveyor general, under
such instructions as may ba given by the Secretary of the
Interior, to ascertain the origin, nature, character and extent
of all claims to lands under the laws, usages and customs
of Spain and Mexico, and for this purpose [he] may issue
notices, summon witnesses, administer- oaths, and do and perform all other necessary acts in the premises. He shall make
a fall report on all such claims as originated before the cession
of the territory to the United States by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, of eighteen hundred and forty-eight, denoting
the various grades of title, with his decision as to the validity
or invalidity of each of the same under the laws, usages and
customs .of the country before its cession to the United
States."
In the present case the surveyor general had before him,
not only the original grant of Armijo to Beaubien .and
Miranda, but he, had the record of, the juridical possession
delivered to the grantees, according to the laws of Mexico on
that subject made by the justice of the peace, Cornelio Vigil,
accompanied by a map or diseio' laying down with at least

I This disefio

will be found on page 370.

M AXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.

369

Opinion of the Court.

attempted particularity and precision the complete boundaries
of this tract of land. So that the surveyor general not only
had the authority to determine the extent of the grant, as well
as its validity, but he had the means of ascertaining it. Upon
what argument, therefore, it can be held that the surveyor,
general, with this entire matter before him, and with the
means. of ascertaining or describing with precision the extent
of the grant to these parties, should be held nof to have
passed upon it, but simply'upon the validity of the original
transaction with Armijo, is not readily to be perceived. The
surveyor general was not cbrtainly of the class of officers to
whom would have been confided by law the mere question of
the legal validity of a grant made by a Mexican governor to
a Mexican citizen. Others could do that as well as he when
the facts were laid before them. But as his office was a'surveying office, and was designed to ascertain the location :and
the extent of grants by an examination of the maps and surveys, and making new surveys if necessary a function preeminently appurtenant to his office, ho must be supposed, to
have reported upon all that was proper for consideration in
its confirmatioh. And when the Congress of the' United
States, after a fall investigation, and elaborate reports by its
committees, confirmed these grants "1as recommended for confirnation by the surveyor general" of the territory, we must
suppose that it was intended to be a full and complete confirmation, as regards the legal validity, fairness and honesty of
the grant, as well as its extent. This is made the more emphatic by the two or three cas~s, in which the extent and'
location of the grant are specially limited in the very act of
.confirmation, included in the same section and the same
sentence.
It is observable that, in the argument of the counsel for the
United States in this case, the boundaries of this tract of land
are constantly spoken of as outboundaries, within which, asmaller quantity of land may be located, as the real grant in
this case. This phrase, "outboundary," has its proper use in
regard to certain classes, of Mexican grants, but it is wholly
inapplicable and misleading as referring to the one now under
VOL. CXXI- 24

OCTOBER TERMAI, "1886.
Opinion of the Court.

1. Sketch from the Diseflo of the Beaubien and Miranda Graut, extended on
the lines of United States surveys.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.'
Opinidn of the Court.

Boundaries of the Beaublen and Miranda Grant, as surveyed and patented.

371

OCTOBER TERi,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

consideration. There were grants made by officers of the
Mexican government which were limited in quantity by the
terms of the grant, and which the grantee might locate at
,any place he 'chose inside of a much larger quantity.of land
the limits of which were correctly described -as "outboundaries." In such-cases'the use of the term, as describing the
larger and greater tract within which the smaller and more
limited quantity might be selected by the graiitee, had its just
and well-understood meaning. Grants of that class were
quite numerous, and sometimes half a dozen' grants to different individuals would be made within the same outboundaries,
and occasionally there are cases where these smaller portions
must include a dwelling or some improvement held by the
grantee at the time.. The whole of this subject is very well
considered and explained by Justice -Field in the opinion of
this court in the case' of Rorns6y v. United States, 10 Wall..
221. 'He says: ' As we have had occasion to observe in several instances," [referring to Higuerasv. United States; 5 Wall.
828; Aiso v. United &tates,8 Wall. 339,] "grants of the public
domain of Mexico, made by governors of the Department of California were of three kinds: 1st, grants.by specific boundaries,
where the donee was entitled to the entire tract described;
2d, grants by quantity, as of one -or more leagues situated at
some designated place, or within a larger tract describ6d by
outboundaries, where the donee was entitled out of the general tract only to the quantity specified; and 3d, grants of
places by name, where the- donee was entitled to the tract.
named according to the limits, as shown' by its settlement and
possession, or other competent evidence."
It is entirely clear that the grant to -Beaubien and Mirandfi
was a grant of the first class, a grant by specific boundaries,
where the donee was entitled to the entire tract described.
There is'nothing in-the language'of the grant, nor in the peti-.
tion, nor in anything connected with it, nor in the act of
juridical possession, to indicate that, either Governor Armijo
or Beaubien and Miranda, or the officer who delivered the
juridical possession to them, had any idea or conception that
the grantees were not to have all the land within the bounda-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

ries established by that juridical possession.. Hence the idea
of counsel that there were only twenty-two square leagues, or
97,424.8 acres, granted within this great boundaryis entirely
unsupported, the case not being one of a grant of a more
limited quantity within a larger outboundary. While the
argument, whether sound or unsound, that the grant 6ould
only be upheld for the twenty-two square leagues, may be
pressed now against the validity of the grant in excess of that
amount,. there was evidently no such thought in the minds of
the parties when it was made.
it is not inappropriate here to allude to an argument -suggested, but not much pressed, by counsel, that, in the petition'
of Beaubien against the intrusion of the priest Martine2, he
speaks of his own grant as being only about fifteen leagues..
We think a critical examination of that petition will show
that he is speaking of the claim of Mvartinez and his associates
as. amounting in all to about fifteen -leagues, and not of his'own claim under the grant.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the extent of this grant,
as confirmed by Congress,. is not, limited to the twenty-two
square leagues, according to the argument of counsel, and
that the act of Congress makes valid the title under the
patent of the United States, unless proved to be otherwise,
by reason of error or mistake in the survey, or fraud in its
procurement.
As regards the survey on which the patent was issued, and
which is made a part of the' patent, under the seal of the
United States and the signature of the President, it i$ to .be
observed that the evidence shows that the General Land Office
made every effort to have it accurate. The survey was made
by authority -of the commissioner of that office, unethe
s-apervision of the Surveyor General of New Mexico. A survey had been previously made by 'W. W. Griffin, who was
employed by the claimants to make it, because the then 'Sec
retary of the Interior had declined to order a sur\ey. This
survey was completed during the year 1870, and -though
purely a private enterprise and unofficial, the plat and field
notes were deposited in the General Land Office by the claim-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ant, presumably for the information of the government as to
the exact location of the exterior lines as claimed by the
owners of the grant. The Land Office having afterwards,
under the influence of the decision of the Supreme Court in
TYameling v. United States Freehold(o., determined that it was
its duty to ascertain the extent of this grant and to issue a
patent for it, was about issuing orders to the Surveyor General of New Mexico to have this grant surveyed, when it was
suggested by the claimants that the commissioner should adopt
the survey of Griffin, above referred to. He, however, declined to pursue this cburse; first, because he did not think it
was a proper procedure; and second, because he did not think
that the eastern and northern boundaries had been correctly
located by the Griffin survey. The Surveyor General thereupon made a contract for the work with Elkins and Marmon,
and the Commissioner of the General Land Office, in approving this contract, gave his own directions as to how these
boundaries should be located, and furnished for the guidance
of the surveyors an explanatory diagram. This survey was
made in the autumn of 1877. The map I or plat of it is a
part of the record, together-with the proofs taken by the surveyors to establish the calls of the grant. Contests were initiated before the Surveyor General upon the validity of this
survey by parties who were interested against it, and the case
was fully heard on testimony, which testimony was filed with
the Commissioner of the General Land Office. lHe finally
approved the survey, and the-patent was issued in accordance
with it on Mfay 19, 1879.
It is attempted in argument here to point out many errors
and mistakes as objections to the accuracy of this survey.
There is no reacon to doubt that the Surveyor General and the
officers employed by him, and the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, all of whom gave particular attention to this survey, were well informed on the subject. They knew that it
was -an immense tract of land, that it would be the subject of
grave criticism, and they knew more about it and were better
capable of forming a judgment of the correctness of that sur-

I See

page 371.

MAXiVELL -LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

vey than this court can be. We _may add, that, after all the
research, industry, and ability of special counsel for the gov-

ernment, when the testimony taken in the case to prove these
errors, and the record of the juridical possession, have been
considered with the best judgment that we can. bring to-them,
we are not satisfied that the survey is in any essential particular
incorrect; but, on the whole, we believe that it substantially'
conforms to the grant originally made by Governor Armijo.
The principal point in dispute to, which the argument of
counsel has been addressed is, that the part of the land included in this survey, north of the present line, which divides
the state of Colorado and the territory of New Mexico, was
improperly included within the survey. In other words, it is
argued that this northern line of the survey should have been
run from the east to the west upon the summits of the Raton
mountains. This ratige of hills, rather than mountains, seems
to project itself as a spur from the great range running north
and south which divides the waters that flow east from those
which flow west. Running almost due east as you ascended
along the foot of this range of hills, on their south side, is the
stream dalled the Colorado River, which seems to spring from
the great mountain range before mentioned. The language
descriptive of the land in the petition of Beaubien and
Miranda, which was granted and donated to them by Governor Armijo, as "therein exprested," is as follows:
"The tract of land we petition for to be divided equally between us commences below the junction of the Rayado River
with the Colorado, and in a direct line towards the east to -the
first hills," [about which there does not seem to be much difficulty,] "and from there running parallel with said River Colorado, in a northerly direction to opposite the point of the
Una de Gato, following the same river along the same hills to.continue to the east of said 'Una de Gato-River to the summit
of the table-land (mesa), from whence, turning northwest, to'
follow along said summit until it reaches the top of the mountain which divides the waters of the rivers running tuwards
the east from those running towards the west, and from thence
following the line of said mountain in a southwardly direction

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opini6n of the Court.

until it intersects the first hills south of the Rayado River, and
following the summit of said hills towards the east to the
place of beginning."
lNow, it is this northeastern corner whence the course turns
to the northwest which is the great subject of controversy, the
line following the summit of the mesa, or table-land, to the
)summit of the mountain. This part of the Colorado River is
a natural object which could not be mistaken, and which it
is now claimed is the true course of the line, except that it is
asserted that it should have followed the summit of the Raton
mountains, which are just north of it, and running parallel
with the river. That range is also a natural object, easily ascertained, and it would seem but reasonable that one or the
other of those objects should have been selected by the grantor
as descriptive of the place where this northern line should be
located. Instead of this, however, it is sa'd to run to the
"summit of the table-land, from whence turning northwest, to
follow along. said summit," [which evidently means the summit of the table-land,] "until it reaches the top of the mountain." The longest line of the survey is from the southeast
corner, in a northerly direction, parallel with the Colorado
River; and if the line, now contended for by appellant was
the true east and west line, it need only have been stated in
the grant that it should follow the course of that river to its
origin, in the same nmountain, which separates the waters of
the rivers running cast and west. But instead of speaking
either of that river in its course from west to east, or of the
•Raton mountains, as the natural object which constituted the
northerly boundary of the grant, it requires the boundary line
to leaye the Colorado River at the junction of the Una de
Gato River with it. and'continuing along a range of bills "to
the east of the Unadle GatP River to the summit of the tableland." This is not only a strong indication that the northern
boundary was not where it is claimed to be by counsel for appellant, but that it was somewhere else; that it was not a
range of hills, nor a river already mentioned in the grant,
but that it was something else called the "summit of the
tableland," north of both of these. And although there

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT 'CASE.

377"

Opinion of the Court.

is some contrariety of 'opinion about this "summit of the
table-land" which is to constitute the northeastern corner of
the grant, we are of opinion, upon a consideration of all the
evidence before us, that the survey was located as nearly in
accordance with the terms of the grant as it is possible now to
ascertain them.
Without going into this evidence more minutely, we are
content t6 say that, while, in favor of the correctness of- this
survey, in the points assailed, it is as strong or stronger than
that for any other survey which couid be made, or which has
been suggested by the counsel for the United States, we are
very clear that it is not the piovince of this court to set aside
and declare null and void these surveys and patents approved
by the officers of the government whose duty it was to consider them, 'and who evidently did consider them with great
attention, upon the miere possibility or a bare probability that
some other survey would more accurately represent the terms
of the grant.
The question of fraud in the location- of this survey, which
is about all the allegation there is of actual fraud in the title
of the defendants, is not deserving of much consideration.
We are compelled to. say that we do not see any satisfactory
evidence of an attempt to commit a fraud, and still less of its
consummation. As to the principal officers of the government who were connected with that survey, to wit, the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Surveyor General of the territory of New Mexico, there is not the slightest
evidence that they were governed by any fraudulent or improper motive in their acts in regard to this survey, or that
they displayed any leaning towards thegrantees in ascertaining the true boundaries of the grant. Nor is there any serious attack upon the subordinates of those officers, or any of
the persons actually engaged in making the survey, in regard
to their honesty of purpose or interest in the result. 'The
principal argument of counsel upon this subject is based upon
the Griffin survey, already mentioned,. which was deposited
by the claimants in the office of the surveyor general of New
the first place, that this survey was
Mexico. It is, argued, -in

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

a very incorrect one, and th at it included much more land
than was granted by Governor Arimijo; secondly, it is insisted that in this respect it was anintentional departure from
a correct survey; and thirdly, that it was designed and intended by the claimants to impose this incorrect and fraudulent survey upon. the Commissioner of the General Land Office
and have him issue a patent for it.
As. regards the first element of this allegation of fraud,
the incorrectness of the survey and that it included more land
than the grant authorized, the only minute and careful suiwey
with which it can be compar~d is the one upon which the
patent finally issued, and we must say, with the light we have
upon the subject and the time we have been able to bestow
upon its consideration, that it is by no means clear thht the
Griffin survey, in that respect, -is not the most correct one.
The defendants here are not in a condition to contest the final
.survey. It is. their business and their duty, having accepted
the patent uponi it, to defend it. But if it were to their interest, or to anybody's interest, to show that the Griffin survey was the more correct one, it seems to us that arguments
in its support would not be wanting.
In the second place, as to any intentional fraud on the part
of Griffin or his, assistants in the running of these boundary
lines, there is not the slightest evidence. And lastly, as to the
charge that the Maxwell Land-Grant Company knew this survey to be a false one, and that it included much more land
than the compdny was entitled to, but that they nevertheless
endeavored to impose it upon the Commissioner of the General
Land Office as a correct survey, -there are two emphatic
answers: first, there is no evidence that they believed it to
be a false survey, and they only asked, or seemed to ask, that
this survey might be adopted, because the government had
not made, and would not then make, one for. itself, in order
that they might get the patent to which they were entitled;
second, the Commissioner was not imposed upon. If they attempted a fraudulent imposition, they were not successful; he
rejected their survey altogetheri caused another one to be
made, and pointed out in his instructions to those who exe-

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

cuted the final survey the points of departure from that made
by Griffin, upon which he insisted. It seems impossible, in
the faci of these circumstances, to assume that there was anything in the nature of fraud perpetrated in regard to the
Griffin survey and its effect .upon the final survey.
The great importance of this case, as regards the immense
quantity of land involved and its value, reinforced by the circumstance of the number of cases coming before the courts,
in which, under the directions of the. Attorney General, attempts are made to set aside the decrees of the courts, the
patents issued by the government, and, in this case, an act of
Congress, seems to call for some remarks as to the nature of
the testimony and other circumstances which will justify a
court in granting such relief. The cases of this character
which have come to the Supreme Court of the United States
have been so few in number that but little has been said in
regard to the general principles which sh6uld govern their de:
cision. There are decisions enough to guide us in cases where
a patent or other title derived directly from the government
has been questioned in a collateral proceeding, brought to
enforce that title or to assert a defence under it; but the distinction between this class of cases, in which all the presumptions are in favor of the validity of the title, and in regard to
which a wise policy has forbidden that they should be thus
attacked, and those like the pregent, in which an action is
brought in a court of chancery to vacate, to set aside, or to
annul the patent itself, or other evidence of title from the
'United States, is very obvious. In, either case, however, the
deliberate action of the tribunals, to which the law commits
the determination of all preliminary questions and the control of the processes by which this evidence of title is issued
to the grantee, demands that to annul such an instrument and
destroy the title claimed under it, the, facts on which this
action is asked for must be clearly established by evidence
entirely satisfactory to the court, and that the case itself
must be within the class of causes for which such an instrument may be avoided. United States v. TAr'uelanor-ton, 98
U. S. 61.

OCTOBER TEWI , 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

In, the case of United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 535, this
court said:. '"A patent is the highest evidence of title, and
is .conclusive as against the government, and all !claiming
under junior patents or titles, until it is set aside or annulled
by some judicial tribunal. In England this was originallydone by scire facias, but a bill in chancery is found a more
convenient remedy." This was a chancery proceeding to set
aside a patent for land.
In. the case of Jolnson v. Towskey, 13 Wall. 72, the court,
considering the force and effect to be given to the actions of
the officers of the Land Department of the government, announces the doctrine that 'their decision, m ade within the
scope of their authority on questions of this kind, is in general conclusive everywhere, except when reconsidered by way
of appeal within that Department; and that as to the facts on
)vhich their decision is based, in the absence of fraud or mistake, that decision is conclusive even in courts of justice, when
the title afterwards comes in question. But that in this class
of cases, as in all others, there exists in the courts of equity
the jurisdictioft to correct mistakes, to relieve against frauds
and impositions, and, in cases where it is clear that those
officers have by a mistake of the law given -to one man .the
land which on the undisputed facts belongs to another, to give
proper relief.
These propositions have been repeatedly reaffirmed in this
court. 2ioore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; _Marquez v. F1isbie,
101 U. S. 473; United Sates v. Atkerton, 102 U. S. 372;
Skeyley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.330.
In the case of T]he Atantic Delaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S.
207, Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion of the court,
said, in regard to the power of courts of equity to cancel private contracts between individuals: "Cancelling an executed
contract is an exertion of the most extraordinary power of a
court of equity. The power ought not to be exercised except
in a clear case, and never for an alleged fraud, unless the
fraud be made clearly to appear; never for alleged false 'representations, unless their falsity is certainly proved, and unless
the complainant has been deceived and injured by them." In

- MAXWELL LAND-GRANT

CASE.

Opinion of the Court.

Story's Equity Jurisprudence, § 157, it is said that relif will
be granted in cases of written instruments only where there
is a plain iaistake, clearly made out by satisfactory, proofs.
Chancellor Kent, in the case of L4man v. United Ins. Co., 2
Johns. Oh. 632, which had reference to reforming a policy of
insurance, says: "The cases which treat of this head of equity
jurisdiction require the mistake to- be made out in the most
clear and decided manner, and to the entire satisfaction of the
court." See also Stockbridge Iron- Co. v. H~udson Iron Co.,
107 Mass. 290.
We take the general doctrine tQ be, that when in a court of
equity it is proposed to set aside, to annudl or to corfect a
written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution of
the instrument itself, the testimony on which this is done
must be clear, unequivocal, and convincing, and that it cannot
be done upon a ba're preponderance of evidence which leaves
the issue in doubt. If the proposition, as thus laid down in
the cases cited, is sound in regard to the ordinary contracts of
private individuals, how much more should it be observed
where the attempt is to annul the grants, the patents, and
other solemn evidences of title emanating from the goverhment.of the United States under its official seal. In this class
of cases, the respect due to a patent, the presumptions that all
the preceding steps required by the law lad been observed before its issue, the immense importance and necessity of the
stability of titles dependent upon these official instruments,
demand that the effokt to set them aside, to annul them, or to
correct mistakes in them should only be successful when the
allegations on -hich this is attempted axe clearly stated and
fully sustained by proof. It is -not to be admitted that the
titles by which so much property in this country and so many
rights are held, purporting to emanate from the authoritative
action of the officers of the government, and, as in this case,
under the seal and signature of the President of -the-United
States himself, shall be dependent upon the hazard of successful resistance to the whims and caprices of every person who
chooses to attack them in a court of justice; but it should be
well understood that only that class of evidence which com-

"382

OCTOBER TERM,

-1886.

Opinion of the Court.

mands respect, and that amount of it which produces conviction, shall make such an attempt successful.
The case before usis much stronger than the ordinary case
of an attempt t6 set aside a patent, or even the judgment of a
court, because it demands of us that we shall disregard or
annul the deliberate action of the Congress of the United
States. The Constitution declares (Article IV, § 1) that "the
Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations7 respecting the territory, or other property, belonging to the United States." At the time that
Congress passed upon the grant to Beaubien and Miranda,
whatever interest there was in the lan,' claimed which was
not legally or equitably their property was the property of
the United States; and Congress having the .power to dispose
of that property, and having, as we understand it, confirmed
this grant, and thereby niade such disposition of it, it is not
easily to be perceived how the courts of-the United States can
set aside this action of Congress. Certainly the power of the
courts can go no further than to make a construction of what
Congress intended to do. by the act, which we have already
considered, confirming this grant and others.
In regard to the questions concerning the surveys, as to
their conformity to: the original MJexican grant, and the
frauds which are asserted to have had some influence in the
making of those surveys, so far from their being established
by that satisfactpry and conclusive evidence which the rule
we have here laid 'down requires, we are of opinion that if it
were an open question, -unaffected by the respect due to the
official acts of the government upon such a subject; depending
upon the bare preponderance of 'evidence, there is an utter
failure to establish either mistake or fraud. For these reasons
tie decree of the C euii Court is afflrmed.
The defendant in error filed a petition for a rehearing. The
opinion of the court in denying this motion will be found in Volume
122.

