OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Statement of Facts.

'Halse's case cited in argument in Ex pa'rte Southeot 2 -es.
Sen. 401, 403. In the present case, no word of the complainant's imbecility was ever heard- until after tlhe insolvency of
the company; and, even if it had appeared, whilst he was a
minor, that he was of unsound mind, the legislative act gave
full power to the guardian to dispose of his estate, in the manner she did, and removed all objections on that score.
The.decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

Affl2-ed.
Mi. JUSTICE BLATcHFORD die not sit in this case, or take any
part in its decision.

FARGO v. "ICIHIGAN.
ERROR TO TE

SUPR

COURT OF MICHIGAN.

Submitted December 9, 188.-Deceded April 4, 1887.

A state statute which levies a tax upon the gross receipts of railroads for
the carriage of freights and passengers into, out of, or through the state,
is a tax upon commerce among the states, and therefore void.
While a state may tax the money actually within the State, after it has
passed beyond the stage of compensation for'carrying persons or property, as it mdy tax other money or property within its limits, a tax upon
receipts for this class of carriage sjecifically is a tax upon the commerce out of which it arises, and, if that be interstate commerce, it is
void under the Constitution.
The States cannot he permitted, under the guise of a tax upon,business
transacted within their borders, to impose a burden upon commerce
among the States, when the business so taxed is itsulf interstate commerce.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Michigan to bring here for review a decree sustaining a
demurrer to the complainant's bill in chancery, and dismissing
the bill. The complainant brought suit 'as President of the
Merchants' Dispatch Transportation Company, averring that
said company was a joint stock association, organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, and by the

FARGO v. MICHIGAN.
Statement of Facts.

laws of that state authorized to sue in the name of its president, The bill, so far -as it presented the questions on which
this court can have jurisdiction, charged as follows:
"Second. That, during the year ending with the 31st day
of December, A.D. 1883, the said transportation company was
engaged in the business of soliciting and contracting for the
transportation of freight required to be carried over connecting lines of railroad in order to reach its destination, and, for
the prosecution of its said business, it had agencies, located
generally throughout the United States and the D6minion of
Canada; the said transportation company issued through bills
of lading for such freight, and caused the same to'be carried
by the appropriate railroad companies, and, as compensation
for its service in the premises, the said transportation company
was paid by the said railroad companies a definite proportion
of the through rate charged and collected by said companies
for the carriage of said freights.
"Third. That during the said year the said transportation
company was possegsed of certain freight cars which were
us& ..and run by the railroad companies in whose possession
they chanced from time to time to -be for the transportation
upon their own and connecting lines of railroad of through
freight, principally between the city of New York, in the
state of New York, and Boston, in the state of Massachusetts,
and Chicago, in the state of Illinois, and other points and
commercial centres in the west, northwest and southwest,
without the said state of Michigan; that said cars were not
used for the carriage of .freight between points situate within
the said state of Michigan, but wholly for the transp6rtation
of freight, either passing through the state or originating at
points without said state and destined to points within, or
originating at points within said state and destined to points
without; that the said several railroad companies thus making
use of said cars during the said year paid -to the said transportation company as compensation therefor a definite sum
per mile for the distance travelled by the said carsover their
respective lines.
".Fourth. That the said transportation conipany during

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

the said year was not running or interested in any special fast,
through, or other stock, coal or refrigerator-car freight line, or
doing business in or running cars over any of the railroads of
said state of Michigan otherwise than as in the preceding
paragraphs stated.
" Fiftl. That prior.to the first day of..April, . D. 1884, th
Commissioner of Railroads of the state- of _Michigan transmitted to the said transportation, company certain blank
forms of a. report to be mkde-to him pursuant to the pro
visions of an act of the legislature of the state of Michigan
approved June 5, 1883, entitled 'An Act to provide for the
.taxation of p6rsons, copartneeships,- associations, car-loaning
companies and fast freight lines engaged in the business of
running cars over any of the railroads of this state, and not
being exclusively the property of any railroad company paying taxes on their gross receipts,' with the requirement that
the said transportation company sh9uld make up. and return.
said report to the office of said commissioner pn~or before the
first day of April, 1884, under the penalties of said act; that
on or about said first day of April, in compliance. with-said
demand, but protesting that the same was without authority
of law, and that said act was invalid-or, if valid, was not
applicable to the said transportation company - the said
transportation company made and filed with said commissioner a report, dly verified; setting forth that the gross
amoumt of the receipts of the said transportation company
for the mileage of said cars during said year 1883, while in use
in the transportation of freight between points without said
state and passing through said state in transit, estimated and.
pro-rated according to the mileage of said cars within said state
of Michigan while so in use, was thd sum of $95,714.50; and
while in the use of transportation of freight from points
without to points within said state of Michigan, and from
points within to points without said state, estimated and prorated according to the mileage of* said cars within the state of
Michigan while so in use, was the sum of $28,890.01, making
in the aggregate the sum of $124,604.51; that during said
year it received no moneys whatever on business done solely

FARGO

.

'MICHIGAN.

.233

Statement of Facts.

within the state of Michigan, and .nomoneys which were or
could be regarded as earned during. said year within the
limits of said state of. Michigan other than as hereinbefore
and in said report set forth.,
"2xt1 . That by the terms of said act it is the duty of said
Commissioner of Railroads to make and file with the Auditor
General of said state of Michigan, prior to the first day of
June each year, a computation based upon the report of each
person, association, copartnership or corporation taxable thereunder of the amount of tax to-become due from them respectively, and each such person, association, copartnership or
corporation is required on -or before the first day of July in
such year to pay to the Treasurer of said state of Michigan
upon the statement of the Auditor General thereof two and
one-half per cent. upon its gross receipts as computed by the
said Commissioner of Railroads and derived from loaning,
renting or hiring of cars to any railroad or other corporation, association, copartnership or party. It was also provided in said act ttfat for the said taxes and interest thereon,
and the penalty imposed for delay in the payment thereof, the.
said state should have a lien upon all the property of. the
person, association, copartn6rship or c6rporation so taxed,
and in default of, the payment of said tax 'by and within
the time so pre§cibed the Auditor General of said state was
authorized to issue his warrant to the sheriff of any county in
said state, commanding him to levy the same, together with
ten per cent. for his. fees, by distress and sale of any of the
property of the corporation or party neglecting or refusing to
pay such tax wherever the same may be found within the
county or state.
",Seventh. That the said Commissioner of Railroads has computed and determined that the amount of the gross receipts
of the said transportation company under the said act is the
said sum of $28,890.01, and that there is due from said transportation company to the state of Michigan, as a tax thereon,
the sum of $722.25, and has transmitted said computation to
the said Auditor General, and. your orator shows that unless
said tax is paid by the said transportation company on or b.-

.23-1

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

fore the first day of July, i884, it w1llbecome the duty of
the said Auditor Generaf under the said act'-and, the saidAuditor General threatens 'that- he will t-proceed 'to -enforce
payment of the said tax against said transportation company
by. the seizure and sale of the property of said transportation
company under the provisions of said act.
"L'igkhd. That your orator is advised and so charges, that
the said act as to the said gross receipts of the said transportation company, or of .any of- its- receipts or earnings from the
use of its cars, within the state of Michigan, and the trausac
tion of its business in the mannerhforesaid, is in violation of
the Constituti6n of the United States and void, and -thatsaid
act is inapplicable to the said transportation company, and
inoperative for further reasons appearing upon its face, and
that said transportation cpmpany isnot amenable thereto.
•.'_3Tinth. That the chief office's of the said transpdrtation
company for the transaction of corporate business was, during
said year, and is in the city of New York, in the .state of iNew
York, and that all the moneys earned by it, as set forth in the
second and third paragraphs hereof, were paid to it at its said'
office; that said company'during said year had no funds or
property whatsoever within the state of Michigan, except
cars in transit and office furniture in the possession of agents,
'and that during said year the said transportation company
was subject to taxation and was taxed on account of its property and earnings within and under the laws of the state of
New York."
The bill then prayed for a subpena against William 0.
Stevens,. Auditor General-of the State of Michigan, and for an
injunction to prevent him from proceeding in jthe collection
of said taxes. To this bill the defendant Stevens demurred,
and the Circuit Court for the county of Washtenaw,-inwhich
this suit was brought, 9verruled that demurrer. From this
decree the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the
state, where the judgment of the lower court was reversed,
the demurrer sustained,. and the bill dismissed. To -rverse.
that decree this writ of error was sued out.

FARGO v. MICHIGAIN.
Argument for -Defendant in 39rror.

31'. Asidey Pond for plaintiff in error.
XJfr. Xoses Taggart, Attorney General of Michigan, and
Mr.Edward Bacon for defendant in error.
This court has discretionary power to decide this case as any
reason deemed sufficient may require. The tax in question is
valid for the following reasons.
I. The tax is on -business done in the exercise of corporate
franchises, intr6duced by permission of the state of :Michigan.
The tax is on such business done by means of the complainant's permanently established local agents and offices in Michigan, with every facility for carrying on business between
places within the state, whenever profitable. The -taxis necessary to the safety of the state's revenue from railroad companies and express companies. * The tax is upon railroad
business so affecting and controlling public interests of' the
people of the ,tate of. Michigan that such business ought not
to escape taxation in the state.
" IL The opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigau in this
suit states a claim by the complainant's counsel that the tax
in question is void if it is laid "upon the gross earnings of the
company within thd state, as specific property, because the
earnings or assets are. not within the jurisdiction of the state."
Here is presented a statement of a matter of fact -the place
of the earnings. The complainant ought not to escape taxation in Michigan merely because the final receipt of its earnings in Michigan was at its chief office in the city of New
York. The business, by which all right to such earnings accrued, was completed within the state of -Michigan, and,
according to the ordinary course of such business, any suit
to collect such earnings must be brought in Michigan, where
the contracts therefor were made and fulfilled. And, according to the. ordinary course of such business, the payments of
the freight charges, in which the' complainant was part
owner, were made in Michigan, although the. railroad companies or other common carriers may have carried the money to
New York before final division thereof, and the real collec-

OCTOBER" TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

tion of the earnings in Michigan *as in Michigan continuously. Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, 598; United
States v. Erie Railway Co., 106 U. S. 327, 330.
If final receipt at the home office in New York, of earnings
in Michigan, must deprive the latter state of all power to tax
such earnings, then all insurance companies and express companies can claim for their earnings in Michigan, immunity
from taxation there, if such earnings be not finally receipted
for until they arrive in a foreign state. If the Supreme Court
of Michigan has decided that the 'claim of the complainant's
counsel was wrong, and that the earnings in question were
taxable in Michigan, where they were bargained for and collected, it is difficult to understand what statutory or constitutional provision of the United States was thereby infringed
upon. The transcript certainly specifies none so infringed
upon. And it is difficult to understand why the decision of
the Supreme Court of Michigan, on this matter shall not be
final.
Ill. If the plaintiff could use, in Michigan, its located
agencies, its corporate franchises, or its control of the freighting business, so that the Supreme Court of Michigan might in
this case rightfully adjudge that the complainant's business
was taxable there, then the adjudication of such Supreme
Court in this suit, that such business was so taxable, is final,
and no Fedeial question is of any importance in this suit.
In ZMurdoch V. City of ehpis, 20 Wall. 590, it is said
at p. 636, "If it"[the Federal question] "was erroneously decided against plaintiff in error, then this court must further
inquire whether there is any other- matter or issue adjudged
by the state court, which is sufficiently broad to-maintain the
judgment of that court, notwithstanding the error in deciding
the issue raised by the Federal question. If this is found to
be the case, the judgment must be affirmed without inquiring
into the soundness of the decision on such' other matter or
issue." Bonaparte v. Tax Court, 104 U. S.592, 595. _N'orton v. Saely County, 118 U. S.425 ; Erie Railway v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall. 492, 497.
IV. No Federal quest~i'n, not duly specified by the record,

FARGO v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

in or prior to the decree of the court below, can be considered.
.2faxwell v. _Newbold, 18 :Eow. 511.
If this claim for immunity is to be successful, then there
will be nothing to hinder any person or corporation in New
York from having like immunitq-from taxationfor all receipts
from any kind of business carried on in Michigan, if collections be made through a joint owner or partner there, but the
final division of such receipts shall be in New York. .3tessenger v. _3ason, 10 Wall. 507, 509; SinIrnerrnanv. TVebraska, 116
U. S. 54.
The complainant must be deemed a corporation exercising,
in its business, corporate franchises introduced by permission of
the state of Michigan. Lindley on Partnership, Ewell's ed.,
Chicago, 1881, Vol. 2, pp. 1087-8-9, giving copies of relevant
N. Y. Statutes and Articles of Constitution. IiverTool.Ins.
Co. v. .Aassachusetts, 10 Wall. 566, 574; Wpesteott v. Fargo,61
N. Y. 542; Fargov. Iouiville, -Arew Albany & Clheago Railway, 6 Fed. Rep. 787; Taterbury v. .3ferchants' Tnion AT,
press Co., 50 Barb. 157; Sandford v. Supervisars,15 Row.
Pr. 172; Habicht v. Pernberton, 4 Sandford (N.'Y.) 657;
United States E press Co. v. Bedbury, 34 Ill. 459.
MR. JusTIc MiLLEP, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of tte plaintiff in error is, that the statute of
Michigan, the material parts of which are recited in the bill, is
void as a regulation of commerce am6 ng the states, which, by
the Constitution of the United Stites, is confided exclusively to
Congress. Art. 1, § 8, clause 3. It will be observed that the
bill shows that the tax finally assessed by the auditor of state
against the transportation company was for the $28,890.01 of
the gross receipts which the company had returned to the
commissioner as money received for the transportation of
freight from points without to points within the state of
Michigan, and from points within to points without that state,
and that no tax was assessed on the $95,714.50 received for
transportation, passing entirely through the state to and from
other states.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion -of the Court.

There is nothing in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
state, which is found in the transcript of the record, to explain
this discrimination. There is nothing in the statute of the
state on which this tax rests which makes such a distinction,
nor is there anything in the commissioner's requirement for a
report which suggests it. It must have been, therefore, upon
some idea of the authorities of the state that the one was
interstate commerce and the other was not, which we are at a
loss to comprehend. Freight carried from a point without the
state to some point within the state of Michigan as the end of
its voyage, and freight carried from some point within that
state to other states, is as much commerce among the states as
that which passes entirely through the state from its point of
original shipment to its destination. This is clearly stated and
decided in the case of Th Reading Railroad Co. v. .Pennsylvania, commonly called the Case of the State _Freight Tax, 15
Wall. 232, in which it is held that a tax upon freight taken up
within the state and carried out of it, or taken up without the
state and brought within it, is a burden on interstate commerce, and therefore a violation of the constitutional provision
that Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several states. And in Wabcah
Railway Co. y. Illinois, 118 'U.S. 557, it is held that a statute
attempting to regulate the rates of compensation for transportati6n of freight from New York to Peoria, in the state of
Mllinols, or from Peoria to New York, is a regulation of commerce among the states. The same principle is established in
Crandallv. State of Nfevada, 6 Wall. 35.
The statute of the state of Michigan of 1883, under which
this tax.is imposed, is entitled "An act to provide for the ta;:ation of persons, copartnerships, associations, car-loaning companies, corporations, and fast freight lines engaged in the business of running cairs over any of the railroads of this state, and
not being exclusively the property of any railroad company
paying taxes on their gross receipts." Sections 1 and 2 require 'reports to be ir-ide to the Commissioner of Railroads
of the gross amount of their receipts for freight earned within
the limits of fthe state from all persons and corporations run-

FARGO -v. VICHIGAN..
Opinion of the Court.

ning railroad cars withi thq state. The commissioner is by
4 -required to make and file with the Auditor General, on the
first day of June of each year, a computation of the amount of
tax which would become due on the first day of July next
succeeding from each person, association, or corporation liable
to pay such taxes. Each one of these is by § 5 required to pay
to the State Treasurer, upbn the statement of the Auditor
General, an annual tax of two and one-half per cent. upon its
gross receipts, as computed' by the conmissioner of railroads.
It will thus be seen that the act imposed a tax upon all the
gross receipts of the Merchants' Dispatch Transportation Company, a corporation under the laws of the state o :New York,
and with its principal place of business in that state, on
account of goods transported by it in the state of Michigan;
and the bill states 'that the 'company carried no freight the
transportation of which was between points exclusively within
that state.
The subject of the attempts by the states to impose-burdens
upon what has come to be known as intierstate commerbe or
traffic, and which is called in the Constitution of the United
States "commerce among the states," by statutes which en-deavor to regulate the exercise of that commerce, as to the
mode by which.it shall be conducted, or by the imposition of
taxes upon the articles of commerce, or upon the transportation of thosa articles, Rfas been very niuch agitated of late
years. It has received the attentive consideration of this
court in many cases, and especially within, the last"five years,
and has occupied Congi'ess for a' time quite as long. The recent act, approved February 4, 1887, entitled "An act to regulate commerce," passed after many years of effort in that
body, is evidence that Congress has at last undertaken a duty
imposed upon it by the Constitution of the United States, in
the declaration that it shall have power "to regulate commerce with foreign inations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes." Congress has freely exercised this
power so far as relates to commerce 'with foreign nations and
with the Indian tribes but in regard to commerce among the
several states it has, until this act, refrained from the passage

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.-

Opinion of the Court.

of any very important regulation upon -this subject, except
perhaps the statutes regulating steamboats and their occupation upon the navigable waters of the country.
With reference to the utterances of this court until within a
very short time past, as to what constitutes commerce among
the several states, and also as to what enactments by the state
legislatures are in violation of the constitutional provision on
that subject, it may be admitted that the court has not always
employed the same language, and that all of the judges of the
court who have written opinions for it may not have meant
precisely the same thing. Still we think the more recent opinions of the court have pretty clearly established principles
upon that subject which can be readily' applied to most cases
requiring the construction of the constitutional provision, and
that these recent decisions leave no room to doubt that the
statute of Michigan, as interpreted by its Supreme Court in the
present case, is forbidden as a regulation of commerce among
the states, the power to make which is withheld from the
state.
The whole question has been so fully considered in these decisions, and the cases themselves so carefully reviewed, that
it would be doing little more than repeating the language of
the arguments used in them to go over the ground again.
The cases of the State Freiglit Tax and State Tax on Railway
Gross Receipts, which were considered together and decided
at the December term, 1872, and reported in 15 Wallace, pp.
232-328, present the points in the case now before us perhaps as clearly as any which have been before this court. A
statute of the state of Pennsylvania imposed upon all the railroad corporations doing business within that state, as well as
steamboat companies and others engaged in the carrying trade,
a specific tax on each two thousand pounds of freight carried,
graduated according to, the articles transported. These were
arranged into three classes, on the first of which a tax of two
cents per ton was laid, upon the second three cents, and upon
the third five cents.' The 'Reading Railroad Company, a party
to the suit, in making its report under this statute, divided its
freight on which the tax was to be levied into two classes,

FARGO v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

namely, freight transported between points within the state
and freight which either passed from within the state out of
it or from without the state into it. The Supreme Court of
the state of Pennsylvania decided that all the freight carried
without regard to its destination, was liable to the tax imposed
by the statute. This court, however, held that freight carried
entirely through the state from without, and the other class
of freight brought into the state from without or carried from
within to points without, all came under the description of
"commerce among the States," within the meaning of the
Constitution of the United States; and it held also that freight
transportA from and to points exclusively within the limits
of the state, was internal commerce and not commerce among
the states. The taxing law of the state was, therefore, valid
as to the latter class of transportation, but with regard to -the
others it was invalid, because it was interstate commerce and
the state 'could lay no tax upon it. In that case which was
very thoroughly argued and very fully considered, the case of
Crandagv. NTevada, 6 Wall. 35, was cited as showing, in regard to transportation, what was strictly internal commerce
of a state and what was interstate commerce. The court.
said: "Nor is it at all material that the tax is levied upon all:
freight, as well that which is wholly internal as that embarked in interstate trade. We are nota.t this moment in-.
quiring further than 'whether taxing goods carried because.
they are carried, is a regulation of carriage. The state may
tax its internal commerce, but if an act to tax interstate orforeign commerce is unconstitutibnal, it is not cured by including in its provisions subjects within the domain of the state,
Nor is a rule prescribed for carriage of goods through out of,.
or into a state any the less a regulation of transportation because
the same rule may be applied to carriage which is wholly internal. Doubtless a state may regulate its internal commerce,
as it pleases. If a state chooses.to exact. conditions for- allow-.
ing the passage or carriage of persops or freight through it.
into another state the nature of the exaction is not changed:
by adding to it similar conditions for allowing transportation
wholly within the state." pp. 276, 277.
VOL. Cxx-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of the E'rie Railway Company (a corpbration
of the state of New York) v. Pennsylvania, 15 Wall. 282,
decided at the same time, it appeared that the road of that
company was constructed for a short distance through a part
of the state of Pennsylvania, and that a similar tax was levied
upon- it for freight 'carried over its road. This was held to be
invalid for the reasons given in the case of the Reading road.
In the other case of State Tax, on Railway G 'oss Receipts,
15 Wall. 284, which was also a suit between the Reading Railway Company and the state of Pennsylvania, an act of the
legislature of that state was relied on which declared that
"In addition to the taxes now provided by law, every railroad, canal, alid transportation company incorporated under
the laws of this Commonwealth, and not liable to the tax upon
income under existing laws, shall pay to the Commonwealth a
tax of three-fourths of one per centum upon the gross receipts
of said company; the said tax shall be paid semiannually
upon the first days of July. and January,. commencing on the
first day of July, 1866."
This tax was held to' be valid. The grounds upon which it
was distinguished from the one in the preceding case upon
freight were, that, the corporation, being a creation of the
legislature of Pennsylvania and holding and enjoying all its
franchises under the authority of that state, this was a tax
upon the franchises which it derived from the state, and was
for that reason within the power of the state, and that, in
determining the mode in which the state could tax the franchises which it had conferred, it was not limited to a fixed
sum upon the value of them, but it could be graduated by and
proportioned to either the value of the privileges granted, oB
the extent or results of their exercise. "Very manifestly,"
said the court, "it is a tax upon the railrotad company, measdred in amount by the extent of its business, or the degree to
whidh its franchise is exercised," p. 234. Another reason given
for the distinction is that "the tax is not levied, and, indeed,
such a tax cannot be, until the expiration of each half-year,
and until the money received for. freights, and .from other
sources of income, has actually come into the company's hands.

FARGO V. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Then it has lost its distinctive character as freight earned, by
having become incorporated into the general mass of the
company's property. While it must be conceded that a tax
upon interstate transportation is inv lid, there seems to be no
stronger reason for denying the power of a state to tax the
fruits of such transportation after they have become intermingled with the general property of the carrier, than there
is for denying her power to tax goods which have been imported, after their original packages have been broken, and
after they have been mixed with the mass of personal property
in the country." pp. 294, 295, citing Brown v. .3arymnd,12
Wheat. 519.
The distinction between that case, which is mainly relied
upon by the Supreme Court of Michigan in support of its
decree, and the one which we now have before us, is very
obvious, and is twofold: First. The corporation which was
the subject of that taxation was a Pennsylvania corporation,
having the situs of its business within the state which created
it and endowed it with its franchises. Upon these franchises
thus conferred by the state, it was asserted, the state had a
right to levy a tax. Second. This tax was levied upon money
in the treasury of the corporation, upon property within the
limits of the state, which.had passed beyond the stage of compensation for freight and had become like any other property
or money liable to taxation by the state. The case before us
has neither of these qualities. The corporation upon which
this tax is levied is not a corporation of the state of Michigan,
and has never been organized or acknowledged as a corporation of that state. The money which it received for freight
carried within the state probably never was within the state,
being paid to the company either at the beginning or the end
of its route, and certainly at the time the tax was levied it
was neither money nor property of the corporation within the
state of Michigan.
The proposition that the states can, by way of a-tax upon
business transacted within their limits, or upon- the franchises
of corporations which they have chartered, regulate such business or the affairs of such corporations, has often been set up

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court:

as a defence to the allegation that the taxation was such an
interference with commerce as violated the constitutional pro,ision now under, consideration. But where the business so
taxed is commerce itself, and is commerce among the states
or -with foreign nations, the constitutional provision cannot
thereby be evaded; nor can the states, by granting franchises
to corporations engaged in the business of the transportation
of persons or merchandise among them, which is itself interstate commerce, acquire the right to regulate that commerce,
either by taxation or in any other way.
This is illustrated in the case of Cook v. Pennsylvania,97
U. S. 566. The state of Pennsylvania, by her laws, had laid
a tax upon the amount of sales of goods made by auctioneers,
and had so modified and amended this class of taxes that in
the end it remained a. discriminating tax upon goods so sold
imported-from abroad. This court held that the tax which
the auctioneer was required to pay into the treasury was a tax
upon the goods sold, and as this tax was three-quarters of one
per cent. upon foreign drugs, glass, earthenware, hides, marble
work and dyewoods, that it was a tax upon the goods so
described for the privilege of selling them at auction. The.
argument was made that this was a tax exclusively upon the
business of the auctioneer which the state had a right to levy.
In that case, as-in others, it was claimed that the privilege of
being an auctioneer derived from the, state by license, was
subject to such taxation as the state chose to impose, but the
proposition' was overruled; and this court held that the tax
was a regulation of commerce with foreign nations, and that
the fact that it was a tax upon the business of an auctioneer
did not relieve it from the objection arising from the constitutional provision.
The same question arose in the case of Die Gloucester
Ferry Co. v.. Pennsyvanzia, 114 U. S. 196. That company
was p; corporation chartered by the state of New Jersey
to rdn a .ferry carrying passengers and freight between the
town of Qloucester, in that state, 6nd the city of Philadelphia,
in the state of Pennsylvania. It had no property within the
state of Pennsylvania, but it leased alanding-place or wharf

FARGO v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

in that city for its business. The Auditor General and Treasurer of the state of Pennsylvania assessed a tax upon the
capital stock of this corporation under the laws of that state,
which the company refused to pay. Its validity was sustained
by the state Supreme Court, and the question was brought to
this court by a writ of error. It was insisted that the tax was
justified as a tax upon the business of the corporation, which,
it was claimed, was largely transacted in the city of Philadelphia. The Supreme Court of the state, in giving its decision,
stated that the single question presented for consideration
was, whether the company did business within the state of
Pennsylvania within the period for. which the taxes were
imposed; and it held that it did, because it received and
landed passengers and freight at its wharf in the city of Philadelphia. The argument was very much urged in this court
that the licensing of ferries across navigable rivers, whether
dividing two states or otherwise, had always been within the
control of the states, and that this, being a mere tax upon the
business of that corporation carried on largely within the state
of Pennsylvania, was within the power of that state to regulate. But this court held, after an extensive review of. the
previous cases, that the business of ferrying across a navigablo
stream between two states was necessarily commerce among
the states, and could not be taxed as was attempted in that
case.
In the case of Pickrd v. Pullman Southern Car Co.,
117 U. S. 34, decided at the last term of the court, it was
shown that the legislature of Tennessee had imposed what it
called a privilege tax under the constitution of that state of
fifty dollars per annum upon every sleeping-car or coach run
or used upon a railroad in that state, not owned- by the rail-.
road company so running or using it. This, it will be perceived, is very much like the tax in the case. before us, except
that it is a specific tax of fifty dollars per annum upon the car
instead of a tax upon the gross receipts arising from the use
of the car by its owner. In that case, after an exhaustive
review of the previous decisions i this class of cAses by Mr.
Justice Blatchford, who delivered the opinion of the court, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

was held that, as these cars were not property located within
the state, it was a tax for the privilege of carrying passengers
in that class of cars through the state, which was interstate
commerce, and for that reason the tax could not be sustained.
Two cases have been decided at the present term of the
court in which these questions have been considered, one of
them at least involving the subject now under consideration,
namely, that of .Robbinsv. Taxing Distg4t of Sktelby Coun/,
120 U. S. 489. A statute of that state declared that "all
drummers, and all persons not having a! regular licensed
house of business in the taxing district, offering for sale or
selling goods, wares, or merchandise therein by sample, shall
be required to pay to the county trusteethe sum of ten dollars
per week, or twenty-five dollars per month, for such privilege.",
Robbins was prosecuted for a violation of this law, and on the
trial it appeared that he was a resident and, a citizen of Cincinnati, Ohio, who transacted the business of drumming in the
taxing district, of Shelby County, that is, soliciting trade l y,
the use of samples, for the firm by which he was employed,
whose place of business was in Cincinnati, and ali the members
of which were residents and citizens ,of that city,, It was
argued in that case, as in the others we have just considered,
that the state had a right to tax the business of selling by
samples goods to be afterwards delivered, and to impose, a tax
upon the persons called drummers engaged in that business.
It was further insisted that, since the liQense tax applied to
persolns residing within the state as well as to those who
might come from other states to engage in that business, that
it was not a tax discriminating against other states, or the
products of other states, and was valid as a tax upon that
class of business done within the state. The whole subject is
reconsidered again in this case by Mr. Justice Brdley, who
delivered, the opinion of the court, in which it is held that the
business in which Robbins was engaged, namely, that of selling goods by sample, which were in the state of Ohio at the
time and were to be delivered in the city of Memphis, Tennessee, constituted interstate commerce, and that, so far as this
tax was to ,be imposed upon Robbins for doing -hat kind of

FARGO v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

business, it was a tax upon interstate commerce, and therefore not within the power of the state to enforce.
In the case of Waxatsh Railway Co. v. 17linos, 118 U. S.

557, the question presented related to a statutory regulation of
that state as to compensation for carrying freight. It was
field by the Supreme Court of Illinois to embrace all contracts
for transportation by railroad which came into or went out of
the state, as well as that which was wholly within its limits,
and although the controversy did not arise in regard to a tax
upon interstate commerce, yet the general question was fully
considered as to what was interstate commerce and what was
commerce exclusivqly within the state, and how far the former
could be thus regulated by a statute of a state. This court held
in that case that no statute of a state in regard to the transportation of goods over railroads within its borders, which was a
part of a continuous voyage to or -from points outside of that
state, and thus properly interstate commerce, could regulate the
compensation to be paid for such transportation; that the carriage of passengers or freight between different points is commerce, and except where that is wholly and exclusively within
the limits of a state it is not subject in its material features to
'be regulated by the state legislature.
.
In many other cases, indeed, in the three last cases men'tioned, the whole subject has been fully examined and considered with all the authorities, and especially decisions of this
court relating thereto. The result is so clearly against the
statute of Michigan, as applied by its Supreme Court, that we
think the judgment of that court cannot stand.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Michigan is reversed,
with directionsforfarther'poceedingsin accardancewith
this opiVinion.

