OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

izens outside were not all unlawful was decided in United
States v. Quigley, 103 U. S. 595. To make a case for removal
the answer should have set forth the facts which rendered the
mortgage void under the non-intercourse act and the proclamation thereunder. There has been no attempt to do this.
The order remanding the case is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

MILWAUKEE AND NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. BROOKS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.
ERROR TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERI

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Argued April 15, 1887. -Decided April 25, 1887.

On the facts found by the court below, this court holds that the fufid in
dispute in this case is subject to le applied, by virtue of the garnishee
proceedings, to the payment of. the judgment debt due to the defendant
in error from the plaintiff in error.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
MJfr. E. JMarinerfor plaintiff in error.
Mkr. F C. Winkler for defendant in error. Mr. James G.
Jenkins was with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Brooks Locomotive Works, on November 30, 1875, recovered a judgment against the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company for the sum of $15,368.72, with interest
and costs, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin. Execution thereon having
been returned not satisfied, and the judgment being otherwise

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

431

Opinion of the Court.

unpaid and still, in force, on July 7,1879, the plaintiff below
filed what under the laws of Wisconsin regulating the practice
in such cases is'called an affidavit of garnishment; in which it
was alleged that the defendant, the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company, had not property liable to execution sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, and that the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company, a corporation of the state of Wiscousin, and Charles L. Colby, Edwin H. Abbot, and John A.
Stewart, were indebted to or had property, real or personal,
in their possession, or under their control, belonging to the
defendant in said execution. Summons was accordingly issued, pursuant to said affidavit, against thd garnishees, and
served on the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, C. L
Colby, and Edwin H1. Abbot, as well as upon the defendant,
the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company. The defendants .filed answers, Edwin H. Abbot answering under
oath for himself and John A. Stewart, a citizen of New York,
jointly. In this answer Stewart and .Abbot set out particularly the circumstances under which they allege that they
hold the sum of $28,258.44 as an amount due from them, as
trustees for the mortgage bondholders of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, for the use and occupation of the
railroad of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company
while operated by them as such _rngtees; and, being* in doubt
as to whether the facts stated cast any liability upon them as
garnishees, submit the question of their liability to the court.
The other garnishees in their answers deny any indebtedness
to the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company.
The cause, having come on for trial upon these issues, was
.submitted to the court, the intervention of a jury being duly
waived. .The findings of fact and conclusions of law are as,
follows:
"First. That on the 30th day of November, 1875, the plaintiff above named duly recovered a judgment in this court
against the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, defendant herein, for the sum of $15,368.72, damages and costs;
that said judgment is still in full force and wholly unpaid and
unsatisfied; that there is now due thereon from said defend-

432

OCTQBER TERiq4, 1886.
Opinion ,of the Court.

ant, the Milwaukee and Northern Railway. Company, to said
plaintiff, the said sum of $15,368.72, with interest at the rate
of seven per cent. per annum from the 30th day of November,
1875, amounting at this date to the sum of $23,410.40; and
that said judgment was, rendered upon certain promissory
notes given by said company to the plaintiff upon the sale of
an engine furnished for its railroad on the 6th day of September, 1873; that an alias execution was duly issued out of and
under--the seal of this court to the marshal of the Eastern
Distrib-t of Wisconsin upon said judgment on the 7th day of
July,. 1879, and while the same was in the hands of the said
marshal, and wholly unsatisfied, and before the return day
thereof, to wit, on the 7th day of July, 1879, this action was
commenced, by due service of the garnishee, affidavit and
summons herein, upon the said defendant and upon the garnishees named in the title of this cause,
"Second. That, the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company
was, at said last-named date, and for many years prior thereto
had been, and, at all times hereinafter mentioned was, a corporation -created by and under the laws of the state of .Visconsin, and owned and operated a railroad from Menasha, in
the state of Wisconsin, to Ashland, on Lake Superior, in said
state; that the defendant, the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Conipany, was during said times a corporation created by
and under the laws of the state of Wisconsin, and owned a
certain main 'line of railway extending from the city of Milwaukee, in the state of 'Wisconsin, to the city of Green Bay,
in said state, and a spur line from HIilbert Junction, on said
main Biie, to Menasha aforesaid; that the said Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, on the first day of July, 1871, .mortgaged its line of railway aforesaid to secure certain bonds
therein mentioned, which mortgage was in the usual form of
railway mortgages, and authorized the frustees, upon default,
to take possession of said railway, and that at all times hereinafter mentioned, the, defendants, John A. Stewart and
Edwin H. Abbot, were, the, trustees under said mortgage.
"Third. That the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, priot to the times hereinafter mentioned, had duly mort-

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

433

Opinion of the Court.

gaged its said line of railway to secure its bonds, in the usual
form, of railway mortgages, with authority upon the part of
the trustees in said.mortgage named to take possession of said
railway upon default in the payment of the principal or interest of the bonds thereby secured, and that at the times hereinafter mentioned Jesse Hoyt and A. Warren Greenleaf were
the trustees in said mortgage named, a copy of which mortgage is hereto annexed, marked 'Exhibit A.'
"Fourth. That on the 9th day of November, 1873, the
M ilwaukee and NorthernRailway Company leaset, to the
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company its line of railway and
appurtenances, motive power and rolling-stock, railroad materials, and supplies of every, description for the term of 999
years from and after November 30, 1873, a copy of which
lease is hereto annexed, marked ' Exhibit B ; ' that by supplemental agreements to said lease, of which ' Exhibits C and D,'
hereto annexed, are copies, Jesse Hoyt was substituted as

trustee in the, place of the Wisconsin -Marineand Fire Insurance Company Bank, and that said lease was on or about
January 8, 1878, by said Milwaukee and -Northern Railway
Company, assigned to Jesse, Hoyt and A. Warren Greenleaf,
trustees under said mortgage, of which the Wisconsin Central
Railway Company had notice, copies of which assignment and
ndtice are hereto annexed, marked ' Exhibits E and F; ' that
the Wisconsin Central Railway Company entered into possession of said road under said lease, and continued therein until
the garnishees herein, Stewart and Abbot, took possession of
said railway in January, 1879, and said company paid rent
under said lease.
"Fifth. That at the times herein mentioned Jesse Hoyt was
the president of the Milwaukee and Northeri Railway Company, and Angus Smith was the vice-president thereof.
"Sixth. That on the 9th day-of January, 1875, a foreclosure
of the mortgage made by the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company was commenced in this court by Jesse Hoyt,
surviving trustee, against the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company and the Wisconsin Centrai. Railway Company,
defendants, but that no receiver was appointed therein until
VOL. CXx%-28

434:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Coui-t

the 28th day of April, 1879, on which day the said court, by
consent of the parties to said suit, made an order annulling
such lease, and appointing James C. Spencer receiver, 'Who
qualified as such receiver on the fifth day of May, 1879, a copy
of which order is hereto annexed, marked ' Exhibit G,' and
that said trustees had never taken possession of said railroad
and property under said mortgage, nor .claimed so to do, until
-the appointment of said receiver.
'Seventh. That on the 12th day of October, 1875, one
James Ludington recovered a judgment at law, in the Circuit
Court of the state of Wisconsin for the county of Milwaukee,
against the Mil-waukee and Northern Railway Company, and
on the 15th day of November, 1875, caused an execution to be
issued thereon, which was returned nulla bona on the 18th day
of January, 1876, which judgment was rendered upon default
and without any appearance of the defendant therein, and the
process commencing said action was served only upon Guido
Pfister, a director of said company, and upon no other officer
or person.
"Eighth. That on the 17th day of November, 1875, the said
-James Ludington filed a bill in equity in said Circuit Court
for the county of Milwaukee founded upon his said-judgment
at law, and on the 27th day of December, 1875, obtained a
decree therein, direftiug the sale of the .railroad of the Milvaukee and Northern Railway Company thereunder; that on
the 4th day of aIirch,. 1876, under said decree, the sheriff of
the.county of Milvaukee sold said railroad to Guido Fflster,
and on the 29th day of March, 1876, executed a deed thereof
to him, but did not make a report of the sale to the court
until January 30, 1880, and said sale was confirmed by the
court on the 9th day of February, 1880, and that the sheriff's
deed to Guido Pfister was recorded in the office of the register
of deeds of the county of Milwaukee on the 26th day of
February, 1880, but said Pfister never took or claimed possession under. said deed.
"Ninth., On the 4th day of January, 1879, the defendants,
'John A. Stewart and Edwin H; Abbot, as trustees under the
mortgage of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, said

MIILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

435

Opinion of the Court.

company having theretofore, made default under said mortgage, and then being so in default, duly took possession of said
Wisconsin Central railroad under the said mortgage, and also
took possession of the Milwaukee and Northern railway, and
thereupon notified the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company and Jesse Hoyt, trustee of the mortgage of said company, and trustee under its said lease to the Wisconsir Central
Railroad Company, and as assignee of said lease, of the taking of such possession of the Milwaukee and Northern railway, and notifying that they declined to assume, affirm, or in
any way ratify the lease thereof to the Wisconsin Central
Railroad Company, and notifying that, unless. said parties
notified should otherwise elect, they would continue to operate
said Milwaukee and Northern railway temporarily and for
such compensation as that service might fairly be worth, and
requesting a persdnal interview to ascertain their wishes and
with-a view to a more permanent arrangement, and offering
to submit to the parties in iuterest any proposition which
could be jointly recommended with reference to the future
possession of said railway, of which notice 'Exhibit H,' hereto
*annexed, is a copy; that the said Milwaukee and 'Northern
Railway Company, or Jesse Hoyt as president or as trustee,
or as assignee of said lease, did not, nor did either of them, in
any way object to the possession of said railroad -by said
Stewart and Abbot, or give any attention to said notice until
the commencement of negotiations in March, 1879, but said

Stewart and Abbot continued to use and operate the Milwaukee and Northern railway without further arrangemhent
or agreement, and without any objection by any of the parties
to this proceeding, and with the acquiescence of the Wisconsm Central Railroad Company, but without any assignmeni
of the lease, until the 1st day of May, 18'9, and until 'the
lease from the receiver as hereinafter found and said Mil-'
waukee and Northern Railway Company and said Jesse Hoyt,
shortly before the 1st day of May, 1879, in the presence and
with the concurrence of all others interested, including the
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, had negotiations with
them which culminated in an arrangement by which a receiver

•

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Milwaukee and Northern railway was appointed in the
foreclosure suit, as hereinbefore found; that said Stewart And
Abbot then entered into a lease with said receiver of said
Milwaukee and Northern railway for a certain term commencing on the 1st day of May, 1879; that on or about the
23d day of July, 1879, after the service of the garnishee
affidavit and summons herein, it was arranged and agreed
between said Stewart aiid Abbot, trustees, on the one part,
and Jesse Hoyt, as trustee and assignee, upon the other part,
that the sum of $28,258.44 Was the amount properly payable
by the said Stewart and Abbot as trustees to the party lawfully entitled to receiv6 the same out of the moneys received
by said trustees from the operation of the Milwaukee and
Northern railway from January 3, 1879, to May 1, 1879,
and for the use thereof; which amount was a less sum than
would have been coming by the terms of the lease to the Wisconsin Central railroad, and that thereupbn said Stewart and
Abbot paid tosaid Jesse Hoyt, as such trustee and assignee,
the said sum of money upon receiving a bond of indemnity
executed by Ephraim Mariner, Guido Pfister, and Angus
Sm t, indemnifying them against this suit by reason of
such payment, Zopies of which ageemelit of accouiting and
bond of indemnity are hereto annexed, marked 'Exhibits I
and J.'
"Tenth. That-onthe-8th day of March, 1880, an order was
made in the foreclosure suit of the mortgage of the Milwaukee
and Northern Railway Company for the sale of said railroad,
which sale took place on the 5th day of June, 1880, and was
sold to Ephraim. Mariner and Guido Pfister as trustees for the
holders of the bohds under-said mortgage; that on the 9th
day of June the report of saud sale was fied, and was confirmed 'by the court, and that thereafter, on the 3d day of
July, 1880, the finalireport of the receiver was filed, asking
for a discharge, and said report was confirmed on the 5th day
of July, 1880.,'
"Eleventh.'That from January 3, 1879, to May 1, 1879,
the said Stewart and Abboi were not in possession of or operating said Milwaukee -and Northern railway under any lease

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

437

Opinion of the Court.

whatever between them and James C. Spencer as receiver of
the Milwaukee and Northern railway, as claimed in the answer
of the principal defendant herein, nor was the indebtedness of
said garnishees for the use and occupation of said railroad during said period owing by them to said James C. Spencer,
receiver.
,Cmwliow
Law.
"The contention in this case being as to who was entitled
to the sum of $28,258.44, agreed upon as the fair compensation for the use of the Milwaukee and Northern railway from
January 3 to May 1, 1879, we find:-"First. That it did not belong to and cannot be rightfully
claimed by the receiver appointed in the foreclosure suit of the.
mortgage on the :Milwaukee and Northern railway, for the
reason that he was not "qualifieda§ receiver until a subsequent
date, and had never reduced the property to possession, and
was only receiver of the mortgaged property.
"Second. That said fund did not belong to the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company, because such occupation and operation of the road by Stewart and Abbot, trustees, were with
its acquiescence, and it is upon record in this cause as denying
all indebtedness to the principal defendant herein, and makes
no claim to said fund.
." Third. That said. fund did not belong to Jesse Hoyt as
trustee under said mortgage, because said trustee had not taken
possession of said railroad, and was not entitled to the income
thereof; that it did not belong to said Jesse Hoyt as trustee
under said lease, or as assignee of said lease, because the occupation and operation of said road by Stewart and Abbot,
trustees, was not under said lease, but in defiance thereof and
in opposition thereto.
"Fourth. That said sum was, it the time of the garnishee
proceedings herein, the property of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, and was liable to be taken and attached
for the debts due by said company; that the plaintiff, by virtue
of the garnishee proceedings herein upon Stewart and Abbot,
trustees, acquired a lawful claim and lien upon said fund to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.,
Opinion of the Court.

the extent of the plaintiff 's judgment and debt against said
company, and that at the time of said garnishment the said
John A. Stewart and Edwin H. Abbot had in their hands belonging to the defendant, the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, and were midbted to and owed said company
for the use and occupation by said Stewart and Abbot of the
railway of said company from January 3, to May 1, 1819,
the sum of $28,258.44, and that the plaintiff is entitled to
judgment against said Stewart and Abbot for the said amount
due upon its judgment, to wit, the sum of $23,410.40; that
as to the garnishees, the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company
and Charles L. Colby, this action should be dismissed.
"let judgment be entered herein in favor of the plaintiff*
against John A. Stewart and Edwin H. Abbot for the sum of
$23,410.40, with costs to be taxed.
"Dated May 21, 1883.
"Jomn M. HRLAN, CircuitJu8tice.
"CHs. E. DYER, ist. Judge."
Judgment having been entered for the plaintiff below, searate writs of error hay6 been prosecuted by the Milwaukee
and Northern Railway Company and by Stewart and Abbot.
The main'contest in the case is between the plaintiff and
Jesse Hfoyt. If the fund in the hands of the garnishees,
Stewart and Abbot, belongs to the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company, the plaintiff is entitled to subject it to the
payment of his jidgment; otherwise not. Hoyt's claim is, that
Stewart and Abbot, as trustees of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, were in possession of the Milwaukee and Northern R~ilway under a lease of that road to the Wisconsin Central
Railroad Compahy, and are indebted to him, as trustee under
that lease and as assignee of the lease, for the rent accruing
under it, represented by the"fund in their hands. Th6 lease
was executed on November 8, 183, and was for the term of
999 years from that date. It stipulated that the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company, the lessee, should pay as rent a
certain proportion of the gross earnings received from the
demised road, instalments of which were to be paid monthly

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

439"

Opinion of the Court.

to such trustee as should be, from time to time, jointly selected
by the parties, "upon the trust to keep the same until the
next instalment -of interest is due upon the bonds issued by
the first party under their first mortgage, and then to apply
the same; or so much thereof as shall be necessary, to the pay.ment of said interest when and as payable, and, if any surplus remain after payment of said interest, to pay the same to
.the first party, its successors and assigns, unless said surplus,
or some part thereof, is due to the second party for advances,
as is hereinafter provided, made to or for the benefit of the
first party to pay said interest, and if said surplus, or any part
thereof, is so due, then to said second party, as hereinafter
provided, so much as is due for said advances and interest."
The Wisconsin Marine and Fire Insurance Company Bank.
was appointed trustee under the lease. By a supplemental
agreement, made June 1, 1875, between the parties, the lease
was modified so that the rent reserved for the three years fr6m
June 1; 1875, should be forty per cent. of the gross earnings
received from the demised premises, and after that, so much
as..was necessary to pay the interest coupons of the Milwaukee
and Northern Railway Company, not to exceed forty per cent.
of the gross earnings. Under that modified lease, Jesse Hoyt
was appointed temporary trustee, in place of the Wisconsin
Marine and Fire Insurance Company Bank, for the period of
twelve months, which appointment was continued by a further
agreement made October 10, 1876.
On January 7, 1878, the Milwaukee and Northern Railway
Company made a written assignment to Jesse Hoyt and A.
Warren Greenleaf, trustees of the mortgage given to secure its
bonds, of the'lease of the Milwaukee and Northern railway
to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, and of all the
covenants therein contained, and of all moneys due or to grow
due thereon, upon the same trusts, however,' as were expressed
in the trust deed executed by the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company to Hoyt and Greenleaf as security for the
first, mortgage boflds of said company. On the following day
a written notice, signed by Hoyt and Greenleaf, was served
upon the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company of the fact of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

such assignment, 'and direbting that .company to pay the rent
to Jesse'Royt as theretofore, "such assignment being intended
merely as further security for said bonds, and not to disturb
the relations of the parties to such lease and modifications."
In the meantime, as appears by the sixth finding of facts,
Jesse Hoyt, as surviving trustee under the mortgage made by
the -Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, had con,menced proceedings to foreclose- the mortgage, the Wisconsin
Central Railroad Company being a defendant thereto, which
proceedings were pending -when the garnishees, Stewart and
Abbot, as tiustees under the mortgage ot the Wisconsin Cen-'
traI Railroad Company entered into possession of the property'
of that company, and'also took possession of and operated the'
Milwauk e and Northdrn Railroad, under the circumstances
stated in the ninth finding of facts.,
It is now contend~d, in opposition td the third conclusion of,
law drawn by the Circuit Court,that upon the facts found the
garnishees,'Stewart and Abbot, took possession of the Milwau-:
kee and! Northern' Railw'ay under the lease of that road to the
Wisdonsin Central 'Railroad' Company, and became bound
thereby to pay 'rent 'therefor to Hoyt, as trustee under said
lease,' or ai assignee of, said lease. ' Hoyt is not a party to this
proceeding, but it is conipeteilt for Stewart: and Abbot, as
garnishees, to represent his rights in their own defence; for, if
in lakw they are liable to Hoyt, they are not liable to the present
defendant in error , and in protecting their own interests it is
proper for them to assert the right of 'Hoytif they are in law
liable to him.

"

There are, however, 'two answers to the claim put forward
on behalf of Hoyt. If the rent of the Milwaukee and lNorthern railway is payable to him, either as trusfee under the lease
or as assignee of the lease, it' is n6t due to him in his own
right, but merely for the purposes and upon the trusts expressed either in the lease or in the assignment. Those purposes and trusts were to apply the repts to be received by him
to the payment of the interest coupons as they became due
upon the mortgage bonds of the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company secured by the mortgage to him; but it no-

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

441

Opinion of the Court.

where appears in the record that there are any coupons in
arrears to which this rent could be applied, and in that event
the rent is payable to the Milwaukee and Northern Railway
Company as lessor beneficially interested. It in fact appea.rs
by the tenth finding, that pending this suit, and before its
trial, the Milwaukee and Northern Railway was sold under
the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage of which Hoyvt was
the surviving trustee, to trustees for the holders of the bonds
under that mortgage, which sale has been duly confirmed by
the court. It does not, therefore, appear but that at the time
of the trial of this case all the bonds, with the interest thereon,
of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company secured by
the mortgage of which Hoyt was trustee, had been fully paid
and satisfied. If so, Hoyt had no 'further interest under the
lease, either as trustee or assignee, which entitles him to
receive the fund in the hands of the garnishees for any purpose.
In the second place, however, it does not follow as a conclusion of law, from the ninth finding of facts, t aken in connection with the other facts found, that Stewart.and Abbot'
entered into possession of th6 railroad of the Milwaukee and
Northern Railway Company under the lease of that road to
the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, and thereby became
bound to pay the rent reserve, therein. They were not assignees of the term of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company under that lease. They weie trustees of the mortgage
given by the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company to them
to, secure its bonds, and entered'into possession of its railroad
by a title antedating the lease to it by the Milwaukee and
Northern Railway Company. "They were not, therefore, bound
by the terms of that lease, and were under no obligations to
undertake its burdens. They were not bound to take possession of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway ; they did so
merely as a matter of convenience to the parties interested in
that road, and for their benefit. On doing so they gave explicit notice of the character of their possession. That notice,
dated January 11, 1879, was addressed to Jesse Hoyt, as president of the Milwaukee and Northern Railway Company, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

surviving trustee under its first mortgage and bonds, and trustee under the lease of its railroad to the Wisconsin Central
Railroad Company, and assignee of said lease. In it they
say:
"We beg to inform you that on: the third day of January
current we, trustees under and by virtue of the provisions of
the first mortgage of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, eutered upon and took possession of the property covered by that mortgage, and are now operating the Wisconsin
Central Railroad.
"We find that the said company was operating the Milwaukee and Northern Railway under a lease. We are not
sufficiently informed upon the subject to warrant us in assuining any obligation under that lease. We therefore notify you
that we decline to assume,, affirm, or in any way ratify that
lease. We wish, however, not to interfere in any way with
the welfare of that railway, and, unless you otherwise elect,
will continue for the present to .operate the same temporarily
for such compensation as that service may be fairly worth,
and, as far as is necessary, but not in excess of its earnings, to
repair the same as the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company
was doing, and also to permit the business of the WisconSin
Central Railroad Company to be done as heretofore over that
railway. We suggest that you arrange for an early personal
interview with us, at which you will make known to us your
wishes, and confer with a view to a more permanent arrangement.
"We are ready to submit to the parties in interest any proposition which yourself and we are jointly able to recommend."
T6 this notice no answer appears to have been made, and
Hoyt's silence under, the circumstances may fairly be taken to
be an acquiescence in the arrangement proposed by Stewart
and Abbot. The. proceedings on the part of Hoyt, as trustee
under his mortgage, to foreclose that mortgage, were then
pending, and the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company was a
party to that suit. If Hoyt was not willing to accede to the
terms proposed by Stewart and Abbot in that notice, in respect
to the nature of their occupation and operation of the I[il-

MILWAUKEE RAILWAY v. BROOKS WORKS.

443

Opinion of the Court.

waukee and Northern Railway, it was open to him to apply for
the appointment of a receiver, as he subsequently did on May 5,
1879, or otherwise to take possession of the Milwaukee and
Northern Railway as trustee under the mortgage.. The legitimate inference from his conduct is that which was drawn by
the court below, which held, as matter of la-vr deduced from
the facts found, that the garnishees were not in possession of
the Milwaukee and Northern railway under the terms of the
lease to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, and for the
value of its use and occupation were not bound to account to
Hoyt. There was neither privity of contract nor privity, of
estate between Hoyt and theni. Their obligation to pay for
that use and occupation was to the company that owned the
road.
It is argued by the attorney for the plaintiff in error that
there is another alternative by which it may be shown that
the garnishees do not owe this fund to the Milwaukee and
Northern Railway Company; that is, that Stewart and Abbot
entered into possession of the Milwaukee and Northern railway as sub-tenant thereof under the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, the lessee, and are bound to pay rent as such
to the latter, company. But, as we have already seen, Stewart and Abbot entered into possession of the property of the
Wisconsin Central Railroad Company itself adversely to it, as
trustees under its mortgage, by.a title antecedent to the date
of the lease. Stewart and Abbot in no sense could be considered as accountable to the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company. as tenants.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and
it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

