OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

He further testified, under an objection and exception by the
defendant, that the actual cost to the plaintiff of making and
delivering the rails in Chicago would have, been $48.25 ; that
he stated the elements of such cost from a memorandum prepared by himself, the elements being -taken from the books of
the plaintiff; that he knew the purchase price of all material
which went into the manufaqture, because he purchased all of
it himself ; that the statement was prepared by him from his
personil knowledge of the cost; that he called off the items
from a pencil memorandum to the bookkeeper, who wrote
them down; that he (the witness) knew the items to be correctly stated; and that the information as to the items was
made up from records running through a series of four or five
months, and representing an average as to the cost per ton.
The defendant contends that this evidence was inadmissible,
in the absence of an opportunity for him to examine the
plaintiff's books, with a view to a cross-examination of the
witness as to the mode of computation adopted by him, the
memorandum being, as contended, the result of the conclusions of the witness from the examination of a large number
of entries in the books of the plaintiff.
It is a sufficient answer to this objection, that the cost ofthe rails was not taken by the court at the sum of $48.25, the
sum fixed by Smith,.but the bill of dxceptions shows that the
cost was taken at $50 a ton, from the testimony of Richard C.
Hannah, another witness; so that, even if the testimony was
erroneously admitted, (which it is not necessary to decide,) the
defendant suffered no prejudice from its admission.
The judgrent of the Circuit Court is aflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. LE BRIS.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION -IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted April 7, 1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

The reservation of the Red Lake and Pembina Indians, in Polk County,
Minnesota, is Indian country, within the meaning of § 2139 Rev. Stat.

UNITED STATES v. LE BRIS.
Opinion of the Court.
Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, affirmed to the point that § 1 of the act
of June 30, 1834, though repealed, may be referred to for the purpose of
determining what is meant by the term "Indian country.' when found
in sections of the Revised Statutes which are regnactments of other sections of that act.

THE question, certified, and the answer, are stated in the
bpinion of the court.
.3.&. Ase&itant Attrney General .2fauryfor plaintiff.
No appearance for defendant.
MiL CmxF JUSTICE WArr

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an information against Baptiste Le Bris under § 2139
of the Revised Statutes, for introducing spirituous liquors,
"1
from some place and territory outside of the Indian country,
into the Indian country, to wit, into that part thereof lying
and being in the county of Polk in said district, and being
and known as the Red Lake and Perabina Indian Reservation." Le Bris demurred to the information, and the judges
holding the Circuit Court have certified to us, that, upon the
hearings of the issues of law thus presented, their opinions
were opposed upon the following questions:
1. Is the reservation of the Red Lake and Pembina Indians
in Polk County, Minnesota, Indian country, within the meaning of § 2139 of the Revised Statutes of the United States?
2. What is meant by Indian country in the heading of
c. 4, tit. 28 of the Revised Statutes, and in the sections iu that
chapter which define crimes committed in Indian country?3. Does § 5596 of the Revised Statutes repeal and abolish
the definition of Indian country found in § 1 of the trade and
intercourse act of June 30, 1831, 4 Stat. 729?
.4. If it does, are all the provisions of c. 4, tit. 28, for punishment of crime in Indian country, nugatory?
5. If the provisions of c. 4, tit. 28 of the Revised Statutes are
not rendered nugatory by § 5596, to what locality do they apply?
The important inquiry is, whether the Red Lake and Pembina Indian Reservation has been "Indian country" within
the meaning of § 2139 since the Revised Statutes went into

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of thd Court.

effect. That section is a. renactment in part of § 20 of the
act of June 30, 1834, c. 161, 4 Stat. 729, 732, as amended, by
the act of March 15, 1864, c. 33, 13 Stat. 29, and it was decided by this courtin United States v. 43 Gallons Thiskey, 93
U. S. 188, and 108 IT.S. 491, that this reservation was "Indian
country" before the reviiion of the statutes. At, that time
§ 1 of the act of June 30, 1834, suffra, was in force, which defined the Indian country as follows:
"That all that part of the United States west of the Mississippi, and not within the states of Missouri and Louisiana, or
the teritory of Arkansas, an?, also, that part of the United
States east of the Mississippi River, and not within any state
to which the Indian title has n6t been extinguished, for the
purposes of this act, be taken and deemed to be the Indian
country."
This section was not reenacted in the Revised Statutes,
though other parts of the statute were. Consequently the
section was repealed by § 5596 of the revision, but still we
held in Exparte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561, that it might
be referred to for the purpose of determining what was meant
by the term "Indian country," when found in sections of the
Revised Statutes which were regnactments of other sections
of this statute. That decision was made since this case was
heard below, and upon its authority we answer the first question certified in the affirmative. -The repeal of this section
does not of itself change the meaning of the term it defines
when found elsewhere in the original connection. The re~nacted sections are to be given the same meaning they had in
the original statute unless a contrary intention is plainly manifested.
As the answer to the first question in the affirmative necessarily covers a that is material in the others, they need not
be further referred to, and it is consequently ordered that it
be certified to the. court below that the first question is answered in the affirmative pnd that a further answer to the
others is deemed unnecessary.
Fip't question answered in the afjfrmative; other questionsnot
answered.

