MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

295

Syllabus.

able. If, in the present case, owing to the necessary form,
size, structure, and situation of a fireplace heater as ordinarily made and used, there were ascertained difficulties in
uniting such a fuel magazine as Thatcher adopted from its
known use in out-standing base-burning stoves, and those difficulties were overcome by something more than mere mechanical ingenuity, he might have been entitled to a patent, not
for the combination, however made, of the fuel magazine and
the fireplace heater, but for the means which he had invented
for effecting it: Nothing of that, however, appears in this
case. The invention described is not of any such device for
effecting the combination; no claim is made of that character.
The claim made is for the combination, no matter how or by
what means it is or may be effected.
In this view of the case, it is impossible to distinguish it, so
far as the rule of decision is concerned, from the cases of
lailes v. VanT
normer, 20 Wall. 353; Heald v. Rice, 104
U. S. 737, 754; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Locomotive Truck
Co., 110 U. S. 490; .forris v. Mci.illin, 112 U. S.244; Ho1-ster v. Benedict .ManufacturingCo., 113 U. S. 59; Thompson
v. Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1; Beecher.Manufacturing Co. v. Atwater Jfanufadturing Co., 114 U. S. 523; Gardner v. H~erz,
118 U. S. 180,
There is no escape, we think, from the conclusions reached
by the Circuit Court. Its decree -is, therefore,
Afflrmed.

MIN
1-EAPOL1S ASSOCIATION 'v. CANFIELD.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF 'HE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued Muarch 80, 31, 1887.-Decided April 18,1887.

In November, 1872, K. was the owner of all the capital stock and in possession of all the real estate (using it as his own) of an agricultural association, incorporated under the laws of Minnesota. Two hundred shares
of this stock he had purchased from G., giving notes therefor, secured

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.
by pledge of the stock, which notes and stock were transferred to a
state bank by G. to secure payment of a loan to himself. One hundred
shares of the stock were purchased by K. of Al., who in like manner transferred them to the state bank as collateral. K. transferred the remaining
shares to B. as collateral for his obligation to B., with authority also to
.hold them as additional security for K.'s note, held by the bank. In
August, 1873, K. contracted in writing to sell a large part of the real
estate to C, the purchase money to be paid in railroad bonds, and verbaly agreed to transfer all the capital stock, and procure a deed of the
real estate from the corporation. C. bad no knowledge of the transaction with the bank and with B. It was then agreed between K., B., and
the bank, that the bank should take part of the railroad bonds in exchange for the stock held by it, the stock to be sent to the Park Bank in
New York for exchange, and K. gave an order on C. for the bonds. In
pursuance of the agreement K. procured a deed of the real estate to be
executed by indiridual directors in the name of the corporation, which
deed was never authorized by the directors at a meeting of the board,
and delivered it to B. together with a warranty deed thereof in his own
name. The order for the bonds was never presented to C., nor were the
bonds deposited at the bank in New York, nor was the stock delivered
to C.; but K. retained the bonds and C.'s notes for his own use. C. took
possession of the real estate and conveyed a part of it to a harvestet
company. The association and the state bank filed a bill in a state court
in Minnesota against C., to have the respective rights of the parties in
the property determined. The Supreme Court of that state held on appeal
that the deed to C conveyed no title to him; but that, subject to the
rights of the bank and of B., C. was the equitable holder of the stock.
Proceedings then took place at the motion of the state bank, which
resulted in a pretended sale of the stock to various parties, whereupon
C., who had filed his bill in the Circuit Court. of the United States against
the agricultural association and the state bank, filed a supplemental bill,
including the purchasers of the stock, the general purpose of both bills
being to establish his equities in the capital stock and corporate property
of the association. Held (1), That it was not now open to him to set
up that the deed of the directors was valid as the deed of the corporation,
and that he acquired title through it and through K.'s deed, those being
res judicatm; (2) that the equities of the state bank in the stock were
superior to those of C.; (3) that the pretended sale of the stock by'the
bank was not a real transaction; (4) that subject to some modifications
the decree below should be affirmed.

Iff equity.

The case is stated in the opinioi of the court.

Mlr.' Eugene i.

TFilson for appellants.

MIr. George F. Edmunds and .Mr. Charles E. Flandrau(X'.
. C. Palmer was also on the brief) for appellee.

M1INNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

297

Opinion of the Court,

Mu.

JUSTICE

MATiTiEws delivered the opinion of the court.

The original bill in this case was filed August 14, 1877, by
Thomas II. Canfield, a citizen of the state of Vermont, against
the Minneapolis. Agricultural and Mechanical Association, a
corporation created under the laws of the state of Minnesota,
and the State National Bank of Minneapolis, a corporation
organized under the laws of the United States, at Minneapolis.
in the state of Minnesota. Its general purpose was to establish the equities of the complainant in the capital stock and
corporate property of the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association as against the claims of the State National Bank.
Prior to the filing of this bill, in October, 1873, an equitable
action .was commenced by the State National Bank and Rufus
J. Baldwin, its cashier, in the District Court of the Fourth
Judicial District for the county of Hennepin and state of
Minnesota, against Canfield, involving, to a certain extent,
the matters here in dontroversy. The proceedings and judgment in that case are relied upon as resjudicatain the present
litigation, and are conclusive so far as the same matters are
drawn in question in both suits.
The facts found by the District Court in Minnesota, in the
proceeding referred to, are substantially as follows:
That the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association in 1871 became a body corporate under the general laws
of the state of Minnesota, for the purpose of promoting the
agricultural and mechanical arts by holding fairs and other
public exhibitions, with a capital stock of 840,000, divided
into 800 shares of $50 each, all of which was paid up, and
for which certificates were issued; that the govermuent of
said association was vested in a board of directors of eleven
persons, to be elected annually by the stockholders, and continue in office for one year, and until their successors were
elected and qualified; that said corporation became the owner
in fee of certain described lands in the county of Iennepin,
containing seventy acres, known as the Fair Grounds, on
which it erected buildings and structures for the purpose of

1298

2CTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

accommodating the fairs which it proposed to hold, and for
the other uses and purposes contemplated by their erection.
That on -the 12th day of November, 1872, William S. King
had become the owner of all the capital stock of the association, and was in possession of its real estate, using the same
as his own individual property, without interference on the
part of the corporation or its officers, the ordinary and lawful
business of the corporation having been wholly suspended
and abandoned; that 200 shares of the stock King had purchased from George A. Brackett on credit, giving his notes
for the purchase money, secured by a pledge of the stock
itself, which notes and stock, thus pledged, Brackett, on April
8, 1873, transferred and delivered to the State National Bank
of Minneapolis to secure the payment of a loan of $10,000
made by the bank to Brackett; that 100 shares of said stock
King had purchased from one Richard J. Mendenhall on credit,
giving his promissory notes for the payment of the purchase
money, secured by a pledge of the stock, which notes Mendenhall procured to be discounted for his benefit by the State
National Bank, tranisferring to the bank the stock so pledged
as collateral security.
That on July 19, 1873, King delivered to Rufus J. Baldwin
the remaining 500 shares of stock as collateral security for his
obligation to return to Baldwin certain gas stock of the value
of $10,000 borrowed by King from him, and authorized Baldwin also to hold the said stock as additional security for King's
notes held by 'he bank.
That on August 14, 1873, King agreed in writing -to,sell to
Thomas H. Canfield, the complainant, the property known as
the "Fair Grounds," in Minneapolis, excepting five acres subscribed to the stock of the Minneapolis Harvester Company,
for the sum of $65,000, payable in 7-30 gold bonds of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company at the rate of ninety
cents on the dollar, and the remainder in notes of Canfield,
payable in equal instalments of one, two, and three years
from date, with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, King agreeing to procure abstracts of title, complete
and perfect the same, and execute a warranty deed at as early

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

a day as possible; and it was then and there verbally agreed
between King and Canfield that King would transfer all the
capital stock of the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical
Association to Canfield, and also procure a deeal of said property from said corporation to Canfield; that Canfield at the
time of executing said ar~eement knew that the legal title to"
the property was in the corporation, but had no knowledge
that the State National Bank of Minneapolis, or Baldwin, or
any one else except King, had any interest in or claim to its
capital stock.
That King informed Baldwin of his agreement to sell the
fair grounds property to Canfield, and its terms, and it was
thereupon agreed between King and Baldwin, acting for himself and the bank, that the bank should take .$36,000 par
value .of said Northern Pacific Railroad bonds to be paid to
King by Canfield in exchange for the 800 shares of stock of
the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association held
by the bank, the said stock to be sent to the National Park
Bank in the city of New York, to be delivered to Canfield
upon his delivering at said bank to the order of Baldwin the
Northern Pacific Railroad bonds to the amount of 036,000
par value, in exchange therefor.
That in pursuance of said agreement, King executed and
delivered to Baldwin, an order in writing on Canfield for the
delii'ery of said bonds, which was indorsed by Baldwin, directing the delivery to the National Park Bank, and, on August
22, 1873, Baldwin. sent the certificates for 800 shares of the
stock, together with these orders, to the National Park Bank,
with instructions to deliver the stock to Canfield on receipt of
the bonds in exchange therefor.
That after the execution of the agreement of August 14,
1873, between King and Canfield, King, in pursuance thereof
and for the purpose of carrying out the same, caused a deed
to be executed, in the name of the Minneapolis Agricultural
and Mechanical Association, for the fair grounds property, by
R. J. Mendenhall, Thomas Lowry, W. D. Washburn, 0. G.
Goodrich, George F. Stevens, William S. King, Levi Butler,
W. W. Eastman, W. F. Westfall, Dorilus Morrison, and

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

George A. Brackett, who were all the directors of said association, but the execution of this deed was never authorized
at or by any meeting of said directors, nor was any resolution
ever passed by the said board of directors in reference to the
execution of the same, or authorizing the seal of the corporation to be atiached thereto, or authorizing the sale or conveyance of said property in any way to said Canfield, the said
deed having been executed by said parties separately and at
different places, wherever said parties happened to be, at the
request of said King or his attorney, for the purpose of
enabling King to convey the property to Canfield. It was
executed, by Stevens at Utica, in the state of New York, by
Morrison.and Brackett in the city of New York, and by the
other signers thereof in Hennepin County, -Minnesota.
That said Brackett and said Morrison, at the time of signing said deed, having objected thereto on the ground that the
stock was held by the State National Bank of Minneapolis,
were informed of the agreement between King and Baldwin,
whereby the said stock was to be delivered in exchange for
Northern Pacific Railroad bonds, and thereupon executed the
said deed.
That, at the time of the execution thereof by Brackett and
Mo6rrison, 'Canfield was informed by King that the stock of
the association had been left as collateral to secure certain
notes at the State National Bank of Minneapolis, and had
been sent to the National Park Bank to be taken up by King
with Northern Pacific Railroad bonds to be received by him
from Canfield under said agreement.
That on September 12, 1813, in the city of New York, King
delivered to Canfield the said deed, together with a warranty
deed of the same property, duly executed and acknowledged
by King, conveying the property in his own name; when and
where Canfield delivered to King the said $6.5,000 in bonds of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and executed and
delivered to him his notes for $6500 as required by the terms
of the agreement of August 14, 1873, which deeds were, on
October 4, 1873, duly recorded in Hennepin County.
That the orders in writing for the delivery of 1,he bonds to

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

301

Opinion of the Court.

the National Park Bank were never presented to Canfield, nor
were any of the said bonds deposited at the National Park
Bank, nor was the stock of the association or any part of it
ever delivered to Canfield, but was held by the bank as collateral security for the payment of the notes and the return of
the gas stock, as hereinbefore stated.
That King retained for his own use the railroad bonds and
Canfield's notes received under the agreement of August 14,
1873, and that Canfield though inadvertency did not demand
the delivery of the stock of the association from King at the
time of the delivery of said deed by King to him and the
transfer of the bonds and notes by him to King, he, Canfield,
supposing that the deeds delivered to him conveyed a complete
title to the property.
That the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association had no corporate property except the said Fair Grounds,
and that shortly after receiving said deeds from King, Canfield
conveyed to the Minneapolis Harvester Works Company the
five acres excepted out of the said property by the terms of
the agreement of August 14, 1873, which said five acres had
been) previously to the execution of said agreement, subscribed to the stock of said company; and that shortly after
receiving his deeds, Canfield to6k possession of the grounds
and of the buildings remaining thereon, and remained in possession thereof at the time of the decree in said suit.
Upon these facts it was adjudged by the District Court of
Minnesota that Canfield, by virtue of' the deeds referred to,
acquired no title to said real estate; that the State National
Bank of Minneapolis was the bona X&d holder of the whole
amount of the capital stock as collateral security for the debts
due to it, and by reason thereof had a right to have the property of the corporation applied to its redemption, which right
was prior and superior to any claim to or interest in said stock
or real estate on the part of Canfield; but that Canfield, subject to the right and interest therein of he said bank, was the
owner in equity of the said stock. Neither King nor the
Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association were
parties defendant in that suit, and the relief, therefore, granted

OCTOBER TERM5,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

by the judgment therein was limited to declaring that the
deed purporting to be executed by the corporation to Canfield was null and void as against the State National Bank of
Minneapolis, and to directing that sa~d judgmient be recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds in Hennepin County, so
that said deed should not thereafter be a cloud upon the title
of said corporation to said real estate. This judgment was
entered on March 17, 1877. An appeal was taken therefrom
to the Supreme Court of Minnesota, the decision in which is
reported in Baldwin v. Canfeld, 26 Minn. 43.
In that case it was declared by the court that the deed purporting to be made by the association was not the act and
deed of such association, and therefore did not convey the
title to the premises in question to Canfield. The court further said: "The directors took no action as a board with reference to the sale of the premise's, or the execution of any
deed thereof. So far as in any way binding the corporation
is concerned, their action in executing the deed was a nullity.
They could not bind it by their separate and individual action.
Hence it follows that the so-called deed is not only ineffectual
as a conveyance of real property, but equally so as a contract
to convey."
The court also declared as follows: "Upon the facts found
and the preceding conclusions of law, the plaintiffs, as holders
of the stock, are interested in the preservation of the corporate property, and in preventing it from passing'out of the
hands of the cofporation. If this is so, they have a right to
take legal means to preserve the property, to pievent it from
beinglost to the corporation, or its value from being impaired.
If such value is practically impaired by a cloud upon the title
of the corporation to real property, they have a right to have
the cloud removed. Their ownership of the stock, either general or special, gives thgm a right to defend it, as in the case
of any other property. -This right is paramount to any .right
upon the part of King .a the general owner of the stock; or
of Canfield as equitab!b-dwner of it, for the reason that by
the contract of pledg& King has subordinated, his rights to
theirs, 'while Canfield's right to the stock accrued while the

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

303

Opinion of the Court.

stock was in the plaintiffs' hands -while they were holding
the certificates which are the evidence of its ownership. The
certificates were not delivered tc Canfield. This fact bound
him to take notice of the rights of the plaintiffs as holders of
them in pledge."
It was also held, that, subject to the right and interest of
the plaintiffs as thus defined, Canfield was in equity the owner
of the whole 800 shares of said stock. This judgment was not
rendered until May 5, 1879.In the meantime, and subsequent to the renditio"uof the judgment in th6 District Court- of the state, on the 10th of July,
1877, the State :National Bank gave notice of an intention, on
the 25th day of July, 1877, to sell At public auction the 800
shares of the capital stock of the Minneapolis Agricultural and
Mechanical Association for the payment of the Brackett notes
and the Mendenhall.notes made ty King.
Said sale having in the meantime been postponed, Canfield
fied- the original bill in this. cause against the Minneapolis
Agricultural and Mechanical Associa~ion and the State National Bank of Minneapolis, the object and prayer of which
were,-upon the facts alleged, to assert his equity as owner of
the said 800 shares of stock and in the real estate of the Minneapolis Agricultural and -Mechanical Association, and in the
meantime to enjoin the intended sale of said stock, which had
been adjourned to August 15, 1877. On September 13, 1877,
an application for an injunction to restrain the said sale, hav
ing been previously made and submitted, was denied; and on
September 15, 1877, the said sale, originally advertised for
July 25, 1877, adjourned to August 15, 1877, and again adjourned to September 15, 1877, took place, and the 800 shares
of capital stock of the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association were struck off and sold to one J. M . Knight
for the sum of $13,000, that being the highest bid for the
same.. This sum was the estimated amount due to the bank
for which it held the stock as collateral; the gas stock, or an
equivalent, having in the meantime been returned. At ihe
time of the sale, the State National Bank executed to Knight
a guaranty of the title to the stock sold.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

On December 31, 1877, Knight sold to Dorilus Morrison 720
shares of his stock in consideration of $12,430.42, Morrison
assuming and agrbeing "to pay the costs, expenses, and
charges incurred and to be incurred in or about certain legal
proceedings instituted in respect to the said shares of stock,
and in respect to the real estate of said association, in which
the State National Bank of Minneapolis and R. T. Baldwin
were parties." On February 23, 1878, the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association, by its board of directors
and officers, executed a deed in fee simple of the seventy acres
of land cqnstituting the .Fair Ground property to Dorilus Morrison and James M. Knight, nine-tenths thereof to the former
and one-tenth to the latter. This deed was executed by the
authority of the board of directors elected by Morrison and
Knight, as sole stockholders, for that purpose. On October
22, 1878, Morrison conveyed by deed in fee sinple to Jacob
K. Sidle and Robert B. Langdon his undivided ninie-tenths of
the said Fair Ground property; Morrison also conveyed to Sidle
and Langdon his 720 shares of the capital stock of the inuneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association and the
guaranty of title to the same by the State National Bank of
Minneapolis. The deed to Sidle and Langdon on its face is
absolute, but the title was held by them in fact in trust for
certain persons, as expressed in written declarations of trust
given to each of the cestuis que ttustnt. The following is a
copy of one of these declarations:
"1
Mnw&O.Is, October 22, 1878.
"Whereas divers persons have advanced to us, J. K. Sidle
and R. B. Langdon, sums of money amounting to twenty-nine
thousand six hundred and sixty-eight and U36dollars, wherewith we are to pay off and liquidate the indebtedness of the
Northwestern Mechanical and Agricultural Association as to
particular matters, and also to pay off certain incumbrances
heretofore resting upon an undivided nine-tenths of the fair
grounds in the City of Minneapolis, of which sum W. D.
Washburn, of said'city, has advanced twenty-five hundred
dollars; and whereas we have at this date received from

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

305

Opinion of th.e Court.

Dorilus Morrison and wife a deed of the same undivided
nine-tenths of the said fair grounds, the title to which is,
however, in litigation; we therefore agree that, in case the
result of the said litigation shall be to validate our title, we
shall, as soon as may be reasonable after one year from the date
hereof, sell said land, and from the proceeds of such sale pay
the said advances to the persons severally-making the same,
with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, if the
sum realized from such salk shall be sufficient to cover such
payment. But if the procebds of such sale shall nio be sufficient to pay such advances and interest in full, then we agree
to pay and apply such proceeds in payment of such advanues
.prorata to each person in proportion to the amount of the
advance by him made. This is the extent of our obligation in
the matter, and if our title to the said land shall fail, then no
duty or obligation rests upon us."
The circumstances in which the conveyance to Sidle and
Langdon was made are shown in the proof and stated by
counsel for the appellants in his brief, as follows:
"In thd year 1878 a fair was held in Minneapolis, upon the
same'land, under the auspices of another organization, known
as the Minnesota Agricultural and Mechanical Association.
At the same time a rival fair was held at St. Paul. Minneapolis, at a large expense, secured the presence of the most
famous racing- horses and finest blooded bulls. St. Paul
secured the attendance of the President of the United States
and staff. The competition was great and costly. As is not
unusual, the expenditures exceeded the receipts. The Minneapolis deficiency was fourteen thousand dollars over and above
all receipts and large amounts of private contributions. This
was due for labor and material for buildings on the grounds,
services in and about the fair, premiums, advertising, railroad
freights, and such other like matters, as would occasion the
greatest amount of complaint and public reproach if not paid.
It was claimed that Morrison was, as the owner of the land,
liable for the material and labor bestowed thereon, and liens
were threatened to be filed on the same. Meetings were held
by the leading citizens, and it was at last agreed that an
VOL. cxx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

,amount of some $30,000 would be contributed, providing
:Morrison would convey his nine-tenths interest in the land!
and'stock to appellants Sidle and Langdon, in trust for the
contributors, in consideration of his being paid the money it
had cost him, and interest, and of having the taxes paid on
said land, and of being relieved from the claims against him
on account of labor and material so furnished. The amount
of purchase money and interest then amounted to some
$14,000; taxes due to over $2000; and the said material
an. labor for which it was claimed :Morrison and the land
were liable to some $6000 more,- in all some $22,000. It
was also agTeed that the trustees should bear all expense :of
defending the title against any litigation involving it. According to such agreement, Morrison conveyed the said ninetenths of said land and stock to said Sidle and Langdon, and
they executed a written acknowledgment of the trust to each
of the contributors. This paper stated the amount of each
contribution, and the obligation to sell the land as soon as the
title should be cleared from litigation, and pay the amount of
advance and ten per cent. interest, if proceeds were sufficient,
and if not to pay pro &ata. No provision was made as to
distribution in case of a surplus. Such was either not contemplated, or forgotten, or, as is very probable, it was hoped that
some means might be developed to secure the lnd for a public fair ground for the city.
"Dorilus Morrison was one of the contributors to this general fund to the amount of $3000. There were also contributions made by Farnham and Lovejoy, and three railroad
companies, aggregating some $6500, which were met by
claims against Morrison and the 'Fair Association.'
The
remainder was contributed by citizens having no interest in
the matter,' except the reputation of the city, and among
others appellant Langdon contributed $7000 and appellant
Sidle $2590."
On August 14, 1880, the complainant, on leave, filed, his
supplemental and amended bill in this case, to which he made
as additional parties defendant Knight, Morrison, Baldwim
King, Sidle, Langdon, William D. Washburn;'S. WiFrxrnham.

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION v. CANFIELD.

307

Opinion of the Court.

James A. Lovejoy, and. George A. Brackett, all citizens of
Minnesota. This amended and supplemental bill, in substance, after reciting the original bill, charged that at the time
of the pretended -sale of the 800 shares of the capital stock
of the State National Bank to Knight, the bank had no rightful lien thereon by way of pledge for any unpaid debt, having
in fact released the same by its agreement -with King to accept from him $36,000 of the Northern Pacific Railroad bonds
in satisfaction thereof. It further charges that the said pretended sale -to Knight was no sale at all, but was merely a
contrivance for the purpose of converting the title of the
bank as pledgee- into an absolute title, in fraud of the complainant,and that consequently Knight, by virtue of said sale,
acquired no better title than that previously held by the bank.
It is further claimed that Morrison as assignee of nine-tenths
of the said stock, and Sidle and Langdon as. his assignees,
pur6hased with full notice of all the equities of the complainant, and therefore are not purchasers in good faith. The
amended and supplemental bill, therefore, seeks to charge
Sidle, Langdon, and Knight as holders of the legal title to
the stock and the property represented by it in trust for the
benefit of the complainant, and prays for an account and a
ponveyance.
The cause was heard upon bill, answers, replication, exhibits, and testimony, and a final decree was rendered in favor
of the complainant, establishing his equity as the owner of the
stock and corporate property of the Minneapolis Agricultural
and Mechanical Association, subject to the payment to James
M. Knight of the sum of $569.58, and to the payment to Jacob
K. Sidle and Robert B. Langdon of the sum of $8646.55.
From that decree this appeal is prosecuted by the defendants
below.
It was argued at the bar that Canfield acquired a complete
equitable title to the real estate of the Minneapolis Agricultural and Mechanical Association by virtue of the sale thereof
to him by King by the contract in writing of August 14, 1873,
and by the deed in pursuance thereof, purporting to be made
by the corporation, dated August 15, 1873. The ground of

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

this contention is, that in that negotiation and transaction
King rightly represented the corporation as its agent, and that
the deed, if defective to convey the legal title, because not
formally authorized by the directors at a meeting of the board,
was such as equity would correct and reforn so as to carry
into effect the intention of the parties.
This view of the question, however, is not now open; the
effect of that conveyance, both at law and in equity, having
been finally adjudged between Canfield and the State National
Bank by the Supreme Court of Minnesota. That judgment,
as between those parties and those in privity with them, conclusively establishes, for the purposes of this case, that the
deed was void at law, and that the equity of the State National Bank to the stock, and in the land as a pledge for the payment of the debt for which the stock had been hypothecated,
was superior to that of Canfield. We must assume, therefore,
at the outset of our present inquiry, that at the date of the
alleged sale of the stock to Knight, Canfield's equity consisted
merely in a right to redeem the pledge, unless it had been previously released by the bank. This, upon the evidence, we
find not to be the case., The agreement between the bank
and King, claimed to have that effect, 'cannot operate as such.
It was an agreement merely on the part of the bank that it
would exchaiige the stock for the agreed amount of Northern
Pacific Railroad bonds, to take effect upon mutual deliveries.
King was not the agent of the bank to receive the bonds
from Canfield; the title of the bank to the stock was never
relinquished by it.
On the other hand, we adopt the eonclusion of the court
below as to the nature of the alleged sale of the stock by the
bank to Knight. We are satisfied from the evidence that it
was no sale at all; nothing was paid by Knight, and the stock
was not*delivered to him; it was not in fact a real transaction.
The legal title of the stock was shifted from the bank to
IKnight, but Knight acquired by the transaction no other or
better right than that of the bank; he still held it subject to
Canfield's equitable right to redeem. Neither was IMorrison,
after the conveyance of nine-tenths of the stock to him by

MINNEAPOLIS ASSOCIATION" . CANFIELD.

309

Opinion of the Court.

Knight, in any better condition. He had full notice of the
'complainant's equity, and, as We think, of the nature of
Knight's title; consequently he and Knight thereafter; each
for his own proportion, held the stock, and the real estate of
which they had procured a conveyance from the association,
subject to the equity of Canfield. Sidle and Langdon are in
'the same plight; they took their title with e±press notice of
Canfield's equity, and subject to the consequences of the pending litigation the burden and expenses of which they agreed
to assume. They are entitled to hold the property only. on
the same conditions attached to it in the hands of Knight and
Morrison; they succeeded only t6 Morrison's title. As against
Canfield, the complainant below, however, his equity being the
right to redeem the property as against the bank on the payment of its debt, the same burden rests ipon it in favor of
the present holders of the title, derived by successive assignments from the bank. The decree below, as a condition of
redemption against Sidle and Langdon, required only the
payment by Canfield of the sum of $8646.55, which was the
amount paid in cash, on NTovember 20, 1818, by Sidle and
Langdon, to take up two of the notes given by Morrison for
the payment of the purchase money from the bank, but that
amount dbes not represent the full amount of Morrison's payment.
The whole amount paid by Mo~'ison for nine-tenths of the
stock, the aggregate qf three notes given at the purchase,
was $12,430.43, and COanfield, in the exercise of his privilege of redemption, should be chargedwith the full amount
due on that account. To the extent qf the diference between that sur and the sury actually chargedin the decree
appealedfor,
the decree should be modified. 1 all other
respects it is qffirmed, the costs in this court being equally
divided. The cause is accorlinglyremanded to the Circuit
6ourt foir further proceedings in conformity with, this

cyinion.

