NEWARK BANKING CO. v. NEWARK.
Opinion of the Court.

NEWARK BANKINGC2 COMPANY v. NEWARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CMOUIT COURT OF THE -NITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued MJardh 14,15,1887.-Decided April 4,1887.

There is no material difference between this case and Mercantile Bank v.
New York City, ante, 138, and on the authority of that case this is affirmed.

IN equity. Decree below dismissing the bill. Complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.M3f.Cakdes 1V Wells and 21r. John T. Taylor for appellant.
. '. Joseph Couli and .M'. John BI. .Ene''yfor appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE

iMAL

ws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellant, a natiohal
bank organized under the act of Congress, doing business in
the city of Newark, New Jersey, the object and prayer of
which are to enjoin the collection of taxes assessed upon the
individual shareholders therein, on the ground that, according
to the laws of N'ew Jersey, under which the assessment has
been made, the rate of taxation is greater than that assessed
upon the moneyed capital in the hands of the individual citizens of the state. This alleged inequality, it is conteided,
results from certain exemptions authorized by the laws of
New Jersey,-whereby a material portion of the moneyed capital in the hands of individuals is freed from taxation.
According to the allegations of the bill, these exemptions
consist, 1st, of the shares of Capital stock held by individuals
in all private corporations of the state, "except banking institutions, and except those which by virtue of any contract in
their charters or other contracts with this state are expressly
exempted from taxation, and except mutual life insurance

OCTOBER TERM, :1886.
Opinion of the Court.

companies specially taxed," which exemptions, it is charged,
amount to the sum of $301,485,000; and, 2d, of the deposits
in savinks banks, amounting vo the sum of $24,01;/,916.99.
The 15th section of the act of April 11, 1866, establishing
these exemptions, is as follows (Revision of 1871, p. 1156):
"That all private corporations of this state, except banking
institutions, and except those which by virtue of any contract
in their charters or other contracts with this state are expressly exenfpted from taxation, and except mutual life insurance companies specially taxed, shall be and are hereby
required to be respectively assessed and taxed at the full
amount of their capital stock paid in, and accumulated surplus; but any real estate which such corporations may lawfully own in any other state than this state, shall not be liable
to be estimated ir4 such accumulated surplus, and the peisons
holding the capikl stock of such corporations shall not be
assessed therefor; and such corporations as have no capital
stock other than those above excepted, shall be assessed for
the full amount of their property and valuable assets, without
any deductions for debts and liabilities; but depositors in savings banks, taled by virtue of this section, shall be exempted
from taxation or their personal estate to the amount of their
deposits; provided, that premium notes ,heldby life insurance
companies shall in no case be considered as future premiums,

but shall be included in the valuable assets of said company."
Under tlhe statutory provision for the taxation of bank
shares in New Jersey, the stock of every bank, national as
well as state, is assessed for taxation in the place where the
bank is located to all non-resident stockholders thereof, the
taxes assessed on which are payable by the bank. itself for
their account; resident stockholders being taxed on their
shares in the townships or wards in which they respectively
reside. The rate of taxation is the same as that upon other
personal property held by individuals, and is subject to deduction on account of debts due by the owner.
It is not claimed that the assessments complained of in this
case are unequal or illegal, unless made so by the exemptions
authorized by the 15th section of the act of April 11, 1866.

CONCORD v. ROBINSON.

1655

Statement of :Facts.

There is no material difference between the legislation of New'
Jersey on this subject and that of New York, as considered
in the case of The ftercantile 3ationdBanke of the City of
-ew Fork v. The 2fayor, Aldermen and Commoswiy of the
City of Hew York, and George T. .MLean,Receiver of Tawee,
just decided. This case is, therefore, necessarily governed by
the decision in that.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
MR. JusTIcE' BRAD= and.M. JUsTICE BLATOHPOED took no
part in the decision of this case.

CONCORD v. ROBINSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued. March 24, 1887.-Decided April 4, 1887.
A grant to a municipal corporatibu of power to appropriate moneys in aid

of the construction of a railroad, accon~panied by a provision directing
the levy and collection of taxes to meet sucli appropriation, and prescribing no other mode of payment, does not authorize the issuing of
negotiable bonds in payment of such appropriation.
The power given by' the act of March 24, 1869, of the legislature of Illinois, relating to the Chicago, Danvlle and Vincennes Railroad, to townships, towns, and cities, which had voted to contribute aid in the construction of said road, to borrow money and issue bonds in payment of
such contributions, if not acted upon prior to Tuly 2, 1870, ,was withdrawn by the c6nstitution of Illinois of 1870, and could not, thereafter,
be exercised.
Subscriptlons and donations In aid of railroads, .voted by municipal corporailons of Illinois, prior to July 2. 1870, such vote beingoauthorized by
laws 'in force when it wes taken, could be completed after that date,
according to the conditions attached to the vote, or upon terms that did
not increase the public burdens, notwithstauding the provision in the
constitution of 1870, that no municipality "shall ever become subscriber
to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make
donation to, or loan its credit In aid of, such corporation."

THis was an action at law to recover on coupons attached to
negotiable bonds issued by the plaintiff in error. A jury was

