LAUGHLIN v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court,

LAUGHLIN v. :MITCHELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U ITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHEEx DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued April 11, 187. -Decided April 25, 1887.
In rune, 1846, a sale took place, at public auction, under a deed of trust, of
land in Mississippi, the property of I., the husband of the plaintiff, and
on which they lived. The plaintiff's father bought the laud at the sale.
His daughter and her husband continued to live on it. The husband
.died in 1847, and in 1848 she married L., and they contintled to live on
the laud. In 1858, she and L. and her father executed an instrument, by
which her father leased the land to her for her life, in consideration of
natural love and affection and $100, and, which acknowledged -that the
sole legal and equitable title and the right of property in and to the land
were in her father. Five months afterwards, she and her husband
duly acknowledged the execution of the lease, and recorded it in the
proper office. In 1869, her father made his will, devising the lhnd to
herfor her life, and to.a grandson, in fee, after her death; and died in
1870. In 1881, she brought this suit in equity against the grandsun, to
cancel the lease anid get aside the devise to the grandson, on the ground
that her father bought th6 land under a parol trust for her, and that her
signature to the lease was obtained by duress: Held, that she was c topped from setting up the parol trust, and that no ,ground.was shown
for setting aside the lease.
,I equity. Decree dismissing the bill, from which the coluplainants appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.

_31r. 3Eu'tray F. -Smit fior appellant.
man fled a brief for same.

2Wf'. Alfred B. Pit-

.Mr. Albert .X. Zea for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BATCEFOnD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed on the 25th of June, 1881, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, by Florida Laughlin, the wife of Edmund C.
Laughlin, against Joseph D. Mitchell, and also against Jeffer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion, of the Court.

son Davis and Joseph iH. D. Bowmar, as executors of the last
will and testament of Joseph E. Davis, deceased.
The allegations of the bill are substantially as follows: The
plaintiff is the owner and in possession of- a plantation in
Warren County, 'Mississippi, known as "Diamond Bend." She
is a daughter of Joseph E. Davis, deceased. The defendant
Mitchell is the grandson of, Davis. Davis died in 1870, leaving a last. will and testament, which was duly admitted to
probate, in the prper court, in September, 1870. The will
was executed on the 18th of March, 1869. Its second and.
third articles were as follows: "2d. I give and devise to. my.
daughter, Florida Laughlin,'the estate known as the Diamond
Place,' in said county of Warren, containing about one thousand two hundred acres, for and during her natural, life, with
full enjoyment of the profits, and privileges thereunto belong^
ing. 3dly. I give and devise to my grandson, Joseph' D.
Mitchell, the plantation known as the Diamond' Place, in the
county of Warren,, containing about one thousand two hundred acres, now in possession of and occupied by my said
daughter, Florida Latighlin, who has a life estate therein,
with appurtenances'thereunto belonging, onithe .death of my
said daughter, Florida Laughlin, to hold and enjoy the same
in fee simple; but in case my grandson, J. D. Mitchell, should
not survive my daughter, Florida Laughlin, and should die
without issue, I give and devise said Diamond Place to my
nephew, Joseph E. Davis, son of Hugh R. Davis, of Wilkinson
County, Mississippi." Davis became possessed of the property
in question only through the plaintiff and as her trustee, under the following circumstances: On the 'th of June, 1844,
the plaintiff was the wife of David McCaleb, and she and her
husband were then living on the .plantation, which had been
his property before he married her. There existed a deed of
trust of the property, given by McCaleb- in 1837, the balance
of the debt secured by which, amounting to $13,955.80, had
been assigned to one Jacobs.. In June, 1844, the plaintiff and
her husband executed a, new deed of trust to Chilton and
Searles, as trustees, to secure the payment of said balance to
Jacobs, covering the land and sundry slaves and personal

LAUGHLIN v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

property. In Yay, 1846, the plaintiff and her husband executed another deed of trust, covering the same real and personal propety, and some additional slaves, to one McElrath,
as trustee, to secure a debt due by the husband to Laughlin,
Searles- & Co., the debt amounting to $4201.61 of principal.
In addition, McCaleb owed other large, pressing debts. The
property was then reasonably worth more than $100,000.
Chilton and Searles advertised the property for sale under
their deed of trust, at public outcry, on the 15th of June,
f846. Before that day, Jonathan M[caleb, the uncle of
David M Caleb, had promised topurchase the property at the
sale, to take the title to it in his own name, and to give to
David McCaleb time to repay to his uncle such amount as he
should advance to make the purchase. Accordingly, the uncle
attended the sale, prepared to purchase the property, in trust,
for the benefit of his nephew. The plaintiff's father had,
however, in the mean time, at her solicitation, consented to
purchase the property'in. trust for her, and to hold it so that
she and her husband might in time be able to redeem it, the object being to make it secure from the creditors of her husband.
On the day, of the sale, her father and her husband's uncle being
present, it was agreed that the purchase should be made by and
in the name of her father, to'be held for and sold to her on payment of such sum, with interest, as her father might be required
to pay or assume, instead of being bid in by and in the name
of her husband's uncle, to be redeemed, in like manner by
her husband. It was made known at. the sale, to all present, that her father was bidding for her, and on that account
no bidding was made by any disintereste. persons, and, as a
result, there was no substantial competition. All of the property, real and personal, was knocked off to her father as the
highest bidder, at the sum of $28,531, which was scarcely
more than one-third of its value. The creditors who were entitled to the proceeds consented that the 'purchase money
should not be required to be paid in cash. The plaintiff was
loft in the undisturbed possession of the property, without the
payment of any money, and her father executed his own note
to Jacobs for the principal and interest of the debt to Jacobs,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

including the expenses of the sale, the intention being that her
husband might beable to meet such payment by the proceeds
of the crops from the property. On the 15th of June, 1846, a
written agreement was executed by Chilton and Searles, as
trustees, by Joseph E. Davis, and by Jacobs, which recited
the sale under the deed of trust to them, and that Davis had
at the sale purchased the slaves and the land for $28,531, and
conveyed the property to Davis, subject to the payment of a
promissory note which he then gave for the amount of the
debt due to Jacobs, the title to all the property-to remain in
the trustees until the payment of such debt, and then to vest
*absolutely in Davis, Davis to pay out of the balance of the
purchase money the amount due to Laughlin, Searles & Co.,
under the deed of trust of May 7, 1846,. and the remainder of
the purchase, money to go to David MIcCaleb. After these
arrangements, David TMcCaleb. continued the. cultivation of
the crops and exercised dominion over the property in like
manner as if the title had been 'Vested iii the plaintiff instead
of in her father for her use. Her father never during the life
time of her husband, exercised any control over the property.
No account was kept or demanded as to its rents, issues and
profits, and the debts which had .been -so assumed by her
father were considered by him and her husband as her debts,
to be paid for by her husband by means of the property.
Her husband treated the property as her separate estate,, andshipped the crops during his lifetime, and applied the pro.
ceeds to the payment of the debts whi6h had been assumed by
her father, and of the other incumbrances. David McCaleb
died in May, 184 7- and she shipped the crops of. that year, as
the crop of the preceding year had been shipped, to agents, to
the credit of Diamond Place account, for the Jacobs judg-,
ment. In July, 1848, she married Edmund. C. Laughlin, her
present husband. They continued to live on the plantation,
shipping the crops as before, and applying the, same, sometimes through their merchants and sometimes by direct payment to her father, to the discharge of said indebtedness.
Some years after she had married Laughlin, and after she had
paid a large portion of all the incumbrances, and some other

LAUGHLIN v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

indebtedness, she requested her father to make a title to her,
and allow her to secure to him any balance for which she
might be liable. This request.was not complied -with by him,
bub his failure to do so was not accompanied or explained by
his advancing any claim of beneficial interest in himself in the
property. Her ownership of the property was repeatedly
admitted by her father, both orally, and in letters addressed
to her and subscribed by him. On more than one occasion he
declared to her that he had devised the property to her by his
will. Before the year 1858, she had more than repaid to her
father all money and debts paid out and assumed by him for
her on account of the property. On the 27th of December,
1858, when her father was just beginning to recover from a
dangerous illness, and while he was feeble and nervous, he
said to the. plaintiff, who was then in attendance upon him,
that he would like her husband to be sent for (he being then
at Diamond Place, several miles away). When her husband
.arrived, he and the plaintiff were called into the office of her
father, and a paper was put into her hands, which he desired
her to read aloud. When she had read it, she found it was a
lease to be signed by her and her husband, and by her father,
in which her father leased the Diamond Place, and the slaves
so purchazed by. him, to the plaintiff, for life. The lease, a
copy of which is annexed to the bill, was signed by the three
parties. It is dated December 27, 1858, and by it Davis, in
consideration of natural love and affection and $100, leases to
the plaintiff the plantation called Diamond Place, and certain
slaves, horses, mules, colts, cattle, sheep and hogs, for the
natural life of the plaintiff. There is a covenant by the plaintiff and her husband that they will manage the plantation
and slaves in a proper and husbandlike manner, and at the
termination of the lease will quietly surrender the plantation
and property unto Davis, his heirs, executors, administrators
and assigns, "in as good condition as the same now is, natural
wear and tear and unavoidable accidents excepted, it being
hereby acknowledged that the sole legal and equitable title in
and to said plantation- and slaves and other property is in the
said party of the first part, and the right of property in him."

416

OGTOBER TERI 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

On becoming aware of -the. contents of the paper. she was
asked to sign, the plaintiff remonstrated with her father, and
reminded him that at the trustees' sale of the property he had
promised her that as soon as the debt which he had assumed,
or would have to assume, was paid to him, he would make
-her a fee simple title to the place, and she said to him that,
notwithstanding all he had ever paid out on the place had
been repaid to him, he now wished her to take only a-life
estate in what she had thus bought and paid for, to which his
only reply, was, "I think it best for you." She signed the
paper under compulsion, seeing the nervous'and excited condition of her father, and fearing disastrous consequences to him,
in his feeble state of health,'if she should any longer oppose
him. , She and her husband afterwards acknowledged the
deed -or lease, on the 31st of May, 1859. The acknowledgment was. extorted from them by' threats on the part of
Davis, if they did not acknowledge it, to take. possession of
the place and put an overseer on it, and leave to the plaintiff
the bare occupancy of the 'house and garden, with no other
provision. From; the time the plaintiff was induced by her
father to make such acknowledgment up to the. time. of his
death, she expressed to him, on all proper occasions, both in
letters and personal interviews, her sense of the, injustice
which had been done to her. From.the time she left- her
father's house; after- executing the deed or lease, she never
returned to it. After -she had signed 'the instrum6nt she
always supposed that by that :act she had finally and hopelegsly lost her property, 'and whatever she has said or done- or
omitted to do since was under that belief. Prior to January
25, 1869, her father 'suggeste. to her husband that .he should
purchase the property: at the price of $60,000 for the bare
land and tenements, when th6 market value thereof was
trifling compared "with their value in June, 1846; when, the
saine lands, with the 'slaves, sold for ,over, $28,000. Joseph E.
Davis, the son of Hugh R. Davis, who was the devisee, under
the will, of, the plantation in case Joseph D. Mitchell should
not survive the plaintiff and should die without issue, is dead.
Such' being the - allegations of the bill, its prayer is, "that

LAUGHLIN v. MITCHELL.

'417

Opinion of the Court.

the lease or instrument in writing whereby your oratrix conveyed her said property to Joseph E. Davis, or acknowledged
that the right-thereof was in him, be adjudged void and of no
effect as against your oratrix; that the devise of said property
in and by said will to the defendant Joseph D. Mitchell be
decreed to be void; that the beneficial ownership and title to
said property be. decreed, as against said Joseph E. Davis, deceased, and his devisees, to be in your*oratrix*;- that an account
may be taken, of the payments which were made by and for
your oratrix in the premises, that 'it may be ascertained
whether or not she has, in fact, paid to said Joseph E. Davis
the full amount which she was bound to pay to entitle her to
the relief hereby prayed, as she has hereinbefore alleged, your
oratrix being willing and hereby offering to pay any balance
which may be found against her, on such accounting, to the
parties entitled thereto; and that, upon the ascertainment that
your oratrix has fully paid allsuch sums as in equity she ought
to have paidi or ulon her payment thereof now, shemay be decreed to have the absolute, indefeasible title of said property,
as against said-defendant."
The answer of the defendant Mitchell puts in issue all the
material allegations of the bill on which the relief it claims is
founded. It denies every averment setting up any arrangement, agreement, or understanding made by. Joseph E. Davis
with David 11cCaleb, or with Jonathan McCaleb, or with the
plaintiff, for, the purchase of the property in trust for the
plaintiff, and-alleges that Joseph E. Davis purchased the property at the sale in his own right, and thereby acquired the
full beneficial and legal title thereto,, and that he paid the full
sum which-he agreed to pay by the instrument of June '15,
1846. It -alleges that David McCaleb and the plaintiff at all
times recognized the ownership of Joseph E. Davis in the property, and'were fully cognizant of the fact that although he purchased, the property to save the plaintiff from being turned
out of her home, he never coutemplated giving her the fee in
the property, or any other interest than a life estate, 'and that
he did not keep or demand any'account of the rents, issues,
and profits of the plantation, because he was content that
VOL. cxxi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff should enjoy the usufruct of the property during her life, as appears by the lease and by the terms of his
will. It denies that any crops were shipped for the account of
the indebtedness to Jacobs, and denies that either M cCaleb or
the plaintiff ever paid to Joseph E. Davis any part of the
$28,531 which constituted the purchase -money of the property. It denies that the signature of the plaintiff or her husband to ,the lease, or their subsequent acknowledgment of it,
was procured by the compulsion, threats, or other undue influence of her father, and alleges that the lease was intended
by him as a provision for her, and as an assurance to her of a
home for the remainder of her life.
A replication was filed to this answer and proofs were taken,
and the case was heard, an order being entered dismissing the
bill as to the executors of Joseph E. Davis.
The deposition of the plaintiff was taken as a witness in her
own behalf, and afterwards, and at the hearing, the defendant
made a motion to exclude the deposition, on the ground that
she was not a competent witness. The court made a decree
dismissing the bill, from which the plaintiff has appealed. In
its opinion, 14 Fed. Rep. 382, it says: "It is admitted that
the testimony of th6 complainant as to the understanding and
agreement between her and her, father, relating to tlP. creation
of the alleged trust, is incompetent, and cannot be considered."
The Circuit Court gives the following as a statement of undisputed facts in the case: "In theyear 1846, David McCaleb,
then the husband of complainant, was the owner of the land
described in the bill, and the subject of this controversy. He
was largely indebted, and before that time, had executed a
mortgage or trust deed to secure a debt dae to one-Jacobs, in7
which complainant joined, conveying to the trustees, Chilton
and Searles, 'this tract of land, with the slaves and personal
property thereon. The trustees, having advertised the time
arid place of sale, proceeded, on the 15th of June, 1846, to
offer the same for sale to the highest bidder for cash. There
were present at the sale Jonathan McCaleb, an uncle of David
McCaleb, who held a large debt against his nephew, and other
creditors, or their counsel, who bid more 6r less for the prop-

LAUGHLIN v. MITCHELL.

419

Opinion of the Court.

erty sold; but the whole of it was either struck off to Joseph
E. Davis, the father of complainant, or the bids were transferred
to him, so that he became the purchaser, the aggregate amount
of the sales being $28,531. Said Davis, so far as the creditors
were concerned, continued to be the owner of the property;
but David McCaleb and wife remained in possession of the
property, as before the sale, up to Mc0aleb's death, which
occurred about one year thereafter.. Complainant remained
in possession alone, up to her intermarriage with E. C.Laughlin, her present husband, and complainant and he have remained in possession ever since. On the 27th of December,
1858, Joseph E. Davis executed a lease or deed conveying said
property, real and personal, to complainant for and during her
natural life.' This conveyance contained in it an acknowledgment that said Davis was the sole, legal, and equitable owner
of the property bonveyed. After being duly signed by said
Davis, by complainant and her"husband, i was delivered to
complainant, and some five months thereafter it was duly acknowledged by complainant and her husband, and recorded in
the proper office, Joseph E Davis, by his last will and testament, duly probated and admitted to recqord, devised to the
defendant, Joseph D. Mitchell, this land, described as 'Diamond Place,' then occupied by complainant, and' in which, as
declared by the will, she had a life estate."
As to the disputed facts.in the case the court held that the
trust alleged was not established by the evidence, aside from
the testimonyof the plaintiff, the view taken by it being, that
the evidence established that Davis purchased the property,
with the purpose'of lettinc' the plaintiff and her husband
remain on the plantation an, control itand the property upon
it, intending to hold the legal title to all of it and to make
himself personally responsible for the expenses of the plantation, the income to be applied to pay those expenses and the'
personal expenses of his daughter and her husband, and the
remainder of it to the payment of the purchase money for
which he was personally liable, and intending, when this was
done, to convey, or secure by his will, to her, a title to the
property, it not verFy clearly appedxing whether this was to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in fee' or only for life; that, after the' plaintiff's marriage to
Laughlin, she and her husband desired to obtain the legal title
to the property, the plaintiff all the time recognizing the title
to it as being in her father, and that it was incumbered for the
payment of the balance of the purchase money to whomsoever
it might be due; that this state of things continued until the
execution of the lease; that the lease left the plaintiff in possession of the property for life, free from any obligation' to
pay any part of the debts of the place or the balance of the
purchase money due; that the trust alleged was not established by clear and satisfactory evidence; that, even admitting
the understanding between the plaintiff and her father at the
time of the'sale, as alleged in the bill, the demands referred
to hadnot been satisfied at the time the lease was, executed;
that there was no fraud or deception, or undue influence on
the part of the plaintiff's father in respect to the execution of
the lease 'by her or her husband; that, eight days after the
execution of the lease, he gave her the option of returning it,
and in that event 'proposed to leave her in possession of the
house, garden and appurtenances, and an income, in place of
the provisions of the lease, that, after waiting nearly five
months and deliberating upon' the proposition, and without
any further influence upon the part of her father, so far as the
evidence shows, and with ample time to consult counsel and,
friends, she and her husband, and not Mr. Davis, placed the
lease on .record 'in the proper office in Warren. County, thus
accepting its terms; and that they ehjoyed its benefits, with
no attempt to revoke it, until the filing of this bill on the 25th
of, June, 1881, more than twenty-two years after the execution, acknowledgment and recording of the lease, more, than
twelveyears after Davis" wilT was maiij and more than ten
years after his death; and that it does .not appear that any
intimation was given to Davis, aftei the recording of the
ledse, of dissatisfaction with its terms, or that he was advised
during his lifetime of any intention to assail it. The opinion
of the Circuit Court says: "On the 18th day of fMarch, 1869,
Mr. Davis made his last will and testament, by which he
devised the remaimdeirinterest in this real estate to the defend-

CARSON v. DUNHA .
Syllabus.

ant. Ten years thus elapsing after the lease was recorded by
Mrs. Laughlin before Mr. Davis made his will, he was justified
in the belief that he had the right and power to devise this
remainder interest to whom he pleased, and for this reason, if
there were no other, I am of opinion that complainanfIs
estopped from assailing this lease now, and is not entitled to
have the same declared void, and a cloud upon her title. She
was fully cognizant of all the facts in relation to her title and
in relation to the execution of the instrument, during the lifetime of her father as well as since. To wait until after his
death, and until after the death of .most of the persons who
could have had any knowledge of the transactions, and after
her father, by will, had disposed of his estate, presumably, in
some respects, in a manner otherwise than he -vould have.
done had he not believed himself possessed of this property,
and then attack his will, would be inequitable and unjust."
On the whole case we are of. opinion, that, even regarding
the deposiiton of the plaintiff as competent testimony under
ยง 858 of the flevised Statutes, she is estopped by her action in
respect to the acknowledgment of the lease, and placing it on
record, and permitting it thus to remain unquestioned for over
twenty-two years, from setting up the parol trust alleged in
regard to the property; that no ground is shown for setting
aside the lease; and that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
Afflnmd.

CARSON v. DUNHAM.
APPEAL

FROME THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH OAROLINA.Submitted March 28, 1887.- Decided April 25, 1887.

When a case is*removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground that the controversy is wholly between citizens of different states, and the adverse party moves in the Circuit Court
to remand the case, denying the ave ments as to citizenship, the burden
is on the party at whose instauce the suit was removed to establish the
citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction to the dircuit Court.

