OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

BARRON v. BURNSIDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued March 18, 21, 1887.-Decided April 11, 1887.
The statute of Iowa, approved April 6, 1886, c. 76, which requires that
every foreign corporation named 'init shall' as a condition of obtaining
a permit for the transaction of business in Iowa, stipulate that it will
not remove into the Federal Court certain suits which it would, by the
laws of the United States, have a right to remove, is void, becpuse it
makes the right to a permit dependent upon the surrender by the foreign
corporation of a privilege secured to it by the Constitution and laws of
the United States.
The case of Home Insurance CJo. v. 1Morse, 20 Wall. 445, approved; and the
decision in Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535i explained.

THIS was a writ of error brought by Henry S. Barron to
review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the state ,of
him
Iowa, on a trial on a writ*of habeas.coru, remanding
to the custody of George W. Burnside, sheriff of Linn County,
Iowa, by whom he was held under a warrant for his arrest
issued by a justice of the peace of Linn County, October 5,
1886, for "the crime of knowingly transacting a portion of
the business of the Chicago and North-Western Railway Company within the state of Iowa, when such railway company
had no valid permit to do business in the state of Iowa, as
provided by c. 16 of the laws of the 21st General Assembly
of the State of Iowa, approved April 6, 1886, and taking
effect September 1, 1886."
The statute in question is entitled "An Act Requiring Foreign Corporations to Ftile their Articles of Incorporation with
the Secretary of "State,and Imposing Certain Conditions upon
such Corporations Transacting Business in this State." The
provisions of the Act are as follows:
"SECTIoN 1. That hereafter any corporation for pecuniary
•profit other than for carrying on mercantile or manufacturing
business orgarfized under the laws of any other state or of any
territory of the United States or of any foreign country desiring to transact its business, or to continue the transaction of
its business in this state, shall be and hereby is required, on

BARRON v. BURNSIDE.
Statement of Facts.

and after September [first],

A.D.

1886 to file with the secre-

tary of state a certified copy of its articles of incorporation
duly attested, accompanied by a resolution of its board of
directors or stockholders, authorizing the filing thereof aid
also authorizing service of process to be made upon any of its
officers or agents in this state engaged in transacting its business, and requesting the issuance to such corporation of a
permit to transact business in this state. Said application to
contain a stipulation that said permit shall be subject to each
of the provisions of this act. And thereupon the secretary of
state shall issue to such corporation a permit in such form as
he may prescribe for the generaI transaction of the business
of such corporation. And upon the receipt of such permit
such corporation shall be permitted and authorized to conduct
and carry on its business in this state. Provided that nothing
in this act contained, shall be construed, to prevent any foreign corporations, from buying, selling, and otherwise dealing,
in notes, bonds, mortgages, and other securities, or from enforcing the collection of the same, in the federal courts, in the
same manner, and to the same extent, as is now authorized by
law.
"SEc. 2. No foreign corporation which has not in good faith
complied with the lrovisions of this act, and taken out a permit, shall hereafter be authorized to exercise the power of
eminent domain, or exercise any of the rights and privileges
conferred upon corporations, until they have so complied herewith and taken out such permit.
"Src. 3. Any.foreign corporation sued or impleaded in any
of the courts of this state upon any contract made or executed
in this state or to be performed in this state or for any act or
.omission, public or private, arising, originating, or happening
ii) the state, Who shall remove any such cause from such. state
court into any of the federal courts lield or sitting in tis
state, for the cause that such corporation is a non-resident of
this state or a resident of another state than that of tlib adverse party, or of local prejudice against such corporation,
shall thereupon forfeit and render null and void any permit
issued or authority granted to such corporation to transact

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

business in this stat .; such forfeiture to be determined from
the record of removal, and to date from the date of filing of
the application on which such removal is affected, and whenever any corporation shall thus forfeit its said permit no new
permit shall be issued to it for the space of three months,
unless the executive council shall for satisfactory reasons cause
it to be issued sooner.
"S1Ec. 4, Any foreign corporat on that shall carry on its
business and transact the sr ae on and after September 1,1886,
in the state of Iowa by its officers, agents, or otherwise, without having 6omplied with this statute, and taken out, and
having a valid permit shall forfeit and pay to the state for
each and every day in which such business is transacted and
carried on the sum of one hundred dollars ($100), to be recov-.
ered by suit in any court having jurisdiction. And any agent,
officer or employe who shall kno.vingly act or transact such
business for such corporation when it has no valid permit as
provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and for each
offence shall be fined, not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100)
or imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed thirty days and
pay all costs of prosecution.
"S~c. 5. All acts and parts of acts incoAsistent with the
provisions hereof are hereby repealed; provided, that nothing
contained in this act shall relieve any company, corporation,
association or partnership from the performance of any duty
or obligation now enjoined upon them ort required of them or
either of them by the laws now in force."
The information on which the warrant of arrest was issued
was as follows:
"State of Iowa,
8
"Linn County, I8:
"Before C. W. Burton, justice of the peace in and for Rap.
ids township.
"The State of Iowa]
Henry Barron. J
"The defendant is accused of the crime of knowingly transacting a portion of the business of the Chicago and INorth'

BARRON v'. BURNSIDE.
Statement of Facts.

Western Railway Company within the state of Iowa, when
such railway company has no valid permit to do business in
the state of Iowa, as provided in chapter 76 of the laws of the
21st General Assembly of said State of Iowa, and taking effect
September 1, 1886.
"For that the said defendant, on the 5th day of October,
1886, at the city of Cedar Rapids, in the county and State
aforesaid, well knowing the Chicago and North-Western Railway Companyto be a foreign corporation organized under the
laws of Illinois, and not a corporation organized under the
laws of Iowa, and well knowing that the said Chicago and
North-Western Railway Company was such foreign corporation. for pecuniary profit other than for carrying on mercantile
or manufacturing business, to wit, for the operating of a line
of railroad, and well knowing that said railway company has
failed, neglected and refused to file its articles of incorporation
with the secretary of state of the State of Iowa, and has neglected and refused to reqcuest'the issuance to such Chicago and
North-Western Railway Company of a perniit to transact business in said State-of Iowa, and well knowing that said railway
company has no permit to do business in said State of IoiVa,
as required by said chapter '[6 of the laws of Iowa, passed by
the 21st General Assembly aforesaid, did knowingly azt as a
locomotive engineer for the transaction of the business of said
Chicago. and North-Western Railway Company within the
State of Iowa, by running a locomotive engine, with a passenger train attached thereto, through the township of Rapids,
in the county and. state aforesaid, contrary to law, and the
statute in such case made and provided.
J. H. PRESTO6r.
"Subscribed and sworn to by J. H. Preston before me, this
5th day of October, A.D. 1886.
E. C. PRESTON,
Notawy Public in andfor Linn County, Iowa."
[Notarial Seal.]

Barron, having been arrested, applied to the Supreme Court
of the state for a writ of habeas cor2us, by a petition setting

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

forth various facts as showing that his imprisonment was
illegal, and praying that his petition might be tried before the
Supreme Court. The writ was issued, a return was made to
it by the sheriff, and the case was heard upon an agreed statement of facts, the only material ones, in the viewtaken of the
case, being, that the Chicago and North-Western Railway
Company was-and is an Illinois corporation, operating railroads in Iowa, and claiming to. do so under the authority of
statutes of that State, and that Barron, "at the time he was
arrested, was in the employment of the Chicago and NorthWestern Railway Company, and engaged as an engineer on a
locomotive in running a passenger train, which was made up
at Chicago, in the State of Illinois, and was destined to Council Bluffs, in Iowa, and that said train was carrying passengers
and the United States mails received at different points in the
State of Illinois, and destined to points in the State of Iowa
and beyond; and also from points in the State of Iowa to other
points in the same state," and that he was arrested while he
was engaged in controlling the engine on the train while it
was running. It was admitted that the company htd not complied with the Iowa statute by taking out the required permit.
On the hearing before the state court it was urged, among
other things, that the statute of Iowa is void as an attempt to
interfere with the jurisdiction of the federal courts, as established by the Constitution of the United States and acts of
Congress. The court upheld the validity of the statute.
-Mr. F. C. Goudy and Mr. J. J. 'erri e,
error.

for plaintiff in

.&. A. J: Baker, Attorney General of Iowa (1,. J. -1.
Sweeney was with him), for defendant in error.
I. There is no contractual- relation between the corporation
and-the state.
(1) The statutes of Iowa do not authorize a domestic corporation to sell or lease its railroad and propery and franchises to a foreign- corporation. It may consolidate, as provided by § 1275, Code of Iowa. It may make joint running

BARRON v. BURNSIDE.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

arrangements with such foreign corporation, as provided by
§ 1276. A corporation of a foreign state may extend its road
into Iowa. Chapter 128, Laws 1880. A corporation of Iowa
may extend its road into an adjoining state. Section 1277,
Code. These are all the methods provided by laiw in Iowa,
whereby a railroad corporation of that state, may contract
for through transportation with corporations of adjoining
states. Section 1300 of Code applies only to. corporations of
Iowa.
(2) If the sale was made to the Chicago and North-Western Railway under § 1275, then that is an Iowa corporation.
.uller v. Dows, 94 U. S. 444; Railway Co. v. IF-itton, 13
Wall. 270; Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436; Graham v.
Boston, &c., Railroad Co., 118 U. S.161. The plaintiff in error
insists that the sale was made under § 1300, and was not a
consolidation: We therefore claim that inasmuch as § 1300
does not apply to sales or leases by or to connecting railroads of other states, therefore the sale was without authority
of law, and there is no contractual relation between- the railroad company and the state of Iowa. The corporation is in
the state by intrusion and not by contract.
II. Even if the sale is authorized, we insist there is no impairment of the obligation of contract by the state. (1) No
property right of thq railroad is affected, except as a penalty
for ndn-compliance with lease. The penalty is simply a means
of enforcement of the law, and if the subject matter of the
law is within the powers of the state, then the penalty is a
proper means of enforcement. Attorney General v. Bay State
2Tining Co., 99 Mass. 148. (2) There is nothing in the law
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States in so far
as the subject of control of corporations is concerned. The
state has the undoubted right to decide upon what terms and
conditions foreign corporations may obtain a domicile .of business within the state. Attorney General v. Bay State 2.fining
Co., sipra; Bank o.f Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Runyan
v. Costar, 14 Pet. 122; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Doyle
v. Insurance Co., 94 U. S.535 ; .Ducatv. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410;
Phila.FireAssociation v. flAew York, 119 U. S.110. (3) The

192

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

right of control is specially reserved in the laws of Iowa;
both iA the statutes under which the Iowa corporations were
formed, and in the lavs in force when the railroad company
claims to have purchased. This reserved right of control
gives the state the right to "alter, repeal or abrogate" any
righ s granted by the State. It cannot deprive the company
of its property but may resume or alter what the state granted.
(4) This law does not deprive the railroad of any 6f-'its property, except as a means of enforcement. and this is justifiable.
'Attorney General v. Bay State Xining Co., supra. There is
no property right in a tribunal, or a particular remedy. So
.long as there is a competent 'tribunal and adequate remedy
left, there is no impairment of contract. This is elemental.
(5) The Chicago and North-Western Railway Co. is subjected
to all these reserved powers of control. a. It is subject to the
provisions of the laws of 1856, 1860, 1870 and 1872, for the
reason that the grantor corporation was so subjected. b. It is
subjected to the reserved powers contained in § 1090, because
said section was in force as a law when the Chicago and NorthWestern Railway Co. claims to have purchased, and the settled
rule of law is. that the corpbration purchasing, whether the
purchase is at judicial sale or by contract inter parte&, takes
subject to the law then in force. Trasko v. XMaguire, 18 Wall.
391; Chesapeakee & Ohio Railway Company v. Miller, 114
U. S. 188, 189; .7tiemphis Railroad Company v. Commissioners,
112 U. S. 609; St. Louis & Iron Mfountain Railway Com2any
v. Berry, 113 U. S. 474; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Compaq . v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155 ; Holyokce v. Lyman,
15 Wall. 500; Sherman v. Smith, 1 Black, 587; 'Beer_Cozany
v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Railroad Company. v. Fuller,
17 Wall. 560.
III. The law in question does not amount to a regulation of
commerce within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States. (1) It has been repeatedly held by this court,
that it is not every law which may remotely or indirectly
affect commerce, that can be construed to amount to a regulation. thereof. State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284; Peik v. Railway Company, 94 U. S. 164; .Afunn v. illi-

BARRON v. BURNSIDE.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

nois, 94 .U. S. 113;, The Jiw Gray v. The John .Fazier,21

v. Alling,
How. 184; Osborne v. Mchile, 16 Wall. 479; Sherlock
96 U. S. 1 ; Paul
93 U. S. 99; Telegraph Co. v. TelegrapA o.,
v. Yirginia,. 8 Wall. 168; Gilman v. Philadphia, 3 Wall.
713. In these cases, and in more that might be cited, the laws
did in one way or another, and to a greater or less degree, in
some directly, and in others indirectly, operate upon commeree, either with foreign nations or among the states; but
this court held, they did not amount to a regulation of such
commerce. (2) The counsel in claiming that the law in question is a regulation of commerce confounds two powers that
in their nature and essence are distinctively different, viz: the
control of commerce, and the control of corporations. The
one is a transaction, the other the agency of the transaction.
Over the transaction the powers of the Federal -Government
are supreme and exclusive. It is not so over the agency.
.funn v. Illinois, and authorities quoted. "The two governments have supreme authority within their respective
spheres, and within'them neither can interfere with the
other." - (Mr. Justice Field.) (3) Over state highways the.
state has exclnsive control. Over national highways the Federal. Government has exclusive control. Neither can interfere
with" the other. The common state and county roads, turnpikes, canals and railroads are state highways. It constructs,
them and gives them being, and has the right to control them.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. JMaryland, 21 Wail. 456.
(4) The navigable waters of the nation are national highways, and over them the powers of the general government
are supreme and exclusive. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v.
.MJaryland;,- spra. (5) Railroads constructed in territories:
under charter from Congress are national highways; ".but
this right pas~es from the nation to the newly formed state.
whenever the latter is admitted into the union." The' state
has the supreme right to say what corporation or persons shall.
have supervision of these highways within its borders, if any,
and upon what terms. (6) The state cannot so control state
highways as to prohibit commerce from other states being carried over them. But it may decide as to the agenciesby which
VOL. CxXI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

such highways shall be operated. The former would be a
regulation of commerce; the latter not. While it is admitted
that the general government for national purposes may take
-possession and control of the state highways as post roads,
and military roads, and commercial highways, it cannot compel one state to permit its highways to be subject to the control of another state; and it matters not whether such control
is sought by the sister state directly, or through the agency of
corporations created by such sister state. The rule is well settled that a corporation of one state cannot migrate to, and become domiciled in, a sister state, except by the consent of
both states. Tonas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 84; Runyan
v. CJoster, 14 Pet. 122; Christian Union- v. Yount, 101 U. S.
352; Philadelphia Fire Association v. NVew York, 119 U. S.
110; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, and other cases cited. (7)
There is a broad field of difference between prohibiting a person, natural or artificial, from bringing goods or passengers
into the state, and in prohibiting such person from acquiring
control of the highways, on which such goods and passengers
are transported. (8) This law does not in any of its terms
prohibit the transportation of freight or passengers interstate:
its provisions may all be confined to commerce within the
state, and to transactions wholly under state control, and do
no violence to the language of the law. It is agreed that the
Chicago & North-Western Railway is engaged in loth state
and interstate commerce, and that the. train being moved by
Barron, plaintiff in error, was engaged in both state and interstate commerce. Counsel say the law, being a unit, cannot
be separated. We say their _business is not a unit and may be
separated. They need not transact both state and interstate
,commerce by the -same train, or by the same employes. The
" law is beyond question valid in so far as it applies to business
carried on- wholly within Iowa. The., company must then
cease to do such business, or be subje'cted to the penalties of
the law.

-

"

IV. It is not iii violation of the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. (1) Corporations are not
citizens of the United States.. Balt. & Ohio -Railroadv.

-BARRON v.

jBURNSIDE.

Opinion of the Court.

_Koontz, 104 U. S. 5. (2) A corporation of one state is not
apersom within the meaning of the XIVth Amendment, except
within the state of its creation. Philadelphia -FireAssociation v. -NewYork, 119 U. S. 110. (3) Any class of corpora,
tions may be singled out from another class, and regulations
applied to the whole class is not a denial of equal protection
of the law to such person within the meaning of the XIVth
Amendment. Chicago, do., Railway v. Iowa, 94 U. S.155;
Minn v. Blinois, 94 U. S. 113; and it. matters not that the
corporation was doing business in the state before the law was
enacted. - See last. case cited, page 113, and Doyle v. Ins. Co.,
sujn'a. The objection that the law deprives the Chicago &
North-Western Railway Co. of the right to remove causes to
courts! of the United States, and that such right is guaranteed
to it by the Constitution is fully met in the case of Doyle v.
Ins. Co. heretofore cited. There is no difference in principle
in this respect between the Iowa law involved in this case and
the Wisconsin law involved in the case cited.

Nmf.JusTicE

after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
BLATCHFORD,

The statute manifestly applies to the Chicago and NorthWestern Railway Company as an Illinois corporation. The
first section provides, that a foreign corporation, desiring to
continue the -transaction of its business in Iowa, is required,
on and after September 1, 18S6, "to file with the secretary of
state a certified copy of its articles of incorporation duly attested, accompanied by a resolution of its board of directors
or stockholders, authorizing the filing thereof, and also authorizing service of procesg to be made upon any of its officers or
agents in this state engaged in-transacting its business, and
requesting the issuance to such corporation of a permit to
transact business in this state; said application to contain a
stipulation that said permit shall be subject to each of the provisions of this act,- and thereupbn the secretary of state shall
issue to such corporation a permit in such form as he may
prescribe, for the general transaction of the business of such

OCTOBER .TERI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation;, and, upon the receipt of such permit, such cor.poration shall be permitted and authorized to conduct and
carry on its business in this state."

The initial step required is a resolution authorizing the filing
of the copy of the articles of incorporation, and authorizing
service of process in the manner specified, and requesting the
issue -of the permit, the application to be accompanied by a
stipulation that the permit shall be subject to each of the
provisions of the act. This proceeding is a unit. The filing
of the articles of incorporation and the provisio'n in regard to
service of process are to be authorized by the same resolution
which requests the issue of the permit, and this request or
application is to contain the stipulation above mentioned.
These various things are not separable. They are all indissolubly bound up with the, application for a permit, which is.
to be subject to every provision of th4 act. The permit cannot be issued uxiless such a stipulation is given, and -the cor-poration is not to be permitted to carry on its business in the
State unless the permit is issued to it and received by it.
Section 3 of the act provides, that, if the permit is issued,
and the foreign corporation, being thereafter sued in a court
of Iowa, upon a contract made or executed in Iowa, or to be
performed in Iowa, or for any act or omission, public or private, arising, originating or happening in Iowa, shall remove
the suit from the state court into any Federal court in Iowa,
because the corporation is a non-resident of Iowa, or a resident
of a state other than the state of the'adverse party, or because
of local prejudice against the corporation, that fact shall forfeit the permit and render it void, such forfeiture to be determined from the record of removal, and to date- from the
filing of the application on which the removal is effected.
Section 4 imposes a penalty of $100 a day 6n the corporation for carrying on its business in Iowa without having complied with the statute, and having a valid permit, and provides
that any agent, officer or employe who shall knowingly act,
or transact such business, for the corporation, when it has no
valid permit, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each
offence shall be fined not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned

BARRON e. BURNSIDt.
Opinion of the Court.

in the county jail not to exceed thirty days, and pay all costs
of prosecution.
It is apparent that the entire purpose of this statute is to
deprive the foreign corporation, in suits such as those mentioned in § 3, of the right conferred upon it by the Constitution and laws of the United States, to remove a suit from
the state court into the Federal court, either on the ground of
diversity of citizenship or of local prejudice. The statute is
not separable into parts. An affirmative provision requiring
the filing by a foreign corporation, with the secretary, of
state; of a copy of -its articles of incorporation, and of an
authority for the service of process upon a designated officer
or agent in the state, might not be an unreasonable or objectionable requirement, if standing alone; but the manner in
which,, in this statute, the provisions on those subjects are
coupled with the application for the permit, and with the stipulation referred to, shows that the real and only object of the
statute, and its substantial provision, is the requirement of the
stipulation not to reiiove the suit into the Federal court.
' In view of these consideiations, the case falls diiectly within
the decision of this court in .homeInsurance Co. v. .forse,, 20
Wall. 445. In that case, which was twice argued here, a
statute of Wisconsin provided that it should not be lawful for
any foreign fire insurance company to transact any business in
Wisconsin unless it should first appoint an attorney in that
state, on whom process could be served, by filing a written
instrument to that effect, containing an agreement that the
company would not remove a suit for trial into the Federal.
court. The Home Insurance Company, a New York corporation, filed the appointment of an agent containing the following clause: "And said company agrees that suits commenced
in the state courts of Wisconsin shall not be removed by the
acts of said company into the United States Circuit or Federal
courts." A loss having occurred on a -policy issued by the
company, it was sued in a court of the state. It filed its
petition in proper. form for the removal of the suit into the
Federal court. The state court refused to allow the removal,
and, after a trial, gave a judgment for the plaintiff, which was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed" by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. The company
brought the case into this court, which held these propositions: First, The agreement made by the company was not
one which would bind it, without reference to the statute;
Second, The agreement acquired no validity from the statute.
The general proposition was maintained, that agreements in
advance to oust the courts of jurisdiction conferred by law,
are illegal and void, and that, while the right to remove a suit
might be waived, or its exercise omitted, in each recurring
case, a party could not bind himself in advance, by an agreeinent which might be specifically enforced, thus to forfeit his
rights at- all times and on all occasions, whenever the case
might be presented.
In regard to the second question, the proposition laid down
was, that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, under Art. 3,
§ 2, of the Constitution, depends upon and is regulated by the
laws of the United States; that state legislation cannot confer
jurisdiction upon the Federal courts, nor limit or restrict the
authority given to them by Congress in pursuance of the Constitution; and that a corporation is a citizen of the state by
which it is created, and in which its principal place of business is situated, so far as, its right to sue and be sued in the
Federal courts is concerned, and within the clause of the Constitution extending the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to
controversies between citizens of different states.- The conclusions of the court were summed up thus: 1st, The Constitution of the United States secures to citizens of another state
than that in which suit is brought an absolute right to remove
their cases into the Federal court, upon .eompliance with the
terms of the removal statute; 2d, The statute of Wisconsin is
an obstruction to this right, is repugnant to the eonstitution
of the United States and the laws made in pursuance thereof,
and is illegal and void; 3d, The agreement of the insurance
company derives no support from an unconsitutional statute,
and is void, as it would be had no such- statute been passed.
For these reasons the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin was reversed, and it was directed that the prayer
of the petition for removal should be granted.

BARRON v, BURNSIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S.
535, is relied on by the defendant in error. In that case, this
court said, that it had carefully reviewed ifs decision in I-urante Co. v. 3forse, and was satisfied with-it. In referring to
the second conclusion in In~uranee Co. v. Morse, above recited,
namely, that the statute of Wisconsin was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and was illegal and void, the
court said, in -Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., that it
referred'to that portion of the statute which required a stipulation not to transfer causes to the courts of the United States.
In that case, which arose under the same statute of Wisconsin,
the foreign insurance company had complied with the statute,
and had filed an agreement not to remove suits into the Federal courts, and had received a license to do business in the
state. Afterwards, it removed into the Federal court a suit
brought against it in a state court of Wisconsin.. The state
authorities threatening to revoke the license,, the company
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, praying
for an injunction to' restrain the revoking of the license. A
temporary. injunction was granted. The defendant demurred
to the bill, the demurrer was overruled, a decree was entered
making the injunction perpetual, and the defendant appealed
to this court. This court reversed the decree and dismissed
the bill. The point of the decision seems to have been, that,
as the State had granted the license, its officers would not
be restrained by injunction, by- a court of the United States,
from withdrawing it. All that there is in the case beyond
this, and all that is said in the opinion which appears to be in
conflict with the adjudication in Insurance Co. v. .Morse, must
be regarded as not in judgment.
In both of the cases referred to, the foreign corporation had
made the agreement not to remove into the Federal court suits
to be brought against it in the state court. In the present
case, no such agreement has been made,, but the locomotive
engineer is arrested for acting as such in the employment of
the corporation, because it has refused to stipulate that it will
not remove into the Federal court suits brought against it in the
state court, as a condition of obtaining a permit, and con.--

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

quently has not obtained such permit. Its right, equally with
any individual citizen, to remove into the Federal court, under
the laws of the United States, such suits as are mentioned in
the third section of the Iowa statute, is too firmly established
by the decisions of this court to be questioned at this day; and
the State of Iowa might as well pass a statute to deprive an
individual citizen of another state of his right to remove such
suits.
As the Iowa statute makes the right to a permit dependent
upon the surrender by the foreign corporation of a privilege
secured to it by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the statute requiring the permit must be held to be void.
The question as to the right of a state to impIse upon a corporation engaged in interstate commerce the duty of obtaining a permit from the state, as a condition of its right to
carry on such commerce, is a question which it is not necessary to decide *in this case. In all the cases in which this
-court has considered the subject of the granting by a state to
a foreign corporation of its consent to the transaction of business in the state, it has uniformly asserted that no conditions
can be imposed by the state which are repugnant to the Constitution, and laws of the United States. la Fayette ns.- Co.
v. French,-18 How. 404, 407; .Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall.
.410, 415; Ins. Co. v. J1forse, 20 Wall. 445, 456; St. Clair v.
Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 356; Phila. Fire Assn. v. N ew York,
119 U. S.110, 120.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is reversed,
and the case is remanded to that court, with an instruction
to enter a judgment discharging the vlaintiff in error

from, custody.

