CARPER v. FITZGERALD.
Syllabus.

the majority want an, immediate sale. In this the trustees
both agree, a does the railroad company itself. There is no
evidence whatever of a want of good faith in- any one.. The
court below, having the practical worldngs of the receivership
under its own eye, did not hesitate to say that "it is now entirely olear that the best interests of all parties conberned will
be promoted by a speedy sale," and we see nothing to the
contrary.
Of the power of the court to make such an order in a proper
case we have no doubt. The property is in the possession of
the court and is depreciating in value by the accumulation
of receiver's indebtedness, while the Jitigation between the
parties as to their respective interests in it is going on. There
cannot be a doubt that the whole ought to be sold togetlher.
If in the end it shall be found that the :Rawle mortgage covers
only a part, it will be as,easy to fix the rule for dividing the
proceeds equitably between the two securities after a sale as
before, and there is nothing in the decree as entered to interfere in any way with such a distribution.
. Upon the facts as presented to us we are entirely satisfied
that the decree of the court below was right., and it is consequently affirmed.
T]e motion, to disziss is overruled and tke decree cffirnzed.

CARPER v. FITZGERALD.
APPEAL

FROM

TIlE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF TiE UNITED STATES Fo1

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGLMLA.
Argued March 18, ISST. -Decded

March 28, 1887.

No appeal lies to this court from an order of a Circuit Judge of the United
States, sitting as a judge and not as a court, discharging a prisoner
brought before him on a writ of habeascorpus
An or('er of the Circuit Judge of the Fourth Circuit, made at Baltimore,
Maryland, that a prisoner brought before him there from Richmond,
Virginia, on a writ of habeas corpus, shall be discblated, is a proceeding
before him as a judge and not as sitting as a court; and it is not con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
verted into a proceeding of the latter kind by a further order that the
papers in the case be filed in the Circuit Court of the United States at
Richmond, and the order of discharge be recorded in that court.
Rule 31, 117 U. S. 708, explained.

Tins was an appeal from an order discharging a prisoner on
a writ of habeas corpus. The case is stated in the opinion of
the court.,
Xr R?. A. Ayres;Attorney General of Virginia for appellant.

Bradle, T. Johston for
HChamberlainand .Mr.
-Mr. D K.
appellee. ThY. W'iim I. 1Royall filed a-rief for same.
MR.

CHIF JusricE WA= delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding before the Circuit' Judge for the
Fourth Circuit at his Chambers in Baltimore, Maryland, for
the discharge of Richard L. Fitzgerald from the custody of
H. A. Carper, jailer of Pulaski County, Virginia, under a
mittimus from John H. Cecil, a justice of the peace of that
county. The petition was presented to the judge in Baltimore, who directed the clerk of the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia to issue a writ of habeas eorpus,
and make it returnable before him at the United States courthouse in Baltimore. The writ was accordingly issued, under
the seal of the court, in the usual form of circuit court writs,
and made returnable "before the Honorable Hugh L. Bond,
judge of our Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia, sitting at the United States court-house
in Baltimore, Maryland." The record shows that the jailer
-made his returin to the wvrit, and that the petitioner filed a
demurrer thereto, upon consideration of which an order of
discharge was entered. At the foot of this order was the
following:
"1Andit is ordered that the papers in this case be filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States at Richmond, Virginia,
and that this order be recorded in said court.
I
I"-HuGI L. BOND, Circuit Jvdge2'

.UNITED STATES v: McDOUGAT'L'S ADMS'R.
Syllabus.

From this order the jailer was allowed an appeal to this
court by the circuit judge, and the case was docketed here as
"an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Virginia." The form of the docket
entry here does not change the character of the proceeding
from which the appeal was taken, and that was clearly under
ยง 752 of the Revised Statutes, before the judge sitting as
a judge, and not as a court. The act of March 3, 1885, c. 353,
23 Stat. 437, gives an appeal to this court in habeas coepus
cases only from the final decision of a circuit court.
The order of the judge that the papers be filed, and his
order recorded in the circuit court, does not make his decision
as judge a decision of the court. Neither does our Rule 34,
117 U. S. '708, adopted at the last term, have that effect
The-purpose of that rule was to regulate proceedings on
appeals under ยง 763, from the decision of a judge to the
circuit court of the district, as well as under ยง 764, as
amended by the act of March 3, 1885, from a circuit court to
this court. 'Power to make such a regulation was given to this
court by ยง 765 of the Revised Statutes.
Appeal dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. McDOUGALL'S ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 7,18S.-Decided March 28, 1887.

The fact that Congress, by several special acts, has made provision for the
payment of several claims, part of a class of claims upon wlich the
respective claimants could not have recovered in an action in the' Court
of Claims in the exercise of its general jurisdiction, furnishes no reason for holding the United States liable in an action in that court for
the recovery of such a claim which Congress has ilade no provision for.
The fact that the Court of Claims has r-ndercd judgment against the
United States'at various times upon claims of a particular class, from
which juugments the Executive Department of the Government toolk no
appeal, furnishes no reason why judgment ,shouid be given against the

