RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Syllabus.

27w fna decree of the Circuit Court, and the orders of
3larch 6, 18820, and October 9, 1882, are reversed, and the
case is -remandedto that court with a direction, to dismiss
the bill, with costs, but without _prejudice to the power and
right of the Circuit Court to punish the contempt Peferred
to in those orders, by a _proyer proceeding. ne prelimnvnary injunction was in force until set aside. (See In re

Ohile, 22 WaH. 157.)

RIOHMOND v. IRONS.
ArPEAL

FROM THE cReUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 7, 1S87.-Decided March 28, 1887.

A bill in equity filed by a judgment creditor of an insolvent national bank,
which alleges that the president of the bank. under cover of a voluntary
liquidation, was converting its assets, in a manner stated in the bill, in
fraud of the rights of the complainant and other creditors, and which
prays a discovery of all the assets, and of what moneys and assets have
come into the president's hands, and what disposition has been made of
them, and that the sales and conveyances of corporation property may
be set aside, and that the property of the bank may be delivered up to
the court, and that a receiver be appointed, and that the proceeds of the
property may be applied to the payment of the complainant's debt, is in
fact a bill to obtain judicial administration of the affairs of the bank,
and to tius secure the equal distribution of its property: and an amended
bill which states that it is filed on behalf of the complainant anhd
of all the creditors who may become parties, and which charges that
some stockholders named have parted with their stock for assets of the
bank after it had gone into liquidation and in fraud of the creditors, and
which prays that all the stockholders may be indivirially subjected to
the liability created by the statute, and that the fund realized from the
assets and from this liability may be distributed among the creditors, is
germane to the original bill, and does not materially change the substance of the case nor make It multifarious, so as to make the allowance
of the amendment an improper exercise of the discretion of the Circuit
Court, within the rule laid down in lardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 761.
Under the original act respecting national banks, and before the act of
Jui 3 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 63, a court of equity had jurisdiction of a suit to

OCTOBER TERM1,

1886.

Statement of-Facts.
prevent or redress maladministration or fraud against creditors in the
voluntary liquidation of such a bank, whether contemplated or executed;
and such suit; though begun by one creditor, must necessarily be for the
benefit of all.
The act of June 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 63, whether considered as declaratory of
existing law, or as giving a new remedy, warranted the Circuit Court in
granting leave to file the amended bill in this case.
The rights, under a statute of limitations, of a creditor who becomes party
to a pending creditors' bill depend upon the date of the filing of the
creditors' bill; and not upon the date of his becoming a party to it.
The statutory liability of a shareholder in a national bank for the debts
of the corporation survives against is personal representatives.
A stockholder in a national bank continues liable for the debts of the company, under the statutes of the United States, until his stock is actually
transferred upon the-books of the bank, or until the certificate has been
delivered to the bank, with a power of attorney authorizing the transfer, and a request, made at the time of the transaction, to have the transfer made: a delivery to the president of the bank as vendee and not as
president is insufficient to discharge the shareholder under the rule in
Whitney v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655.
Without express authority from the shareholders in a national bank, its
officers, after the bank goes into liquidation, can only bind them by acts
implied by the duty of liquidation.
Creditors of a national bank who, after it suspends payment and goes into
voluntary liquidation, receive in cttlement of their claims bills receivable, indorsed or guaranteed in the name of the bank by its president,
cannot claim as creditors against the stockholders; as the original debt
is paid, and the stockholders, in the absence of express authorization,
are not liablQ on the contract of indorsement or guarantee, made after
suspension.
A shareholder in a national bank, who is liable for the debts of the bank, is
liable for interest on them'to the extent to which the bank would have
been liable, not in excess of the maximum liability fixed by the statute.
The expenses of a receivership of a national bank appointed in a creditors'
suit, contesting a voluntary liquidation of the bank, cannot be charged
upon stockholders as part of their statutory liability, but must come
from the creditors, at whose instance the receiver was appointed.
1No person is entitled to share as a creditor in the distribution under a creditor's bill, who does not come forward to present his claim.

Tee original bill in this case was filed February 3, 1875, by
James Irons, the defendants being the Manufacturers' National
Bank of Chicago, organized under the national banldng act,
and Ira Hohnes, its president. The bill alleged that the complainant had recovered a judgnnent against the bank for the
sum of $12,408.51 damages, besides costs, an execution on

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Statement of Facts.

which had been returned unsatisfied; that on or about October
11, 1873, the bank had suspended payment and business, and,
in pursuance of § 44 of the banking law, And gone into voluntary liquidation, its affairs having been put into the hands of
the defendant Holmes, its president, for that purpose; that
the defendant Holmes had thereafter settled a large amount
of the indebtedness of the bank by giving notes made by him
as president of the bank and guaranteed by him as such,
and by using the assets of the bank in payment of its
indebtedness; that he had also converted and appropriated to
his own use an amount of the assets of the bank charged to
be not less than $250,000; that he also. had in his possession
and control a large amount of the personal and real property
purchased with the funds and moneys of the bank, but which
he had fraudulently withheld and disposed of for his own use;
"that the said voluntary liquidation aforesaid, and the proceedings thereunder by the said defendant Holmes, were a
pretence and sham, and were suggested, instituted, and carried on for the sole and only purpose of concealing and covering up the transactions of the said bank, and of dissipating
and disposing of its assets in such a way and manner most
agreeable to the wishes and interests of the said defendant
Holmes and those in his interest, and in fraud of the rights of
your orator and the other creditors of the said bank;" that
the capital stock of the bank actually paid in amounted to the
sum of $500,000, owned by twenty-four stockholders, a schedule of the names of whom, with their respective places of residence, and the number of shares owned by each, were set out
in an exhibit to the bill.
The bill prayed for a discovery under oath of "what moneys,
cash, notes, bills receivable, United States bonds, and other
property and effects the said bank had in its possession and
was the owner of at the time of the said- suspension thereof,
and at the time the same went into voluntary liquidation in
the manner as aforesaid, or what moneys, cash, notes, bills
receivable, United States bonds, and. other property the said
bank has since had in its possession or control, or been the
owner of, or the said Holmes, as president thereof, or other-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statemeut of Facts.

wise, has since had in his possession or control belonging to
the said bank, and what disposition, payment, sale, or transfer
has been made of the property and effects of the same and
every part thereof." It also prayed that all sales and conveyances made by the bank or by the defendant Holmes of property belonging to the bank might be set aside as fraudulent,
and that all the property and effects of the bank in its possession, or in the possession of Holmes, might be delivered up
into the possession and control of the court, and applied, so
far as necessary, to the payment of the complainant's judgment; that the defendants might be enjoined from making
any further transfers of the property of the bank; that a
receiver might be appointed of all the property and effects of
the bank, and for general relief.
At various times subsequent to the filing of the bill other
judgment creditors of the bank filed petitions for leave to be
made parties, and were allowed to join in the bill as co-complainants. On the 12th of February, 1875, the defendants
interposed a demurrer to the bill The grounds of the demurrer were, among others, that a creditbr's bill in behalf of
one or more cieditors would not lie, because the assets must
be equally distributed among all;, that a receiver of a national
*bank 'could only be appointed and the assets distritiated by
the Cdniptroller- of the Currency under the act of Congress,
and that the court had no power to enjoin a national bank
from disposing of its assets in voluntary liquidation.
On the 26th of February, 1875, the demurrer was overruled,
and Joel D. Harvey was.appointed a receiver with full power
and authority to take and receive possession and control of all
the property of the bank, with directions to collect. and convert the same into money, to be applied according to the
order and direction of the c6urt.
On the 1st of April, 1875, the defendants fied a joint and
several answer to the bill. They admitted that the bank went
into voluntary liquidation on September 26, 1873, and between
that time and the time of filing the bill that it settled a l '
amount of its indebtedness, so that there remained due to its
depositors only $ 39,000; and alleged that these settlements

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Statem'ent of Facts.

were made mainly b# paying out to' creditors the assets of the
bank, in some cases the defendant Holmes giving his persona"
obligations,' which in a few instances"were endorsed by him as
president of the bank. The defendant Holmes denied all the
fraud charged in the bill, and particularly that he had converted and appropriated to his own use any of the assets of
the bank, and denied that he had any of such assets in his
possession: or under his control; and *alleged,. on the. other
hand, that he had given his private obligations in payment of
the debts of the bank, which had more than exhausted all his
resources and brought him into a state of bankruptcy.
The said .Holmes, as president, and for himself personally,
also averred in the answer, "that at the time said bank went
into voluntary liquidation as aforesaid he verily believed that
said bank and himself were solvent, and would be able to pay.
their debts in full by making settlements with the creditors
to their satisfaction, and they, these defendants, so believed,
while making said settlements, and he was advised by his
attorneys, and so believed himself, that all settlements made
with the creditors of said bank in the manner aforesaid, pursuant to said 42d section of the national banking act, would
be valid, and that both said bank and its creditors so settled
with would be protected, and that said settlements could not-"
be set aside or in any manner interfered with; that, acting
upon this advice, and what he believed to be the unquestioned
law in the premises, said bank and its creditors, believing that
they were within the letter and spirit of said section of the
banking act, effected settlement§ to the amount of about
$900,000, aside from reducing its capital stock to $178,000,
and these defendants now claim that said settlements are all
valid, and cnnot be iiiquired into."
On. October 5, 1876, leave was given the complainant to file
an amended bill making additional defendants, and it was
filed on.the same day. The, amended bill lleged that the
bank suspended piyment on September 22, 1873; that it had
been previously and ever since had continued to be insolvent;
that the complainant was a creditor by judgment, as stated
in the original bill, on which execution had been returned

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

unsatisfied; that the bank, after suspending payment, went
into voluntary liquidation under the management of the defendant H~olmes, who settled a large amount of the indebtedness of the bank, so as to reduce it to about $40,000. The
anended bill then set out the names of the various stockholders of the bank, with the amount of shares owned by
each, and alleged that while the bank was contemplating
insolvency, and was in fact insolvent, and after the suspension
of payment, certain of the persons named as stockholders, and
who were also made defendants, combining and confederating
with the defendant Holmes, surrendered and delivered up to
him, the said Holmes,. the certificates of shares of stock held
.by them respectively, on some pretended contract of purchase,
the same having been purchased with .the money and assets
of the bank, and cancelled at the request and by the-direction
of the said stockholders for the avowed purpose of releasing
them, and each -ofthem, from any personal liability on account
thereof to the creditors of the said bank; but that, nevertheless, the same were never in fact cancelled or transferred on
the books of the bank, but then stood on said books in the
names of the said defendants; and it was charged that the
said pretended purchase and attempt at cancellation of the
said stock was a fraud upon the complainant and the other
creditors of the said bank, and should be set aside.
The bill accordingly prayed for a discovery from the defendants of the facts in relation to,the said transactions, and that
the same might be set aside and decreed to have been made
in fraud of the rights of the complainant and the other creditors of the bank; and "that the said stockholders, and each
of them, be subjected to the liability created by the statute
thereon in the same manner and to the same extent as though
such sales, transfers or surrehiders had never been made; and
that the said.stockholders, or such of them as have sold, transfgrre4 or surrendered, or pretended to sell, transfer or surrender, &c., the shares of stock so as aforesaid held and owned
by them at thetime the said bank suspended payment, in the
manner as aforesaid, nay be decreed to hold'the moneys,
property and effects received by &hemfor said stock, in the

RICHMOND v. IRONS.

33

Statement of Facts.

manner as aforesaid, in trust for the creditors of the said bank,
and, upon the respective amounts being ascertained, that they
be decreed to pay the same to creditors thereof, or to such
person or persons as your honors shall order and direct."
The bill also prayed "that an account be taken .of the
amounts due from each of the said defendants to your orator
and the judgment and other creditors of the said bank as
stockholders thereof, upon the basis of the number of shares
of stock held by them at the time the said bank suspended
payment in the manner as aforesaid, in pursuance of the provisions of the act under which the said bank was organized,
and by which the liablity of the stockholders thereof is fixed
and determined. That a full and complete and accurate account be taken of all the sales, transfers or surrenders, or
pretended sales, transfers, ac., of stock made by the said stockholders of the said bank, or any of them, after the same suspended payment in the manner as aforesaid, and to the
amounts received by them respectively for any such sales,
transfers, &c., and that they may be decreed to hold the same
in trust for the creditors of said bank in the manner as hereinbefore prayed, and that upon such accounts being taken the
said defendants, or such of them as shall be found liable to
your orator and the judgment and other creditors of the said
bank upon the said stock liability created by the said banking
act, and such of them as shall bd hWalle for the amounts received by them for the sales and transfers of stock so made by
them in the manner as aforesaid, be decreed to pay whatever
amount shall be due from them, and each of them respectively, into court or to the receiver duly appointed by said
court, and that out of the fund so created your orator's judgment be paid in full, and the balance thereof be distributed
among the other creditors of said bank in such way and
manner as your honors shall direct."
• All of the defendants named in the amended bill within its
jurisdiction were served with process and appeared. On behalf of certain of these defendants a motion was made to
strike the amended bill from the files, and others filed
demurrers, for the reason, in substance, that it made a new
VOL. Cxx-3

OCTOBER TERM, "1886.
Statement of Facts.

case, different from that set out fn the original bill and inconsistent with it, containing matters and asking relief that could
only be properly obtained by an original bill.
On the 9th of May, 1877, the complainant, James Irons,
having died, a bill of, revivor was filed in the name of his personal representatives.
On October 1, 1878, the motion to strike from the files and
the demurrers interposed to the'amended bill were overruled,
and the defendants required to answer. Subsequently, answers
were filed at various times by the several defendants who
appeared, the contents of which it is not necessary here particularly to notice, except to say that issue was joined by
replication duly filed. On July 23, 1883, on the final hearing,
the complainant had leave to amend, and did .amend,, the
amended bill of complaint so as to allege expressly that it was
filed on behalf of himself and all other creditors of the Manufacturers' National Bank of Chicago; the'prayer being
amended so as to require an account to be taken of the
amount due the complainant and other creditors of the defendant; striking out those parts which asked that the complainant's judgment be decreed to be a first lien on the property of
the bank, and paid first in full out of the fund for distribution;
and adding a prayer that the fund so created might be distributed among all the creditors of said bank pro rak, in such
a way and manner as should be directed. To this aanended
bill, as finally amended, various defendants filed several answers instanter, setting up by way, of a. bar to the relief
prayed for against the defendants, as holders of the shares
of stock in thb banking association, the statute of limitations
of five years of the state of Illinois;. and also insisting. that
the bill as amended was multifarious and inconsistent, because
it prayed for further and different relief from that authorized
by the act of Congress approved June 30, 1876. On the 'same
day a decree was entered in the cause, which found, among
other things, as follows: That the Manufacturers' National
Bank of Chicago became insolvent and suspended payment
September 22, 1873, and, in pursuance of the act of Congress,
went into voluntary liquidation oil. September 26, 1873; that

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Statement of Facts.

debts of the bank were still due and unpaid; that, at the time
of the bank's insolvency and suspension of payment, the capital stock of the bank consisted of 5000 shares, of the par
value of $100 each, seting out the names of the owners
thereof, with the number of shares owned by each; that after
the said bank had become insolvent and suspended" payment,
certain shareholders of said bank transferred the stock held
by them, but that all and each of such transfers were and are'
in derogation of the rights of creditors, and were and:" are
invalid; and that certain named defendants, shareholders of
said bank, setting out their names, are individually responsible,
equally and ratably, and not one f6r the other, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of the bank to the extent of
the amount of stock standing in their names respectively, on
the 23d of September, 1873, and before any transfers were
made that day, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such bank.
.The death of a defendant, William' H. Adams, on the 5th
of June, 1882, was suggested, and Elizabeth Adams, his executrix, made a party defendant in his stead.
1879, the case was referred to
By an order entered May 7',
Henry W. Bishop, Esquire, a master in'chancery, to take proof
and report, first, the amount of the debts of said bank still
unpaid and the amount due each creditor thereof; second, the
value of the assets, if any, of the bank; third, the amount of
assessment necessary to be made on each share of the capital'
stock of said bank in order to fully pay the indebtedness of
the -bank, and the amount due and payable from each shareholder upon such assessment.
On the 6th of January, 1885, the master reported his findings under the decree of July 23, 1883. He -reported the
amount of the debts of the bank unpaid as of the 1st of
November, 1SS4, to be S368,971.50, the nand of each creditor
and the amount due him beifig'set oui in a schedule. The
claims of these creditors were also classified by'the master as
f6lows: 1st, for clerical services to the bank, $183.31; 2d, for
past services of the receiver and his attorneys, $4437.01; 3d.
claims arising before the failure of the bank, upon which no

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

collaterals were taken, $179,231.81; Ith, claims arising before
the failure of the bank, on account of which worthless collaterals had been subsequently received, $185,119.31. The master further reported that there were no assets of the bank
outside of the stockholders' liability, and that the amount of
assessment necessary to be made upon each share of the capital stock of 'the bank, in order to fully pay the indebtedness,
was ninety per cent. A schedule attached to. the report gave
the name of each stockholder, and opposite his name the
number of his shares of stock in the bank, the par value
•thereof, the per cent. of assessment to be levied thereon, and
the amount due and payable from him upon such assessment.
These stockholders were also classified as embracing, 1st,
stockholders who had been duly served with process or entered their appearance in the cause; 2d, stockholders who had
obtained a discharge in bankruptcy and were not liable to
stock assessments on that account; and, 3d, stockholders who
resided outside the jurisdiction of the court and had not been
found within the district.
On February 2, 1885, various exceptions were filed on behalf of the defendant stockholders to this report of the
master. An exception thereto was also filed on behalf of the
receiver and creditors so far as it reported in favor of certain
stockholders claiming to have been discharged from their liability by their certificates in bankruptcy. Upon the hearing
of these exceptions, the court referred the cause again to the
master to compute from the proofs already taken in the cause,
1st, the indebtedness of the bank at the time of the failure;
2d, subsequent actual payments upon indebtedness; 3d, net
amount of indebtedness, with interest on same at the rate of
six per cent. per annum from the time of the failure of the
bank; and, 4th, the necessary assessment upon the stockholders to pay said indebtedness, including the expenses of the
receivership.
In pursuance of this direction, on the 25th of May, 1886,
the master made a supplemental re'port, in which he found
that the indebtedness of the bank at the time of the failure
thereof, to wit, the 23d day of September, 18 73, amounted in

RICHMIOND z,. IRONS.
Mr. Miller's Argument for Appellant Richmond.

the aggregate to the sum of $110,064.10; that the subsequent actual payments upon said indebtedness amounted to
the sum of $213,018.46; that the net amount of the indebtedness was 'the sum of $197,045.64; that the interest upon
said last mentioned sun from the 23d of September, 1873,
when the bank failed, down to M[ay 21, 1886 at -the rate of
six per cent. per annum, was the sum of $149,686.98, making'
the total unpaid indebtedness of said bank on the last mentioned date the sum of $346,732.62; that twenty per cent.
upon said lasi mentioned sum, amounting to the sum of
$69,346.52, was necessary to be added thereto for the expenses
of the receivership, making a total sum of $116,079.11; and
that the necessary assessment upon the stockholders to pay
said indobtedness, including the expenses of the receivership,
was 8.3.2 per cent. upon the capital stock of $500,000.
In addition to those filed to the original report, exceptions
were filed to the supplemental report, objecting to the allowance of interest upon the claims of the creditors, and to the
addition of twenty per cent. to the amount of the indebtedness, for the purpose of providing for the payment of the
expenses of the receivership. All the exceptions to the master's reports were overruled, and a final decree was entered
against the defendants according to its findings; a decree being entered against each stockholder defendant severally for
the-amount computed to be due from him upon the assessment
of the stock ascertained to be standing in his name on the
books of the bank at the date of its suspension, at the rate of
assessment fixed in the report of the master. From this decree Alonzo Richmond, Charles Comstock, Thomas Lord, and
William Henri Adams, administrator de boni8 mno of the
estate of William H. Adams, deceased, severally appealed,
.YP. .Henqry G.X ler for appellant Richmond.
I. The bill, as amended in. October, .1876, was an ordinary
creditor's bill, and under it the court could only reach the
assets of the bank for the benefit of the complainant and the
judgment creditors of the bank who had been permitted by
the court to prosecute as cocomplainants. As the statutory

. OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
M r. Miller's Argument for Appellant Richmond.

liability of the stockholders was not to the bank, but to the
creditors of the bank, and therefore not an asset of the bank,
it could not be enforced in this proceeding, and the bill should
have beroa dismissed at the hearing as to those of the stockholders who were not charged with 'holding the prpperty of
the bank received in exchange for stock Zrcks v. Burn, 38
N. H. 141.; Jacobson v. Allen, 12 Fed. Rep. 454; Story v.
Furman, 25 -N. Y. 214-; Dutcher v. Nlational Bank, 12
Blatchford, 435; Bristol v. &tnford, 12 Blatchford, 341; Pollard v. Bradley, 20 Wall. 520; .Ebrts v. TFoal, 3 Paige,
51'1;1 -Fisk v. Howland, 1 Paige, 20,;- .hown v. Ricketts, 3
Johns. Oh. 553; iWalker v. Devereaux, 4 'Paige, 229; Joy -v.
Wirtz, 1 Wash. 0. 0. 41'[; W'hitney v. 2fayo, 15 Ill. 251;
Harper v. Union .Af'g Co., 100 IIl..225; Stedman v. Eveleth,
6 Met. (Mass.) .114; Knowlton v. Ackley, 8 Oush..(jMass.) 93;
Cray v. Coffin, 9 Gush. (Mass.) 192; Chiaso v. Lord, ,7 N. Y.
1; .Hoardv. Wilcox,.47 Penn. St. 51.
II. As the right to enforce the statutory liability of stockholders by a proceeding in. chancery under the secontd sectionof the act of, July 30,.1876, accrued to complainant and other
creditors of the .bank long after the original bill was fied, it
cou'd not be enforcedt under an amendment of the bill, but
'should have been made the subject -matter of an
original suit.
%7ield v. Barrow,17 How. 130; Pi ich v..Anthony, 10 Allen,
470; -Milner. JXlner, 2 Edwd. Oh. 114; PiAingtonv. Wignall,
2 JMadd. 240, 244; Pritchardv. Draper,1 Russ. & Myln. 191;
.Jfason v. Railrodd Co,, 10 Fed. Rep. 334; Verplank v. -Wer*cantile _rns. Vo., 1 Edwd. Ch. 46; Crabb v. Thomas, 25 Ala.
212; Conroy v. Smith, 11 Geo. 539; Fenno v. Coulter, 14 Ark.
38; Williamrs v. Starke, 2 B. Mon. 196; Platt v. .guire, 5
'Cush. (Mass.) 551; -Ryan v. Talzmade, 1 Johns. Oh. 184;
Belknap v. Stone, 1 Allen, 572; Sanborn v: Sanborn, 7 Gray,
142.
III. The bill as amended was multifarious as charged by
Richmond in his amended answer of July 23, 1883, and for
that reason should have been dismissed. Sexton v. J)avis, 18
I S. C. 24 Am. Dec. 236.

RICHMONID 'v.- IRONS.
Mr. Miller's Argument for Appellant RicAbnond.

Ves. 72; 1Dimmock v. B ixy, 20 Pick 368; Camnbrdge lfater
TWorks v. Somerville Dyeing Co.3 14 Gray, 193; Pope v. Leonard, 115 Mass.. 286; Wiles v. Suydam, 641N. Y. 173.
IV. Nhearly all the claims which the stockholders are by
the final decree required to pay were. as against the stockholders barred by the statute of limitations I long before they
were presented, or any steps taken agaips the stockholders to
enforce their payment, and this neglect to prosecute should be
regarded as conclusive. evidence of an abiadonnent by. thes&
creditors of their causes of action against the stockholders, if
any existed. Carol v. Green, 92 U. S. 506; SugarRivdr Bank
v. Fairbank,49 N. H. 131; Bank of the United States v. Daniel,
12 Pet. 32; Gilfilan v. Union CanaZ Co., 109 TT. S. 401; Allen
v. Link, 5 Lea, 454; Christmasv. .Mitchell, 3 Iredell Eq. 535;
Muiller v. XWclntyre, 6 Pet. 61; _olmes v. Trout, 7 Pet. 171;
Sicard v. .Davis, 6 Pet. 124; Gorman v. Judge, 27 iMich.
138;. Hubell v. TW-arren., 8 Allen, 173; iNeve v. Weslon,
3 Atk. 557; Rogers v. -King, 8 Paige, 209; Berrington v.
Evans, 1 You. & ColL (Ex.) 434; Sterndale v. Hankin.on,
1 Simons, 393.
V. Stockholders can only be required to pay the debts of
the bank as they existed at the time it went into liquidation.
Flec~nerv. Bank of the UniteaSates, 8 Wheat. 338; _Zational
Bank v. Atds Ban , 9 Met. (Mass.) 182; United States v.
Kwox, 102 U. S. 422; Patterson v. _ynde, 106, U. S. 519;
White v. noax, 111 U. S. 784; Parkerv. .3kcomber,18 Pick
505; Parrottv. Co1by, 6 Hun 55, affirmed 71 N. 'Y. 597;
COerrj v. Lamar, 58 Geo. 541; Branch v.
'affl, 61 Geo.
614; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628; Bassett v. -Hotel Co.,
417 Vt. 313.
I The following is § 15 of, the statute of Illinois entitled "Limitations,"
in force when this right of action accrued, and which is still in force:
"Actions on unwritten contracts, express or.implied, or on awards of
arbitration,-or to recover damages -for an injury to property real or personal, or to recover the possession of personal property or damages for the
detention or conversion thereof, and all civil, actions not otherwise provided for, shall be commenced within five years next after the cause. of
action accrued."

OQTOBER TERM, 1886.
I Mr. Fuller's Argument for Appellants.

VI. The court erre4 in directing each stockholder to pay
the amount assessed upon his stock to the receiver appointed
by the court in the proceeding by creditors' bill, lbng before
the stockholders were made parties defendant, and in including in such assessment the cost of the receivership. iSee v.
Bloom, 20 Johns., 669; -Moss v. McCullough, 5 Hill, 131;
Bonafe v. Fowler,.7 Paige, 576 ; Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall.
520; Carol v. Green, 92 U. S. 509.
VII.- The court erred in including in the decree the sum of
$149,686.98 for interest.
VIII. The court erred in overruling the exceptions, and
each of them, to the master's reports, and in rendering a
decree upon the master's supplementary report.
IX. The court erred in-rendering a decree against appellant
Comstobk, as the owner of 150 shares of stock, whereas he was
notAnd.
liable in any view, to exceed "50 shares.
herein also the couirt erred in setting aside transfers
of
stock in favor of creditors who did not attack the same until
years after the statute bf limitations had barred such attack'
-Y. J B. -iurdfor appellants cited the following cases not
cited by Xr. Miller or-by MXr. -Fller.(1) As to the statutory
liability: Burnham v. Welensberg Coal Co., 47 Penn. St.
49;. Brown v. Eastern State Co., 134: Mass. 590; O'Belly v.
Bard, 105 Penn. St. 569; -Farnsworthv. Wood, 91 1N. Y.
308;, Wpight v. Ao Cormaek, 17 Ohio St. 86; _Yational Bank
v. Insurance' Co., 104 U.. S.' 54; Hanson v. J)onkers8ley, 37
Mich. 184; Powell v. NRdred, 39 Mich. 552.
.r. _eville W. Fzuller for appellants:
I. The Circuit Court erred in allowing the amendment of
July 23, 1883, by which it was attempted to turn a creditors'
bill into an original bill for the enforcement of a statutory
stock liability -under the act of June 30, "1876. Batch v.
.Dana,101 U. S. 205; Pattersonv. _ynd, 112 Ill. 196; Terry
v. Anderson, 95 U. F. 628'; Wal er v. Powers, 104 U. S. 245;
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Smith v. Woolfolk, 115
U. S. 143.

RICHIOND v. IRONS.
Argument for Appellees.

II. Tfe court erred in holding that the amended bill of
October 5, 1876, was a supplemental bill, and, as such, sustainable under the act of Congress of June 30, 1876. .Milneyv. J.Alner, 2 Edwd. Ch. 114; Pine'v.Anthony, 10 Allen, 470.
HI. The court erred .in holding thatithe amended bill of
October 5, 1876, was a bill on behalf of the complainant and
all other creditors.
IV. The court erred in holding and proceeding to decree
upon the theory that the statutory stock liability was part-of
the assets of the bank. lI.ons v. i-anufacturers. Bank, 6
Bissell, 301; Godfrey v. Terry, 97 U. S. 171 ; Terry v. Tubmzan, 92 -U. S. 156; Carol v. Green, 92 U. S. 509; .7acobson,v.
Allen, 12 Fed. Rep. 454; Insurance Co. v. Bank, 104 U. S.
54; Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520.
V. The court erred in overruling the defence of the statute
of limitations and in rendering a decree against the stockholders for an amount covering the entire alleged indebted-ne~s of the bank with interest, when as to the largest part
,Aabreof the claims 'were barred by that statute. Quayle v.
Gald, 91 Ill. 378; Hancock v. H~arper,86 Ill. 445; Carol v.
Green., 92 U. S. 509; *If4gh-v.3fcCormaok, 17 Ohio St. 86;
Hewett v. Adarns, 50 Maine, 271; Hawthorne v. Calef, 2
Wall. 10. (2) As to the effect of going into liquidation:
Ailler v. White, 50 N. Y. 137; . lc.fahon,v. -Macy, 51 N. Y.
155; Laidley v. Mline, 8 W. Va. 218; oster v. Crenshaw, 3
Munf. 514; Shields v. Anderon, 3 Leigh, 789; Afc.Dowe7l v.
Goldsmith, 24 Maryland, 214; Trippe v. Huncheon, 82 Ind.
307; Larrabee v. Baldwin, 35 Cal. 155; Hastings v. Drew, 76
K..Y. 9. As to the Statute of Limitations: Abrahams v.
.Afyers, 40 Maryland, 499; Hall v. Cresswell, 12 G. & J. 36;
Perry v. Turner, 55 Missouri, 418; Vmsted v. Buskirke, 17
Ohio St. 113
Mr. D. J Schuyler and Mr. Edward G. .Atason. for appellees cited:
To the poifit that the bill was properly amended to enforce
stock liability and was not multifarious. Ogden v. Thornton,
30 N. J. Eq. 569; Hill v. Filkin, 2 P. _Wms. 6 ; Pollard

.42

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellees.

v. Bailay, 20 Wall. 509; Honer v. Hening,-93 U. S. 228.;
Patterson v. Lynde, 112.]1l.196 -Bahk v. Kennsdy, 11 Wall.
19; Casey v. Calli,-92 U. S. 512; Pennell v. -LamarIts. Co.,
U73 1L 303; -Derriek v. Lamar Is.
Co., '714 Il. 04; Battle v.
7he Mutual Ins. Co., 10 BlatchfQrd, 411; Harper v. Union
.Mfg. Co. 10O0 Ill. 225; foare v. Reynolds, 109 Mass. 473;
Atlas Bank v. -ahant Bank,'23 Pick. 480; Harvey v. Lord,'
10 Fed. Rep. 236; A ri v. Beach, 46 Ill. 311; Planters'Bank
v. 87arp, 6 How. 301; Bronson -. EKizie, 1 How. 316; A cDougald v. Dougherty, 14 Geo. 674; Brinkdr~fv. Brown, 6
Johns. Oh. 139; HalZett v. Davis, 2 Paige, 15;,-Thompson v.
B.own, 4 Johns. Ch. 619; MAforgan v. _Yew York & Albany
Railroad,10 Paige, 290.' That interest runs on debts of the
bank: Brown v. Larnl, 6 Met. 203; Atlas Bank v.1TahantBank,
3 Met. 581 ; ationalBank of the,Commonwealth v. teIchanics
-National Bank, 94 U. S. 437. That the statute of liquidations was not-a bar, and that the voluntary liquidation was a
waiver of thestatute; Border'v. furpy, 78 EL1.81; Clements
v. 3Xoore, 6 Wall. 299; Scovill v. YWaer, 105 U. "S.143;
Philppi v. Philppe, 115 U. S. 151. That the stock transfers were. invalid: Sawyer v. H8oag, 1'1 Wall. 610; First.Yational Bank v. Smith, 65 Ill: 44; W-heelock *v. Zost, 17 IlL
296; Brown v. Adams, 5 Bissell, 181; Bale v. WValker, 31
Iowa, 344; Bowden v. Farmers' B.ank, 1 Hughes, 307; Adderly v. Storm, 6 Hill, 624; NAational Bank v. Case, 99.U.S.
628; Nathan v. Ihitlook, 9 Paige, 152; Bowden v. Santos, 1
Hughes, 158; TVager v. Hal, 16 WaIL 584; Bowden v. Johnso, 107 U. S. 251; Whitney v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655. That
the expenses of the receivership should be assessed upon stockholders: Irons v. .Maanufacturers' Bank, 21 Fed; Rep. 197;
.Morrisonv. Price,23 lFed. Rep. 217. That the stock liability
survives against the estate of a deceased shareholder: New
England Bank v. Stockholders, 6 R. I. 154; 2 Deming v. Bull,
10 Conn. 409; Davis v. Weed, 44 Conn. 569, 581; Boston Glass
MAanufaotory v. Langdon, 24 Pick: 49, 52; 8 Russell v. McLellan, i4 Pick. 63, 69; Hutchins v. &'tate Bank, 12 Met.
(Mass.) 421; C-re@ v. Breed, 10 Met. (Mass.) 569, 5W6.
'S.

. 40 Am. Dec. 244.

2 S. C. 75 Am. Dec. 688.

8 S.

C. 85 Am. Dec. 292.

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr.Janm T.

obert for the bankrupt Holmes.

Ym. JusTmoE M.TTHFEWS, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Spine of the questions raised by the assignments of error
are common to all the appellants, and others are peculiar to
the individual cases. So far as necessary to the disposition of
the case,-they will be considered in their order.
The first assignment of error relates to the pleadings. It is
objected that the court erred in permitting the complainant to
file the amended bill of October 5, 1876, and also in permitting
the amendment made at the hearing on July 23, 1883, and we
are asked to reverse the decree on that account- and on remanding the cause to direct that the amended bill as amended
be dismissed. The grounds of objection to the amendments
as made are: 1st, .that the amended bill stated a case entirely
different from that contained in the original bill; and, 2d; that
it made the bill as amended multifarious. The changes made
in the case as originally stated in the bill are alleged to be:
1st, that it converted a creditor's bill, the object of which was
to subject to the payment of the complainant's judgment assets of the corporation which could not be reached at law,
into a bill for the additional purpose of enforcing the statutory
liability of the stockholders of the bank to answer for its contracts, debts, and engagements; and, 2d, that it converted the
bill filed by the complainant in his own right into a bill on
behalf of himself and all other creditors of the corporatioli.
It is a mistake, however, to assume that the bill as originally
filed was strictly and technically a creditor's bill merely, for
the purpose of subjecting equitable assets to -the payment of
the complainant's judgment. That undoubtedly was a part of
its purpose and prayer, aid in pursuance of it a small amount
of the assets of the bank was recovered by the receiver, converted into money, and applied to the payment of the costs in
the cause, but the whole of this recovery amounted only to
$3346.96, and it was not until after this result became manifest that application was made and leave given to file the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion, of the Court.

amended bill.. But the main purpose of the bill as originally
framed was to obtain a judicial administration of the affairs
of the bank on the ground that its capital stock and property
was a trust fund for the benefit of its creditors, the company
being insolvent and in liquidation, and that under the management of its officers and directors this trust was being violated
and perverted: The bill contained allegations that Holmes,
the president and manager of the bank, had converted its assets to his own use and to the .use of others, in violation of his
trust and in fraud of creditors, applyirig the assets of the bank.
so as to prefer some creditors over others, and otherwise dissipating and squandering them. It accordingly prayed for a
full discovery of all the transactions on the part of Holmes in
reference to the affairs of the bank since its suspension, for an
injunction prohibiting any further transfers of its assets, for the
appointment of a receiver with the general powers of receivers
in like cases, and for general relief.
If this bill had 'beeji prosecuted, as originally framed, to
final decree, and had resulted in the 'recovery of assets of the
.bank applicable to its-purposes, it -would necessarily have been
made to appear during the progress of the suit that there
were other creditors of the bank equally entitled with the
complainant to share in the fruits of the litigation. The relief
that would have been groanted in such circumstances would
have been "by means of a decree distributing the assets
obtained, equally among all the creditors, including the complainant, who, in' respect to such assets, would have been
entitled to no priority, either by -virtue .of having reduced his
claim to judgment or by reason of having first filed' a bill to
enforce the trust. In the case of an insolvent incorporation
thus brought into liquidation, and wound up by. judicial process at the suit of a creditor, whether he sues in his own right,
or on behalf of himself and other creditors, the rule of distribution is the same, and is founded upon the principle of equality in which equity delights; unless a claimant or some other
judgment creditor. had, previously to the filing of the bill,
obtained a lien at law upon some portion of the property distributed, or could establish a superior equity, existing at the

RICHMOND v.- IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

time of the filing of the. bill.' Curran,v. A'rkansaq, 15 How.
304; Wood v. .Dummer,3 Mason, 308; Ogilvie v. .E.ox Ins.
Co., 22 How. 380, 387; Sawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610.
When the amended bill was filed, .the resources of the bank,
discovered and delivered to the receiver, had been exhausted.
The amen-did bill set out the names of all the stockholders,
and all of those claimed to have been stockholders at the date
of the suspension by name, with tho number of shares belonging to each. It charged that certain of them combineq and
confederated with the defendant Holmes for the purpose of
committing a fraud upon the creditors of the bank, by surrendering and transferring their, shares of, stock, receiving in exchange therefr a portion 6f the assets of the bank applicable
to the payment of its debts. ,It accordingly prays, as a pa t
of the relief, that these transactions may be inquired into and
set aside; that the assets of the bank so received by any of
these stockholders may be decreed" to be delivered up and
applied to the payment of the debts of the bank; and that,
in addition thereto; an account be taken of all the present indebtedness of the bank and of the amomits due from each of
the defendants "to your orator and the judgment and other
creditors of the said bank as stockholders thereof, upon the
basis of the number of shares of stock held by them at the
time the 'said bank suspended payment in the manner as aforesaid, in pursuance of the provisions of the act under which the
said bank was organized, and by which the liability of 'the
stockholders thereof is fixed and determined."
In some respects it is quite true that this amended bill is a
departure from the case as stated in the original bill. It was,
however, germane to the original bill to have included in it
the statements of the amended bill in respect to such of the
stockholders as were charged by.name with having, in combination with the president of .the company, sold their stock,
receiving assets of the bank in payment therefor after it had
gone into liquidation, or in contemplation of insolvency, and
in fraud of the creditors. Assets.of the bank received by any
of them in such circumstances were such as were clearly
within the purview of the bill -as originally framed, and those

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

allegations werd certainly the subject of a proper amendment.
Rlaving thus brought in a,number of the stockholders properly
as defendants, to subject them to a decree to-account for assets
of the bank received by them in breach of trust and in fraud
of creditors, it does not seem inappropriate or foreign to the
general purposes of the bill for the court, also having jurisdiction over them in behalf of the complainant, who, as we have
seen, necessarily represented all creditors entitled to share in
the results of the suit, to proceed also upon the basis of granting the additional and complete relief prayed against them as
stockholders, requiring them to answer under the statute for
all the contracts, debts, and engagements of the bank. But to
do this made it necessary to bring in also all other stockholders
of the bank within the reach of the process of the court,
although they may not have been charged as participating in
the alleged breaches of trust and frauds. The various matters,
therefore, contained in the amended bill and the original bill
were thus.counected with each other in such a way as fairly.
to bring the question of granting leave to file the amended
bill within thae discretion of the court below. In reviewing
the exercise of that discretion on this appeal, we should not
feel -justified in any case in revrsing the action of the Circuit
Court, if it appeared that the appellants were not put to any
serious disadvantage or materially prejudiced thereby. The
amendment made at the hearing, whereby the amended bill
was changed so as to state that it was filed by the complainant on behalf of himself and all other creditors, we regard as
purely formal and properly permitted for the purpose of making the bili explicitly to conform to all that had taken place
previously in the progress of the cause. The litigation had
.Jn conducted, from the time of the filing of the first
amended bill, upon the supposition and theory that it included
in its'scope all creditor- of the bank alike. The defendants,
"therefore, could not have been takeh by surprise by the amendment, and would not be deprived of the benefit of any defence
or put to any disadvantage on account thereof.
The action, of. the Circuit Court in permitting these amendments we think is justified by the rules on that subject as

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

stated by this court in the case of .iea7ev. Yeales, 9 Wall. 1 ;
in The T "emolo Patent,23 Wall.' 518; and Hardinv. Boy,

113 U. S. 756, 761. In the last mentioned case it was said(p. 761): "In reference to amendments' of equity pleadings
the courts have found it impracticable to lay down a rule that
would govern all cases. Their allowance must, at every stage
of the cause, rest in the discretion of the court; and that
discretion must depend largely on the special circumstances
of each case. It may be said, generally, that, in passing upon
applications to amend, the ends of justice should never be
sacrificed to mere form, or by too rigid an adherence to technical rules of practice. Undoubtedly great caution should be
exercised when the application comes after the litigation has.
continued for some time, or when the granting of it would
cause serious inconvenience or expenseto the opposite side.
And an amendment should rarely, if ever, be permitted where
it would materially change the very substance of the case
made by the bill, and to which'the parties have directed their
proofs."
By the original national banking act, § 515.1 Rev. Stat., it
was declared that "the shareholders of every national banking
association shall be held individually responsible, equally and
ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts, debts, and
engagements of such association, to the extent of the amount
of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to
the affiount invested in such shares." By § 5220, it was also
provided that "Any association may go into liquidation and
be closed by the vote of its sharehold3rs owning two-thirds
of its stock." But no provision is contained in the orginal
act specifying what course may or shall be taken, in case of
voluntary liquidation, to enforce the individual, liability of the
shareholders. It is provided by § 5234 that when the Comptroller of the Currency has become satisfied of the default of
the association under § 5226 and 5227 to redeem any of its
circulating notes, he may forthwith appoint a receiver, who,
under his direction, shall take possession of the books, records,
and assets of the association, collect all debts, dues, and claims
belonging to it, "and may, if necessary to pay the debts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders. Such receiver shall pay over all money so made to
the Treasurer of the United States, subject to the order of the
.Comptroller, and also make report to the Comptroller of all
his acts and proceedings."
It thus appears that in the case of an involuntary liquidation under this section, the business of liquidation, as defined
and required by the law, involved the appointment of the
receiver, who should, in addition to the collection of the
ordinary assets of the bank, also enforce against the stockholders their individual liability, so far as necessary to create
a fund sufficient to pay all the debts of the association. It
can hardly be supposed that the omissiok in the sthtute to
provide an express and specific course of proceeding, by way
of judicial remedy, in case of voluntary liquidation, left the
creditors of such an association in such circumstances without
remedy against either a deficiency of assets or the results of a
fraudulent maladministration. Section 5151 imposes upon
the shareholders of every national banking association an individual responsibility for all its contracts, debts, and engagements, and the terms in which the obligation is created are
unconditional and unqualified, except that the liability shall
be equal and ratable as among the shareholders.
As all the shareholders are bound in that way to all the
creditors, any proceeding to enforce this liability must be such
as from its nature would enable the court to ascertain for
what the stockholders ought to be made liable, to whom, and
in what proportion as respects each other. This can only be
done by the methods and machinery of a court of equity.
Besides this, it must, we think, be admitted that a court of
equity would be entitled, upon the general principles of its
jurisdiction, to entertain a bill by one or more creditbrs whose
suit would necessarily be for the benefit of all, against the
association and its officers and managers, and all those participating in its voluntary liquidation, for the purpose of preventing and redressing any maladministration or fraud against
creditors, contemplated or executed. In the liquidation of
such an association, those entrusted with its management

RICHHOND v. IRONS.
Opinion of the 'Court.

occupy the relation of trustees, first for creditors, and the
terms of that trust, implied by law, require them to reduce
the assets of the association to money or its equivalent, and
,ot.pay out those assets or -their proceeds equally among creditors.
The omission in the original banking act of 1861 to provide
expressly similar remedies in case .of voluntary liquidation to
those specified in case of involuntary liquidation was supplied
by the act of June 30, 187k, 19 Stat. 63; Suppleme- t to Rev.
Stat. 216. The first section of that act provides for the .appoint6ent of a receiver by the Comptroller of the Currency,
as provid"
d in §-534 of the Revised Statutesi whenever any
national bank shall be dissolved and its chaAer fofeited as
prescribed in § 5239 of the Revised Statutes, or whenever any
creditor shall have obtained & judgment against it which has
remained unpaid for the space of thirty days, or whenever
the Cbmptroller shall become satisfied of its insolvency after
due examination. This receiver, it is declared, shall proceed
to close up such association nd enforce the personal liability
of the shareholders. Section 2 of the act of June 30, 1876,
is as follows : "That when -any national banking association
shall have gone into liquidation, under the provisions of section
five thousand two "hundred and twenty of said statutes, the
individual liability of the shareholders, provided for by section
fifty-one hundred and fifty-one of said statutes, may be enforced by any creditor of such association by bill in equity,
in Ue nature of & creditor's bill, brought by such creditor' on
behalf of himself and of all other creditors of the association,
against the shareholders 'thereof, in any cout of the United
States having original jurisdiction in equity for the district in
which such "associationmay have been located or established."
This getion was in force when the first amended bill 'gas filed
in October, 1816. Whether we regard it as merely declaratory
of the law as it stood under the original banking act, or as
giving a new remedy which could not have been resorted to
before, we think it warranted the court below in permitting
the complainant to file his first amended bill.
In the case of involuntary lituidation under the supervision
VOL. cxxi-4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 188M.
Opinion of the CouM

of the Comptroller of the Currency, the rebeivet iappointed
by him is authorized and i:equired, not only. tocolejf,.and
apply the proper assets of the bank to the payment of its
debts, but also, so far as may be necessary, to' enforce the
individual liability of the shareholders. It thus appears that
the enforcement of tlfis liability is a part of the liquidation'
of theaffairs of the bank; at least, so closely connected with
it as to constitute but one, continuous transaction. When, in'
the case of voluntary liquidation, the proceeding is instituted
by one or more creditors for the benefit of all,by means of
the jurisdiction of a court of equity, there seems to be no
reason why the nature of the proceeding should be considered"
as changed. The intention of Congress, evidently was to
provide ample and effective remddies in all the specified'cases
for the protection of the public and the payment of creditors,
by the application of the assets of the bank and the enforcement of the liability of the stockholders. Admitting that this
liability is not strictly an asset of the bank, because it could
not -be enforced for its benefit as a corporation nor in its name,
yet it is treated as a means of creating a fund to be applied
with and in aid of the assets of the bank towards the satisfaction of its obligations. The two -subjects of applying the
assets of the bank and enforcing the liability of the .stock
holders, however otherwise distinct, are by the statute made
connected parts of the whole series of transactions which constitute the liquidation of the affairs of the bank. . It was,
therefore, proper to describe the bill to be fied by and o1n
behalf of creditors as in the nature of a creditors' bill so as to
enlarge the scope and purpose of a bill that might be more
strictly limited as a creditors' bill merely.
We think, therefore, that if such a bill would have been
objectionable without the statute, it is warranted by the
statute. It is no objection that the original bill was filed
prior to the passage of the act of June 30, 1876. The bill
as amended, being authorized by the statute in force at -the
time the amendment was filed, would justify such a proceeding in a penhding suit to which it was made germane by the
statute itself, as well as an original bill then for -the first time,

RICH0

ND u. IRONS.

51

Opinion of the Court.

filed., 'Neither do we consider the objection valid that it does,
not purport to have been filed in pursuance of the act of June
30, 1876, and is not filed by 'the complainant on behalf of all
the creditors. The scope and prayer of the bill under the
operation of the statute made it a bill for the benefit of all
the creditors, notwithstanding it erroneously claimed priority
on behpif of the complainant individually. The only proper
decree' that could have been rendered upon it Nw.uld. have
been for the equal distribution of the fruits of the litigation
among all the creditors of,the bank who in the meantime had
come in and proved their claims. The final amendment, as
we have alrekdy seen, only had the effect to make the bill
conform to the course of the proceeding which had actually
been hdd under it, and w#as, therefore, ]iurely formal. Its
only effect was to make the bill profess to be what in law it
was, and what in point of fact it had been considered to be.
11r. Daniell, Chancery Practice, c. 5, § 1, p. 245,4th ed. says:
"The court will generally a~t the hearing allow a bill, which
has originally been filed by one individualI of a numerous
class in his own right, to be amended so as to make such individual sue on behalf of himself and the rest of the class."
Our conclusion on this point is, that the court below committed no error in permitting the amendments complained' of
to be made..
The assignment of error next to be considered arises upon
the defence made on behali of the defendants below, of the
statute of limitations. The limitation relied upon is that prescribed by an act of Illinois, which provides that "actions
on unwritten contracts, express or implied, or on awards of
arbitration, or to recover damages for an injury to property,
real or personal, or to recover thb possession of personal
property, or damages for the detention or conversion thereof,
and all civil actions not otherwise provided for, shall be com
menced within five years next after the cause of action
accrued.' ?ub. Laws Ill. 1871-2, 559, § 15; Hurd's Rev.
Stat. ]Il. 1881, 705.
It is not necessary to decide in this case whether the statute
of Illinois, relied upon, is applicable, because in the view which

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

we have already taken of the nature of the amended bill filed
in October, 1876, the statute, if applicable, ceased to run
against the creditors of the bank entitled to the benefit of the
dee'iee, at that date. That amended bill is to be considered
from the'date of its filing, as a bill on behalf of all the creditors of the bank who should come iii under it and prove their
claims. When any creditor appeared during the progress
of the cause to set up and establish his claim, it was necessary
for him to prove that at the time of filing the bill he was a
creditor of the bank; any defence which existed at that time
- to his claim, either'to diminish or defeat it, might be interposed
either before the master or on the hearing to the court. The
creditor, having established his claim, became entitled to the
benefit of the proceeding as virtually a party complainant from
the filing.
the beginning, and the time that had elapsed from
of the bill to' the proof of his claim would not be counted asa part of the time relied on to bar the creditor's right to sue
the stockholders. In other words, if he proves himself to be
a creditor with a valid claim against the bank, he becomes
a complainant by relation to the time of the filing of the bill.
This being so, it is not disputed that in October, 1876, the bar
of the statute had not takeni effect, even on the supposition
that the statute applied.
In the case of In Be General Bolling Stocc CoMnpany,
Joint Stoc7 Discount Company's Claim, L. R. 7 Oh. 646,.
iMellish, L. J., stated that in a case where the assets of a
debtor are to be divided amongst his creditors, .whether in
bankruptcy or in insolvency, or under a trust for creditors,
or under a decree of the court of chancery in an administration suit, "the rule is that everybody whd had a subsisting
claim at the time of the adjudication, the insolvency, the
creation of the- trust for creditors, or the administration
decree, as the case may be, is entitled to participate in the
assets, and that the Statute of "Limitations does not run
against this claim, but as long as assets remain undministered
he is at liberty to come in and prove his claim, not disturbing
\any former dividend."
Mr. Daniell, 1 Chancery P.ractice, c. 15, par. 2, p. 643,

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

4th ed., states that "a decree for the payment of debts
under a creditor's bill for the administration of assets is
also considered as a trust for the benefit of creditors, and
will in like manner prevent the statute from barring the
demand of any creditor coming in uider the decree; the
creditor's. demand, however, must not have been barred at
the time when the suit was instituted: for if the creditor's
demand would have been barred by the statute before ,the
commencement of the- bill the statute may be set up. It
is to be remarked upon this point, that it has been held that
it was the decree only which created the trust; and that
the mere circmnstance of the bill having been filed, although
it might have been pending six years, would not take the
case out of the statute; but, according to the later decisions,.
it -seems that the filing of the bill will operate by itself
to save the bar of the statute, though the plaintiff by delay
in prosecuting the suit may disentitle himself to relief."
lie also says, c. 29, par. 1, p. 1210: "It may be observed
here that where a person, not a party to the suit, carries in
a claim before the master under the decree, the party
representing the estate out of which the claim is made has
a right to the benefit of any defence which he could have
made if a bill had been filed by the claimant in equity or an
action had been brought at law -to establish such claim.
Therefore, as we have seen, an executor may in the master's
office set up the Statute of Limitations as a bar to a claim
by a creditor under the decree, provided such claim -was
within the operation of the statute before the decree was
pronounced."
The authorities abundantly sustain the proposition also
that a creditor Who comes in under and takes the benefit
of a decree is entitled to contest the validity of the claim
of any other creditor, except that of. the plaintiff whose
claim is the foundation of the decree. 2 Daniell Oh. Pr. c.
29, § 1, p. 1210, n. " and cases cited.
TI Sterndale v. Hankinson, 1 Simons, 393, decided in 1827,
it was!;stat.ed by Vice Chancellor Leach, that "every creditor
has to a ctrtain extent an inchoate interest in a suit instituted

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
'Opinion of the Court.

by one on behalf of himself and the rest, and it would be
attended.with mischievous consequences to estates of deceased
debtors if the court were to lay down a rule by which every
creditor would be obliged either to file his bill or bring,his
action."
It is supposed by counsel for the appellants that the
authority of this case is shaken by what' was said by J;essel,
XM. R., in his decision of In Re Greaves, deceased; Bray
v. Tofield, L. R. 18 Ch. Div. 551.. It is true that in this
case the Master of the Rolls said that creditors had btter'
not rely upon that decision for the future, but he. points out
as the reason that at the time he was speaking-in 1881'bills in equity had been abolished in England,* and that
wherever it is. an action to recover a debt upbn a contract
the statute of James was binding upon the High Court in
every case in which it applies, and that it was no longer the
practice, so far as- personal estate was concerned, to 'bring
an action by one creditor on behalf of others, because of a
provision in the act of 1852, since the passing of which the
,practice had been abandoned, of suing by one creditor on
behalf of all, except in cases relating to real estate, as to which
the section of the statute does not apply, unless it has been
ordered -to be sold or there is a trust or power of sale, and
'that, therefore, there were no longer any suits brought by
any creditor, except for the payment of his own debt. In
,the present case, the suit, although in the nature of a
I editor's bill, is not a bill merely, for the administration
tf the assets of an insolvent corporation. There is no fund
formerly belonging to the corporation in court for distribution.
It is a suit for the enforcement of a personal liability of
the defendant stockholders to pay the debts of the corporation, in which the creditors are the complainants. Each
creditor becomes a party to the suit, it is true, only when he
appears to prove his claim. His right to proceed depends
upon the fact of his being the owner of a valid claim against
the corporation; but if he proves such a claim, then he does
prove himself to be a creditor, and as such is entitled to
come in under the decree, and has a right to be considered

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
OpLaiop of the ,Court

as a party complainant from the beginning by relation to
the time of filing the bill. The beginning, of the suit as
between the creditor and the stockholder is the date of the
filing of the bill, if during its progress and pendency he
proves his right to be considered as a cocomplainant. It
follows, therefore, that the statute sought to be applied in
.the present case ceased to run as against the complainants
from the date when the bill was filed, in October, 1876,
under which they subsequently established their right to
come in as participants in the benefits of the decree.
Whether or not the Statute of Limitations of Illinois would
in any case op3rate to bar such'a suit as the present being
a bill in quity in the Circuit Court of the United States,
founded upon an obligation arising under an act of Congress,.
is a question which we are, therefore, not called upon to
consider or decide.
Another assignment of error is peculiar to the appeal of the
administrator de bonis no& of William L Adams, deceased.
William H. Adams in his lifetime was one of the defendants
in the amended bill of 1876, and at the time of the suspension
of .the bank a stockholder to the extent of 240 shares. He
died June 6, 1882, during the pendency of the suit, which
stands revived as against his administrator d boni8 non. The
administrator contended that the personal liability of his
intestate did not survive as against the administrator, and
that, therefore, no decree could .be rendered against him subjedting the estate of Adams in his hands for administr,.tion.
Thd judicial decisions more directly relied upon by the appellant in support of this contention are those of D)ane v. Dane*
.Aanufacturing Co., 14 Gray, 488; Bacon v. Pomeroy, 104
Mass. 577; R2pley v.
pmpeon, 10 Pick. 371; Bangs v.
Lincol*, 10 Gray, 600; Gray v. Coffln, 9 Cush.- (Mass.) 192.
These cases, however, so far as they are. in point, are based
upon the particular language of the statutes of Massachusetts,
materially differing from that contained in the national banking act. Under that act the individual liability of the stockholders is an essential element in the contract by which the
stockholders became members of the corporation. It is volun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tarily entered into by subscribing f6r and accepting shares of
stock. Its obligation becomes a part of every contract, debt,,
and engagement of the bank itself, as much so as if they were
made directly by the stockholder instea.d of by the corporation.. There is nothing in the statute to indicate that the
obligation arisihg upon these unde'rtakings and promises
should not have the same force and effecI, and be as binding
in all respects, as any other contracts of the individual stockholder. We hold, therefore, that the obligation of the stockholder survives as against his personal representatives * Flash
v. Conn., 109 U. S. 371 ; _Mobart v. Johnson, 19 Blatchford,
359. In Massachusetts, it was held, in Grew v. Breed, 10
Met. 569, that administrators of deceased stockholders were
chargeable in equity, as for other debts of their intestate, in
their representative capacity.
I The next assignment of error to be considered arises bapdn
the separate appeal of Charles Comstock, who is charged, by
the decree with an assessment upon 150 shares of the*capital
stock of the bank standing in his name as owner at the time
of its suspension. In his answer, which is under oath as
called for, Comstock "admits that at thetime of the said suspension he was the owner and holder of certain shares of capi-.
tal stock thereof; that previous to - about in the year 1872
-he
was the owner of one hundred and, fifty 'shares of said
stock; that on or about the 8th day of February, 1873, this
defendant sold, assigned, and delivered fifty shares of the said
stod.k to Ira Holmes, and on or about June, 1873, this defendant sold, assigned, and delivered fifty other shares of daid
stock to Preston 0. Maynard; that he endeavored repeatedly
to have said stock transferred on the books of the bank, but
that said Maynard ref-dsed to allow said stock-so transferred, although he had before promised to have the same
traiisferred. That at the time of the said several sales of
stock as aforesaid, the said banking association was .carrying
on its regular business of banking, and was in fact solvent and
fully able to pay its debts, and, as he is informed and believes,
not indebted to any of the present creditors of said bank.
That afterwards, on o,' about the 23d day of September, 1873,

RICHMONiD v. IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

-

this defendant sold assigned, and delivered tok the said Ira
H6lmes his other fifty shares of stock in said bank, with other
property, receiving in payment therefor, and for the other
property sold to said Holmes at the same time, certain promissqry notes of one Win. Patrick, payable to the said Ira
Holmes, and was secured with certain other notes by mortgage from said Win. Patrick to said -Ira Holmes, which -said
notes and mortgage have proven to be of little value to this
defendant, and: in consequence of the inzcumbrances and taxes
upon said Iiroperty, and the expense of foreclosing, and how
much of the value of said notes and security should be attributable to the consideration of this sale of said stock, this defendant is unable to state; but he insists that at the time of
-said sale to said Holmes this defendant was informed and belieVed said bank was able to pay all its debts in full, and the
consideration received by him was paid by said Holmes out
of his individual property, and not from the assets or property
of said bank."
The stock books introduced on the part of the complainant
show that fifty shares of this stock were transferred September 23, 1873; fifty more on September 24, 1873, and fifty
more were cancelled on the last date; and the testimony of
Holmes is that, as to the last fifty shares, they must have been
transferred at the same time. The transfers in each case were
to Ira Hohnes. It is found by -the decree of July 23, 1883,
that the bank became insolvent and suspended payment
September 23, 1873, and went into voluntary liquidation on
September 26, 1873. The resolutions of the shareholders
of the bank, instructing the directors "to put the bank into
voluntary liquidation, were .passed at a meeting held ohf
September 25, 1873. One of the resolutions is as follows:
"That this bank, in its endeavors to continue business thlough.
the existing panic, has substantially exhausted its cash resources and is unable to continue cash payments, and that
we regard it for the best interests of the stockholders and
depositors alike that its affairs be placed in voluntary liquidation in accordance with the 42d section of the national currency act in that behalf provided." The directors, at a meet-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

ing" heldt on the same day, resolved to go into voluntary
'liquidation and close up the affairs of the bank in pursuance
of this resolution. The notice to the public, addressed to the
creditors of the bank, was issued and advertised the next day.
As to the fifty shares of -stock sold by Comstock to Holmes on
September 23, 1873,, we think the'conclusion cannot be resisted'that the transaction was made in contemplation of the
insolvency of the bank, and; although both parties may have
believed that the bank would ultimately be able to pay all of
its debts, notwithstanding this transaction, we think that, as
against creditors, it was fraudulent in law, and to that extent
Comstock is chargeable as a shareholder. The sale of fifty
shares in February, 1873, and of the other fifty shares in June,
1873, there is no reason to suppose were not made-in entire
good faith, and without any expectation on the .part of the
parties of the insolvency of the bank. Notwithstanding that,
Comstock continued to be upon the books of the bank the
owner of these shares until September 23 and September 24:,
when they were respectively transferred.
By§ 5139 of the Revised Statutes, those persons only have
the rights and liabilities bf stockholders who appear to be such
as are registered on the books of the association, the stock
-bcing transferable only in that way. No person becomes a
shareholder, subject to such liabilities and succeeding to such
rights, except by such transfer; until such transfer the prior
holder is the stockholder for all the purposes of the law. It
follows, therefore, that Chai'les Comstock, in respect to th.
shares sold by him in February and June, 1873, was the statutory owner on the 23d day of September, 1873. His liability .as such stockholder is the same as if he had that day sold
and transferred the stock to Ira Holmes, but such a-sale and
transfer could only have been made that day by Comstock,
who was himself a director, in contemplation and hctual
knowledge of the suspension of the bank; it would operate
as a fraud on the creditors, an effect which the law will not
permit. The case is not within'the rule laid dovn in W7iney
v. B-itler, 118 U. S. 655. Here there is o proof, as there was
in that case, of the delivery of the certificates to the bank

I RIC

OND v. IRONS.

Opinion of the Court.

and a power of attorney authoiizing its transfer, with a request to do so made at the time of the transaction. The delivery was to Holmes, not as president, but as vendee. We-"
are, therefore, constrained to hold that the decree below, in
charging Comstock with liability as the owner of 150 shares,
was not erroneous.
The next assignment of error is based upon that part of
the decree-which directs payment of the claims reported by,
the master under the denomination of Class D, amounting in
They are designated by the
the aggregate to $185,119.34.
master as claims "arising before the failure of the bank,upon
which worthless collaterals were 'subsequently received." It
is averred by the appellees that they are claims arising for the,
most part, if not in all instances, upon endorsements and
guarantees made in the name of the bank by Holmes, its
president, after the suspension of the bank, and while it was
in liquidation. It appears clearly from the evidence that, in'
many cases, parties having claims against the bank accepted
from Holmes commercial paper held by the bank which it had
received in the course of its business, and which constituted a
part of its assets, running some of -itseveral months an(d some
of it several years, bearing interest, some at the rate of eight
and some at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, endorsed
and guaranteed in the name of the bank by Holmes as president. The books of the bank show that in these cases the
paper so received was charged against the account of the
party receiving it, thus closing the account as settled. In
these cases, it is testified by Holmes that the creditors gave
their: checks to the bank for the amount standing to their
credit. In some cases, the creditors or their agents testifying
to.the transactions, without contradicting Holmes in respect to
what waa in fact done, nevertheless state that the paper ac&eptea..by tqhem was received, not in payment, but as security.
It is obvious, however, that in most, if not all instances, tme
witnesses are referring to the security which they supposed
they bad received and were entitled to rely upon, by means of
the endorsement and guarantee of the paper thus received,
made by Holmes as president in the name of the bank. They

60

OCTOBER- TERM, 1886.
Opinirn of the

Court.

certainly acted upon this belief, for iii many instances Ithey'
proceeded to obtain judgments against the bank, after the
maturity and dishonor of the paper so received, upon these
endorsements and guaraniees, and, in this proceeding proved
their .claims in that form by transcripts of such judgments.
It is true that, in the final decree, the master was directed to
correct his computation of interest so as to equalize the claims
of the creditors by allowing interest at a uniform rate from
the time of the suspension upon the amounts as they appeared
to be due*from the books of the bank, but all the .1aims in
Class D, notwithstanding the settlements made, were included
in the amounts found due and ordered to be paid. In this
respect we are of. the opinion that the decree is erroneous.
Those creditors who made settlements after the bank was put.
into liquidation and received from the president in that settlement paper of the bank, or as in some cases the individual
notes of Holmes himself, endorsed or guaranteed in the name
of the bank, are not to be considered as creditors of the bank
entitled to subject the stockholders to individual liability.
The individual liability of the stockholders, as imposed by
and expressed in! the statute, is indeed for all the contracts,
debts, and engagements of such association, but that must be
restricted in its meaning to such contracts, debts, and engagements as have been duly contracted in the ordinary course of
its business. That bitsiness ceased when the bank went into
liquidation; after that there was no authority on the part of
the officers of the bank to transact any business in the name
of the bank so as to bind its shareholders, except that which
is implied in the duty of liquidation, unless such authority had
been expressly conferred by the shareholders,. No such express authority appears in this case, and the pbwer of the
president or other officer of the bank to bind it by transactions after it was put into liquidation is that which results by
implication from the duty to wind up and close its affairs.
That duty consists in the collection and reduction to money
of the -assets of the bank, and the payment of creditors
equally und ratably so far as the assets prove sufficient.. Payments, of course, may be made in the bills receivable and

RICH31OND v., IRONS.

bDinion of the Court.
other assets of 'the bank in specie, and the title to such paper
may be transferred by the president or cashier by an endorse-.
ment suitable to the plarpose in the name of thb bank, but
such endorsement and use of the name of the bank is in liquidation and merely for the purpose of' transferring title. .It
can have no other effect as against the shareholders by cr6ating a new obligation. It does not constitute a liability, contract, or engagement of the bank for which they can be held
to be individually responsible. Every creditor of the bank,,
receiving'its assets nnder such circumstances, knows the fact
of liquidation, and is chargeable )vith knowledge of its consequences; he takes the assets received at his own peril; he is
dealing with officers of the bank, only for the purpose of
winding up its affairs. If he accepts something in. lieu of an
existing obligation looking to future payment it must be from
other parties. It is not within the power of the officers of
the bank, without express'authority, by such means to prolong
indefinitely an obligation on the part of the shareholders,
which is imposed by the statute only as a means of securing
the payment of debts by an insolvent bank when it is no
'longer able to continue business, and for the purpose of effectually winding up its affairs. This is the very meaning of the
word "liquidation."
r Justice Story said, in Fleckener v.
Bank of the United States, 8 Wheat. 338, 362: "Its ordinary
sense, as given by lexicographers, is to clear away,. to. lessen
debt, and, in common parlance, especially among merchants,
to liquidate the balance is to pay it." In WFite v. JCnox, 111
IT. S. 78-1, 787, it was said: "The business of the bank must
stop when insolvency is declared." In .ational Bank v. nsurance Co., 101 U. S. 54, the liquidation of such an atsociation was said to be like that which follows the dissolution of
a copartnership.
In this view, it is contended, on behalf of the creditors interested, that, as they relied upon the continuing liability of the
bank and of its shareholders, by virtue of these endorsements
and guarantees, if they are deprived of the benefit of the
latter, the settlements themselves should be set aside, -and
they, the creditors, restored to the situation in which they.

62

:OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Couft.

were at the time of the suspension of the bank. But this is
6learly inadmissible; such a restoration cannot in fact b6
made. The circumstances of the situation have greatly
changed' by the lpse' of time. The creditors who entered
into these settlements have no ground of complaint against
-the bank as a corporation or as against its stockholders; they
were not misled, to their hurt by any fraudulent misrepresentations or concealments of any matters of fact. Whatever
mistake was made was their own, and it was a mistake consisting merely in a misapprehension of their legal rights.
They were bound to know, as well as Holmes, the limits of
his, authority, and ought to have acted on the presumption
that he had no right to bind the bank or its shareholders in
fut "ro by any new engagement. If they chose, in their
eagerness to obtain a settlement in advance of other 6reditors
equally'entitled, to accept a part of the assets of the bank or
the personal obligation of its president in settlement of their
claims, they must abide by the election which was then made,
and Which cannot- now be set aside. They made their settlements in view of their own estimate of the present advantage;
tley cannot now undo them to the disadvantage of other
creditors, over whom they sought to obtain preferences, nor
to, the prejudice of the stockholders, who have a right to be
exonerated from the payment of all contracts, debts, and
engagements of the bank contracte, ince the date of its
suspension.
In respect to these claims in Class D, Ira Holmes, the president, testified as follows:
"Q. In each case where you settled with the creditor of
the bank' and turned him. out bils receivable of the bank, how
was that settlement-was it a payment, or what was the
tra nsaction? A. It was a full payment of the demand. He
gave me his check on the bank for the amount, the same as if
we Were doing a regular business and the parties should come
in and buy so much bills receivable and give me a check on
another bank.
"Q. Was there any case in which there was any other understanding than that he took these bills receivable in payment
ot his demand ag ainst the bank? A. lNot any."'

RIC MOXD. v. IRONS.

G

Opinion of the Court.

On his cross-examination he is asked:
"Q. If creditors agree to take paper in full payment, why
would the bank guarantee it? A. I didn't say they agreed to
take it in full; a great many people took the paper without
guarantee, and others would not take it unless they had a guarantee; only when it got down to the last settlement, and they
would not take it unless. the bank would guarantee it."
-The force ,of this testimony is, we think, that the party
accepted the paper, with or without the guarantee, in settlement of the claim as it stood on the books of the bank on the
day of the suspension. Those who insisted upon the guarantee or endorsement by the bank undoubtedly relied upon it as
an obligation which they might thereafter enforce, but their
reliance was upon that oontract and not upon the originil
.claim. It does not detract from thQ binding nature of the settlement that this guarantee was given and received and relied
upon. The only mistake now asserted as a ground for going
behind the settlement is, that the guarantee or endorsement is
not effective as an obligation of the banik for which the stockholders are individually responsible. But this is not a mistake
as to what the parties intended to,do; it is only a mistake as
to the effect of what they did. As the bank was in liquidation, and the officers were not authorized to enter into new.
contracts, the lresumption is, in every case where the creditor
accepted paper in settlement of his claim, that it was received in payment and *operated as a satisfaction. If there
was any other agreement by which that paper was' received
merely as collateral to the original debt and received as
security and not in payment, it must be affirmatively shown.
We have carefully examined all the evidence contained in
the record in respect to each of the claims embrabed in Class
D of the master's report. We are not able to find as to any
one claim, that it is an exception from the general rule as to.
settlements established by the testhnony of Holmes. In several instances, it is true that the witnesses with whom the
settlements were made alleged that the notes with the endorsements or guarantees were not taken in payment and satisfaction, but as additional security for their claims; and that the

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

transactions were made upon the faith that the remedy against
the bank'and against its stockholders was not thereby impaired. But it is quite evident, we think, that in each"of these
cases the reliance was not upon the liability arising upon the
claim as it stood prior to the settlement, but upon the endorsement or guaranty of the bank, and the belief that the liability
of the stockholders remained unaffected by the transaction.
*The facts in each case are, that the claim as it stood upon the
books of the bank wa. settled between the parties by the
creditor accepting bills receivable out of the assets of the bank,
or the individual note of its president endorsed., or guaranteed
in the name of the bank; supposing that, in the event of
default in payment by the other parties to the paper, the obligation of the bank.itself was preserved by the endorsement or
guaranty, and that for that contract the .stockholders continued to be liable. Upon this view of the facts, the stockholders
are by law exonerated from the obligation to contribute to
the payment of any claims of this class. All those enumerated
in Class D in the master's report, therefore, should have been
excluded from the benefits of the decree.
Three other questions raised upon the record remain to be
disposed of. The first is whether interest upon the debts of
the bank should be allowed as against the stockholders from
the date of the suspension. As the liability of the shareholder
is for the contracts, debts, and engagements of the bank, we.
see no reason to deny to the creditor as against the shareholde,r the same right to recover interest which, according to
the nature of the contract or debt, would exist as against the
bank itself; of course, not in excess of the maximum liability
as fixed by the statute. In the case of book accounts in favor
of depositors, which was the nature of th e claims in this case,
'interest would begin to accrue as against the bank from the
date of its suspension. The act of going into liquidation dispenses with the necessity of any demand on the part of the
creditors, and it follows that interest should be computed upon
the amounts then due as against the shareholders to the time
of payment.
The next question arises upon the objection of the appellants

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Opinion of the Court.

to the allowance made by the decree of twenty per cent. of
the amount of the debts of the bank due at the date of the
suspension, in addition thereto, to cover the expenses of the
receivership. This sum,. we think, ought not to have been
anowed. The ordinary costs of the cause are, Of course, taxable as against the defendants as in other cases, but we see no
reason why the stockholders, should be required to contribute,
as a debt due from the bank or themselves, to a fund for the
-payment of the expenses of the receivership. The receiver-in
this case was appointed under the original bill, before any
claim was-set-up on behalf of thp complainant and the other
creditors against the stockholders upon their individual liability.
The purpose for which the receiver was appointed was to col
lect the proper assets of the bank and reduce them to money,
so that they might' be applied to the payment of its creditors.
This office he performed, and the fund so realized may be and
was properly charged with the expenses of its collection, but
the receiver was not necessary to the enforcement of the liability of the stockholders in this suit. That liability *as in
progress of enforcement by the creditors themselves. Nothing
was necessary to that end except the ordinary procedure by
means of a master to ascertain what amount of debts was due,
to what creditors, with the names of the stockholders who
were such on the books of the bank at the date of its suspension, and the number of shares held by each. The case differs
in this respect from that of an involuntary liquidation under
the supervision of the Comptroller of the Currency. The receiver appointed by him is the only person authorized to enforce the liability of the stockholders, as well as to collect and
distribute the assets of the bank; everything to be done must.
be done by and through him, and in his name; he is the only
person charged with all the active duties and responsibilities.
of the liquidation of the bank, including the enforcement of
the individual liability of the stockholders. The fund realized-'
for distribution must, of course, include the costs and expenses
necessarily incurred by him in the performance of these statutory duties. The equivalent for them, in the case of creditors
who upon the voluntary liquidation of the bank seek to enforce
VOL. Cxx=-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the individual.liability of the st6okholders, is the ordinary
costs of the court taxable in the cause. No receiver is necessary in ordinary cases, and there is nothing in the circumstances of this case to make it an exception. Whatever costs
and expenses should be paid on account of the receivership in
this case, beyond any allowance made heretofore and paid, if'
any, should come out of the creditors at whose instance the
receiver was appointed, and not out of the stockholders.
It is .also" objected to the decree that it included among the
claims directed to be' paid out of the assessmeiit upon theshareholders an -amount, alleged to be about $5000, in behalf
of persons assumed to be creditors, but who did not appear in
the cause or before the .master to file and prove their claims.
This was erroneous. No person is entitled to recoler as a
creditor who does not come forward to present his claim.
The only proof in reference to such claims in the present case
consisted in affidavits made by Henry B. Mason, one of the
attorneys of the receiver, that he had "made a personal investigation of all the claiins against the Manufacturers' National Bank, and, from'the evidence introduced in the cause,
and from outside knowledge confirmatory thereof, states that
the Manufacturers' National Bank of Chicago is justly indebted
to the several persons mentioned in the schedule hereunto annexed and made part of this affidavit, in the principal sums
set opposite their several nimes, with interest thereon from
March 12, 1875, at the rate of six per cent. per annum in each
case," &c. No one appeared as claimant, and no authority is
shown'to any one to act for him or in his own name. These
claims should have been disallowed.
['e decree of t!e Circuit Court is accordinglyrevcrsed and
the cause is remanded, with directions to proceed therein
-as justice and equity may require,in conformity with this
opinion; and it is so ordered.

