OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

nothing before the court on which it could hear evidence o
pronounce sentence. The case comes within the principles
laid down by this court in Ex _varte -Lange,18 Wall. 163; E
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Ex arte Wilson, 111 U. S. 417,
and other cases.
These views dispense with the. necessity of examining into
the questions argued before us concerning the formation of
the grand jury and its removal from place to place within the
district. We are of opinion that
The 2petitioneris entitled to the writ of habla8 corpu8, and it
is -accordinglygranted.

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
AA'PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF 3ICHIGAN.
Argued March 17, 1887. -Decided

March 28, 1887.

Reissued letters-patent No. 5400, grdinted to Eristus W. Scott and Anson
Searls, May 6th, 1873, for in "improvement in whip-sockets,"' on an
application forreissue filed January 16, 1873, (the original letters-patent,
No.70,627, having been granted to E. W. Scott, November 5, 1867, on an
application filed August 23, 1867,) are invalid, as an unlawful expansion
of the original patent.
A whip-holder constructed in accordance with the specification and drawings of letters-patent No. 70,075, granted to Henry M.- Curtis and Alva
Worden, October 22, 1867, for an "improvement in self-adjusting whipholder," did not infringe the original Scott patent, regarding the Scott
invention as earlier in date than that of Curtis and Worden, and the
Scott patent was reissued with a view of covering the device of Curtis
and Worden.
In a suit in equity, on the patent, a preliminary injunction having been
granted and -violated, the Circuit Court, in proceedings and by two
orders, entitled in the suit, found the defendants guilty of contempt,
and, by one order, directed that they pay to the plaintfff $250, "as a fine
for said violation," and the costs of the proceeding, and stand committed
till payment; and, by the other order directed that the defendants pay
a fine of $1182 to the clerk, to be paid over by him to the plaintiff "for
damages and costs," and stand committed till payment, the $1182 being

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.
made up of $682 protits made by the infringement, and $00 expenses of
the plaintiff in the contempt proceedings; this court, in reversing a inal
money decree for the plaintiff, and dismissing, the bill, reversed also the
two orders, but without prejudice to the power and right of the Circuit
Court to punish the contempt by a proper proceeding.

3 in equity to restrain infringement of letters-patent and
for assessment of damages. Decree foi complainant, from
which respondents appealed. The cas6 is stated in the opinion
of the court.
2f&. Carle8,. H:unt for appellants.

XrA. Twmas S.Spragwu

was with him on the brief.
X. J. P. Titch for appellee.
Pf_

JasTICo

BcHToRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a. suit in equity, brought in ihe Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by Anson,
Searls against Alva Worden and John S. Worden, for the
.alleged infringement of reissued letters-patent, No. 5400,
granted to Erastus W. Scott and Anson Searls, May 6, 1873,
for an "improvement in whip-socket.s," on an application for
reissue filed January 16, 18M3, the original letters-patent, No.
70,627, having been granted to E. W. Scott, November 5,
1867, 6n an application fied August 23, 1867. One of the
defences set up in the answer is, that the reissued letterspatent are not for the' same invention as that described and
claimed in the original letters-patent, and contain new matter
not contained or claimed in the original.
The specification and claim and drawings of the original
patent are as follows:
"Be it known that I, E. W. Scott, of W-auregan, in the
county of Windham and State of Connecticut, have invented
a new and useful mprovement -in whip-sockets; and I do
hereby declare that th6 following is a full, clear, and exact
description thereof, which will enable others skilled in the art to
make and use the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, and to the letters of -reference marked thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

piql.

"This invention relates to a new and improved fastening
applied to a whip-socket in such a manner as -to hold the whip
firmly therein, prevent it from moving or shaking laterally,
and at. the same time not interfere in the least with -its ready
insertion in the socket and its withdrawal therefrom. In the
accompanying sheet of drawings, Figure 1 is a vertical central
section of my invention taken in the line x x, Fig. 2; Fig. 2,
an external view of the same. Similar letters of reference
indicate like parts.
"The -whip-socket A may be made of cast-iron, hard rubber,
or any of the materials n- -., used for such purpose. Cast-iron,
however, would probably be the preferable material. The
socket may have an opening, a, at its'bottom, to dmit of -the
escape of water, dust, &c., and in the side of the socket there
is an opening or slot, a', extending nearly its whole height or
length. In this slot there is secured a fulcrum-pin, b, a lever,

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

13, which is slightly curved, as shown clearly in Fig. 1, the fulcrum-pin being rather below the centre of the lever, and the
latter provided with a projection, bi, near its fulcrum-pin,
which renders the lower part of the lever heavier than its
upper part, with its centre of gravity at one side of its fulcrumpin, so that the upper end c of the lever will have a tendency
to move out from within the socket, as indicated by the arrow
1. The lower end of the lever B is so curved as to extend
within the lower part of th6 socket at all times, and, ,vhen the
socket is empty, no whip. in it, the upper end o of the lever
will be in the slot a, if not out from it, so as not to form any
obstruction to the butt of the whip C as it is shoved into the
socket; but when the butt of the whip reaches the lower part
of the socket it strikes the lower curved end of the lever B
and throws the upper end c of the same in contact with tle
butt (see Fig. 1), the.weight of whip keeping the upper end c
-of the lever in contact with the butt, and holding the whip
steady in the socket. In withdrawing the whip from the
socket the upper end c of the lever moves friely outward from
the butt as soon as.the lower end of the lever is relieved of the
weight of the whip. This simple device has been practically
tested, and it operates well. There are no springs required,
and no parts used which are liable to get out- of repair, or
become deranged so as to b.e inoperative.
"Raving thus described my invention, I claim as -new and
desire to secure by letters-patent:
"A whip-sccket provided with a fastening. composed of a
lever, arranged or appled "substantially as shown and described, to hold the Whip steady or firm in fts socket, as -set
forth."
The specification and clains of the reissue are as follows,
the drawings of the reissue being substantially the same .as
those of the original:
"'Be it known that I, Erastus W., Scbtt, of Wauregan, in
the county of Windham and state of Ooniecticut, have invented certain new and useful improvemeus in whip-sopkets,
which -are simple in construction, eicient in operation, and
durable'in use; and the improvements consist in the use of a
VOL. cXXi-2

OCTOBER-TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

lever with the stationary or upright portion of the socket, and.
in the construction and combination of the parts, as hereinafter
more fully described; and I do'hereby declare that the following is a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which will
enable others skilled in the art to which it appertains to make
and use the same, reference being had to the accompanying
drawing, with letters of reference marked thereon, forming a
part of this specification, in which Fig. I is a central vertical section, taken on line w x of Fig. 2, of a socket embodying
my invention, and Fig. 2 is an elevation of the same:
"A represents a tubular socket provided with a suitable
flange at the top, and the interior of the bottom part of the
socket gradually-decreases i size, being constructed in a partially cone form, as shown. The socket A is provided with a
suitable fastener for the purpose of securing the same to the
carriage.' The socket A is provided with a slot al, extending
a sufficient distance to admit the lever B, whi6h is suitably
pivoted -to the part A in.such a manner as to move on its
pivot, for a purpose presently described. This lever B extends
*upward and downward from its pivot and inclines or curves
inward fr6m the pivot to each end, so that each end of the
lever; or a point near each end of the lever, forms a bearing
point' for the, whip' 0when inserted in the socket, while the
opposite side of the whip-stock C bears upon the socket A, as
shown in :Fig. 1. The lever B is pivoted to the socket A at a
point inside of its centre of gravity, so that when the whip is
removed the upper part of the lever automatically moves outward, as indicated by the arrow, leaving the top of the socket
open for the reception of the whip.' The same outward movement -of the top of the lever would be caused by the butt of
the whip when withdrawn from the socket.
"The operation is as follows': The whip 0 being removed
from ttke socket, the upper part of the lever falls outward, as
above described, leaving the top of the socket open. The
whip, then being again inserted in the socket first comes in contact with the lower inclined or curved part e of the lever B, and,
as the whip passes down, the lower part e of' the lever is
pressed 'outward, which action brings the upper part o inward

WORDEN' v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

until it is brought to bear firmly against the whip C, and thus
holding the whip securely between the lever and the opposite
side of the socket A. By this means a whip of any ordinary
size may be firmly and securely held in position.
"fHaving thus fully described the invention, what is claimed
and desiied to be secured by letters-patent is "1. The combination of a stationary part of a whip-socket
and a lever, the lever being hinged or pivoted so that the
lever bears against the whip at or near the ends of the lever,
to hold the whip in position, for the purpose set f rtb
"2. The lever B, curved or inclined inward from its point of
pivot, and used in connection with the stationary part A, substantially as and for the purpose specified.
"3. The lever B, pivoted at a -point inside of its centre of
gravity, so that when left free the upper part of the lever will
fall outward, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
The bill was filed in July, 1880. On the 19th of July 1880,
a preliminary injunction was issued and served. In the answer, filed in September. 1880, it was set up that the defendants were making and selling whip-sockets constructed under
and in accordance with the specification and drawings of
letters-patent No. 70,075, owned by them, granted to Hen.ry
Curtis and Alva Worden, October 22, 1867, for an " im If.
provement in self-adjusting whip-holder." After replication
and proofs, the case was heard, and, on the 24th of February,
1882, an interlocutory decree was made, declaring that 'the
reissue was valid and had been infrigged, and awarding a
perpetual injunction, and a reference as to profits and damages. On the 6th of IMarch, 1882, an order was made, entitled
in the cause, imposing a fine of $250 on the defendants, to be
pid by them to the'complainant, for -a violation of the preliminary injunction. This order was opened on the 29th of
April, 1882, for a further hearing, and on the 9th of October,
1882, an order was made, entitled in the cause, imposing a fine
of $1182 on the defendants for such violation, to be paid to
the clerk of the court, and by him to be paid over to the
plaintiff for damages and costs, the defendants to stand committed until the same should be paid. 13 Fed. Rep. 716. An

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal by the defendants from this order was allowed, and an
order was made that all proceedings to enforce the collection
of the fine be stayed until the further order of the Circuit
Court, on the giving of a specified bond, which bond was
given. On the report of a master on the. reference under
the interlocutory decree, a final. decree was entered that the
)laintiffs recover against the defendants $21,573.91 as profits
and $386.40 costs. From this" decree the defendants have
appealed.
The specification and claim and drawings of the Curtis and
Worden patent are as hiblows:
"Be it known that we, Henry M. Curtis and Alva Worden,
of Ypsilanti, in-the Pounty of Washtenaw and State of Michigan, have -invented a new and useful machine for holding
carriage-whips, which we denominate 'Curtis and Worden's
Self-Adjusting .Whip-Holder;' and we do hereby declare that
the following is'a full, clear, and exact description of the construction and operation of the s§me, reference being had to
the annexed drawings, making a part of this specification, in
which Figure 1 is a sectional view. Fig. 2 is a perspective
view of the whip-holder complete, and ready for use, without
the whip. Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the whip-holder
complete, closed upon the whip-handle.
"The whip-holder is formed of metal, cast or pressed to the
desired shape, and is composed of two pieces only, Fig. 1 representing one sectional half and the other sectional half being
formed exactly like it, with the exception of the loops A A,
used for the purpose of attaching the same to the carriageseat or dash-board. Each- section of the whip-holder is a coneshaped.half-cylinder, the cone being reversed near the bottom
of the whip-holder, forming each half-section bilged or barrelshaped, and connected together at the bilge by an ear-shaped
hinge, B3, on -each half-section,- the ears being connected together by a rivet, forming hhe hinge. The edge or face of
each cylinder-section is formed by an obtuse angle at the
hinge, so constructed that -when the two sections are con:
nected together at the hinge .B the whip-holder above the
joints or hinge is open, and shut or closed below from its own

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

weight, as in Fig. 2. When the whip is inserted the holder
opens at the bottom, below the joints or hinge, by the pressure
of the whip upon the convex conical sides of the holder, and

'II

.Vo. A
\W'oJ

0
0,

I.,
Hod.

closes at the top of the holder around the whip, thus clasping
the whip firlly at the top and bottom of the holder, and holding it steady and firmly in its place. The whip may be easily
drawn out by a perpendicular motion, the holder opening at
the top and'] closing at the bottom, so that the whip is readily
detached.
"What we claim as our invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent is ."The shape and construction of the whip-holder, and the connection of the two sectional halves by hinges or joints, in such
a manner as to hold the whip, when inserted, closely and
firmly, by clasping the same at the top and bottom of the
holder at the same time, the holder being formed of metal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

cast or pressed into proper shape, substantially as and for the
purpose set forth and' described."
.The Circuit Court, in deciding the case, 11 Fed. Rep. 501,
and 21 Off. Gaz. 1955, said: "A glance at the drawings and
specifications will show that'the patents" (the original and
the reissue) "are for the same invention, viz., a whip-socket
arranged with a lever swung upon a central pivot, and operating so as to admit the. whip without difficulty, and hold it
firnly in position, and at the same time not preventing its
easy withdrawal So far from there being any attempt in the
reissue to expand the claim of the original patent, and embrace
devices which might have come into use since the original
patent was grantbd,' its purpose was evidently only to make
that definite which had before been obscure, and to set forth
in more precise and accurate terms the details of the invention.
I regard the reissue in this case as a perfectly legitimate use of
the privileges conferred by the Act upon that subject."
As we are of opinion that the defendants' whip-socket did
not infringe the claim of the original Scott patent, and that
th6 'reissue was, in its claims, an unlawful expansion of the
original, designed to cover the defendants' structure, it is not
necessary to consider any other matter of defence.
The application for the original Scott patent and the application for the Curtis and Worden patent were before the
Patent Office at the same time. The application for the Scott
patent was filed August 23, 1867. ' It was issued November
5, 1867. The Curtis and'Worden patent'was issued October
22, 1867. The date it was applied for is not shown. Although the date of the Scott invention may be earlier than
that of the CIrtis and Worden invention, each patent was
evidently granted for the specific apparatus covered by its
claim. There'was no conflict or interference between them,
and no interference between their claims was declared. Their
claims, aa granted, placed side by side, were as follows:
Cwrtis mid wwrden.
Scott.
'"The shape and constuc"A whip-socket provided
tion of the whip-holder, and with a fastening composed of

WORDEN v. SEARLS:
Opinion of the Court.,

.tlie connection of the two sec- a lever, arranged or. applied
tional halves by hinges or substantially as shown and
joints, in such a manner as to described, to hold. the whip
hold the whip, when inserted, steady or firm in its socket,
closely and firmly, by clasping as set forth."
the same at the top and bottom of the holder at the same
time, the holder being formed
of meta, cast or pressed into
proper shape, substantially as
and for the purpose set forth
and described."
The specification of the original Scott patent stated the invention to be "a new and improved fastening applied to a whipsocket." The socket is described as - complete whip-socket,
complete in itself without the fastening, and having in its side
an opening or slot, extending nearly its whole height or length,
in which slot is inserted a lever. The claim is for "a whipsocket," that is, a complete whip-socket, "provided with a
fastening composed of.a lever, arranged or applied substantially as shown and described," that is, inserted in the slot in
the socket. The defendants' structure consists only of two
sectional halves, each like the other, and each a cone-shaped
half-cylinder, and bilged, with an ear-shaped hinge on each
half-section, a rivet connecting -the two forming the hinge.
This arrangement does not infringe the claim of the Scott
original patent. It is not a coiniplete whip-socket provided
with a lever arranged or applied substantially as in Scott's apparatus, that is, pivoted in a slot in the socket. It is true that
the result in each arrangement is to hold the whip steady or
firm in a socket, but the mechanisms are different.
That the specification and claims of the reissue were designedly so worded as to cover a structure which the claim of
the' original patent would not cover is manifest. Thus, the
original specification says that the invention relates to a "fastening applied to a whip-socket in such a manner as to hold
the wdp firmly therein." This means that you have a coraplete whip-socket and you apply a fastening to it, which fasten-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion. of the Court.

ing is so arranged as to hold the whip firmly in the socket in
whicl the whip is placed. The description in the original
specification describes a complete -whip-socket, with an opening or slot in the side of the -socket, extending n6arly its whole
height or length, with a fastening lever secured in the slot by
a fulcrum-pin rather below the centre of the lever, the lever
hlving near the fulcrum-pin a weighting projection, b'. The
reissued specification sa - that the "improvements consist in
the use of a lever with the stationary 6r upright portion of
the socket." The socket is referred to as if it had a part
which is not stationary. The first and second claims carry
out the same idea, by making the "stationary part" of the
socket an element in each of those claims. The defendants'
holder is not a complete holder with its stationary part alone,
and without its movable part, while the plaintiff's is. MWoreover, all mention of the weighting projeqtion 1/ is omitted in
the reissued specification. The design manifest in it is to
cover such a structure as that of the defendants, and the evidence tends to the conclusion that that was the object of obtaining the reissue. The description and claim of the original
specification were entirely adequate to cover the Scott device.
No inadvertence, accident or mistake is shown.
The reissue is sought to be sustained, by the counsel for the
appellee, on the ground that the invention described in each
of the .two specifications is "the combination with a whipsocket of a lever which pperates to hold the whip fRmly
therein and prevent it from moving or shaking laterally."
Even if such a claim would be valid, it is not the claim made
in the original patent. And even if it were the claim made
by that patent, the reissue purports to claim, not a combination of a whip-sooket and a lever, but the combination of the
stationary part of a whip-socket and a lever.
We. are, therefore, of opinion that this reissued patent is
invalid.
The appellants ask for a review and reversal of the orders
imposing fines for a violation of the preliminary injunction.
The appellee contends that this court cannot review theaction
of the Circuit Court in punishing a contempt committed by a

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of.such injunction, (1) because the proceedings were
criminal in their character; (2) because. the action of the Circuit Court is, by,§ 125 of the Revised Statutes, expressly made
discretionary.
All the proceedings which resulted in the imposition of the
fines were taken and entitled in the suit. The order of March
6, 1882, is entitled in the suit, and adjudges "that the said
defendants are guilty of the contempt charged against them
for a violation of the injunction issued in this cause, and that
said defendants, Alva Worden and John S. Worden, pay to
said complainant, Anson Searls, the sum of two hundred and
fifty dollars, as a fine for said violation, together with costs
of said proceedings, to be taxed, and that said defendant stand
committed until the same be paid." The order of October 9,
1882, is entitled in the suit, and orders "that said defendants,
Alva Worden and John- S. Worden, do pay a fine of eleven
hundred and eighty-two dollars to the clerk of this court, to
be paid over by said clerk to complainart for damages and
costs, and that said defendants do staid committed until the
-same is paid." It appears that the $1182 was made'up of
$682, the profits of the defendants on 62 gross of whip-sockets
sold- and $500, expenses of the plaintiff in the contempt proceedings.
We have jurisdiction to review the final decree in the suit
and all interlocutory decrees anid orders. These fines were
directed to be-paid to the plaintiff: We say nothing as to the
lawfulness or propriety of this direction. But the fines were,
in fact, measured by the damages the plaintiff had sustained
and the expenses he had incurred. They were incidents of 'hisclaims in the suit. His right to them was, if it existed at all,
founded on his right to the injunction, and that was founded
on the validity of his patent. The case differs, therefore, from
that of Ed, parte .eaerney, 7 Wheat. 39. ' That was an appli-

cation to this court for a writ of habeas corlus where a person
was imprisoned by the Circuit Court of the District of Colimibia, for a contempt in refusing, as a witness, to answer a question on the trial of an indictment. The application was
denied on the ground that this court had no appellate jurisdiction in a criminal case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

So, the fact in the presefit case, that; thoti~h the r66eedings
Were nominally those of contempt, they were-realy proceedings to award damages to the plaintiff, and to reimnburse to
him his expenses, distinguishes the case from that of 'Vew
Orlean v. Stekamshkp o., 20 Wall. 387. There, in a suit in
equity, a Circuit Court of the United States imposed a fine on
a defendant for obtaining, during the pendency of the suit,
from a State Court, an injunction against tl~e plaintiffs, as to
a matter within the scope of the litigation. On appeal from
tho final decree, it was gought to review the order imposing
the fine, but this court said that the fine -was beyond its jurisdiction, and added: "Contempt of court is a specific criminal
offence. The imposition of the fine was a judgment in a
criminal case. That part of the decree is as distinct from the
residue as if it were a judgment upon an indictment for perjury committed in a deposition read at the hearing. This
court can take cognizance of a criminal case only upon a certificate of division in opinion."
Section *725of the Revised Statutes provides that the courts
of the United States shall have power to punish, "by fine or
imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, contempts of
their authority," provided that such power" shall not be - construed to extend to any cases except... the disobedience by
...
any party, jpror, witness, or other person, to any lawful
writ, process, order, rule, decree, or- command of the said
courts." We do not think this provision makes the action of
the Circuit Court in this case such a matter of discretion that
the orders imposing the fines are not reviewable. They were,
to all intents and purposes, orders in the course of the cause,
based on the questions involved as to the legal rights of the
parties.
Although the court had jurisdiction of the suit and of the
parties, the order for the preliminary injunction was unwarranted as a matter of law, and the orders imposing the fines
must, so far as they have not been executed, be held, under
the special circumstances of this case, to be reviewable by this
court, under the appeal from the final decree. The result is,
that they cannot be upheld.

RICHMOND v. IRONS.
Syllabus.

27w fna decree of the Circuit Court, and the orders of
3larch 6, 18820, and October 9, 1882, are reversed, and the
case is -remandedto that court with a direction, to dismiss
the bill, with costs, but without _prejudice to the power and
right of the Circuit Court to punish the contempt Peferred
to in those orders, by a _proyer proceeding. ne prelimnvnary injunction was in force until set aside. (See In re

Ohile, 22 WaH. 157.)

RIOHMOND v. IRONS.
ArPEAL

FROM THE cReUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 7, 1S87.-Decided March 28, 1887.

A bill in equity filed by a judgment creditor of an insolvent national bank,
which alleges that the president of the bank. under cover of a voluntary
liquidation, was converting its assets, in a manner stated in the bill, in
fraud of the rights of the complainant and other creditors, and which
prays a discovery of all the assets, and of what moneys and assets have
come into the president's hands, and what disposition has been made of
them, and that the sales and conveyances of corporation property may
be set aside, and that the property of the bank may be delivered up to
the court, and that a receiver be appointed, and that the proceeds of the
property may be applied to the payment of the complainant's debt, is in
fact a bill to obtain judicial administration of the affairs of the bank,
and to tius secure the equal distribution of its property: and an amended
bill which states that it is filed on behalf of the complainant anhd
of all the creditors who may become parties, and which charges that
some stockholders named have parted with their stock for assets of the
bank after it had gone into liquidation and in fraud of the creditors, and
which prays that all the stockholders may be indivirially subjected to
the liability created by the statute, and that the fund realized from the
assets and from this liability may be distributed among the creditors, is
germane to the original bill, and does not materially change the substance of the case nor make It multifarious, so as to make the allowance
of the amendment an improper exercise of the discretion of the Circuit
Court, within the rule laid down in lardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 761.
Under the original act respecting national banks, and before the act of
Jui 3 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 63, a court of equity had jurisdiction of a suit to

