STEAMBOAT CO.

BROCKETT.

Syllal,,..

a state court on the application of the defendant after an injunction staying proceedings in the state court for his benefit
had been granted, it was said: "If Watson had filed his
petition for injunction in the state court, and before it was
allowed had petitioned for a removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court, with the design of applying to that court for
his injunction, the objection to the right of removal would
have force. That would have been an evasion of the statute."
Such clearly is this case. The petition for removal was fied
by the party who brought the suit, and there is nothing whatever in the record .to show that the injunction she asked for
was ever granted by the court or any judge thereof prior to
the removal. The affidavit of Mrs. Lawrence shows that the
judge was absent from the parish at the time'the order-which
is in the record signed by the clerk purpQrts to have been'
gTanted; and we have been referred to no statute or judicial
decision in Louisiana authorizing the clerk to make such an
order in the absence of the judge. Under the circumstances,
therefore, the case is to be treated as having been taken to
the Circuit Court to get an injunction, and not after pne had
been granted. This, we have no hesitation in saying, cannot
be done; and, without deciding whether, under any circunstances, a proceeding such as this was in the state court can
be removed to a Circuit Court, we affirm the order to remand.
Affned.

NEW JERSEY STEABOAT COMPANY v.
BROCKETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNrITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 22, 1887.T-Decided May 2,1887.

When the contract of a common carrier with a passenger assigns to the
latter a particular part of the vessel or vehicle to be occupied by him
during transportation, and he voluntarily occupies a place different from
that contracted for, the carrier Is released from liability for injuries
which necessarily arise from the passenger's change of place; but it

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
continues bound to furnish safe transportation, and to indemnify the
passenger, under general rules of law, for injuries which do not direedy
arise by reason of his change of place, or which are caused by improper
conduct of the carrier's servants, acting either in the scope of their general duties, or in the discharge of special duties imposed upon them.
A common carrier undertakes absolutely to protect its passengers against
the misconduct or negligence of its own servants, employed in executing the contract of transportation, and acting within the general
-scope of their employment.
What rill be misconduct on the part of the servants of a common carrier
towards a passenger cannot be defined by a general rule applicable to
every case, but must depend upon the particular circumstances in which
they are required to act; and in this case the issue was fairly placed
before the jury by the court.
Declarations made by one officer to another officer of a steamboat, while
both are engaged in violently removing a passenger from a part of the
vessel in which his contract of transportation did not entitle him to
be, are admissible in evidence as part of the res gestce, in an action
brought by the passenger against the corporation owning the steamboat
and transporting the passenger, to recover damages for injuries resulting from the assault.

This action was brought to recover damages sustained by
the defendant in error, the plaintiff below, in consequence of
personal injuries inflicted upon him by the employes of the
plaintiff in error, a carrier of freight and passengers between
the cities of Albany and New York, in the state of New
York. A verdict and judgment having been rendered for the
sum of five thousand five hundred dollars, the case was
brought here for review, upon the ground that the court below committed errors of law in the conduct of the trial.
The plaintiff averred that he was received by the defendant
as a deck passenger upon its boat, the Dean Richmond, at
Albany, and that, in consideration of his having paid the
price established for passengers of that class, it undertook
to carry him safely to the city of New York, and thereby
became bound that its servants and employes on said boat
should not needlessly injure him -while engaged in the discharge of their duties; that the defendant did not keep its
contract, but broke the same, in that, by its servants on said
boat, it needlessly and severely wounded him in his person
during the voyage to New York, whereby he was put to great

STEAMBOAT CO. v. BROCKETT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

expense for surgical attendance, and whereby, also, incurable
injuries were inflicted upon him. These allegations were
accompanied by a statement of the circumstances under which,
the plaintiff insists, the alleged wrongs were committed.
The answer denied generally that the company's agents or
servants were guilty of negligence or improper conduct, and
stated "that the plaintiff paid for a deck passage, and it re-"
ceived him on its boat as a deck passenger for passage to New
York on a certain part of the boat allotted to deck passengers,
as was well known to the plaintiff, and subject to long established rules and regulations of the defendant,' including
that mentioned in the complaint, of which the plaintiff had'
due and full notice; that the said rules and rekulations were
reasonable, and the defendant's officers and 'employes on the
said boat were charged with the duty of enforcing them in a
reasonable and proper way, without unnecessary force or
violence, and the said rules and regulations and the officers
and employes of the boat in uniform were well known to the
plaintiff; that the plaintiff did not remain on the part of the
boat allotted to deck passengers, and did not obey the said
reasonable rules ahd regulations of defendant, but refused so
to do, and contrary to the peace, quiet, good order, and safety
of the said boat and its passengers, made a disturbance on tho
said boat, and the defendant neither used nor authorized any
undue or unnecessary force or violence in the enforcement of
the aforesaid rule and regulation, but the contrary' thereof,
and the plaintiff was not injured by any of the defendant's
officers, employes, or agents, as alleged in the complaint."
The evidence was conflicting. The charge and the rulings
of the court below- are stated or referred to in the opinion of
the court below.

.Y.

F P. Prentice and Mr. Tames Iowndes for plaintiff

in error.
I. On the face of the complaint no cause of action is shown.
The action was brought on a contract alleged to have been
made between the parties. Now the contract on the part of

* OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
ArgUment for Plaiutiff in Error.

the .company, alleged, was to carry the plaintiff as deck passenger, but the allegations of the complaint are in effect an
admission that Brockett received his injury at a place on the
deck where he was not entitled to be, .uderhis contract. The
complaint further alleged the existence of the regulatibns of
the place for deck passengers, and that the action arose from
the enforcement of this regulation by the watchman chargerl
with such duty.
The disobedience and resistance of the defendant in error
were admitted by him in his evidence. On the complaint and
the evidence a verdict should have been directed for the plaintiff in error. _Ma ehul, v. Hrubbard, 117 U. S. 415; Gilmer v.
_Iigley, 110 U. S..47; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,
109 U. S. 418.
II. If it is said that Brockett need not aver compliance
with his contract in respect of keeping himself on the stipulated deck, then it would follow that the contract does not
bind him at all. If the injury had been inflicted on him on
another boat, or on the wharf at Albany, or on the wharf at
New York, could he recover under his contract, or would the
cause of action be other than that averred in the complaint?
The contract was to carry Brockett forward of the shaft. No
duty arose to him under the contract as to any other place.
Gilmer v. Higley, above cited.
III. On all the evidence the plaintiff was no entitled to
recover, and the court erred in refusing so to instruct the jury.
The plaintiff testified that his ticket contained these words,
"deck passengers not allowed abaft the shaft." Placards up
at the clerk's office, which he admits having seen, called his
attention to the conditions of his passage. The ticket is the
contract or the evidence of the contract. The complaint, however, does not state the important qualifications of the contract contained in the ticket, and the company was entitled to
a verdict on the ground of this variance. But, if it is assumed
that the contract was sufficiently pleaded, and the cause of
action set forth by the necessary averments of a breach, the
evidence failed to sustain a case so stated. Brockett was
where he had no right to be. His injury was the result of an

STRAMBOAT CO. -v. BROCKETT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

accident in the fall upon the vessel in his scuffle with the
watchman. And he himself admits that he .had refuscd to
obey orders and come down from the hops. He did not try to
obey,,but says, "I tried to get back." The jurisdiction of the
action of defendant's servants was complete, unless the conversation after the accident, and the officers'. acts after the
accident added some new liability, and in respect'to their subsequent acts, Brockett's evidence stands alone uncorroborated.
The plaintiff's evidence clearly was that the alleged injury
was done to him abaft the shaft. He had 'no recollection of
having gone forward of the shaft at all. And he resisted the
effort to enforce the regulation to make him leave an improper
place and come down from the hops.
The evidence on the part of the defendant compiAy did not
make any better case for the plaintiff. Every allegation, except those above stated, was denied by two or three witnesses, and no effort was made to impeach their credibility.
Three witnesses sustain the watchman's story bf the occurrences before and after the accident. The only additional
evidence was that of the cross-examination of the watchman
as to fights he had, subsequent to this occurrence, and when
not in the employ of the company. The question upon the
evidence was for the judge-whether the plaintiff's statement,
uncorroborated, was sufficient to support a verdict in the face
of the admitted facts and the other testimony by which he
was contradicted. Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio 1?ailroad,
.109 U. S. 478; -farion, County v. Clark, 941 U. S. 278; Tanderbilt v. Richmond Timnpike Co., 2 N. Y. 479;' Searles v.
.3fanhattan Railway, 101 N. Y. 661; Culhane v. _Y . C. &
-H. 1. R., 60 N. Y. 133; Higgins v. Ackl~ae, 116 U. S. 671.
IV. The court erred in ruling "if you believe that statement
(of theplaintiff) to be true, then Isay, as a matter of law, that
there was moreforce than was necessary to accomplish the result, and the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict," while refusing
to rule that if the plaintiff, by his own fault, got involved
in a personal quarrel with the watchman, and was injured in
consequence of such quarrel, be cannot have relief in this
I S. C. 15 Am. Dec. 315.
VOL. CXXI-41

OCTOBER TERAE, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

action against the defendant, but must look to the watchman.
The effect of the-above instruction, and of the above refusal, taken together, was to put to the jury the plaintiff's
case, without any qualification, and to take away from it one
important feature of the company's case.
It is not disputed that Brockett was in a position in which
he had no right io be, and which was unsafe, and that he did
not obey the order to come down. The right of the company
by its servant to remove him, is not in dispute. It is not disputed that Thiel took hold of Brockett and that Brockett fell:
The taking hold of him was lawful as a means of removing
him. Brockett says, "I dide't try to come down, I died to
get back." Thiel testified that the consequent fall was an accident due to the derangement of the boxes. If so, the injury
to Brockett was the consequence of his own fault. But the
charge ignored these circumstances, and in effect, made the
laying hold of Brockett, by Thiel, the actionable conduct. It
suggested also, a responsibility of the company, for acts after
the accident, which was denied on the strongest evidence. Barney v. Oyster Bay & Hzsntington ,Steainoat Co., 67 N. Y. 301.
But, in addition to the facts above referred to, there was
evidence to the fact that Brockett struck Thiel before the latter had laid hands on the former. This evidence changed the
whole transaction. Brockett wag not at liberty to strike the
company's servants. If he did so, he had to bear the consequences of hi8 conduct. Story on Agency, p. 318. The jury
could not but have been misled by the charge and the refusal
to charge. The charge in effect discredited the company's
evidence, and gave weight to Brockett's statement of occurrences after the accident and after he had received his injury.
Thorney v. Tondon, Brightonc& South Coast -Railway, 3 0. B.
36S; .zEtna I. Inm. Co. v. -France,91 U.S. 510.
V. The court erred in admitting testimony which must have
greatly prejudiced the jury against the defendant company.
1. Brockett testified against objection that a man wearing
the uniform of the company approached after his fall and
said, "You farmers are so stingy -you are too stingy to buy

STEAMBOAT CO. v. BROCKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

a stateroom and you ought to be killed.'" The case was one
in which it was of great importance to the defendant company that the issues should be submitted to the jury without
irrelevant matter. Instead of that method of trial, evidence
was introduced of declarations after the event .which constituted no part of the res gestas. The declarations were not only
calculated to excite prejudice in the minds of a class, which
probably was represented on the jury, but must have affected
the mind of any humane man. It is not too much to say that
after these declarations were introduced in- evidence, the company could not get an impartial consideration of its evidence.
The object of the rules of evidence in our system is tQ prevent
the influence upon the jury of- such irrelevant matter. The
company is not liable in lawfor the brutallanguage of it 8ervants.
2. The company's witness, Thiel, was permitted, on crossexamination, to say that he had been engaged in several fights.
This evidence was irrelevant and prejudiced the defendant
company. The point is whether the question eliciting it could
be properly put, on cross-examination, when it was not to impair the credibility of the witness, as the purpose of the question was stated wheA the court ruled upon it. The evidence
was not connected in any way with the testimony of Thiel
on his direct examination, and Was injurious to the company.
It was, therefore, incompetent in the federal courts. Oil
Cornjiany v. Van Etten, 107 U. S. 325; Tills v. Russell, 100
U. S. 621; Burley v. German-American Bank, 111 T. S. 216;
Phizdelphia & Trenton Railroad v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448,;
460; Vicksburg & .3eridianRailroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S.
99.
3. Evidence was admitted, against objection, of visits made
to Brockett by officers of the company. Such testimony was
irrelevant, and was injurious to the defendant company.
X1r. Fiugene E. Sheldon for defendant in error.
Mnz. [usTic, H _LA,, after stating the ease. as above reported, -delivered the opinion of the court. _

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

We will not extend this opinion by a recital of all the facts
and circumstances established by the proof. It is sufficient to
say that there was evidence tending to sustain both the allegations of the complaint and the averments in the answer. In
view of the setious conflict in the statements of witnesses, the
case was one peculiarly for the determination of a jury, under
appropriate instiuctions as to the law. The court, therefore,
rightfully refused to direct a verdict for the company, unless,
as claimed, the plaintiff, according to his complaint and the
evidence,
had no cause of action.
It appears
from the complaint that the company had a regulation restricting deck passengers to a particular part of the
boat; but of the existence of that rule, the p]aintiff averred,
he did not, at the time, have notice. It also appears by uicontradicted evidence that, upon the ticket purchased by the
plaintiff, were printed the words "deck passengers not all6wed
abaft the shaft," and that placards, i different pirts of the'
boat, indicated the place on it which such passengers were
prohibited from occupying. As the plaintiff was "abaft the
shaft" when injured, no case, it is insisted, was made that
would sustain an action upon the contract of transportation;
consequefitly, it is contended, the request to instruct the jury
to find for the defendant should have been granted. This
argument assumes that the plaintiff could not claim protection
under the contract for safe transportation in respect to an
injury done him by the company's servants while he was
upon a part of the boat other than that to which he was restricted by the rule or regulation printed on his ticket. This
position cannot be sustained. We shall not stop to inquire
whether the regulation in question is shown to be a part of
the contract for transportation; and we assume, for the purposes of this case, that the plaintiff stipulated that, during the
voyage, he would remain upon the part of the boat to which
debk passengers were assigned; still; it would not follow that
his violation of that stipulation deprived him of the benefit
of his contract. Such violation only gave the carrier the
right to compel him to conform to its regulation, or, upon
his refusing to,do so, to require him to leave the boat, using,

STEAMBOAT CO. v. BROCKETT.
Opiulon of the Court.

in either case, only such force as the circumstances reasonably
'justified. If the injuries necessarily arose from his violation
of the regulation established for deck passengers, the carrier
would not be responsible therefor. But if they were not the
necessary result of his being, at the time, on a part of the boat
where he had no right to be, and were directly caused by the
improper conduct of the carrier's servants, either while acting
within the scope of their general employment, or when in the discharge of special duties imposed upon them, he is not precluded
from claiming the benefit of thecontract for safetransportation.
The plaintiff was entitled, in virtue of that contract, to protection against the misconduct or negligence of the carrier's
servants. Their misconduct or negligence whilst transacting
the company's business, and when acting within: the general
scope :of their employment, is, of necessity to be imputed to
the corporation, which constituted them agents for the performance of its contract with the passenger. Whether the
act of the servant be one of omission or commission, whether
negligent or fraudulent, "if," as was adjudged in Piarzdelphia d- Reading Railroad v. -Derby,14 How. 468, 486, "it
be done in the course of his employment, the master is liable;
and it makes no difference that the master did not authorize
or even know of the servant's act or neglect, or even if he
disapproved or forbade it, he is equally liable, if the act be
done in the course of his servant's employment." See also
Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore -Railroadv. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 210. "This rule,". the Court of Appeals of
New York well says, " is founded upon public policy and convenience. Every person is bound to use due care in the
conduct of his business. If the business is committed to an
agent or servant, the obligation is not changed." Higgins v.
TFatervliet Turnpike Co., 46 N. Y. 23, 27. The principle is
peculiarly applicable as between carriers and passengers; for,
as held by the same court in Stewart v. Brooklyn & Cros*ton Railroad,90 N. Y. 588,591, a common carrier is bound,
as far as practicable, to protect its passengers, while being
conveyed, from violence committed by strangers and copassengers, and undertakes absolutely to piotect them agaiust

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the misconduct of its own servants engaged in executing the
contract.
What -will be misconduct on the part of its servants towards
a passenger cannot be defined by a general rule applicable to
every case, but must depend upon the particular circumstances in which they are required to act. In the enforcement of reasonable regulations established by the carrier for
the conduct of its business, the servant may be obliged to use
force. But the law will not protect the carrier if the servant
uses excessive or unnecessary force. This doctrine is well
illustrated in Sanfmd v. Eighth Avenue Railroad,23 N. Y.
343, 345. In that case it appeared that the plaintiff's intestate got upon a street railroad car in the night time, and,
after being shown to a seat, refused, without sufficient cause,
to pay his fare. He -was ordered to leave the car, and, failing
to do so, the conductor led him to the forward platform, and,
without stopping the car, forcibly ejected him therefrom.
The injuries received by the passenger resulted in his death.
The court said: "It must be conceded that the conductor had
a right to expel the intestate for the reason that he would not
pay his fare when asked to do so. But this was not a right to
be exercised in a manner regardless of all consequences. A
person cannot be thr'own from x railroad train in rapid motion
without the most imminent danger to life; and, although he
may be justly liable to expulsion, he may lawfully resist an
attempt to expel him in such a case. As the refusal of a
passenger to pay his fare will not justify homicide, so it fails
to justify any act which in itself puts human life in,
peril;
and the passenger has the same right to repel an attempt
to eject him, when such attempt will endanger him, that he
has to resist a direct attempt to .take,his life. The great law
of self-pieservation so plainly establishes this conclusion that
no further argument is necessary. . . . It is said that the
intestate offered resistance when he was thus seized. But this
he had a right to do in order to save life, which he had not
forfeited by refusing to pay the fare. He was liable, as we
said, to be expelled, and the conductoF"s.:assault would have
-

1 S.

0. 80 Am. Dec: 286.

STEAMBOAT CO. v. BROCKETT.
Qpinion of the Court.

been justified if the car had been stopped, and the expulsion
had been made without unnecessary violence. ]But, as. the
conductor had no right to make the assault, when' he did and
as he did, so the law will justify such resistance as was offered
.to that assault." See also Hofman v. -New York Central &
Hd.vson River Railroad, 87 N. Y. 25; Pounds v. Delaware,
&c., Railroad, 6- lN. Y. 129, 134; Lynch v. -fetropolitan
Railway, 90 N. Y. 77; Ramsde, v. Boston & Albany Bail'oad, 10d: Mass. 117, 121; -Noble v. Cunningham, '4: ill. 51,
53; -Northwestern Railroad v. Haek, 66 IMI. 242; Robinsonm v.
Webb, 11 Bush,-464, 482.
In the present case the jury were instructed, in substance,
that the plaintiff had no right to be in any part of the boat
except that {ssigned to deck passengers, and that'the carrier's
servants had the right -using no more force than was necessary'-to remove him from the place where he was found by
the watchma-A. Referring to the testimony of the plaintiff,
the court observed: "He says that he went upon the bales
of hops, remained th6re a short time, went to sleep, and was
awakened by the watchman, Thiel, striking him with a cane;
that he struck him first on the feet, afterwards in the face,
and told him to get down. Re asked Thiel if he was doing
any harm there, and asked to be allowed to stay. Part of the
answer was, 'Get down, come down.' The assault upon him
continuing, he then put up his satchel for protection, and was
thereupon caught by the collar of his coat and pulled headlong from the freight, his shoulder striking one of the barrels
standing near, dislocating it or causing the injury which has
been described. He says that upon regaining his feet he was
again struck by the watchman. Soon after another officer of
the boat came and he was pushed towards the shaft and told
that was the part of the boat for him to remain in; that he
went to the barber shop, and there for the first time read his
ticket and saw the requirement in reference to deck passengers. That very briefly is the statement of the plaintiff."
The court proceeded: "If you believe that statement to be
true, then I say, as a matter of law, that there was more force
than was necessary to accomplish the result, and the plain-

6418

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff is entitled to a verdict." To this last part of the charge
the defendant took an exception. But we perceive no ground
upon which the exception can properly rest. If the statements
of the plaintiff were true, then neither argument nor citation
of authorities is necessary to show that undue force was used
by the company's servants. And it was the right of the
court to so instruct the jury.
. But that the jury might, also, have in mind the case as
made by the defendant, the court said: "On the other hand,
you have the testimony of the witness Thiel, who says he
came to the freight two or three times before the transaction
and told plaintiff to get down; that the other passengers all
got down; that on the third occasion he stepped on a box and
told him to come down; that the plaintiff, instead of doing so,
endeavored to climb higher or get away from him; that the
plaintiff kicked'him in the breast, and in the excitement he
caught hold of him, and in the struggle which ensued, the
boxes, the plaintiff, and the witness came down together in a
brash upon the floor. If you believe that statement, then the
plaintiff brought this assault upon himself; it was an unavoidable accident, and the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
Other witnesses have been called, who in part corroborate the
story of the watchman, and in some particulars corroborate
the story of the plaintiff."
The whole case was thus fairly placed before the jury upon
the issue, as to whether the defendant's servants, in executing
its regulation as to deck passengers, used unwarrantable force
and thereby caused the injuries of which the plaintiff complains.
One objection made by the defendant to the admission of
evidence deserves to be noticed. The plaintiff in his evidence
described the manner in which, as is contended, he was dragged
by the watchman from the boxes. After stating that he was
thrown to the floor, and was being roughly7 pushed by the
r
I saw another man coming
watchman, he proceeded: " Then
with the uniform of the boat on, and the cap, and he said:
'All subh men as you ought to be killed.' I -says, 'What do
you want to kill me for?' he says, 'You farmers are so stingy,

STEAMBOAT, CO. v. BROCKETT.
Opinion of the Courc.

you are too stingy to buy a state-room, and you ought to be
killed.' I said, ' You ought not to call me stingy;' then he
said, 'Have you looked at your ticket V I think he had
' third assistant mate' on his cap, the cap had a yellow cord,
the same as the officers of the boat wore." It appeared, in
proof, that the person here referred to was one of the mates of
the Richmond.
The defendant objected, at the trial, to the competency
of the statements of the mate. The objection was overruled
and an excepti6n taken. It is now insisted that-the defendant
is not responsible for the brutal language of its servants, and
that the declarations of the mate to the plaintiff were not
competent as evidence against the carrier. We are of opinion
that these declarations constituted a part of the "res gestce.
They.were niade by one servant of the defendant while assisting another servant in enforcing its regulation as to
deck passengers. They were made when the watchman and
the mate, according to the evidence of the plaintiff, were
both in the very act-of violently "pushing" him, while in a
helpless condition, to that part of the boat assigned to deck
passengers. Plainly, therefore, they had some relation to the
inquiry, whether the enforcement of that regulation was attended with unnecessary or cruel severity. They accompanied
and explained the acts of the defendant's servants out of
which directly arose the injuries inflicted upon the plaintiff.
l-icksburg & .Meridian .RctilroadZ v. O'Brien, 119 'U. S. 99,
105; Ohio &}.Afiesissippi Railway v. Porter, 92 Ill. 437, 439;
Toledo & Tgabah Railway v. Goddard, 25 Ind. 185, 190, 191.
As bearing upon this point, it may be stated that the jury were
instructed that the case, as presented, did not authorize vindictive or punitive damages, and that in no event could they
award the plaintiff any larger amount than would reasonably
compensate him for the injuries received; thus guarding
against undue weight being given to the harsh words of the
company's servants, apart froui their acts.
Other questions arise upon the admission of evidence against
the objection of the defendant; upon the refusal of the court
to grant requests for instructions in its bel~alf; and upon cer-

650

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

tain parts of the charge, to which it excepted. In our opinion
none of these questions require consideration; and the action
of the court, in respect to them, constitutes no ground for the
reversal of the judgment. The-charge of the court embodied
all that need have been said. It correctly stated the propositions of law arising in the case. No substantial error having
been committed, the judgment is
Aflrraed.

