STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Statement of Facts.

During the pendency of the case in this court the defendant
below, plaintiff in error here, has died, and the executor of his
estate has been substituted as a party in his place.
Judgment of the court below reversed, and cause remainded
witA direction to awarda new trial.

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE tNITED STATES FOR THE
&ORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 15,16, 1887. -Decided

May 2, 1897.

When the case below is tried by a court without a jury, its findings upon
questions of fact are conclusive; and. this court can consider only its
rulings on matters of law properly presented in a bill of exceptions, and
the further question, when the findings are special, whether the facts
found are sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered.
When the statutes of a state provide a board for the correction of errors
and irregularities of assessors in the assessment of property for purposes of taxation, the official action of that body is judicial in character,
and its judgments are not open to attack collaterally.
A party who feels himself aggrieved by overvaluation of his property for
purposes of taxation, and does not resort to the tribunal created by the
state for correction of errors in assessments before levy of the tax, cannot
maintain an action at law to recover the excess of taxes paid beyond
.what should have been levied on a just valuation.

THIS case has once been before this court, and is reported at
105 U. S. 305, to which reference is made for the facts up to
that time. Subsequent to that decision, the plaintiff Stanley
was permitted to amend his complaint. The ground of the
relief sought for, as stated in each count of the amended complaint, except the fourth, was as follows:
"And plaintiff says, upon information anid belief, that the
said pretended assessment was illegal and void. That under
the Constitution and laws of the United States said shares of
stock were not liable to assessment and taxation by state authority, except so far as permission to make such assessment
was given by § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

States, which provides that nothing therein shall prevent all
the shares in any association from being included in the valuation of the personal property of the owner or holder of such
shaxeen k assessing taxes imposed by authority of the state
within which the association is located; but that the legislature of each state may determine and direct the man-ier and
place of taxing all the shares of national banking associations
located within the state, subject only to thetwo restrictions,
that the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed
upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of such state, and that the shares of any national banking
association, owned by non-residents of any state, shall be taxed
in the city or town where the bank is -ocated and not elsewhere.
"And plaintiff further says, upon information and belief, that
the said assessors did intentionally, by a rule prescribed by
themselves, assess or assume to assess the said shares of stock
in said National Albany Exchange Bank at a grepter rate in
proportion to their actual value than other moneyed capital
generally, in the hands of individual citizens of the state of
New York. That the rule adopted by said assessors was to
assess all shares of stock in state and national banks in said
city at par, irrespective of their actual or market value, making, the requisite deduction for real estate owned by said
banks. That such rule necessarily resulted in imposing upon
the shares of said National Albany Exchange Bank a greater
rate of taxation than was assessed upon other moneyed capital
generally. That there were in said sixth ward, of said city,
at the time bf said assessments, several banks, state and national, and that the actual value of the stock of said banks
varied, that of the shares of stock in the said National Albany
Exchange Bank being considerably less than the stock of most
of the other banks in the said city.
"That there was a large amount of moneyed capital in said
city of Albany and in said sixth ward, in the year aforesaid,
in the hands of individual citizens of the state of -New York,
and that such moneyed capital was generally assessed at a less
rate than the said shares of stock in said National Albany

STAXLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Exchange Bank. That the rule adopted as aforesaid by said
board of assessors was not authorized by the laws of the
state of New York, and was in violation of thc provisions of
§ 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States; and
that, for the reasons above set forth, the said pretended assessment was illegal and void, and the money thereby collected
was wrongfully collected and paid into the county treasury,
and belongs of right to the said Chauncey 1. Williams and not
to said county."
After this amendment was made, but before the trial, the
plaintiff in error discontinued the action as to the 5th, 6th,
7th, 10th, 11th and 112th counts, as to which the statute of
limitations had not run, and the case was retried before the
court, without a jury, a jury trial having been waived by the
parties, upon the counts remaining in the complaint, viz., 1st,
2d, d, 4th, Sth, 9th. -udgment for defendant, excepting as
to the fourth count.
Judgment for plaintiff on the fourth count. 15 Fed. Rep.
483. This was the count to recover the taxes collected on the
shares of one of the shareholders, viz., Chauncey P. Williams,
who had made proof before the assessors that he owed debts
exceeding the amount of his assessment, which question had
been presented and disposed of by the previous doterimnation
of this court. 106 U. S.316.
r. .Vattltew H'ale for plaintiff in error.
I. The court below erred in holding and deciding that the
plaintiff had failed to establish the allegations in the complaint, that the assessments were at a greater rate than was
assessed upon other moneyed Capital in the hands of individual citizens of the state; and also in refusing to find, as requested by the plaintiff, that the rule adopted and acted upon
by the assessors of assessing all bank stock at its par or nomninal value, irrespective of its actual value, necessarily resulted
in assessing shares of stock in the National Albany Exchange
Bank at a greater rate in proportion to their actual value than
other moneyed capital, and was, therefore, a violation of the
restriction contained in § 5219 of the Revised Statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The law applicable to this case, as laid down by this court
when it was here before, is as follows: "But if it is intended to
allege that, apart from the question of the right of the shareholder to deduct for his debts -a question which, in this case,
was disposed 6f and was in issue-it can be proved that the
assessors habitually and intentionally, or by some* rule prescribed by themselves, or by some one whom they were bound
to obey, assessed the shares of the national banks higher in
proportion to their actual value than other moneyed capital
generally, then there is ground for recovery, and a hearing as
to that should be granted." 105 U. S. 318.
This was the same doctrine laid down by this court in the
Ohio cases; namely, that the systematic and intentional valuation of other moneyed capital by the taxing officers below its
value, while the shares in question are assessed at their full
value, or at a greater rate, is a violation of the act of Congress which prescribes the rule by which they shall be taxed'
by state authority. Pelton v. _Tatixnal Bank, 101 U. S. 143;
Cummings v. .Yational Bank, 101 U. S. 153. It may be correctly stated in different language as follows: Where the
habitual and intentional action of local assessors in assessing
the shares of a national bank is in violation of the restrictions
imposed by the laws of the United States, it is none the less
illegal and void because it also violates a state law. There can
be no question that the shares of the national bank in question were assessed at a greater rate than "oth6r moneyed
capital." This unequal assessment was habitual and intentional on the part of the assessors and by a rule prescribed by
themselves. This is shown by clear and uncontradicted evi-"
dence.
This course of action was taken by the assessors notwithstanding the jrotest of the shareholders in the Exchange
Bank and has been repeatedly condemned by the courts of
the state of New York. In the certiorari proceeding, the
Supreme Court of the state of New York say: The assessments have not beer made against the shareholders "on the
value of their shares of stock" as the law requires, but were
made as the fact is certified in the return, at par value, with-

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

out regard to the true value, in excess of par.

Such basis

of assessment was in manifest disregard of these plain directions of the statute. 2IHun, 585. It is an undisputed fact,
appearing in the return, that the board of assessors, in the
assessment of all bank stock in the city of Albany, adopted
as their standard of valuation the par value of the shares
whenever the actual or market value was equal to or exceeded
the par value, and regardless of the actual value whenever it
exceeded par. lTis was a palpable uiolation of the laws of
this state, requiring and regulating the assessment of property
for the purpose of taxation. . . . The conclusion is inevitable that it was the duty of the defendants to have assessed
the shares of stock in all of the banks at their true value instead of their par value, and that all of the assessments are
unauthorized and erroneous where the actual value of the
stock is above par. People v. Assessors, 2 Hun, 583.
The Court of Appeals of the state of New York, in the
case of Williams v. Weaver, 7 5 N. Y. 30, in which the assessore of the city of Albany were defendants, say: It may be
assmned as entirely clear that the basis of assessment against
the owners of shares of stock of the Albany National Exchange Bank was erroneous. These assessments were not
made on'the value of the shares of stock, as required by law
(Session Laws 1866, c. 7 61), but were made at the "par value"
without regard to their real value in the market. The effect
of such a v,juation necessarily must be to make great inequality, and as the 2,ecord in this case shows, to inyose vu)on the
.hareholders whoin the plaintiff ,'e )resents a greater burden of
taxatio thaw, that which wold properly belong to themn.
II. The rule adopted by the assessors was in violation of
the XIVth Amendment to the Constitution, in that it practically denied to the shareholders the "equal protection of the
laws." See countd of Santa Chlra v. &aitthern,Iacxc La1u;9road, IS Fed. Rep. 385; Caonty of San Xateo v. Same, 13 Fed.
Rep. 145.
III. The proof in this case, taken in connection with the
laws of the state of New York, which are deemed to be in
evidence here, and may, under the stipulation, be referred to

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

on any argument of the case, shows. tnat there was practically
an unlawful discrimination made ageinst national bank stock

during the years in question in the city of Albany.
IV. By the statutes of the state of New York, a vast
amount of moneyed capital .is and was during the years in
question, exempt.
V. The court erred in excluding the evidence offered by the
plaintiff to show that there was no certificate connected with
the assessment roll of the sixth ward for the years 1874 and
1875; and that the only oath annexed thereto was that set
forth at folio 269 of the record. Such evidence was offered in.
order to show that there was no valid assessment of any real
or personal property in.the sixth ward of the city of Albany,
during the years in question; and, that, therefore, the assessments imposed upon the tax collected from stockholders of the
Exchange Bank, were at a greater rate than was imposed upon
other moneyed capital in said years. The evidence was
objected to as not being within the issue presented by the
pleadings, and under a stipulation which appears on the record
marked stipulation No. 2, which is to-be found at folios 163
and 164 of the record. The courts of the state of 'New York
have repeatedly held that an assessment without the certificate
or oath prescribed by the statute is absolutely void. -Fan 1ensselaer v. Whitleede, 7 N. Y. 517; Hiwckley v. Cooper, 22 Hun,
253; Brevoort v. Brooklyn, 89 -. Y. 128.
VI. The plaintiff is certainly entitled to recover back the
taxes assessed in 1873. The first two counts in the amended
complaint are for taxes assessed in 1873 and collected in 1874.
The Revised Statutes did not take effect until December, 1873.
The assessment of the year 1873 is, therefore, to be governed
by the law of 1864, which was then in operation. Under that
law there was a special prohibition against taxing shares of a
national bank at a greater rate than those of "any of the
banks organized under authority of the state where such association is located." 13 Stat. 112, § 41. There can be no question that this restriction was violated by the assessment in
question. The shares of"the Mechanics and Farmers' Rank, a
state bank, were assessed at the rate of only thirty-five per

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS

OF ALBANY.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cent of actual value, while those of the Exchange Bank were
assessed at eighty. As to the taxes of that year, therefore,
the mere fact that the shares of Mr. and Mrs. Williams, were,
intentionally and by the rule above mentioned, assessed at a
greater rate than those of a state bank, furnishes sufficient
ground for invalidating the tax. -Van A//en v. ie Assessors,
3 Wall. 573.
VII. If the assessments in question should not be considered wholly void, they should be held void at least as to the
excess over the average rate assessed upon other moneyed capital, and the plaintiff should have judgment for such excess.
VIII. The court properly overruled the objection to the jurisciction of the court raised upon defendant's amended answer,
at folios 160 to 162 of the record. 1. So far as the amended
answer alleges that the assignment to plaintiff did not confer
upon him the entire interest in the subject matter of the suit,
it is well settled that the defence cannot be sustained. This
"matter is governed by the state practice. Rev. Stat. § 914.
It has-been held by the New York Court of Appeals, that if a
plaintiff, suing upon an assigned claim has a valid transfer as
against the assignor, and holds the legal title to the demand,
the defendant has no legal interest to inquire whether the
tranfer was an actual sale or merely colorable, or whether a
consideration was paid therefor. In the language of Chief
Judge Church, "The assignor could give the demand to the
plaintiff, or sell it to him for an inadequate consideiation, or
without any consideration. It is enough if the plaintiff has
the legal title to the demand, and the defendant would be protected in a payment or a recovery by the assignee." Shze2idan
v. -Mayor,68 N. Y. 30,32; 8tone v. Frost,61 N. Y. 614; Allen
v. B2.own, 44 N. Y. 228. See also Ames v. .Kansas, 111 T.S.
449 ; .3fanufactzringCo. v. Bradley, 105 U. S. 175 ; Williams
v. .Aottaw, 10-4 U. S. 209. Even in cases arising since the
act of 1875, it is held that, if the assignnent is absolute, and
there is no agreement to re-transfer after litigation, the court
will not inquire into motives. Collinson v. Jackson, 14 Fed.
Rep. 305 ; .N'ewby v. Oregon Central Railway, 1 Sawyer, 63;
De Laveaga v. Williams, 5 Sawyer, 573; Z3arion v. Ellis, 1(Fed. Rep. 410.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

M. Theeler H Peckham and .&f.
fendants in error.

S. W. Rosendae for de.

MRis. TusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of Congress, in providing for taxation of the shares
of national banks, by authority of the state in which such institutions are situated, imposes two restrictions upon the exercise of the power, namely, that the' taxation shall not be at a
greater rate than upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens of such state, and that the shares of any
national bank owned by non-residents of the state shall be
taxed in the city or town where it is located. Rev. Stat.

§5219.
In Peop7e v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, this court held, with
reference to taxation thus authorized, that the prohibition
against discrimination has referenc to the entire process of
assessment, and includes the valuation of the shares as well as
the rate of percentage charged, and, therefore, that a statute
of New York which established a mode of assessment by
which such shares were valued higher in proportion to their
real value than other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals, was in conflict with the prohibition, although no greater
percentage was levied on such valuation. If this were not.$o,
a rule of appraisement, applied to shares of national banks,
different from one applied to bther moneyed capital, might
lead to such varied valuations as to materially affect the
amount of taxes levied, although the same percentage should
be charged on the valuations. There must be i uniform rule
of appraisement of value, and the same percentage charged on
the values determined, to meet the requirements of the statute.
This action is founded upon an alleged disregard of this requirement by the assessing officers of the county of Albany,
Ngw York. The plaintiff, Edward N. Stanley, is a citizen of
Illinois, and, claiming to be assignee of certain shareholders of
the National Albany Exchange Bank, located at Albany in
New York, sues to recover the amount of certain taxes alleged to have been illegally collected from them upon their

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion of the Court.

shares in that bank during the years frbm 1874 to 1879, both
inclusive, and paid into the treasury of the county of Albany.
The original complaint contained several counts, all of
which, except the fourth, were substantially the same, except
as to the names of the stockholders and the amounts assessed
and collected. They alleged the assessment by the board of
assessors of the city of Albany of the shares held by the assignors of the plaintiff, acting under color of an 'act of the
legislature of -New York, passed April 23, 1866, being chapter
-761 of the laws of that year, at $100 a share, being the par
value thereof, after. deducting therefrom guch suln as was in
the same proportion to such par value as was the assessed
value of the real estate of the banking institution to the whole
amount of its capital stock, and the collection of the amount
levied, and its payment into the treasury of the county of Albany. They also alleged, upon information and belief, that
chapter '761 of the laws of 1866 was in conflict with the laws
of the United States, and especially with the provision that
taxation by state authority of shares of stock in banking associations shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such state, for the reason, among others, that the said act of,
New York did not permit debts of the owners of the bank
stock to be deducted from the value thereof in its assessment,
although such deduction of the debts of the owner was at the
time, anal is still permitted and required by the laws of New
York to be made from the value of every other kind of personal property, and moneyed capital other than bank stock, in
assessing the same for the purpose of taxation.
They also alleged, upon information and belief, that the
assessment of -the shares of stock of the said banking association by the board of assessors was at a greater rate than their
assessmerit upon shares of stock of banks organized under the
laws of New York and located in the same ward of the city,
and was at a greater rate than was assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the state.
For these reasons the plaintiff alleged that the assessment of
the shares of stock, and the levy of the tax thereunder, were

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
- Opinion of the Court.

illegal and void, and that the money received therefor was
wrongfully collected. and paid into the county treasury, and
belonged of right to the shareholders, and not to the county.
The fourthcount differed from the others in averring that
the assignor of the plaintiff named in this count, Chauncey P.
Williams, had presented to the board of assessors an affidavit
stating that the value of. his personal estate, including his
bank stock, after deducting his just debts and property invested in the stock of corporations or associations liable to be
taxed therefor, and his investments in the obligations of the
United States, did not exceed one dollar, and requested the
board of assessors to reduce his assessment to that amount,
but that the board had refused to make such reduction; and
that thereupon said Williams applied tp the Supreme Court of
the state for a writ of mandamus to compel the assessors to
make the reduction; that the Supreme Court denied the application on the ground that the act of the legislature did not
permit such reduction, but required the assessment of the
bank stock at its full value; that the .Court of Appeals of the
state, on appeal, afirmed the decision and judgment of the
Supreme Court; that the Supreme Court of the United States
reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals, and held that
the statute, c. 761 of' the laws of the state of 1866, in
that it did not permit a reduction for indebtedness from the
assessment of bank stQck, which by the laws of the state was
required to be made from the assessment of every other kind
of personal estate and moneyed capital, was in conflict with
the laws of. the United States.
The answer of the defendant consisted in a specific denial
of the several allegations of the complaint, with an averment
that the assessments were duly and regularly made by a
board of assessors having jurisdiction of the matter. In a
supplementary answer the, defendant also set up ^that the
assigmnent of the amounts in suit to the plaintiff was improperly and collusively made for the purpose of giving the court
jurisdiction.
The action was twice tried, at both times by the court
without the intervention of a jury, by consent of parties.

STANLEY -o. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion of the Court.

On the first trial, which took place in October, 1880, the
plaintiff recovered the whole amount upon the first ground
stated, that the act of New York, c. '761 of the laws of
1866, was in conflict with the act of Congress, in not permitting ifi the assessment of the value of the stock of the bank a
reduction for-the debts of the holder. The second ground of
objection to the validity of the assessment, that it was at a
greater rate than was assessed on other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens, was not considered. The case
was then brought to this court for review. After full consideration, we held substantially this: that the statute of New
York was in conflict with the act of Congress, so far as it, did
not permit a stockholder of a national bank to deduct the
amount of his just debts from the assessed value of his stock,
while by the laws of the state the owner of all other personal
taxable property was allowed to deduct such debts from its
value; but that neither the statute nor the assessment under
it was for that reason void. If the stockholder had no debts
to deduct, the mode of assessment adopted was not invalid as
to him; he could not complain of it, nor recover the taxes
paid pursuant to it. If he had debts, the assessment without
a deduction for them in the estimate of the taxable value of
the stock was only ,voidable. The assessing officers, in making
the assessment, were acting within their authority until duly
notified of the debts which were to be deducted. In such
case, therefore, the duty devolved upon the stockholder to show
to the assessing officers what his debts were, and to take such
steps as were required by the law to obtain a correction of the
over-assessment. We, therefore, decided that for the taxes collected upon the assessment alleged in the fourth count the plaintiff was entitled to judgment; this court having held, in Peo.p, v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, that assessment invalid, for the
reason that the assessors had not allowed any deduction for
the debts of the stockh6lder, but that for the taxes collected
upon the assessments alleged in the other counts, no recov.eky
could be had; the stockholders there mentioned not having
produced any evidence that they had presented to the assessors
an affidavit of the amount which they would be entitled to devoL. cx=x-35

546

OCTOBER TER-AT, 1886.
Opinion'of the Court.

duct from the assessment of their shares, if the same rule had
been applied to the assessment of bank shares which -wasapplied
to the assessment of other personal property, or any eyidence
that they owed anything -hatever to be deducted, or that
they had taken any steps under the laws of New Yorkto
correct the over-assessment complained of. The judgment of
the Circuit Court was accordingly reversed, anAl judgment
ordered for the plaintiff upon the fourth count, and for the
defendants on the other counts. Supervisors y. Stany, 105
U. S. 305, 316.
Subsequently, upon the attention of the court being called
to the fact that there was evidence in the case upon the allegation that the assessment of the shares of stock in the
national banking association was at a greater rate than was
assessed upon shares of stock in banks organized under the
laws of New York, and located in the same city, and at a
greater rate than was assessed upon other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens of the state, upon which the
court below did not pass, the judgment was so far modified as
to permit that court, in its discretion, to hear evidence on that
point, and, if necessary, to allow an amendment of the plead-ings to present it properly.
When the case was remanded, Qn application to the Circuit
Court, all the counts except the fourth were amended. The
substance of the amendments consisted in allegations that the
assessors, by a rule prescribed by themselves, 'assessed -the
shares .of the National Albany Exchange )Bank at -sch
greater rate; that the rule adopted was to assess all shares
of stock in state and national banks in the city of Albany at
par, without regard to their actual or market value, making the
requisite deduction for real, estate owned by the banks; that
'this rule necessarily resulted in.imposing upon the shares of
the National Albany Exchange.Bank a greater rate of. taxation than was assessed upon other moneyed capital generally;
that there were in the sixth -ward of the city, at the time of
the assessments, .several banks, state and national; and that
the actuaf value-of the stock of the banks varied, that of the
shares of stock in the National Albany Exchange Bank being

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion of the Court.

considerably less than that of the stock of most of the other
banks -inthe city.
Several of the counts were afterwards abandoned, those remaining applying only to the taxes of the years, 1873, 1874,
and 1875. The case came on for a second trial in March,
1883, and, after hearing the proofs, the court filed its findings
of fact on the issues presented by the pleadings, and gave
judgment for the plaintiff on the fourth count, and for the
defendants on the other counts. To review this judgment the
case is brought to this court on a writ of error.
Several of the assignments of error presented for our consideration are to rulings of the court below upon the evidence
before it; to its finding of particular facts; and to its refusal
to find other facts. Such rulings are not open to review here;
they can be considered only by the court below. Where a
case is tried by the couri without a jury, its findings upon
questions of fact are conclusive here; it matters not how convincing the argument that upon the evidence the findings
should have been different. Thus, the principal finding of
the court is, "That the plaintiff has failed to establish the
allegations in said complaint, that the several assessments
herein. referred to were at a gTeater rdte than was assessed
upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of this state." And the first assignment of error is, that the
court erred in deciding that the plaintiff failed to establish
the allegations mentioned, and the greater part of the oral
argument of the plaintiff's counsel and of his printed -brief
was devoted to the maintenance of this proposition; which is
nothing more than that the court below found against the
evidence -a question not open to review or consideration in
this court. Only rulings upon matters of law, when properly
presented in a bill of exceptions, can be considered here, in
addition to the question, when the findings are special,
whether the facts found are sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered. This limitation upon our revisory power-on a
writ of error in such cases is by express statutory enactment.
Act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. c. 86, § 4; Rev. Stat: § 700.
The same answer will apply to the exceptions taken to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

refusal of the court to make certain additional findings. If
error was thus committed, it was in not giving sufficient
weight to the evidence offered- a matter determinable only
in the court below.
To recover in this case, the plaintiff was required to prove,
under the decision when the case was first here, that "the
assessors habitually and intentionally, or by some rule prescribed by themselves, or by some one whom they were
hound to obey,- assessed the shares of the national banks
higher, in proportion to their actual value, than other moneyed capital generally."
The court below specially found the negative of this; that
the assessors did not, at any of the times *in question, habitually or intentionally, or by any rule prescribed by themselves,
or b any'one whom they were bound to obey, thus assess the
shares of national banks.
The counsel for the plaintiff insists, however, notwithstanding this finding,.that the inference of such habitual assessment
at a higher rate follows from the findings, that within the
city of Albany there were nine banks, and that the actual
value of the shares in all of them except one exceeded their
par value, varying in that respect from 10 to 70 per cent
premium, and yet the value of all was assessed at par.. The
actual value of shares of the National Albany Exchange Bank
was 35 per cent above par, and the actual value of the shares
of some of the other banks was above and some belo*g that
figure. The court found that the method pursued by the
assessors was generally satisfactory to the owners of national
bank stock in the city of Albany, with the exception of a few
stockholders in the National Albany Exchange Bank, and
that such. method was pursued by the assessors with no purpose or intention of unduly assessing shares of national banks,
but simply because it was thought by them to be the most
satisfactory one to the owners of such property, and the best
in itself. A different method might have led to perplexing
difficulties, owing to the great fluctuations to which shares in
banking institutions are subject, their value depending very
much on the skill and wisdom of the managers of those insti-

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion. of the Court.

tutions. Intelligent men constantly differ in their estimate of
the value of such property, and the stock market shows
almost daily changes. Presumptively, the nominal value is
the true value, any increase from profits going, in the natural
course of things, in dividends to the stockholders. This.
method, applied to all banks, national and state, comes as
near as practicable, considering the nature of the property, to
securing, as between them, uniformity and equality of taxation; it cannot be considered as discriminating against either.
Boih are placed on the same footing. In 3-ereantile _Tational
Bank of lTew York v. The State of .- ew York, 120 iT. S. 138,
155, recently decided, this court said: "The main pulpose,
therefore, of Congress in fixing limits to state taxation on
investments in the shares of national banks was to render
it impossible or the state, in levying such a tax, to create
and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring
individuals or institutions carrying on a similar business and
operations and investments of a like character. The language of the act of Congress is to be read in the light of
this policy."
The method pursued could in no respect be considered as
adopted in hostility to the national banks. It must sometimes
place the estimated value of their shares below their real
value; but such a result is not one of which the holders of
national bank shares can complain. It must sometimes lead
also to over-valuation of the shares; but, if so, no ground is
thereby furnished for the recovery of the taxes collected
thereon. It is only where the assessment is wholly void, or
void with respect to separable portions of the property, the
amount collected on which is ascertainable, or where the
assessment has been set aside as invalid, that an action at law
will lie for the taxes paid, or for a .portion thereof. Overvaluation of property is not a ground of action at law for the
excess of taxes paid beyond what should have -been levied
upon a just valuation. The courts cannot, in such cases, take
upon themselves the functions of a revising or equalizing
board. ffewmaA v. Supe'visors, 45 N. Y. 676, 687; .2?ational
Bank of Memwhg v. Elmird, 53 N. Y. 49, 52; Buecher v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

The Village of PortcAester, 101 N. Y. 240, 244; Lincoln v.
Wf'orcester, 8 Cush. 55, 63; Hicks v. Westport, 130 Mass. 478;
BayWr v. city of Portland,28 Fed. IRep. 738.
In nearly all the.states, probably in all of them, provision is
made by law for the correction of errors and irregularities of
assessors in the assessment of property for the purposes of
taxation. This is generally through boards of revision or
equalization, as they are often termed, with sometimes a right
of appeal from their decision to the courts of law. They are
established to carry into effect the general rule of equality and
uniformity of taxation required by constitutional or statutory
provisions. Absolute equality and uniformity are seldom, if
ever, attainable. The diversity of human judgments, and the
uncertainty attending all human evidence, preclude the possibility of this attainment. Intelligent men differ as to the
value of even the most common objects before them -of animals, houses, and lands in constant use. The most that can be
expected from wise legislation is an approximation to this desirable end; and the requirement of equality and uniformity
found in the constitutions -of some states is complied with,
when designed and nianifest departures from the rule are
avoided.
To these boards of revision ,, by whatever name they may be
calied, the citizen must app1iy for relief against excessive and
irregular taxation, where'the assessing officers had jurisdictica
to assess the property. Their action is judicial in its character. They pass judgment on -the value of the property upon
personal examinatior and evidence respecting it. TheiV action
being judicial, their judgments in cases within their jurisdiction are not open to collateral attack. If not -corrected by
some of the modes pointed out by statute, they are conclusive,
whatever errors may have been committed in the assessment.
As said in one of the cases cited, the money collected on such
assessment cannot be recovered back in an action at law, any
more than money collected on an erroneous judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction before it is reversed.
When the over-valuation of property has arisen from the
adoption of a rule of appraisement which conflicts with a con-

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion of the Court.

stitutional or statutory direction, and operates unequally not
merely on a single individual but on a large class of individuals
or corporations, a party aggrieved may resort to a court of
equity to restrain the exaction of the excess, upon payment or
tender of what is admitted to be due. This was the course
pursued and approved in Cmmings v. _Afatianal BanX-, 101
U. S. 153. In that case it appeared that the officers of Lucas
County, Ohio, charged with the valuation of property for the
purposes of taxation, adopted a settled rule or system by
which real. estate was estimated at one third of its true value,
ordinary personal property about the same, and moneyed capital at three fifths of its true value. The state board of equalization of bank shares increased the valuation of them to their
full value. Upon a bill brought by the Merchants' National
Bank of Toledo against the treasurer of the county, in which
the bank was established, to enjoin him from collecting taxes
assessed on the shares of the stockholders, payment of which
was demanded of the bank under the law, it was held that the
rule or principle of uiiequal valuation of the different classes
of property for taxation adopted by the board of assessment
was in conflict with the constitution of Ohio, which declares
that "laws shall'be passed taxing by a uniform rule all moneys,
credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint-stock companies, or
otherwise, and, also, all the real and personal property according to its true value in money," and worked manifest injustice
to the owners of shares in national banks; and that the bank
was, therefore, entitled to the injunction against the collection
of the illegal excess, upon payment of the amount of the tax
which was equal to that assessed on other property. That
decision was rendered upon a disregard by the assessing officers of a rule prescribed by the constitution of the state, but
the same principle must apply when their action in assessing
the shares of national banks is in disregard of the act of Congress. The plaintiff below did not think proper to resort to
this method of obtaining relief, which would have given him
all he was entitled to, if in fact his shares were assessed at a
greater rate than was assessed on other moneyed capital,
because of their illegal over-valuation.

OCTOBER TEJAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

It only remains to notice the exceptions taken to the exclusion of the testimony 'ffered, that the law of INew York
required an oath or ceitificate to be annexed to the assessment
roll substantially different from the oath actually annexed,
and, the claim that the plaintiff has a right to recover the
taxes assessed in 1873 and collected in 1874. The exclusion
of the testimony as to the alleged defect in the assessment
roll was correct under the stipulation of the parties, that the
plaintiff would not claim a right to prove any failure of the
assessors to take the proper oath. A defect in the form o
the oath annexed, ft there be one, could have no bearing upon
the question at issue. The claim for the taxes assessed in
1873 is open to similar objections to those presented against
the clann for the taxes of the other years. If the assignors
of the plaintiff had any just grounds of complaint to the
assessment as excessive they should have pursued the course
provided by statute for its correction, or resorted to equity to
enjoin the collecion 'of the illegal excess, upon payment or
tender of the amount due upon what they conceded to be h
just vhluation.
t foZlows that tie ,udghent of the court below must be
atffre , and it i, so ordered.

FROST v. SPITLEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U NITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Argued April 19, 20, 18S7. -Decided

,

May 2, 1887.

A bill in equity to quiet title cannot be maintained, either under the general jurisdiction in equity, or under the statute of Nebraska of 1873, by
one having an equitable title only.

Tins case, so far as is material to the understanding of the
appeal, was a bill in equity by Martin Spitley, a citizen of
Illinois, against George W Frost and wife, citizens of Ne-

