NOONANY . CALEDONIA MUNING CO.

83

Statement, of Facts.

NOONAN w. CALEDONIA MTNKG COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAIKOTA.
Argued Mareb 20, 30,1887. -Decided

April 18, 1887.

During the trial in Dakota of adverse claims to a mineral location, it appeared that one Al. not a party to the record, asserted an interest in the
lode and was a necessary party to a complete determination- of . tble
matters in controversy. By consent of parties he was made a codefendant, defendant's counsel appearing for him, and an entry of it
was made inthe journal of proceedings, and a further entry that "any
amendments to pleadings required to be prepared and served during the
pendency of this action-or at its conclusion." The trial then proceeded,
Al. participating as codefendant, and resulted in a verdict for the plain-,
tiff. Before -the entry of judgment plaintiffs attorney served on
defendants' attorney a notice of an amendment to the complaint by
inserting therein the name of At., together with an additional paragraph
averring that he set up a claim of interest in the property, that it was
without foundation, and asking the same relief against him as against'
the other defendants. Objection was taken to this mode of amendingthe pleadings for the first time in the Supreme Court of the territory on
appeal. Held, That M. was sufficiently made party to the case by the proceedings and the amendment filed, anQ that he must be presumed to
have adopted the answer of his codefendants.
Where an objection to the admission of evidence is so general as not to,
indicate the specific grounds upon which it is made, it is unavailing on
appeal unless it b6 of such a character that it could not have been obviated at the trial.
Where a party was, on the 28th February, 1877, in possession of a mining
claim in the Black Hills of Dakota, within the Indian reservation, with
the requisite discovery, .with the surface boundaries sufficiently marked,
with the notice of location posted, with a disclosed vein of ore, he
could, by adopting what had been done, causing a proper record to be
made, and performing the amount of labor or making the improvements
necessary to hold the claim, date his rights from that day; and such
location, labor, and improvements gave him the right of possession.

THIS was an action to determine the rights of 'the parties to
mining ground in Lawrence County, in the territory of Ddkota.
In April, 1878, one of the defendants below, and of the appellants here, John Noonan, asserted ownxership to a tract of
mineral land in that county, bearing the name of the Bobtail
Lode. It was of great value, and he dsired to obtain a.

394

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

patent* of the United -States for it, He therefore pursued
the course prescribed in such cases by ยง 2325 and 2326 of the
Revised Statutes; and, on the 20th of that month, filed the
necessary application in the proper land office of 'the district.
At the same time Henry Lackey and eight other'persons'
asserted ownership of mining ground known as the Caledonia
Lode, which conflicted with the Bobtail claim, as alleged, to
the extent of three acres and fifty-seven hundredths of an
acre. They, therefore, in May,-1878, filed in the land office
an adverse claim to the application of Noonan; and, in June
following, brought the present action, to determine their
respective rights to the disputed ground.
Subsequently, these adverse claimants sold their interest in the
Caledonia lode to Thomas Bell, of San Francisco; and he conveyed the property to the Caledonia Gold Mining C6mpany, a
corporation organized under the laws of California. Upon application t6 the court, this company was substituted as plaintiif
in the action, without prejudice to the rights of the defendants. An amended complaint was thereupon filed in its
name, and substituted for the original one. .Italleged the
-incorporation of the plaintiff under the laws of Califoihia;
its compliance with the laws of Dakota relating to foreign
corporations, to enable it to transact business, and to acquire,
hold, and dispose of property. in the territory; the transfer of
'the Caledonia lode to Thomas Bell; and his conveyance of the
property to the company. It also set forth the original.location of the lode by four of the original plaintiffs, on the 21st
of June, 1876, and their actual possession thereo afterwards;
and that they and the others of the original plaintiffs, who.
had become interested with them, made,on the 15th of March,
1877, an additional and supplementary claim 'and lodation of
the Caledonia lode, and, on the same day, caused a certificate
or notice of the original claim -and location, as well as of thi
additional and supplementary. claim and location, to be recorded
in the mining records of 'the district.
The amended complaint further alleged, that, from its, original location in June, 1876, thb -plaintiff or its grantors had
been in the, actual and contiuuous possession 'of the Caledonia

NOONAN

v. CALEDONIA, MINING. CO.
Statement of Facts.

claim, and every part of it, and in, aecordance with the laws
of the United States and of the territory of Dakota, and the
local rules and regulations of miners in the district; and had
expended, in labor and money, more than five thousand dollars in its development and improvement; that the defendait
Noonan claimed an interest.in a portion 6f its mining ground,
to the extent of three acres and forty-seven hundredths of an
acre, by virtue of an alleged location of a quartz mining clai,
called the Bobtail lode, made by his predecessors in interest,
in February, 1876, which was invalid and a cloud upon its title
to the Caledonia lode. It prayed. that the defendant might
answer and set out particularly his claim to that portion of
the Caledonia lode which conflicted with the Bobtail lode,
and the nature of it; and that it might be adjudged that he
had no estat4 or interest therein, and that he be enjoined from
asserting any right or title to it.
The defendant, in his answer, denied the allegations of the
complaint, except as they were afterwards admitted; and,
specifically, any knowledge of the incorporation of the plaint iff, or of its compliance with the laws of Dakota in regard to
foreign corporations; admitted his claiin to be the owner of
the Bobtail lode, his application for a patent, and the adverse
action of the former plaintiffs; and set up the discovery and
location of that lode on the 24th of February, 1876, by parties
through whom he derived his interest.
A replication traversed some of the matters set up in the
answer, and asserted an abandonment and forfeiture of the
interests of the original locators of the Bobtail lode.
The action was tried by the court without 'the intervention
of a jury, by consent of parties. During the trial it appeared
that one Thomas F. Mahan asserted an interest in the Bobtail
lode, and that he was a proper, if not a necessary, party to a
complete determination of the matters in controversy. Thereupon, by consent of parties, he was made a codefendant in
the action. The following was the entry made, at the time,
in the journal of proceedings, following the title of the cause:
"Now, on this 15th day of July, A.D. 1880, the trial of the
cause is resumed. By consent of all parties, Thomas F.

OCTOBEJR TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

Mahan'is made a party defendant in this action. Counsel foi
defendant appear and answer instanter for him; any amendlnents to pleadings required to be prepared and served during
the yendency of this action, or at its conclusion."
It appeared that subsequently the two defendants joined in
&11 pro'ceedings taken. Before the entry of judgment, the
plaintiff's attorneys, ihorder to make the record complete as
.to the new defendant; Mvfahan, instead of inserting his name at
the proper place in the complaint, or re-writing it 'entirely',
served uponf the defendants' attorneys, and filed with the
judgnent roll, the following amendmefit:
"In the District Court, First Judicial Ditrict, Lawrence
County; Dkota Territory.
C"Caledonia
Gold Mining
e
Comp)any, (formerly,
'Henry Lackey et aL, ) litff,

}

"John lNoonan and Thomas' F. Mfahan, Defendants.
Ci loi comes the above-named plaintiff, and in pursuance
and by authority of the court hereinbefore made, on the 15th
day of July, 1880, making the said Thomas F. Mah n a defendant in this action, amends its amended and substitute
coi iplaint, 'which'was herein filed November 6th, 1879, by
'inserting therein the name of the said Thomas F. Yahan as a
defendant, and by inserting in, and adding to said complaint;
immediately After the subdivision thereof numbered nine, and
before the prayer thereof, the following allegation, to wit:
"10. And plaintiff further a ers that the defendant, Thomas
F. Mahan, has, or claims, to have, some right, title, or interest
adverse to plaintiff in or to that portion of the said Caleddnia
'lode claim above described by survey; that said claim of. said
defendant Mahan is without foundation or right as against
plaintiff, but said Mahan persists in the same and makes said
claim, as plaintiff is informed and believes, i~nder the said al'leged.and pretended location of the said alleged Bobtail lode
claini above described as co~wiier with, and. claiiig under'
the same. right 'as,.defendant Noonan, as above montioned,'
and that said claim of s~id Mahan casts a cloud, upon plaintiff's'

J

NOONA " v CALEDONIA MINING CO.'

397

Statement of Facts.

title' to its said portion, of said Caledonia lode above described,
and plaintiff, therefore, makes said Mahan a defendanfi iithis
agaistaction, and asks the same judgment, decree, and relief
him as hereinafte; prayed against said defendant Noonan.
"CLGer & DixoNl
.Att'ys for PZ't'

."

Nhfo objection was taken in the District bit to this mode
of amending the pleadings. " It was made the subject of corment'for the first time in the Supreme Court of the territory
when the case was there on appqal, when it was contended
that the-amendment was irregular and insufficient,, and left
the original-complaint without any allegations against the defendant Mahan, against whom, with the original defeiidant,
the judgment was entered; and, therefore, that'the judgment
.could not be sustained by the pleadings. That court held the
objection to be untenable; and its ruling in.,this'respect was'as,
signed .as error.,
On the trial, the plaintiff, to establish its corpbrate emistence,
gave in evidence a copy of its articles of incorporation, certified.hy the clerk,of - he city and county of San Francisco, the
place of its pringipal busines,'under his official seal, to be a
correct -copy of the original on file in his office; to which
there-was'also aplended a certificate of the secretary of state.
of 'California, under the seal of the state, that it was also a correct copy of those on file in his office. By the law of California, the articles upon'which a certificate of incorporation is'
issued are required to be filed with the'clerk of the county i*
which the principal business of the corporation is to be con.ducted, and a,ctified copy with the secretary of state.
Civil Code, ยง 296. The, plaintiff at the same time produced a
copy of the articles on file in the office of the secretary of the'
territory, certified by h~in to be a correct copy, with the seal
of the territory Annexed. To the introduction of these certi-fled copies it was objected,- generally, that they were "incompetent, irrelevant, and immaterial," without any specification
of the particular ground on which they were thus objection-,
able.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

If the Supreme Court of the territory, on 'appeal, it was
.objected that the documents weren6t properly authenticated
as required by the act of Congress,, and that the certificates
were signed by deputy officers; but that court held that the
specific objection being one which, if taken below, might have
been obviated there, it could not be urged on appeal under the
general objection taken; and, therefore, ruled the point untenable'. This ruling was also assigned as error.
Numerous other' objections were taken by the plaintiffs,
durbig' the progress of the trial, 'to the introduction of evidence of acts of the predecessors of the ,plaintiff in locating
and developing the Caledonia lode, previous to February .28,
187[, when the right of the I'ndians to' the territory was
extinguished by agreement :with the* United States. These
and objections to the findings of the court on matters of fact
addition to those.mentioned, the burddn of the
constituted, in.
appellant's complaint. The court found for the plaintiff, and
rendered judgment that it was the owner, and entitled to the
possession of the ground in controversy. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the territory, the judgment was affirred,
and the defendants have brought the case to this court.
Xf. Daniel -2Welcugldin for appellants.
Steele was with him on the brief.

-Yr. Wiliim R.

Xi. 2. L. S7dnner and" 'r.S'S. Burdett for'appellee.
IELD,. after stating, the ease, delivered the

MR. Jus'ric,

opinion of the court..

the District Court were fully conThe exceptions taken in.
sidered and answered by the Supreme Court of tho territory
in a clear and. satisfactory opinion. The objections to the
sufficiency of the evidence to justify the findings of fact cannot be heard heri .theywere matters for, consideration only
in the courts below, Of, the -uynerous assignments of error
presented to us, we deem only three of sufficient. importance
to require special consideration. They are:
1. That the judgment is not sustained by the pleadings;

NOONAN

v. CALEDONIA M]LINING CO.
Qpiuion of the Court.

2.. That the articles of incorporation of the plaintiff were
admitted iiu evidence without due authentication; and,
3. That evidence of acts of the predecessors of the plaintiff
in locating and developing the Caledonia lode prior to the
relinquishment of the Indian title to the United States was
improperly admitted.
1. There would be some force in the objection that the judgment ig not sustained by the pleadings, if the amendment joining Mahan as a codefendant with Noonan could not be read
as i part of them. The judgment is against him as well as
against Noonan, and there must appear somewhere in the
record .allegations by which it can be supported. It would
have been the better course, when the order was entered thatMahan be joined as a codefendant, for the attorneys of the
plaintiff to have had his name at once inserted in the complaint, with such other changes .as to make the allegations
apply to him. " That such changes might have been made by
consent of parties, without the formality of suspending the
trial, and filing a new complaint, and waiting for an answer
to it, there can be no doubt; and when thus made, the parties
would be estopped from'any subsequent objection to them. A
provision of the Code of Civil Procedure of Dakota vests
ample authority in the court to make changes of this character in furtherance of justice. Its language is: "The court
may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings, process
or prqceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any
party; or by correcting a mistakb in the name of a party, or
a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allega.tions material to the case, or, if the amendment does not
change substantially the claim or defence, by conforming the
proceed ng or pleading to the facts proved." ยง 142.
The trial continued after the amendment, the defendant
Uahan participating in all its proceedings as if his name had
been inserted in the complaint in the most formal manner,
and he had answered it specifically. The agreement provided
that the amendment might be made during the pendency of
the' action, or on its conclusion, and. in accordance with it the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886."

Opinion of the Coyrt.

amendment to the complaint filed with the judgment roll may
properly be read and treated as part of the pleadings. If the
defendant Mahan had desired to file a formal answer to the
allegations of the complaint, he should have insisted upon it
at the time. , He was probably satisfied with the answer of
his codefendant on file, which put in issue the plaintiff's title
and set up all that he could have pleaded for himself. He
had on the trial all the benefits of the most formal answer,
and his connection with the case as a party sufficiently appears from the amendment filed.
.2. The objection to the introduction of the articles of incorporation at the trial was that they were "i m m aterial, irrelevant, and incompetent" evidence. The specific objection now
urged, that they were not sufficiently authenticated to be admitted in evidence, and that the certificates were made by
.deputy officers, is one which the general objection does not
include. Had it been taken at the trial and deemed tenable,
it might have been obviated'. by other proof of the corporate
existence of the plaintiff or by new certificates to the articles
of incorporation. The rule is universal, that where an objection is so general as not to indicate the specific grounds upon
which it is made, it is unavailing on appeal, unless it be of
such a character that it could not have been obviated at the
trial. The authorities on this point, are all one way. Objections to the admission of evidence must be of such a specific
character as to indicate distinctly the grounds upon which the
party relies, so as to give the other side full opportunity to
obviate them at the time, if under any circumstances that can
b6 done. United States v. _Mo2fasters, 4 Wall. 680; -urton
v. !Driggs, 20 Wall. 125; Wood v. Yeiimar", 104 U. S. 786,
795.
3. The objection u-fged to the-admission of evidence of acts
done by the grantors of the plaintiff in locating and developing
the Caledonia mine previous to February 28, 1877, is -founded'
upon the treaty between the United States and the Sioux .Indians, concluded on the 29th of April, 1868, and ratified on
the 16th of February, 1869. By the second article, a district'
of. country embracing the region known as the Black Hills of

NOONAN v. CALEDONIA MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Dakota, and which includes the mining property in controversy, was set apart as a reservation for the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of those Indians, and such other
friendly tribes or individual Indians to whose admission, from
time to time, they and the United States might consent. -And.
the United States' stipulated that no 'person, except those
designated and authorized by the treaty, and such officers,
agents, and employes of the government as might be autho- fized to enter upon Indian' reservations in the diso&arge of
duties enjoined by law, should ever be permitted "to pass
over, settle upon, or reside in the territory" described, or in
such territory as might be added to the. reservation. 15 Stat.
635.
In a subsequent agreement with. the Indians, ratified by act
of Congress on the 28th of February, 1877, the northern and
western boundaries of the reservation were changed, leaving
out the country of the Black Bills, which was relinquished by
the Indians to the United States. That region was thus freed
from the prohibition against settlement upon it, and' opened
like other public lands of the United States to exploration and
occupation under the mining laws. It is contended that the
treaty operated as an actual prohibition against all acts taken
by the predecessors of the plaintiff in the location and development of their mine, until the supplemental agreenent of
1877, and that no support to their title can be derived from
such acts, and, ther6fore, that no evidence of them was admissible.
Notwithstanding the prohibiti6n of the treaty, as soon as it
became known, early in 1874, that the precious metals existed
in the Black Hills, large numbers of persons entered upon the
reservation and proceeded to appropriate mining ground, and to
work and develop the mines. The subject soon attracted the attention of the public authorities, and an exploring expedition, to
ascertain and report as to the mining and agricultural resources
of the country, was organized and sent out by the Secretary
of the Interior in 1875. The report of the geologist accompanying the expedition, made in November of that year, confirmed the existence of the precious metals on the reservation.
voL. cx=x-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

In the meantime, as early as June, 1875, the Secretary, under
direction of the President, appointed a commission to visit the
Sioux nation, with a view to secure to the citizens of the
United States the right to mine in the country known as
the Black Hills. Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs
for 1875, pp. 184 and 185. The commission was unsuccessful,
but the government was determined, notwithstanding, to open
the mineral lands to development; and by the act of August
15, 1876, 19 Stat. 176, making appropriations for the Indian
service, it was- provided that thereafter there should be no appropriation made for the subsistence of the Indians unless
they should first agree to relinquish all right and claim to so
much of their permanent reservation as lay west of the 103d
meridian of longitude. This was the Black Hills country.
Negotiations were resumed, and a supplementary agreement
was concluded, which was approved February 28, 1877, -relinquishing that portion of the reservation, and ceding it to the
United States. 19 Stat. 254:.
While it is true that, before the new agreement, the prohibition against settlement upon. the country constituting the reservation: of the Indians remained in full force, yet it was
evident t6 all that it would soon be withdrawn by som( arrangement; that immediately afterwards the mineral lan-ds
Would be open to occupation and develo]pment; and that from
that time mining clahns taken up in the territory would be
respected and protected. With the new agreement the results
anticipated followed. The presence of the miners on the res-.
ervation u ) to that.thne was illegal, but from that time it was
legal. '-Those then. in possession of mining claims, which had
been taken up and developed in accordance with the rules of
miners in mining districts of the country, were entitled to protection in their possessory claims as against the intrusion of
others. The .effect of the withdrawal of the district from the
reservation, and the consequent end of the prohibition, was to
l eave the predecessors of the plaintiff exempt from liability to,
be disturbed for their unlawful entry on the land, and free to
take. measures under the mining laws for the perfection of
'their-claims. Evidence of what had been done by them, the

NOONAX

v. CALEDONIA

aRINING CO.

Opinion of the Court.

location of their claim, its extent, the amount of work done. in
its development, was competent, not as creating any absolute
right to the property, but as showing the existence and condition of the property when their possession became lawful
under the new agreement. "Whether they should be protected
in holding the property afterwards depended upon their future
compliance with the laws, statutory and mining, governing the
possession and use of mineral rands in Dakota. TL.3 rule laid
down by the Supreme Coitrt of the territory is, in our judgment, the correct one, which should govern cases of this-kind,
and that is substantially this : that where a party was inpossession of a mining claim on the .28th of February, 1871, with
the requisite discovery, with the surface boundaries sufficiently
marked, with the notice of location posted, and with a disclosed vein of ore. he could, by adopting what had been done,
causing. a proper record to be made, and performing the

-

amount of labor or making the improvements necessary to
hold the claim, date his rights from that day; and that such
location and labor and improvements would give him the
right of possession.- By this rule substantial justice is done to
all parties who were entitled to protection in their mining
claims when the new agreement took effect.
Such proceedings were taken in this case by the owners of
the Caledonia mine. They renewed their location and claim,
making a record of their original'claim and location and of
the supplementary one, in the proper wining records 'of the
district.
The case appears to have been examined with great care
in the Supreme Court of the territory, and every consideration*given to the positions of the appellants, and in its rulings
we see no error.
Jzdgmet aflrwmd.

