444

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

OUACHITA PACKET COMPATY v. -AIKEN.
APPEAL FROM THE OICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIAA.
,Argued January 5,1887.-Decided April 25, 1887.

Wharfage is, in the absence of Federal legislation, governed by local state
laws, and if the rates authorized by them and by municipal ordinances
enacted-under their authority are unreasonable, the remedy must be
sought by invoking the laws of the state.
A municipal ordinance of New Orleans which authorizes the collection of
a wharfage rate, to be measured by the tonnage of the vessels which use
the wharves, and estimated to be sufficient to light the wharves, and to
keep them in repair, and to construct new wharves as required, and
which may realize a profit over these expenses, is held not to conflict
with the Constitution or with any law of the United States.

IN equity. 'Decree dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.216. Joa.AM
.

ennard for appellants.

2fr. WRIlian Wirt

Howe was with him on the brief.
.1'. Willjam, S. Benedict for appellees. .Xr. George -Denegre and Mr. fT omas I. Bayne were with him on the brief.
MR. JuSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill in this case was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States by the appellants, for themselves and all others
in ike interest who should come in and contribute to the expenses of the suit, against Catherine M. Aiken, administratrix
of Joseph A. Aiken, and others, residents of New Orleans,
doing business under the firm name of Joseph A. Aiken
& Co., and against the city of New Orleans. The complainants are owners of steamboats plying between New Orleans
and other ports and places on the Mississippi River and its
branches in other states than Louisiana; and the burden of
their complaint is, that the rates of wharfage which they are

OUACHITMA PACKET CO. v. AIKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

compelled to pay for their vessels at New Orleans are unreasonable and excessive; are really duties of tonnage, and
imposed in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The defendants, JosephA. Aiken & Co., at the time of filing
the bill, were lessees of the public wharves belonging to the
city of New Orleans, under a lease from the city made in
May, 1881, for the term of five years; and, as such lessees,
charged and collected the wharfage complained of. The
object of the bill, as shown by its prayer, was to obtain an
injunction to prevent the defendants from exacting the excessive charges referred to, the complainants expressing a willingmess to pay all reasonable wharfage.
The bill alleges that on the 11th of January, 1875, the
council of the City of New Orleans adopted an ordinance,
"fixing and regulating charges for wharfage, levee, and other
facilities afforded by the city of New Orleans to commerce,"
by which ordinance, among other matters and ihings, it was
ordained that the wharfage dues on all steamboats shall be
fixed as follows: "Not over five days, ten cents per ton, and
each day thereafter, five dollars per day; boats arriving and
departing more than once a week, five cents per ton each
trip; boats lying up for repairs during the summer months to
occupy such wharves as may not be required for shipping, for
thirty days or under, one dollar per day." The entire ordinance was filed with the bill as an exhibit, showing. the rates
of wharfage to be chdrged'for vessels of every kind.
The bill then states, that on the 17th of May, 1881, the
council of the city adopted an ordinance directing the administrator of commerce to advertise for sealed proposals for the
sale of the revenues of the wharves and levees for the term of
five years, upon certain conditions specified, amongst which
were the following, viz: to keep the wharves and levees in
good repair; to construct such new wharves as might be
necessary, not exceeding the expenditure, in any one year, of
$25,000; to light the wharves with electric lights; and to pay
the city annually the sum of $40,000, of which $30,000 should
be devoted to the maintenance of a larbor police for the protection of commerce,. and the remaining $10,000 should be

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

devoted exclusively to the payment of salaries of wharfingers,
signal officers,- and other employes on the levees. The sale
was to be adjudicated to the persons who should agree to
charge the lowest rates of wharfage. Joseph A. Aiken put in
a proposal to take the lease on the conditions specified, at the
rates of wharfage named in the ordinance of 1875, with certain reductions which he agreed to make from time to time;
and this proposal was accepted by the council.
The power to construct and maintain levees and wharves,
and to prescribe and collect rates of levee dues and wharfage,
had been conferred upon the city council by its charter, act of
March 16, 1870, no. '7, § 12; 'and, by the act of March 13,
1871, it was aut orized to lease the wharves, upon adjudication, for any term not to exceed ten years at a time. Laws of
1871, no. 48, §§.
The point raised by the complainants is, that the rates of
wharfage proposed by the lessees were necessarily enhanced
by the condition requiring them to erect new wharves,, to
maintain electric lights, and to pay the city $40,000 per annum
for the maintenance of a harbor police, and the payment of
salaries to wharfingers, &c. They argue, therefore, that the
rates agreed to be charged were intended, not merely as compensation for the use of wharves already constructed, but' as
a tax to raise money for the use of the city, to enable it to do
those {hings the expense of which should be defrayed from its
general resources; it being contended that wharfage cannot
be charged for the purpose of raising'money to build wharves,
but only for the use of them when built. The complainants
contend that the charges are unreasonable and excessive as
wharfage, and, therefore, unauthorized as such, and, in effect,
a direct duty, or burden, upon commerce. They offered a
good deal of evidence to show that the rates of wharfage
charged are onerous and excessive, and that, without the conditions referred to, the lessees could have offered to take much
lower rates; or, at all events, that much lower rates would
have been a reasonable and sufficient compensation. On the
other hand, the defendants offered evidence to show that the
rates were reasonable, and that, *ith the same or even higher

OUACHITA PACKET CO. v. AIKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

rates, the city itself, before leasing out its wharves, lost every
year a large amount of money in their administration. The
court, below declared "that the exactions of wharfage are substantially expended for the benefit of those using the wharves,
and that the proof does not satisfy us that the rates are exOuachita Packet Co. v. Aiken, 4
orbitant or excessive."
Woods, 208, 213. We do not think it necessary to scrutinize
the evidence very closely. With the Circuit Court, we see
nothing in the purposes for which the lessees were required to
expend or pay money, at all foreign to the general object. of
keeping up and maintaining proper wharves, and providing
for the security and convenience of those using them. The
case is clearly within the principle of the former decisions of
this court, which affirm the right of a state; in the absence of
regulation by Congress, to establish, manage and carry on
works and improvements of a local character, though necessarily more or less affecting interstate and foreign commerce.
We may particularly refer to the recent cases of Transportation Co. v. ParNrsburg,1071U.S.691; _Morgala Steamship Co.
v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455; and Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543;
in which most of the former decisions involving the same
principle are cited and referred to. The first of these was a
case of wharfage; the second, one of quarantine; and the
third, that of a lock in Illinois River constructed .by the State
of Illinois in aid of navigation. The same principle was applied and enforced in the cases of "Cooley v. Board of Mardens of Philadephia,12 How. 299, on the subject of pilotage;
in Mobile v. Himba/l, 102 U. S.691, where a state law provided for the improvement of the river and harbor of Mobile;
in the various cases of bridges over navigable rivers which
have come before this court, and which are reviewed and approved in .Esdanaba,Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; and in Turner v. faryland, 107 U. S.38, which related to the inspection
of tobacco. The same principle was reaffirmed, with the
limitations to which its application is subject, in the recent
case of Robins v. Shel6y Taxing -District,120 U. S.489, 493.
In all such cases of local concern, though incidentally affecting commerce, we have held that the courts of the United

"OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

States cannot, as such, interfere with the regulations made by
the State, nor sit in judgment on the charges imposed for the
use of improvements or facilities afforded, or for the services
rendered under state authority. It is for Congress alone,
under its power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several'states, to correct anyr abuses that may
arise, or to assume to itself the regulation of the subject. If,
in any case of this character, the courts of the United States
can interfere in advance of Congressional legislation, it is, (as
was said in .Moigan v. .ouisiana, qua supra,) where there is a
manifest purpose, "by roundabout means, to invade the domain
of Federal authority."
Wharfage, the matter now under consideration, is governed
by the local state la'vs; no act of Congress has been passed to
regulate it. By the state laws, it is generally required to be reasonable; and by those laws its reasonableness must be judged.
If it does not violate them, as before saidI, the ,United States
courts cannot interfere to prevent its exaction. Of course,
neither the state, nor any municipal corporation acting under
its authority, can lay duties of tonnage; for that is expressly
forbidden by the Constitution; but charges for wharfage may
be graduated by the tonnage of vessels using a' whaxf; and
that this is not a duty of tonnage, within the meaning of the
Constitution, has been distinctly held in several cases; amongst
others, in those of Packet' Co. v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Paceet
Co. v. .-Louis, 100 U. S. 423; PacNet Co. v. Catlettsburg,105
U. S. 559; and Transpoitatio 'Co. v.-Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691.
The charges in the present case are professedly for wharfage,
and we see nothing in the ordinance fixing the rates inconsistent with the idea that they are such. The city, by its
charter, had the power to fix the rates of wharfage, and it
established those now complained of. We do not see the slightest pretexi for calling them anything else than wharfage. The
mahner in which the receipts are to be appropriated does not
change the character of the charges made. In the case of Huse
v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 549, it was said: "By the terms tax,
impost, duty, mentioned in the ordinance, [the Ordinance of
1787,] is meant a charge for the use of the government, not

OUACHITA PACKET CO. v. AIKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

compensation for improvements. The fact that if any surplus
remains from the tolls, over what is used to keep the locks in
repair, and for their collection, it is to be paid into the state
treasury as a part of the revenue of the State, does not change'
the character of the toll or impost. In prescribing the rates it
would be impossible to state in advance what the tolls would
amount to in the aggregate. That would depend upon the ex-'
tent of business done, that is, the number of vessels and the
amount of freight which may pass through th6 locks. Some
disposition of the surplus is necessary until its use shall be
required, and it may as well be placed in the state treasury,
and probably better, than anywhere else." And in the case of
[T-'an portatioi
Co. v. Parkersburg, we said: " It is also
obvious that since a wharf is property, and wharfage is a charge
or rent for its temporary use, the question whether the owner*
derives more or less revenue from it, or whether more or less
than the cost of building and maintaining it, or what disposition
he makes of such'revenue, can in no way concern those who
make use of the' wharf and are required to pay the regular
charges therefor; provided, always, that the charges are
reasonable and not exorbitant."
In the present case, however- as already indicated, the
appropriation actually made of the receipts, namely, to the
objects of keeping the wharves in repair, of gradually extehding them. as additions may be needed, and of maintaining a
police for their protection, *and lights for their better enjoyment, is entirely germane to the purpose of wharfage facilities.
It is what any prudent proprietor would do; it is what the
city itself would do if it'managed the wharves on its own
account. But even if it were otherwise; if a profit should
happen to be realized, by the city, or the lessees, beyond
the amount of expenditures made, this would not make the
charges any the less wharfage. And being wharfage, and
nothing else, if the charges are unreasonable, remedy must be
sought by invoking the laws of the state, which cannot be
done in this suit, inasmuch as the jurisdiction of the court is
rested on the supposed unconstitutionality of the charges for.
wharfage, and not on the citizenship of the parties. If the
VOL. cxxi-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

state laws furnish no remedy; in other words, if the charges
are sanctioned by them, then, as before stated, it is for Congress, and not the United States courts, to regulate the matter,
and provide a proper remedy. Such an interposition may become necessary; for although the imposition of unreasonable
wharfage by a city or a state is always the dictate of a suicidal
policy, the temptation of immediate advantage under stringent pressure will often lead to its adoption.
What measures Congress might adopt for the purpose of preventing abuses in this and like mnitters, it is not for us to determine., It is possible that a law declaring that wharfage
shall be reasonable, and not oppressive, would answer the purpose. It would, then, be in the power of the Federal courts
to inquire and determine as to the reasonableness of the charges
actually imposed. That no such inquiry, except in the administration of the state law, can be instituted, as the law now
stands, is shown in some of the cases to which we have referred. In Tanmportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691,
700, we said: "It is an undoubted rule of universal application,
that wharfage for the use of all public wharves must be reasonable. But then the question arises, by what law is this
rule established, and by what law can it be. enforced? By
what law is it to be decided whether the charges imposed are,
There can be but one answer to
or are not, extortionate?
these questions. Clearly it must be by the local municipal
law, at least until some superior or paramount law has been
prescribed. . . . The courts of the United States do not
enforce the common'law in municipal matters in the States because it is Federal law, but because it is the law of the State."
As the only question determinable in this suit .is whether
the charges of wharfage complained of were, or were not,
contraxy to the Constitution or any law of the United States,
and as it is clear that they were not, the decree of the Circuit
Court must be

Affirmed.

