OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

of the agents of the company was wanton and malicious, and
that they had purpQsely given him the wrong transfer, and
that they had wantonly and maliciously ejected him from the
car, then the plaintiff was entitled to recover, and in assessing
damages he was entitled not only to compensatory but to vindictive damages.
-Taking the testimony, which is all. set forth in, the record
and is but little controverted, together with the charge of the
judge, we think it perfectly clear that the jury found a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the plaintiff himself was mainly in fault in regard to the mistake in the transfer
*ticket, and that no unnecessary force or violence was used in
ejecting him from the car. This renders a further considera-,
tion of the case unnecessary, and
The judgment of the 9uzpreme Court of the Di8trict of
Columbia is a med.
BRAGG v. FITOH
APPEAL FROM THE CIOUIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued January 11, 12, 1887.-Decided M.tay 2, 1887.

In view of the previous state of the art, the claims in the patent granted to
Charles B. Bristol, May 16, 1865, for an improvement in harness hooks
or snaps must be restricted to the precise form and arrangement of parts
described in the specification and to the purpose therein indicated.

iBILL in equity to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree for complainants. Respondents appealed. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court. The following are
the figures referred to in the opinion.
17'ig, 1.

BRAGG v. FITCH.
Opinion of the Court.
zig. 2

C

Fig. 3.
M g. 4.

-Y.

"illiam Edgar Sinondg for appellants.

-Y. Jon- Y. Beack (2fr. John S. Beack was with him on
the brief ) for appellees.
Mr. JusmoE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Tins is a suit on a patent granted to Charles B. Bristol, May
16, 1865, for an improvement in harness hooks or snaps; the.
complainants being assignees of the patent. These hooks are
usually attached to the end of a strap or chain for the purpose
of fastening it to a ring or staple, as in the case of a tie-strap
for fastening a horse to a post. The small hook by which a
watch chain is fastened to the ring or stem of the watch is an
example. It has a movable part called the tongue, which is
connected to the shank of the hook by a pivot, and is kept in
place against the end of the hook by the pressure of a spring
acting between the shank and the tongue. The tongue may
be pressed inward, so as to admit the ring or staple, and is
thrust back to its place by the action of the spring. In some

form or other, the implement has long been in use. The
patent in question relates to the mode of arranging the spring
in the tongue, and of attaching both to the shank of the hook.
The complainants' expert says: "The invention shown and
described in the patent of Bristol is an improvement in that
class of snap-hooks in which the tongue is pivoted in a recess
between two cheeks in the shank. In this recess a coil spring
is arranged around the pivot so that the two ends of the spring
bear, one upon the tongue and the other upon the body of the
hook, tending to press the tongue up against the end of the
hook, but yet permit the tongue to be depressed to open the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886..
Opinion of the Court.

hook. In this class of hooks prior to Bristol the tongue was
cast with a recess upon its under side to form two cheeks corresponding to the cheeks in the shank of the hook. -The
cheeks on the tongue were drilled corresponding to the hole
through the cheeks in the shank, so that a rivet could be inserted through the sides of the shank and both sides of the
tongue to form the pivot on which the tongue would turn.
The coil of the spring was arranged around the pivot, the two
ends bearing, one upon the shank and one upon the hook, as
before described."
The principle of this arrangement was exhibited in many
different forms. Sometimes the spring merely passed around
the pivot without any coil; sometimes a straight spring was
so secured to the one part and made to press against the other,
as to effect the same object. One would hardly suppose that
a patentable invention could have been made in relation to this
little device. But many patents have been, and probably
more will be, granted. The Bristol patent, now sued on, is
one of the latest in the series which has been brought to our
attention.
The particular contrivance which is claimed as an invention
in this patent may be described as follows. Instead of having
a separate pivot, or pin, to pass through the cheeks or ears of
the hook and tongue for the purpose of connecting them together and holding the coil of the spring, a small projection or
fulcrum, to answer the purpose of a pivot, is cast as a part of
one of the cheeks of the hook, on its inner side, and the cheeks
(being miude of malleable cast iron) are spread further apart,
and the recess between them is thus wider than they are .intended to be when the article is finished. The coil of the
spring is placed on the projecting fulcrum. The tongue is
made with a recess as usual, but one side of this recess is left
open, the other side having the ordinary cheek perforated with
a, hole to admit the fulcrmn-pivot. The tongue, thus constructed, is placed in the recess of the hook and slipped over
the spring and pivot; and then, by means of a vice or press,
the outside cheeks of the hook are squeezed together until the
fulcrum-pivot passes through the hole in the cheek of the

BRAGG v. FITCH.
Opinion of the Court.

tongue, and comes in contact with the opposite cheek of the
hook. The patentee, after having described the construction
of the several parts, explains the mode of putting them together as follows:
"Having made the parts as before described, I place the
spiral spring, Fig. 4, on the projection or pin n, Fig. 2, and
slip the tongue, Fig. 3, on to the projection or fulcrum-pin n,
so that the spring, Fig. 4, will rest in and be inclosed by the
recess r, With the two tangential parts A and i pointing
toward the hook a. I then place the article in a proper
vice or press and close up the cavity between c and d until
the pin n comes in contact with the side or ear c, Fig. 2, when
the whole will appear as represented in Fig. 1, (except the
strap A,) and will be ready for use or sale."
The claim of the patent is as follows, namely:
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is " 1.:The combination of the tongue g with the spiral spring,
Fig. 4, when the spring works on the torsion principle and
rests in a recess (as P), in the rear end of the tongue, substantially as herein described.
"2. The combination of the fulcrum-pin n with the tongue
g, when the pin n is cast in one of the ears, and the recess or
cavity is fitted to be closed, substantially as herein described."
Only the first claim is relied on in the present suit, as the
defendants do not use the fulcrum-pivot, cast with the cheek
of the hook, but the ordinary pivot inserted in holes in both
cheeks.
The defence is threefold, namely: 1st. That the supposed
invention was described in previous patents; 2d. That, in view
of the state of the art, the device claimed as new was not a
patentable invention; 3d. That, upon a proper construction of
the patent, the defendants do not infringe it.
Several prior patents were given in evidence which show, if
not an entire ahticipation of, at least a very near approach to,
the invention claimed.
In 1852, a patent was issued to Palmer & Simmons for an
improved hook for whiffletrees, embodying the same prinVOL. CXXI-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ciple as the snap-hook, in which the recess of the tongue,
inclosing the spiral spring, having precisely the same object
as the recess of the tongue and spring in Bristol's and other
snap-hooks, had but one cheek, the other side of the recess
being open until it was applied to the end of the whiffietree
supporting the hook, by which it was closed up when the
parts were brought together. The connection of jhe two was
made by a pivot passing entirely through the cheek of the
tongue and the coil-spring inclosed therein, and into the end
of the whiffletree. This pivot had a broad head, which compressed the tongue and kept itin place, in the same manner
as is done by the cheek of the hook in Bristol's snap-hook.
In 1859, one Daniel H. Hull patented a trace-fastener,
which contained a similar device, so far as the arrangement of
the tongue and spring are concerned. The -tongue, called in
the patent the latch, had a recess containing the spring, which
was open on the inside, opposite to a slight recess in the
slotted fastener, which corresponded to the hook in the snaphook. The pivot on which the tongue moved, and which
passed through the spiral spring, was of the usual kind, and
4ot cast as part of the fastener or of the latch.
In January, 1861, a patent was granted to one 0. S. Abeel
for an improvement in safety hooks, in which he dispensed
with both the ears of. the tongue by the use of one or two
straight springs, one end of which was inserted in a slight
groove in the recess cr chamber of the hook, and the other
resting against the tongue either in a groove or against a projection or shoulder.
In December of the same year, a patent wast granted to
Oliver S. Judd for an improvement in snap-hooks, in which
the spring* was arranged in the recess of the tongue and
operated exactly like the spring in Bristol's hook; the only
difference between the two being, that in Judd's hook the
phot passed through both the hook and the tongue, and the
latter had two cheeks, otne on each side of its recess. The
arrangement of the spiral spring, with both tangential ends
projecting forward towards the hook, was precisely like
Bristol's.

BRAGG v. FITCH.
Opinion of the Court.

These prior patents exhibit every feature of the Bristol
snap-hook, described in the patent sued on, except the single
one of the fulcrum-pivot cast as part of the cheek of the hook,
and not passing through holes in both ears. This fulcrum is
the only novelty- shown in the patent; and this is not used
by the defendants. The snap-hook made by them has the
same pivot which is used in Judd's hook, inserted in the same
way, and passing through both cheeks of the hook. The only
particular in which it differs from Judd's is, that the tongue has
but one cheek, and only one end of the coiled spring projects
forward, towards the hook, resting against the tongue; whilst
the other end projects backward, and presses against the side
of the recess in the tongue, which is curved around and prolonged sufficiently for this purpose. It differs in two respects
from the Bristol snap-hook, to wit, in not using the fixed fulcrum cast as part of the cheek, and in not having both tangential ends of the spring projecting forward towards the hook,
but having one of the ends projecting backwards and pressing,
not against the tongue itself, but against the opposite side of
its recess, prolonged sufficently for the purpose.
It is obvious from the foregoing review of priol patents,
that the invention of Bristol, if his snap-hook contains a patentable invention, is but one in a series of improvements all
having the same general object and purpose; and that in constiuing the claims of his patent they must be restricted to the
precise form and arrangement of parts described in his specification, and to the purpose indicated therein. As we have
seen, with one exception, (the solid pivot,) all the parts are old,
and have been used in combination in other things of the
same general character.. The use of a recess in the tongue
with one of its ears or cheeks removed was to adapt it to the
new element referred to, namely, the solid pivot; and although the first claim of the patent is for the tongue thus
constructed, in combination with the spiral spring, as arranged
in connection with it, yet this claim must be construed in reference to the purpose for which the tongue and spring, thus
arranged, were intended, namely, for adjustment upon the
solid pivot. Without this relative purpose, the combination

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

of the tongue and spring, by itself, would be anticipated by
the patent of Palmer and Simmons, and that of Hull. If it
has any novelty, it consists in its new application to the snaphook as devised by Bristol; and this was a snap-hook provided
with the peculiar solid pivot, or fulcrum-pin, which is the subject of his second claim, and to which, as we have seen, the
form and arrangement of the tongue and spring were specially
adapted, and requisite to its beneficial use. This necessary
restriction of the first claim renders it clear that it is not infringed by the defendants; for, as before stated, they do not
use the solid pivot, but the old and long-used pin, passing
through both ears or cheeks of the tongue and the hook.
The defendants also use a different device from that described by Bristol, in the arrangement of the spiral spring, the
two ends of which, instead of pointing towards the hook,
point in different directions, one towards the hook and pressing against the body of it, and the other in the opposite direction, and pressing against the side of the recess in the tongue,
which is prolonged and cured around for that purpose.
On the whole view of the case, we are satisfied that the defendants do not infringe the patent sued on when construed as
it must be to give it any validity.
17w decision of the Circuit Court mu.t, therefore, be reversed,
and the ease remanded,with instructionsto dismiss the bill.

McCOY v. NELSON7.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued April 22, 1887.-Decided May 2,1887.

A bill in equity for the infringement of letters-patent for an invention held,
bn a general demurrer, to be in proper form; and the requisites of such
a bill considered.

BILL in equity for the infringement of letters-patent. The
bill was dismissed on general demurrer. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.

