OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

KATZENBERGER v. ABERDEEN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted March 21, 1887.-Decided April 4, 1887.

The act of the legislature of Mississippi of November, i858, amending
the charter of the city of Aberdeen in that state, conferred no power
upon the municipality to issue its negotiable bonds in payment of sub"scription to railroad stock, and to levy a tax for their payment, until the
legal voters of the city should approve of the tax by a vote of a majority
of such voters at an election held as other elections in the city.
The curative act of the legislature of Mississippi of March 16, 1872, did not
legalize bonds Issued ilregaly before the adoption of *the new constitution of 1869, which would not be valid if issued after, ts adoption.
Whieu, by reason of a change in the constitution of a state, its legislature has
no constitutional authority to authorize a municipal corporation to issue
n~gotiable bonds, it cannot validate an issue of bonds by such a corporation made before the change in the constitution, and when the
legislatuie had such power.

T is was an action at law to recover interest on municipal
bonds. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiffs sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_r. Ca~vin Perkins for plaintiffs in error.
Xr. Bawter AXhFarland and -Y. . 0. iSykes for defendant
.i error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WAITR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought against the city of Aberdeen, on the
14th of September, 1882, to recover the interest from May 1,
1874, to May 1, 1882,.on 156 bonds of the city issued to the
Memphis, Holly Springs, Okolona and Selma Railroad Company, under date of April 26, 1870. The alleged authority
for the issue of the bonds is an amendment to-the charter of
the city.in November; 1858, Laws of Mississippi, 1858, p. 221,
as follows:

KATZENBERGER v. ABERDEEN.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the -Legislature of the State of
.Hiwsissp, That the maayor and selectmen of the city of
Aberdeen be, and they are hereby, empowered to contract
with the New Orleans, Jackson and Great Northern Railroad
Company, or with any other railroad company, and to subscribe in the name, and for the use of the city of Aberdeen, as
many shares of the capital stock of said company, and upon
such terms and conditions as they may stipulate and agree
upon, as they shall deem expedient, not exceeding in amount
the sum of one hundred thousand dollars.
"SEc. 12.Be it further enacted, That the mayor and selectmen of said city of "Aberdeen are hereby empowered to levy
and collect a tax on all the property within the corporate
limits of said city, subject at the time to state or county
tax, and upon the annual gross incomes of all persons or corporations residing or doing business in the corporate limits of
said city, to be applied to the payment of the 'aforesaid subscriptio'n of' stock as provided in the first section of this act:
Provided, That before such, tax shall be levied the same shall
be approved by a majority of the legal voters of said city, to
be ascertained-by an election held as other elections in said
city.
"Src. 3. Be it further enacted, That the said tax shall be
levied and collected as other taxes of said city, and the tax
collector is hereby required to execute a bond, with good security, to be approved by the said mayor and selectmen conditioned for faithful performance of his duties as such collector,
and that he will pay over the moneys collected, as directed by
the said mayor and selectmen, -and such tax collector shall
receive for his services one per centfim on the amount collected, and no more.
"SEc. 4. Be it fvlrther enacted, That the gross amount of
the annual income of each and every person and corporation
residing or doing business within the corporate limits of said
city,, shall be ascertained by the said tax- collector, who,, for
such purposes, is authorized and required to administer an oath
to each person, or his agent, or the proper officer of a corporation, as [to] the amount of his, her or their annual incQme;

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and any person wilfully swearing falsely, as to the amount Of
such income, shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as in other cases- of perjury.
"SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That this act shall take
effect fyom and after its passage."
On the 26th of April, 1870, the mayor and selectmen of the
city passed the following ordinance:
"SEC. I.' Be it ordained by t7e mayor and selectmen of the
city of Aberdeen, in council "assembled,That the city of Aberdeen do hereby subscribe to the capital stock of the Memphis,
Holly Springs, Okolona and Selma I. IR.Company the sum of
one hundred thousand dollars, to be paid in bonds of the said*
city of Aberdeen, each of the denomination of five hundred
dollars ($500), maturing twenty years from the first day of
May, A.D. 1870, bearing eight per cent. interest per annum,
payable semiannually on the first days of May and iNovember
of each year, said bonds to be signed .bythe mayor of the city
of Aberdeen and countersigned by the treasurer thereof, with
the corporate seal of said city affixed.
"SEc. 2. Be it farthzer ordained,That the bonds issued in
pursuance of section first of this ordinance have interest coupons attached, signed by the treasurer of said city of Aberdeen or with his signature lithographed thereto:
"SEC. 3. Be itfartherordained,That the form of the bonds
of the city of Okolona issued to said railroad company be
adopted as the form of the bonds issued to said railroad company by the city of Aberdeen, issued in pursuance of the foregoing ordinances, and that the city attorney be instructed to
prepare immediately a form for said bonds and have the same
lithographed.
1Si:c. 4. Be it farther ordained,-That this subscription is
upon condition that said Memphis, IIolly Springs, Okolona and
Sehna Railro.ad shall pass through the city of Aberdeen, M ississippi, and the amount of said subscription be expended in constructing said railroad in and through the county of Monroe,
in said state.
"SEc. 5. Be itfurther ordained, That as soon as said bonds
are lithographed and signed, as herein directed, the mayor of

KATZENBERGEIi v. ABERDEEN.
Opinion of the Court.

said city shall hand the same over to the Memphis, Holly
Springs, Okolona and Selma Railroad Company, and receive
therefor the certificate of stock of said company."
Pursuant to this ordinance the stock was subscribed and
bond issued. The bonds were in the usual form of negotiable
coupon bonds, and contained the following recital:
"This bond is issued under and pursuant to the constitution
and laws of the State of Mississippi, the charter of the city of
Aberdeen, and ordinances passed by the.mayor and selectmen
of the city of Aberdeen on the 26th of April, A.D. 1870."
The declaration states, in substance, the agreement for a
subscription, as set forth in the ordinance, to be paid in bonds;
the issue of bonds in accordance with this agreement; the
purchase by the plaintiffs in March, 1874, of those the interest
upon which is sued for, except that the "seven coupons first
maturing had at the time of such purchase been detached and
paid and were not purchased;" and that none of the coupons
for interest had been paid since. There is no averment that
the levy of a tax to pay the subscription had ever been approved by the legal voters of the city.
A demurrer to the declaration was sustained by the court
below, and a judgmeut rendered thereon in favor of the city.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought.
In our opinion, upon the facts stated in the declaration, the
city had no authority to issue the bonds. The amendment of
the charter, taken as a whole, shows clearly that the legislature did not intend to allow the city authorities to make a subscription which would bind thetax-payers for its payment by
the levy of a tax, until the legalvvoters had approved of such
a tax by a majority vote at an election held as -other elections
were held. As was said in TFeLs v. SiServisors, 102 U. S.
630, the policy of Mississippi, "from its earliest history seems
to have been to require municipal organizations to meet their
current liabilities by current taxation; and in H-awkins v. CarPoll County, 50 Miss. 735, '762, it was expressly declared that
' the grant of, power to such a body of an extraordinary character, such as is not embraced in thy general scope of its duties,
must be strictly construed."' In the present case, the mayor

OCTOBER TER-AT, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and selectmen had power to contract with the railroad company and to subscribe to its stock on "such terms and conditions as they may stipulate and agree upon;" but there was
no express authority to borrow money to meet the payment
nor to issue 'bonds. The authority to agree. on "terms and
conditions 1"does not necessarily imply such a power. It more
naturally refers to stipulations about the location of the road
and the expenditure of the money subscribed of the general
character of those which were actually made part of this subscription, namely, that the road should pass through Aberdeen,
and that the amount of the subscription should be expended in
building it in Mouroe County. It could give no power to bind
the city to levy a tax to pay the subscription before the tax
was voted, because § 9, expressly declares that there shall be
no tax without a vote.. If voted, the city authorities might
probably bind the city for its levy and collection. But if not
voted, there was no power to bind the tax-payers in any form
for its levy, and that would.be the legal effect of a -valid negotiable coupon bond given in payment of the subscription, if
found in the. hands of a bona Ji holder for value before maturity. If payment could be made without a tax, the mayor
and selectmen might subscribe to iny extent they deemed
expedient. But if the subscription was in any event to be
paid by a tax, the tax must be voted before any obligation for
its payment could be incurred.
But it is insisted that the city is estopped by the recital in
the bonds from denying that they were lawfully issued. The
recital is in effect, that they were issued "under and purstiant" to law, the charter of the city, and the ordinance of
April 26, 1870. As has been seen, neither the chiarter nor any.
other law of the state conferred in express terms power on
the city to issue .these bonds under any condition of facts.
The ordinance of the mayor and selectmen directing their
issue. is not of itself enough. Legislative authority, express
:or implied, to pass the ordinance must be shown. The recital,
therefore, in its present form, is of matter of law only, because it implies the existence of no special facts affecting the
case, except the issue of the bonds undqr the ordinance to pay

KATZENBERGER v. ABERDEEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the subscriptior to the stock-without any vote of the electors
to be taxed therefor. It is in effect nothing more than a recital that bonds issued under such circumstances were "under
and pursuant" to law and the c' rter of the city. Such a
recital does not estop the city from asserting the contrary. To
hold otherwise would be to invest a municipal corporation
with full legislative power and make it superior to the laws
by which it was created. -Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 92.
It is next contended that the bonds were legalized by § 4 of
a curative act of the legislature of Mississippi, 'ad(.pted in
1872, Laws of Mississippi, pp. 313, 314, which is as follows:
"Be itfrther enoted, That all subscriptions to the capital
stock of the Selma, Marion and Memphis Railroad Company,
made by [any] county, city, or town in this state, which were
not made in violation of the constitution of this state, are
hereby legalized, ratified and confirmed."
Prior to the passage of this act the name of °the Memphis,
Holly Spiings, O1kolona a d Selma Railroad Company had
been changed by statute to the Selma, Marion and Memphis
Railroad Company.
Before the. subscription was actually made by the city a new
constitution of Mississippi went into effect, known as the Constitution of 1869, Art. XII, § 14 of which is as follows:
"The legislature shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockh6lder in, or to lend its credit to any
company, association or corporation, unless two-thirds of the
qualified voters of such county, city, or town, at a special
election, or regular election, to *be held therein, shall assent
thereto."
In Syke8 v. .- atyor of Column , 55 .Mississippi, 115, it was
decided at October Term, 1877, in reference to this same curative act, that it did not and could not legalize bonds issued
before the adoption of the new constitution that would not
be yalid if issued after. In the opinion, which was delivered
by Chief Justice Simrall, it was said, p. 143: "The act of
1872 is not relied on to waive mere irregularities in the execution of the power-but as conferring reower by 'rezospective
operation. If the bonds are obligatoiy on the .city of ColumvoL. cXXI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

bus, they become so for the first time by virtue of this statute.
The 1.gislature of 1872 could not by relation put itself back
to 1869, and exercise power not denied or restricted by the
constitution of 1832. The measure of its power was the
constitution of December, 1869, and it could not ratify an act
previously done, if at the date it -professed to do so it could
not confer power in the first instance. It could authorize a
municipal loan conditionally. In order to ratify and legalize
a loan previously made, it -was bound by the constitutional
limitation of its power." The doctrine of this case was fully
assented to by this court in Grenade County Su2ervisors v.
Brogden., 112 U. S. 271.
The bonds in the present case, when issued, were unauthor"ized and void, so that the only question is whether the curative statute has made them good. The objection to them is
not that they were issued irregularly, but that there was no
power to issue them at all. They -are to be made good, if at
all, iot by waiving irregularities in the execution of an old
power, but by the creation of a new one. Clearly, therefore,
if the legislature had no constitutional authority to grant the
new power, a statute passed for that purpose could not have
the effect of validating the old bonds. In Gr'enada County
Supervisors v. Brogdern the validating act was sustained, because the subscription was voted by the required two-thirds
majority of voters, and, therefore, the constitution of 1869
did not stand in the way of what was done. Here, however,
there has been no vote at all.
It is said that in Sykes v. .Xayor,&c., of Colunbus, there
was no authority to subscribe at all, and, therefore, that case
was different from this. But here there was no pow&er to subscribe for payment in bonds; and in principle the two cases
are alike. The question is as to the obligation 6f.-the taxpayers to pay the subscription by taxation. Under its original
authority the city could not and did not create such- an obligation. The constitution of the state now prevents the creation of any new liability of that character, unless two-thirds
of the qualified voters of the city have agreed to it. That
was not done when the bonds were made, and no provision

LAIDLY v. HUNTINGTON.
Counsel for Appellant.

has been made for getting such an agreement now., The
curative act is consequently inoperative so far as this subscription is concerned.
Many other questions were discussed in the argument for
the plaintiffs in error, but, as they all grow out of the ' mistaken idea that the original subscription payable in bonds
could have been made under the charter as amended in 1858,
they need not be specially referred tQ. Bonds issued without
legislative authority cannot be made binding by me; 3 municipal ratification, because there is no more power to ratify than
there was to create orginally.
The judgment i8s afflmed.

LAIDLY v. HUNTINGTON.APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGIXIA.
Argued

arch 22,1887. -Decided Apr.4,1887.

In a suit by a widow in a court of the state of which she is a citizen, seeking
to have dower assigned to her in land within the state conveyed by her
husband to A, a citizen of another state, and by the latter conveyed to a
corporation created under the laws of the state in which the land lies,
to which suit A is made party defendant, there is no separable controversy (if there be any controversy at all) as to A, which warrants its
removal to-a Circuit Court of the Upited States.
A petition for removal filed after the case has been heard on demurrer on
the ground that the bill does not state facts sufficient to entitle the
complainant to the relief prayed for, and after a decree sustaining the
demurrer, is too late.

Tins was an appeal from a decree overruling a motion to
remand the cause to the state court from whence it had been
removed, and .from the final decree in the cause. This court.
disposed of the case only on the first issue. The case is stated
in the opinion.
-. r. I F. Brown for appellant.

