CARSON v. DUNHA .
Syllabus.

ant. Ten years thus elapsing after the lease was recorded by
Mrs. Laughlin before Mr. Davis made his will, he was justified
in the belief that he had the right and power to devise this
remainder interest to whom he pleased, and for this reason, if
there were no other, I am of opinion that complainanfIs
estopped from assailing this lease now, and is not entitled to
have the same declared void, and a cloud upon her title. She
was fully cognizant of all the facts in relation to her title and
in relation to the execution of the instrument, during the lifetime of her father as well as since. To wait until after his
death, and until after the death of .most of the persons who
could have had any knowledge of the transactions, and after
her father, by will, had disposed of his estate, presumably, in
some respects, in a manner otherwise than he -vould have.
done had he not believed himself possessed of this property,
and then attack his will, would be inequitable and unjust."
On the whole case we are of. opinion, that, even regarding
the deposiiton of the plaintiff as competent testimony under
§ 858 of the flevised Statutes, she is estopped by her action in
respect to the acknowledgment of the lease, and placing it on
record, and permitting it thus to remain unquestioned for over
twenty-two years, from setting up the parol trust alleged in
regard to the property; that no ground is shown for setting
aside the lease; and that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
Afflnmd.

CARSON v. DUNHAM.
APPEAL

FROME THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH OAROLINA.Submitted March 28, 1887.- Decided April 25, 1887.

When a case is*removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground that the controversy is wholly between citizens of different states, and the adverse party moves in the Circuit Court
to remand the case, denying the ave ments as to citizenship, the burden
is on the party at whose instauce the suit was removed to establish the
citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction to the dircuit Court.

422

OCTOBER TERM,* 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

A petition filed in a state court, showing on its face sufficient ground for
the removal of the cause to a Circuit Court of the United States, miay be
amended in the latter court by adding to it a fuller statement of the
facts, germane to the petition, upon which the statements in it were
gounded.
In order to give jurisdiction to a Circuit Court of the United States of a
* cause by removal from a state court,, under the removal clauses of the
act of 'March 3, 1875, c. 137, it is necessary that the construction either
.of the .Constitution of the United States, or of some law or treaty of the
United States, should be directly involved in the suit; but the jurisdiction for review of the judgments 'of state courts given bi § 709 of the
Revised Statutes extends to adverse decisions upon rights and titles
claimed under commissions held or authority-exercised under the United
States, as well as to rights claimed under the Constitution laws or treaties of the United States.
.Provident Savfins Society v. Ford, 114 U. S" 635; Dupasseur v. Rochereau,
21 Wall. 130; and Crescent City Live-Stoc, Co. v. Butchers' Nion Co., 120
U. S. 141, distinguished.
A mortgage made in enemy's 'territory to a loyal. citizen -of the United
States does not necessarily imply unlawful Intercourse between the .parties, contrary to the non-intercourse proclamation and act.
A petition for the removal of a cause from a state-court should set out the
facts on which the right is claimed; not the conclusions of law only.

Tins was an appeal from an order.of a Circuit Court remanding a case to ihe state court from which it had been

removed.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

mr., Clarence A. Seward and ,fr. James Zowndem for appellant. fr. A, G.,21agrathand Ar. H. E. Young also filed
a brief for same.
.Xr. Wlliam E. Earlefor appellee.

M t. CHIEF Jusnc E WuTi

. delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an. appeal under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, 18 Stat. 470, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a state court. The
record shows that on the 11th of August, 1886, C. T. Dunham,
the appellee, fied a bill in equity in the Court of Common
Pleas of Berkeley County, South Carolina, against Caroline
Carson, to fordclose a mortgage made by William-McBurne3

cARSON v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

and Alfred L. Gillespie to Edmund Hyatt, which had been
assigned to Dunham. Is is allegdd that Mrs. Carson is in
possession of the mortgaged property, and that she and the
plaintiff are the only necessary parties to the suit. Service
was made on Mrs. Carson by publication, for the reason, as
shown by affidavit, that she did not reside in South Carolina,
but in Rome, .Italy. On the 9th of October, 1886, which was
the day service on her was conipleted, she entered her appearance by counsel, and at the same tiffie filed her petition for
the removal of*the suit to the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of South Carolina, on the following,
grounds:
I"I. That all the matters therein have been already adjudged
in her favor by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
"If. That the complainant is barred of his present action
by a judgment of the said court in her favor on the matter in
controversy.
"11. That this court.is without jurisdiction because a prior
suit on the like matter is pending in the aforesaid court of the
United States, which, by it9 receiver, has possession of the
subject matter of this suit.
"IV. That the bond and mortgage sued on are void under
the laws of the United States.
"1V. That the defendant holds title to Dean Hall plantation,
the property involved in this suit and mentioned in the com-plaint in the above-entitled suit, under an authority exercised
under the United States, to wit, under a.conveyance from the
United States marshal for the district of South Carolina, made
under a decree of the United States Circuit Court, for the said
district, all of which will more fully appear by her answer.
"The controversy in said suit is also wholly between citizens
of different states, viz., between the said C. T. Dunham, who,
as your petitioner is informed and avers, was, at the commencement of said suit, and now is, a citizen of the state of
South Carolina, and your petitioter, who was, at the com.
mencement of said suit, and now is,- a citizen of the state of
Massachusetts; or the controversy in said 'suit is wholly be-

424.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tween Mary A. Hyatt, who.was, at the commencement of

said suit, and now is,, a citizen of the state of New York, and
who is the sole and only real party in interest in said suit and
in said controversy, and. yolir petitioner, who was, at the com-.
mencement of the said suit, and now is, a citizen, of the state
which controversy is the only controof Massachusetts,
"versy
in said suit;and
that the said Mary A. Hyatt is the real
party plaintiff in said suit, and the said C. T. Dunham is but
a nominal and colorable plaintiff, and that his name has been
used merely for the purpose of defeating the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of.-the United States for the District of
South Carolina, and that said suit is, in fact, a controversy
wholly between the said Mary A. Hyatt and your petitioner,
notwithstanding ,the assignment to the said C. T. Dunham in
the complaint in said suit mentioned."
The suit was entered in the Circuit Court on the 26th of
October, 1886, and .the next day Mrs. Carson filed in that,
court an answer to the bill, in which she set up title in herself
to the mortgaged property by reason of a purchase at judicial
sale under a decree of the Circuit Court of the ,United States,
affirmed by this coprt -foBurie y v. Carson, 99 U. S. 567, in
a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage belonging to her
superior in lien to that in favor of Hyatt. The particulars of
her title, as stated in the answer, will be found reported in
Carson v. Hfyatt, 118U. S. 279, decided by this coulrt at the
last term. ,The claim is that Dunham is. estopped by this
foreclosure from denying the validity of the mortgage held by
Mrs. Carson, and its priority in lien to that on which this suit
was brought.

:.

The answer also sets up as a bar to this suit a decree in the
suit of Carson v. Hfyatt, supra, after it was removed to the

Circuit Court of t1he United States under the order of this
court, dismissing the bill on the discontinuance of the complainant therein from whom Dunham claims title by assignment since the rendition of that decree.
The answer also. contains these further defences:
' XVII. The defendant avers that a suit is now pending in
this court wherein all the issues involved in this action are

CARSON v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court

raised; that the said suit was begun before this present suit,
and that this court obtained jurisdiction thereof before any
court obtained jurisdiction of this present suit, and she says
that by reason of the said suit the court of Common Pleas of
BerkeleyCounty then had and now has no jurisdiction of this
action.
"X VIII. When the bond and mortgage which the complainant is seeking to enforce were executed to the said Edmund Hyatt the said Edmund Hyatt was a citizen. and a
resident of the state of lew York, a loyal state, and the
obligors of the said bond, and the makers of the; said mortgage, were citizens of the state of South Carolina,. which was
then in rebellion against the United States; and this defendant avers that the said bond and mortgage were-, void under
the laws of the United States."
On the 11th of November Dunham flied in the Circuit
Court an answer to the petition of Mrs. Carson for removal,
in which lie denied that he was a citizen of South Carolina,
and averred that he was a citizen of. the same state with her,
namely, Massachusetts. The issue made by this answer was
set down for trial in the Circuit Court, accompanied by an
order "that on such trial the burden shall be upon the defendant, Caroline Carson, to show that the plaintiff, C. T. Dunham, is not a citizen of Massachusetts."
Upon this trial it was substantially admitted that Dunham
was at the commencement of the suit a citizen of Massachusetts, and thereupon the suit was remanded.. From an order
to that effect, this appeal was taken.
The Circuit Court did not err in holding that the burden of
proof was on Mrs. Carson to show that Dunham was not a
citizen of Massachusetts. As she was the actor in the removal proce6ding, it rested on her to make out the jurisdiction of the Circuit, Court. Dunham having denied that he
was a citizen of South Carolina, as she had stated in her
petition, and having claimed that he was in fact a citizen of
Massachusetts, the same as herself,, the affirmative was on her
to prove that his claim was not true, or, in other words, that
he was a citizen of another state than help own. The fact

(OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that the suit had actually been entered in the Circuit Court
did not shift the burden of proof. It was decided in Stone v.
SoutJa Carolina,117 U. S. 430, that all issues of fact made on

a petition for removal must be tried in the Circuit Court. The.
matter stood for trial in the Circuit Court, therefore, precisely
the same as it would if the law had required the petition for
removal- to be filed there instead of in the state court, and
Mrs. Carson had been called on t 9 prove the facts on which
her right of. removal rested. The evidence showed conclusively that Dunham was a citizen of the same state with Mrs.
Carson, and consequently the suit was properly remanded so
far as that ground of removal was concerned.
The fact, if it be a fact, that the assignment of the mortgage to Dunham was colorable only, and made for the purpose
of preventing the removal, gives the Circuit Court no right to
take jurisdiction.. That was decided in ProvidentSavings, &c.,
Sooiety v. Ford,114 U. S. 635, followed and approved in Oakley v. Goodnow, i18 U. S. 43.
The important qu.estion is, therefore, whether it sufficiently
appears that the suit is one "arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States"' In Gold TFasing and Water Co.
v. eyes, 96 U. S. 199, 203, it was decided that, "before a Circuit Court can be required to retain a cause under -this jurisdiction, it must in some form appear upon the record, by a
statements of facts, 'in legal and logical form, such as is required in good pleading, that the suit is one.which 'really and
substantially involves a dispute or controversyI as to a right
which depends upon the construction or effect of the Qonstitution, or some law or treaty, of the United States." When
this suit came intoothe Circuit Court from the state court, no
such case had been made out. As was further said in the case
just cited, "the office of pleading is to state facts, not conclusions of law It is the duty of the court to declare the conclusions, -nd of the parties to state the premises." . All the
statements of this petition, which, for the purpose of removal,
performs the office of pleading, are mere conclusions of law,
not facts from which the conclusions are to be drawn. If the
case had stood on the bill and petition for removal alone,

CARSON v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Cou'rt.

there could be no doubt of the propriety of the order to
remand on this ground as well as on that of citizenship.
But after the case got into the Circuit Court, an answer was
filed which did state the facts, from which, it is claimed, the
conclusions of law set out in the petition necessarily followed.
The petition, on its face, made a case for removal by reason
of the citizenship of the parties; and the suit was properly
taken from the state court and entered in the Circuit Court
on that ground, if not on 'the others. The'sfatute made it the
duty of the state court to proceed'no further until its jurisdiction had in'some way been restored. Had it proceeded, its
judgment could have been reversed, because, on the face- of
the record, its jurisdiction had been' taken away.
The suit was, therefore, rightfully in the Circuit Court'when
the record was entered there and when the answer was filed,
which, for the purposes of jurisdiction, mnay fairly be treated
as an amendment to the petition 'for removal, setting forth
the facts fronm which the conclusions there.stated were drawn.
As an amendment, the answer Iwas germane to the petition,
and did-no more than set forth in proper form what bad before been imperfectly stated. To that extent, we think, it
was proper to amend a petition'which, on its face, showed a
right to the transfer. Whether this could have been done if
the petition, as presented to the *statecourt, had not shown' on
its face sufficient ground of removal, we do not now decide.
Before considering further this branch of the case it is
proper to n6tice the difference between the provisi6ns of the
act of 1875 for the removal of suits presenting Federal questions, and those in § 709 of the Revised Statutes for the re.
view by this court of the decisions of the highest courts 'of
the states. Under the act of 1875, for the purposes of removal,
the suit must be one "arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States, o, treaties made or which shall be made
under their authority; ' that is to say, the suit must be one in
which some title, right, privilege, or imnunity on which the
recovery depends will be defeated by one construction of the*
Constitution, or a law or treaty of the United States, or sustained by a contrary construction. Starinv. New York, 115

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.-

Opinion of the -Court.

U. S. 248, 257T, and cases there cited. But under § '709 there
may be a review by this court of the decisions of the highest
courts of the states in suits "where any title, right, privilege,
or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty
or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under,
theUnited States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilego, or immunity specially set up or claimed, by either
party ,under such -constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or
authdrity." For the purposes of a removal the Constitution,
or some law or treaty of the United States, must be directly.
involved, while for the purposes of review it will be enough if
the right in question comes from a "commission held, or an authority exercised under, the United States." Cases therefore,
relating to the jurisdiction of this court for review are not
necessarily controlling in reference to -removals.
This distinction was pointed out and acted on in Provident
Savings, &ec., Society v. Ford,114 U. S. 635 where the suit
was brought in a state court of New York on a judgment in.
the Circuit, Court of the United States for the Norther District of Ohio, and an attempt was made to remove it under
the act of 1875, on the ground,, among others, that "a suit on
a judgment recovered in a, United States courf is necessarily' a
suit arising under the laws of the United States, as much so
as if the plaintiff or defendant were a corporation of the
United States;" but it was decided otherwise, (p. 642,) because a suit on such a judgment is "simply the case of an ordinary right of property sought to be enforced,"'unless some
question is raised "distinctly involv)ing the laws of the United
States." "These considerations," it was further said, "show
a wide distinction'between the case of a suit merely on a judgment of a United States court and that of a suit by or against a
United States corporation." The expressions in the opinions m.
Duvasseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, 134, and Crescent City
Live-Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141, 146, relied
on by the counsel for the appellants, and, which are thought
to be in conflict with this, 'must be read and construed with
reference to .the facts of those cases, which came here from
the courts of states for review. under § M(O9
of the Revised
Statutes.

CARSON v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

What we have quoted above from' Provident Savings, &e.,
Society v. -Fordis equally applicable to the case made on this
record. The answer sets, up as a defence to the suit the decree
in Hyatt v. Carson, and the title 'acquired by' the purchase
under the authority of the sale in Carson v. feBurney. It is
an attempt to enforce an ordinary property right, acquired
under the authority of judgments and decrees in the courts of
the United States, without presenting any question "distinctly
involving the laws of the United States." The suit, therefoie,
as now presented, isnot- onq arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, within the meaning of that
term as used in the removal act of 1875; but if, in deciding
the case, the highest court of the state shall fail to give full
effect to the authority exercised under the United States, as
shown by the judgments and decrees of their courts, relied on
to support the title of M:rs. Carson, its decision in that regard
may be the subject of revieWv by this court under § 109. The
petition for the removal and the answer, taken together, set
up and claim in her behalf a right derived from an authority
exercised under the United States, but not necessarily under
the laws of the -United States, within the meaning of that
term as used in the removal act.
What has been said in reference to the claims under the
decrees in the Circuit Court is equally applicable to the allegation in the answer of the pendency of another suit on the same
cause of action in the same court.
The statement in the answer that when the mortgage to
Hyatt was made he was a citizen' and resident of New York,
and the makers of the mortgage citizens of South Carolina, a
state whose people were then in rebellion against the United
States, is not enough to make a suit arising under the Constitution or laws of-the United States. The fact that a mortgage was 'made in enemy territory to a loyal citizen of the
United States does not necessarily implyunlawful intercourse
,between the parties contrary to the proclamation of the Pres
ident of the date of August 16, 1861, 12 Stat. 1262, under th(
authority of the act of July 13, 1861, c. 3, § 5, 12 Stat. 257
That transactions within Confederate lines'affecting loyal cit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

izens outside were not all unlawful was decided in United
States v. Quigley, 103 U. S. 595. To make a case for removal
the answer should have set forth the facts which rendered the
mortgage void under the non-intercourse act and the proclamation thereunder. There has been no attempt to do this.
The order remanding the case is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

MILWAUKEE AND NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. BROOKS LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.
ERROR TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERI

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Argued April 15, 1887. -Decided April 25, 1887.

On the facts found by the court below, this court holds that the fufid in
dispute in this case is subject to le applied, by virtue of the garnishee
proceedings, to the payment of. the judgment debt due to the defendant
in error from the plaintiff in error.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
MJfr. E. JMarinerfor plaintiff in error.
Mkr. F C. Winkler for defendant in error. Mr. James G.
Jenkins was with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Brooks Locomotive Works, on November 30, 1875, recovered a judgment against the Milwaukee and Northern
Railway Company for the sum of $15,368.72, with interest
and costs, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin. Execution thereon having
been returned not satisfied, and the judgment being otherwise

