HARTRANFT v. WIEG3MANN.
Syll4bus.

the observations already made, or upon which, although the
questions raised in regard to them have been considered by the
court, it is not deemed necessary specially to remark.
The objection to the competency of the testimony of the
witness Kemplin, as an expert, was properly overruled. He
was a hydraulic engineer, and had been engaged in the construction of steam-engines and other machinery for many
years, although he had never built any steam-engines to be
used on the Western rivers. He was on board of the boat
during its trip from Cincinnati to Paducah, and saw the propelling machinery in operation and examined it, and gave testimony as to the value of propelling engines for such a boat
and as to what it would cost to make them good. The question as to the weight of his evidence was one for the jury, in
view of his testimony as to his experience.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no error
in the record, and the judgment of the Circiut Court is
Affirmed.

HARTRANFT v. WIEGMANiN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 20, 21, 18,7.-

Decided May 2, 1887.

Shells cleaned by acid, and then ground on an emery wheel, and some of
them afterwards etched by acid, and all intended to bt sold for ornaments, as shells, were not dutiable at 35 per cent. ad valorem, as "manufactures of shells," under Schedule I of § 2504 of the Revised Statutes,
page 481, 2d edition, but were exempt from duty, as "shells of every description, not manufactured," under § 2505, page 488.
Duties are never imposed on the citizen upon vague or doubtful interpretations.
The findings of a jury, on which the Circuit Court reserved points of law,
having been treated by that court, and by the counsel for both parties in
it, as amounting to either a special verdict or an agreed statement of
facts, this court overlooked the irregularity, on a writ of error, and considered the case on its merits.
vor. c.xXI-39

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of-the Court.

Asr action to recover back duties alleged to have been fiegaily exacted. Judgment for plaintiff; defendant sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
. r. Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in error.
JMr. Fank P. Prichardfor defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE B.ATOeFOrD

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action at law, brought in a court of the state of
Pennsylvania and removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by the firm of
J. H. Wiegmann & Son, against the collector of customs for
the District of Philadelphia, to recover moneys alleged to have
been illegally exacted by him as duties on imported merchandise. After a trial before a jury, the plaintiffs hada judgment
for $55.29, and the defendant has-brought a writ of error.
The record contains the following statement of the result of
the trial:
"The jurors aforesaid, upon their, oaths or affirmation aforesaid, respectively do say that they find as follows, to wit:
"Plaintiff imported into the United States from London, in
December, 1881, and May, 1882, a quantity of shells, on which
he paid duties June 11, 1883. Among these shells were: 37
doz. regius murex; 8 doz. green ears; 3 doz. white ears; valued at $71.6% on which the collector imposed a discriminating
duty of 10 per cent., or $7.16, as the products of a country east
of the Cape of Good Hope; 12 doz. green snails; 27 doz. Lord's
prayers; 12 doz. mottoes; 9 doz. Turk's caps; 3 doz. magpies;
8 doz. snails; 1 doz. trocus; 16 doz. green ears; 3 doz. white
ears; valued at $125.10, on which the collector imposed a duty
of 35 per cent., or-$44.09, as manufactures of shells.
"The testimony in regard to these shells was as follows:
"Frederick W. Wiegmann. These shells were purchased in
London. The merchants there obtain them from all parts of

HARTRANFT v. WIEGBIANN.
Opinion of the Court.

the world; they are cleaned and prepared for market there;
the epidermis is first cleaned off, and then the shells are ground
or polished for the market; they are cleaned by acid; they
are ground on an emery wheel to expose the pearly interior;
the purpose of both operations is to fit the shells for market;
we sell them for ornaments ;'we import them for the sea-shore,
and sometimes we sell them for buttons, handles to penknives,
&c.; there is no difference in name and use between the shells
ground on the emery wheel and those not ground; the Lord'sprayer shell is sold for the same purpose; there is no new use.
"Dr. Joseph Leidy. [Regius murex shown witness.] That
comes from Panama. [Green ear shown witness.] That is
from the Pacific coast. [Two white ears shown witness.] One
of -these is from the west coast of Africa and the other from
Japan. Most shells have three layers; they have the thin
brown skin, the outside layer, like the common fresh-water
mussel; then they have an inner layer, which is very brilliant.
Very frequently the water is sufficient to wear off the skin,
and they show the dull layer on the outside. By artificial
means that opaque whitish layer is ground off by means of a
wheel, and the inner layer is exposed, which presents that
inner pearly appearance. [Samples. shown witness.] These
shells have had the outer layer ground off so as to exhibit the
beautiful inner layer; that has been done by the application
of a wheel, and afterward by polishing.
"Q. There is something here called the ' Lord's prayer.' I
do not suppose you know it by that name, but please tell us
about it.
""A. Well, I understand its nature. The shell happens to be
of the kind which is very frequently imported and used as an
ornament without any alteration whatever. The outer covering was taken off in the shape of letters, by first covering the
letters with wax or grease, and then covering that with lime,
having in the mean time eaten out the letters by acid or by
etching. The object of taking off the epidermis is simply to
show the internal beauty; for the purpose of ornament; and
the object of taking off the second layer is the same, simply
for the purpose of ornament

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"The jury find that the regius murex, green ears, and white
ears, are products of countries west of the.Cape of Good Hope,
as above testified, and that the discriminating duty on them
amounted to $7.16, which, with interest to October 5, 1883,
amounts to $7.72.
"The jury find that the greqn snails, Turk's caps, magpies,
snails, trocus, green ears and white ears have been ground upon
an emery wheel in the manner and for the purpose described
in the above testimony; that the duty collented on them as
manufactures of shells amounted to $25.98, which, with interest to October 5, 1883, amounts" $28.03.
"The jury also find that the Lord's prayers and mottoes
have been etched with acid, in the maier and for the purpose
described in the above testimony; that the duty collected on
them as manufactures of shells amounted to $18.11, which,
with interest to October 5, 1883, amounts to $19.54.
Recapitulation.
Discriminating duty ....
............
Duty on ground shells
. .
.........
Duty on etched shells ..
..........

.$
.

7 72
28 03
19 54
$55 29

"And the court reserved the following points:
"1. If the court should be of the opinion that both the
shells ground on an emery wheel and the shells etched with
acids, in the manner found hy the jury, were not liable to
duty as 'manufactures of shells,' but were entitled to be admitted free, as I'shells unmanufactured,' then -judgment to be
entered in favor of the plaintiff for fifty-five dollars and
twenty-nine cents.
"2. If the, court should be of opinion that the shells etched
by acids in the manner found by the jury were liable to duty
as%manufactures of shells,' but that the shells ground on an
emery wheel, as found by the jury, were not so liable, then
jidgment to,be entered in favor of the plaintiff for thirty-five
dollars and seventy-five cents.
"3. If the, out should be of opinion that both the shell-

HARTRANFT v. WIEGMANN.
Opinion of the Court.

ground on an emery wheel and those etched by acids were
liable to duty as 'manufactures of shells,' then judgment to be
entered for plaintiff for seven dollars and seventy-two cents
only, being the amount of discriminating duty on shells found
by the jury to have been imported from countries west of the
Cape of Good Hope."
The defendant then moved for a new trial, in refusing to
grant whicb, the court held, "that, in order to render the
shells subject to duty as ' manufactures .of shells' something
more must be done than simply to remove the outer surfacd
either by acids or mechanical means, and that, while the shells
retained their special form and charazter, they could not be
classified as I manufactures of shells?"
The finding of the jury is not in the usual form-of a special
verdict, but the jury make certain findings, and the statement
is, that the court reserves the three points stated; and each
point reserved is stated in one and the same form, namely,
that if the court should be of opinion that the shells are dutiable thus and so, or are free from duty, then judgment is to be
eatered for the plaintiff for a specified sum. As the Circuit
Court, and the counsel for b6th paities ia that court, appear to
have treated the findings and the reservation as amounting to
either a special verdict or an agreed statement of facts, we are
disposed to overlook the irregularity, and to consider the case
on its merits. Mu'nford v. W-ardweN, 6 Wall. 423.
It is contended, on the part of the government, that the
shells were dutiable under the following provision of § 2504
of the Revised Statutes, Schedule M, p. 481, 2d ed.: "Shells,
manufactures of: thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
On the other side, it is contended, that the articles were
free, under the following provision of § 2505, p. 488, 2d ed., in
regard to articles exempt from duty: "Shells of every description, not manufactured."
The collector levied a duty upon the shells of thirty-five
per centum. The Circuit Court held that they were exempt
from duty. The question is, whether cleaning off the outer
layer of the shell by acid, and then grinding off the second
layer by an emery wheel, so as to expose the brilliant inner

OCTOBER TERWMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

layer, is a manufacture of-the shell, the object of these manipulations being simply for the purpose of ornament, and some
of the shells being afterwards etched by acids, so as to produce inscriptions upon them. It appears that the shells in
question were to be sold for ornaments, but that shells of
these descriptions have also a use to be made into butions and
handles of penknives; and that there is no difference in name
and use between the shells ground on the emery wheel and
those not groun.d. It is contended by the government that
shells prepared by the mechanical or chemical means stated in
the record, for ultimate use, are shells manufactured, or manufactures of shells, within the meaning of the statute.
By the act of March 2, 1861, c. 68, § 22,-12 Stat. 192, a
duty of 30 per cent. ad valoreni was imposed on "manufactures of shell," and by the act of July14, 1862, c. 163, § 13,
12 Stat. 557, that duty was increased to 35 per cent. ad
valorem. '-yB the act' of July 1, 1870, c. 255, § 22, 16 Stat.
268, "shells of every description, not manufactured," were
exempted from duty. "These enactments'were carried into
the Revised Statutes.
It is stated in the brief on The part of the government that
the interpretation of these provisions by the Treasury. Department has not been uniform. In April, 1872, it ruled" that.
"shells which have merely been cleaned and polished with
acids cannot fairly be classified as manufactures of .shells."
In July, 1876, it ruled that shells engraved by the application
of acids were manufactured shells. In August, 1877, it ruled,
that where the manufacture of the shells consisted merely in
polishing them and removing, by grinding -or otherwise, a portion of the surface, the shells were exempt 'from duty, because
their character and condition had not been materially changed,
and they still preserved their identity as shells.* At a later
date, .in regard to shells that had been cleaned by the" use of
the emery wheel and buffer, and shells which had been polished
by the use of acids, it held that they were dutiable at the rate
.of 35 per centum, as manufactures of shells, on the ground that
they had been advanced, by cleaning, grinding and otherwise,
to a condition beyond that of crude, unmanufactured shells.

HARTRANFT v. WIEG2MANN.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the shells in question here were not
manufactured, and were not manufactures cf shells, within the
sense of the statute imposing a duty of 35 per centum upon such
manufactures, but were shells not manufactured, and fell under
that designation in the free list. They were still shells. They
had not been manufactured into a new and different article,
having a distinctive name, claracter or use from that of a
shell. The application of labor to an article, either by hand
or by mechanism, does not make the article necessarily a
manufactured article, within the meaning of that term as used
in the tariff laws. Washing and scouring wool does not make
the resulting wool - manufacture of wool. Cleaning and
ginning cotton does not make the resulting cotton a manufacture of cotton. In "Schedule M" of § 25041 of the Revised
Statutes, p. 475, 2d ed., a duty of 30 per cent. ad valorem
is imposed on "coral, cut or manufactured;" and, in § 2505,
p. 484, "coral, marine, unmanufactured," is made exempt
from duty. These provisions clearly imply, that, but for the
special provision imposing the duty on cut coral, it would not
be regarded as a manufactured article, although labor was
employed in cutting it. In Frazee v. 7Pofftt, 20 Blatchford,
267, it was held that hay pressed in bales, ready for market,
was not a manufactured article, though labor had been b3stowed in cutting and drying the grass and baling the hay.
In -Lawrence v. Allen, 7 How. 785, it was held that india
rubber shoes, made in Brazil, by simply allowing the sap of
the india rubber tree to harden upon a mould, were a manufactured article, because it was capable of use in that shape as
a shoe, and had been put into a new form, capable of use and
designed to be used in such new form. In United States
v. Potts, 5 Oranch, 284, round copper plates turned up and
raised at the edges from four to five inches by the application
of labor, to fit them for subsequent-use in the manufacture of
copper vessels, but which were still bought by the pound as
copper for use in making copper vessels, were held not to be
manufactured copper. In the case of United States v. Wilson,
1 Hunt's Merchants' Magazine, 167, Judge Betts held that
marble which had been cut into blocks for the convenience of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

transportation was not manufactured marble, but was free
from duty, as being unmanufactured.
We are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court
was correct. But,. if the question were one of doubt, the
doubt would be resolved in favor of the importer, "as duties
are never imposed on the citizen upon vague or doubtful
interpretations." .Pouers v. Barney, 5 Blatchford, 202 j
United States v. Iszam; 17 Wall. 496, 504; Gurr-v. Saudd,
11 Exch. 190, 191; Adam v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner, 384.
Jdgnent affirmed.

HARTRANFT v. WINTERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT' COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOP THE
'EASTERN

DISTRIOT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 20, 21, 1887.-Decided May 2, 1887.

This case is affirmed on the authority of Hartranftv. WMegmannj ante, 609.

THIs was an action to recover back duties alleged to have
been illegally exacted. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant
sued out this writ of error.
-Mr.
Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank P. Prichardfor defendant in error.
Mm. JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by Anton Winters, brought in a state
court of Pennsylvania and removed into the Circuit Court, of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
against the collector of customs for the District of -Philadelphia.. The proceedings in it, and the questions arising, are in
all respects the same as those in the case of Hartranftv. Wiegmann, just decided, the only difference being that in this case
there were no shells called "green snails" or "mottoes" or
"Turk's caps " or "mag pies " or "trocus," and that there were

