McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

5Th

Syllabus.

trials at common law. The relation of the court to the jury,.
together constituting the appointed tribunal for the achninistration of the law in such cases, is regulated by fixed and

settled maxims. The legal discretion of the Supreme Court
of the District, whether sitting at general or special term, in
granting or denying motions to set aside verdicts and grant

new trials, is not by law submitted to the review of this
court. The only point in judgment here is that the plaintiff
in error was entitled by law to have that discretion exercised

by the Supreme Court at general term, and that that court
committed an error -f law in refusing to consider his appeal
from the order at special term denying his motion for a new
trial, based on the ground that the verdict was against the

weight of the evidence.
For this error, the judgment of the Suprerne Court of the
_District of Colurnbic at General Term is reversed, and the
cause 'emanded, with directions to take further 1roceedings therein in conformity with this opinion.

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN PRESSED TAN BARK
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued March 25, 2S, 1887. -Decided

May 2, 18S7.

In this case, the question being whether a contract was made by the
defendants as copartners, or for a corporation, it was held that the
instructions to the jury on the subject were proper.
Where, by a contract, the defendants were to erect machinery on a steamboat in 60 days from the date of the contract, and the plaintiff did not
furnish the steamboat until after the expiration of the 60 days, and the
defendants then went on to do the work, they were bound to do it in 60
days from the time the boat was finished.
A supplemental contract between the parties construed, as to its bearing
on the original contract sued on.
A counterclaim or recoupnment must be set bp in the answer, to be available.
An objection to the competency of an expert witness to testify, overruled.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

THis was an action at law to recover damages for non-performance of a contract. Verdict for the plaintiff and judgment on the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George Hoadly and -Mr. T. D.. incoln for plaintiffs in
error.
Afr. Edgar .W. Jonsom, .M-r. Edward Colston, XIr. George
Hoadly, Jr., 31r. a IT Steyhens and .r. J . -Lincoln were
also on the briefs.
.2r. Thomas .eJ-Dougall

and .XW". E. IF Xittredge for de-

fendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE BLATCHrORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, by the American Pressed Tan Bark Company, a New Jersey corporation,
against Theodore J. McGowan and Robert C. Bliss, partners
under the firm name of "The McGowan Pump Company," doing business at Cincinnati, Ohio, to recover damages for the
alleged breach by the defendants of a contract for the construction and erection of machinery upon a steamboat. The
petition by which the action was commenced sets forth a contract entered into on the 23d of June, 1881. After a trial
before a jury, which occupied thirty days, there was a verdict
for the plaintiff for $18,000, and a judgment accordingly, to
review which the defendants have brought a writ of error.
The petition alleges that the plaintiff, being the owner of
patents for the manufacture and sale of pressed tan bark,
entered int6 a contract with one Mack, of Cincinnati, for the
construction of a steamboat which was to receive, carry and
operate machinery to be erected on it by the defendants under
the contract sued upon, and was to be constructed, by agreenent with the defendants, under their control and supervision,
and to their acceptance; and that the boat was so constructed
by Mack and was accepted by the defendants. The contract

McGOWAN v. AMNTERICAN TAN BARK CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

between the plaintiff and Mack for the construction of the
boat was in writing, and was made on the 17th of June, 1881.
It contained the particulars as to the size and material and
mode of construction of the boat, and stated that its construction and acceptance, on the part of the plaintiff, was left with
"'Theo. J. McGowan & Bliss," and that it was to be finished
and delivered, afloat, to the plaintiff, on or before August 26,
1881. The petition alleges that this contract with Mack was
made with full knowledge on the part of the defendants of the
purpose for which the boat was being constructed,- and with
their direction, counsel ana advice.
The written papers congtituting the contract between the
plaintiff and the defendants were as follows: On the*23d of
April, 1881, the defendants, using the signature "Theo. J.
McGowan & Bliss," wrote from Cincinnati to A. G. Darwin,
the president of the plaintiff, the following letter:
"C"Ti, 0., Ajril 23, 1881.

"A. G. Darwin:
"DR1ar Sm: We herewith submit plan for bark press, two
views, one plan and the other elevation. They were gotten
up in great haste and are not as full as they should be, but
they show what our ideas are. The operation is 2 12 hyd.
presses, E E, one on each side of 20" hyd. press D, to remove
the bark from' containing cyl. G, alternately, after being
pressed in 20" hyd. press D. They pass from the hyd. press
E to hyd. press D, by a track, and are filled at top end from
floor above, and the bale is also delivered from top end of containing cyl. on to the floor from which cylinders axe filed. F
is a chamber 40" in diameter and 12 feet high, and is supplied
with water and air by steam pump A, which keeps up a pressure in F to 300 lbs., to operate the hyd. presses rapid at beginning of the operation, and, when the hyd. pumps B and C have
raised the pressure in hyd. press beyond 300 lbs., the checkvalves close, and shut off connection between hyd. presses and
pressure chamber. Then the hyd. pumps B and C complete
the pressure until bale is pressed in 20" press and bale removed
from containing cyl. The hyd. pump 0 is used exclusively for
voL. cxxi-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

20" hyd. press, and hyd. pump B is used for the two 12"
presses E E. The hyd. pumps are independent of each other,
and each has its own steam*cyl. The steam pumps use the
water over again fr6m tank from which it has been delivered
from hyd. presses. The operation is about as follows: The
containing cyl. is filled from upper floor, is run under 20" press
and pressed up to desired pressure; it is then run on track to
12" press, where it is forced from containing cyl., which is
again filled and operation repeated, and, while cyl. is being
emptied the other is going through 20" press, and so on; work
is done very rapidly and well. 20" press can be used up to
1500 tons pressure.
"Trusting this hurried explanation is satisfactory and that
we may have your favors,
c Yours, &c.,
"1THEO. 1. TM[cGowAxr & Buss.
"P. S. -Time
bale 2 minutes.

required for each pressing and delivery of
We guarantee the whole."

On the 20th of Mfay, 1881, the following letter, signed
"The McGowan Pump Co.," was written to Darwin:
"1CionwxTm, 0., .May 20, 1881,
"A. G. D., Chicago:
"Yours 18th to hand, and contents noted. By enlarging
press, as per your suggestion (which we think very good), we
are of opinion that we have large surplus power in presses,
and almost agree with you in your ideas as to amount, but we
are inexperienced with the nature of tan bark to press into a
cylinder and remove therefrom, and have been governed entirely by the calculations given us by Mr. Hill, and we think
there will have to be some little experimenting before you can
aciomplish just what you want. We do not know how much
compression there will be to -make bale and weight required,
nor how bulky the bark will be, when loose, to make bale, of
required size. We do know the motions can be made in' 21
minutes and the ptes~ure 1500 tons given, but what kind of

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

bale it will be we do not know. We are constructing this
machinery to make these bales 14" x 16", and not much clearance. We think it would be advisable to have more clearance
made, by extending columns further out, to permit a large
bale being made, by enlarging cylinder, as you suggest. This
would necessarily make the press cost more money. The bars
would have to be extended further out and the castings made
heavier to resist pressure. If you come to the conclusion to
have enlargement made, notify us at the earliest moment
possible. We have now got scale drawings about complete,
and, when the boat is procured, or other selection made for
erection, we will have to add to our plan the supports for the
support of presses to foundations. It will materially change
our plans if changed from boat to land, as presses are very
long, and on a shallow boat would throw them above main
deck. Will be glad to see you.
"THE McGowrAN Pu-. Co."
On the 23d of June, 1881, the following written contract
was executed:
"CINcnxATi, 0., June 23, 1881.
"The Am'r. Pressed Tan Bark Co., of 240 Broadway, N. Y.
" GENTLEMEN: We hereby propose to furnish you the following machinery:
"1. 14" x 24" engine and all necessary trimmings for grinding bark.
"2. 14". x 28" engine and all necessary trimmings for propelling boat.
"3. 3 boilers, 42" x 26", and all necessary trimmings for
propelling boat.
"3 bark mills and all necessary trimmings and gearing.
"1 bark elevator; 2 elevators with platforms, for raising and
lowering pressed bark to and from hold of boats, to be provided with safety catches and unwinding device; 3 heaters 1 for bark engines, 1 for boat engines, and 1 for steam-pumps;
1 steam-pump for boiler feed; 1 deck hand-pump; 250 feet of
rubber hose, couplings, and 3 nozzles; 2 hoppers and scales to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
OpInion'of the Court.

weigh bark; all the necessary shafting, hangers, pulleys, beltings, and all steam and escape pipes; also one 20" hyd. press
and two 12" hyd. presses, with their necessary fixtures and
connections, together with the necessary hyd. steam-pumps,
tank, &c., for pressing bark into bales; all to be done in a
workananlike manner and of first-class material, and set up
aboard your boat in Cincinnati, Ohio, for the sum, of twentythree thousand seven hundred ($23,700.00) dollars; the above
machinery to have a sufficient capacity to do the required
work, and guaranteed to pass government inspection.
"T

cGow& Pum- Co.

"To be completed in 60 days.
"We accept the above.
"Accepted June 23, 1881.
"AM'n.

TAN BARK Co.,

"By S. H. "BE&ci, Att'y."
On the 30th of June, 1881, the followiug letter was written
by Darwin to "The McGowan Pump Co. :"
"N
lEw YoK, J Tne 30, 1881.
"To the McGowan Pump Co., Cin'ti, Ohio.
"Mr. S. EH. Beach hands us contract for presses, engines,
,boilers, &c., &c., entiroly satisfactory, as we understand- that
is, that the capacity of the presses, &c., are in keeping with
guarantee expressed in your letter of April 23,1881, which we
consider a part of your contract, in so far as guarantee of the
presses are concerned. Please give us formal acknowledgment
of same.
A. G. DARwrn,
"Yours respectfully,
"Pres't A. P. T. B. Co."
On the 5th of July, 1881, the following letter was written
by. "The McGowan Pump Co." to Darwin:
"COnenAT, Omo, JWy 5, 1881.
"A. G. Darwin, N. Y.
"DEAR Sm: Your favor of June 30th to hand and noted.
Our contract is in accord with ours of April 23. Of course

McGOWAN v. A3ERICAN TAN BARK CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

we do not know nor could we guarantee anything in reference
to whether the bark will bale or not, or weight or size of bale.
That we consider an experiment, and can only be demonstrated by test.
"Yours respectfully,
THE McGowix Pump Co."
At the trial, the plaintiff offered evidence, in connection
with the contract with Rack, tending to prove that that contract was drawn up in the office of the defendants, and read
over by the pa~ties before it was signed, in the presence of the
defendants, and was left in their, safe until some time in
November, 1881, when the boat was launched by Mack; and
evidence tending to show that the defendants agreed to superintend the erection andconstruction of the boat, and took upon
themselves th supervision and control of the same, and undertook to accept the same, for the plaintiff; that the boat was
constructed for the purpose of receiving and operating the
machinery of the defendants, according to plans of construction discussed between the agents of the plaintiff, and Mack,
and the defendants, and approved by the defendants; and
that the defendants .did superintend the construction of the
boat and accept the same.
The petition alleges, that the contract of the 23d of June,
1881, was a contract whereby the defendants agreed and guaranteed to construct, erect, complete and have in operation on
board of the boat, within sixty days from the date of the contract, the machinery specified in it, for the purpose of pressing
tan bark under the patented process, and according to plans,
specifications and details furnished by the defendants; and
that the defendants guaranteed that all of the machinery
should be done in a workmanlike manner and of first-class
material, and set up on board of the boat at Cincinnati, and
that all of said machinery should have sufficient capacity to
do, and would do, the required work, and would pass government inspection, and that the hydraulic machinery would sustain and work up to a pressure of 1500 tons, and that the time
netessary for pressing and delivering each bale of bark would
be two and one half minutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The breach alleged in the petition is, that the defendants
have failed to construct, erect and complete the machinery according to the contract, and have failed to erect and complete
it within the time set forth in the contract; that the machinery
constructed and erected on board of the boat by the defendants is of insufficient and inferior material, is inferior and defective in character and quality of workmanship and fails to
do the work required by the contract; and that the hydraulic
machinery constructed will not give, sustain or work up to
the 1500 tons pressure as guaranteed by the defendants, and is
defective in workmanship and unsafe. The petition further
alleges, that the plaintiff has wholly performed on its part the
contract of the 23d of June, 1881, and paid to the defendants,
on account of the $23,700 to be paid thereby, the following
sums, at the following dates: November 5, 1881, $4500; November 26, 1881, $2500; January 24, 1882, $3000; February 28, 1882, $2500; and March 30, 1882, $4000; making
a total of $16,500.
The defendants put in an answer, denying generally the
averments of the petition, on which the case went to trial.
On the third day of the trial, by leave of the court, the defendants filed an amendment to their answer, in the following
language:
"Second defence. These defendants, protesting that the
contract dated June 23, 1881, described in the petition, was not
made with them, but with the McGowan Pump Company, a
corporation of Ohio, say, that if it shall appear, upon the
trial of this cause, that the contract was made with them as
partners, under the name of the McGowan Pump Company,
and ijot with said corporation, then they'say that said contract, as made June 23, 1881, did not provide, as a part of
said contract, that the hydraulic machinery would sustain and
work up to a pressure of fifteen hundred tons, or that the
time necessary for pressing and delivering each bale of bark
would be two and a half minutes, as alleged in said petition.
The defendants say that *said contract, as originally executed,
contained neither" of said provisions, and that, if it shall ap-,
pear that, by a subsequent modification of said contract, such

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

583

Opinion of the Court.

provisions were added to and became a part of said contract,
then they say that the same were wholly without consideration.
"Thirdly. And for a further defence in this behalf, these
defendants, protesting that the contract, dated June 23, 1881,
described in the petition, was made with the McGowan Pump
Company, a corporation of Ohio, say, that if it shall appear,
upon the trial of this cause, that it was made with them as
partners, under the name of the McGowan Pump Company,
then, that on and before the 30th day of March, 1882, extra,
work, not required by said contract, to the amount of fifteen
hundred and eighty-two dollars and fifty-one cents, had been
furnished to the said American Tan Bark Company, being the
same extras described in the contract hereinafter copied, and
that, in consideration of the transfer to the American Pressed
Tan Bark Company of all the machinery embodied in the
said contract of June 23, 1881, and said extras, with receipts
in full for all material and machinery furnished T. G. -McGowan and Bliss by other parties for steamer Tan Bark, the
said contract of June 23, 1881, has been wholly released and
discharged, and other terms of agreement substituted therefor, by reason of the fact, that, on the 30th day of March,
1882, a contract was executed and delivered by and between
the parties to the contract of June 23, 1881, viz., the McGowan
Pump Company and the American Pressed Tan Bark Company, and which contract of March 30, 1882, if it shall turn
out that it was made by the defendants as a partnership,
under the name of the McGowan Pump Company, was made
and delivered for the benefit of the same McGowan Pump
Company which executed the contract of June 23, 1881,
which contract is still in full force and binding between the
parties, and is in the words and figures following, to wit:

I'C nA±w, 0., farck 30, 1882.
'In consideration of 11,200 dollars to be paid us we hereby
transfer to the American Pressed Tan Bark Company of New
York all the machinery embodied in our contract, and extras,
with receipts in full for all material and mach'y furnished

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

T. J. McGowan & Bliss by other parties for steamer Tan
Bark. The terms of this sale are as follows: To continue all
former agreements and guaranties except time required to
press bark into bales and removal from cylinders. We further
agree to transfer to said Co. all special patterns made for our
hyd. machinery, and also agree to transfer to said Co. our exclusive interest in the accumulator and double-end arrangement on hyd. press for bark purposes only. It is hereby
agreed, that the above guaranty, covering hyd. mach'y, extends only to the strength of material only up to the f[teen
hundred tons pressure. We hereby acknowledge receipt of
four thousand dollars; balance to be paid on presentation of
receipts, as above.
'All erasures and changes made before signing.
'THE McGowAw Pump Co.
PREssED T&x BAnt Co.,
'By S. H. BEAOH, Attorney.'

IAmnioANt

"And the defendants further say, that the four thousand dollars described in the petitionas paid on the 30th day of March,
1882, wai paid to the said McGowan Pump Company under
and in pursuance of the said contract of March 30, 1882, at
the date of its execution, and is the same sum therein named
and receipted for, but that no further or other payments have
been made under said contract, although the same has been
wholly complied with by the said McGowan Pump Company.
"Fourthly. And by way of a fourth defence in this cause,
the defendants, protesting that the said contract of June 23,
1881, was made by the McGowan Pump Company, a corporation of Ohio, and not with the defendants as partners under
the name of the McGowan Pump Company, nevertheless, if it
shall prove, upon the trial of this cause, that it was made
with them in such partnership capacity, by way of further
defence, say, that in the month of March, i882, the defendants took possession of and accepted the machinery constructed upon the said steamer Tan Bark, as and for full performance of said contract, and waived any claim for further
performance thereof, and have prevented the defendants from

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

585

OpinioV of the Court.

making further performance thereof, if such were necessary,
which the defendants deny, by taking the same into their exclusive custody and possession, and have made divers and sundry changes in said machinery themselves, so as to prevent
and render impossible any further performance thereof, if any
such were necessary under said contract, and have employed
the McGowan Pump Co 'pany of Cincinnati, Ohio, being the
same company which entered into the contract of June 23,
1881, described, inthe petition, to do work to be used in making other changes and alterations, which last-named vork
done by the McGowan Pump Company, and which, if said
company turn out to have been a partnership, -was done
by the defendants as such partnership, amounts to the
sums of $1384.96 and $146.50, for which an action is now
pending against the said plaintiff -on behalf of the said
McGowan Pump Company, as aforesaid; and said defendants have removed said steamer Tan Bark, and all said
machinery so altered, from the jurisdiction of this court and
into the state of Tennessee, where the same now is, and have
appropriated the same to their own use."
The plaintiff put in a reply to this amended -answer. In
regard to the second defence, the reply denies that the provisions of the contract, that the hydraulic machinery would
sustain and work up to a pressure of 1500 tons, or that the
time necessary for pressing and delivering each bale of bark
would be two and a half minutes, were without consideration,
and denies the other allegations of the second defence. As to
the third defence, it alleges that the instrument of the 30th of
March, 1882, was executed by it on the faith of representations made to it by the defendants that they had operated
and tested the hydraulic machinery up to a pressure of 1000
tons, and that the bales of bark pressed by them on the trial
of the machinery made by them on the 27th of March, 1882,
had received a pressure of 1000 tons therefrom, and that the
machinery as so constructed had been operated by the defendants under said pressure of 1000 tons; that those representations were untrue; that, had the plaintiff known that fact, it
would not have executed the instrument; that, on discovering

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the untruth of the representations, it immediately notified the
defendants that the agreement set forth in the instrument was
null and void; that the same was thereupon abandoned by
the parties thereto.; and that the hydraulic machinery never
has worked, and never will work, up to a pressure of 1500
tons, and wholly fails to comply with the agreements and
guarantees made by the defendants. It denies the other
allegations of the third defence. As to the fourth defence,
it avers that, after the defendants refused to' do any further
work 6n the machinery, it made, at heavy expense, alterations
in it to make it operative.
The bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff gave evidence
"tending to prove that the. defendants were partners under,
and signed, the name of T. J. McGowan & Bliss and the
McGowan Pump Company, and tending to show that, at the
time the contract of June 23 was signed, the defendants,
upon being asked the reason for using the name of the
McGowan Pump Company, said it was to retain the old
name;" also, that the plaintiff gave evidence "tending to
show defendants had negotiated with plaintiff as a firm, under
the name of the McGowan Pump Company, prior to June 23,
1881, and that the defendants contracted with the plaintiff
June 23, 1881, as a firm, under the name of The :McGowan
Pump Company, and that all the plaintiff's dealings With the
defendants were as such partnership;" and evidence tending
to show that the plaintiff was a corporation duly organized
under the laws of New Jersey, and owned valuable patents
for the grinding and pressing of tan bark, which it expected
to utilize in this machinery and the use thereof; and evidence
tending to show "that the machinery named in the said contract of June 23, 1881, was not completely finished and put
upon the said boat within the sixty days named in said contract, nor for a long time thereafter, and that, when compl6ted,
it was of insufficient material, and not of sufficient powei or
strength to press a bale of tan bark with a pressure of fifteen
hundred tons in two and one half minutes, nor within any
time; that the entire machinery was wholly insufficient to accomplish the purpose for which it was constructed, and was

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.
very rough, and was made in an .unworkmanlike manner; that,
in consequence thereof, it suffered great delay in the use of the
said boat and machinery, and great damage in having to expend a large sum of money upon the same; and that it lost a
very large sum of money by the breach of the said contract
before it was finished, and after that, because of the insufficiency of the said machinery and its defective character."
The contract of March 30, 1882, was in the words set forth
in the third defence in the amendment to the answer. The
plaintiff gave evidence tending to show that it had, prior to the30th of March, 1882, paid to the defendants, on account of the
machinery and work, $12,500, that a few days after signing
the last-named contract, it paid the $4000 named therein, that
no machinery had been put in the boat on the 10th of November, 1881, and that there was nothing ready on the boat by
December 5, 1881; and evidence tending to show that, after
it took possession of the boat and machinery, it made additions
thereto, costing some $1200, a part of which the defendants
did for it under a written contract of the 19th of April, 1882,
mentioned hereafter.
The bill of exceptions also contains the following statements : "The plaintiff offered evidence of experts tending to
show that the machinery and material of which it was constructed were poor and insufficient to sustain the required pressure; and, upon cross-examination upon this point, the said
witnesses gave evidence tending to show that a single hydraulic cylinder could not be made of cast iron so as to bear 1500
tons pressure; that the water would permeate and pass
through the iron, and, upon examination by the court, evidence tending to prove that it was "not practicable to get such
pressure with one cylinder of the kind, but that it might be
done with three cylinders, of a pressure of 500 tons each upon
one platen: and, on further cross-examination, they gave evidence tending to show that water would force itself through
cast iron at 700 tons pressure, that cast iron is not safe for
more than 600 tons. And the plaintiff gave evidence tending
to show that the machinery was only of the value of scrap.
The plaintiff also gave evidence tending to show that., at and'

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

before the contract of March 30, 1882, was entered into,
McGowan had stated that he had had a pressure, on previous
tests, of 800 to 1000 tons on the niachinery in pressing bark,
and that said representations were false, and that plaintiff was
thereby induced to enter into said agreement. Plaintiff gave
evidence tending to show that the defendants had tested the
machinery, and it was found defective, on the 27th of -March,
1882, before the execution of the contract of March 30; and
defendants gave evidence tending to show the contrary, and
that they made no ialse representations, and that plaintiff
knew, from its employes present at the test, what pressure it
bore at the time, and reported to the plaintiff that it had never
borne a pressure of over 400 tons, and that there was no more
on it at that time. They gave evidence tending to show that
'McGowan claimed that the. failure of the machinery was
caused by the insufficient foundations of the boat, because the
machinery was not adapted to the boat; that they had done
all that was practicable, under thet condition of the boat upon
which the machinery was to be placed. But the plaintiff gave
evidence tending, on the contrary, to show that it was practicable to construct such' machinery of cast iron and place it
upon said boat." "The defendants offered evidence tending
to show that any such boat with machinery upon it had never
before been known and used; that it had in no way been
tested; and that it -was an experiment. They also offered evidence tending to show that the plaintiff had possession of the
said boat immediately after she came off the ways, on or about
the 1st of November, 1881, and received the boat froi4 Mack,
and that it had witnessed experiments of pressing bark made
with the machinery in January, February, and M arch, 1882,
and was familiar with the condition, strength and workmanship of the same, before entering into the contract of March
30, 1882, and had knowledge before that of the amount of
pressure which the defendants had used thereon." "The defendants offered evidence tending to show that they were not
boat-builders, had no knowledge of boats or of boat-building,
as the plaintiff knew, and that defendants refused to take any
responsibility about the boat, and had nothing to do with

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

589

Opinion of thje Court.

planning, constructing, supervising, accepting, or controlling
it or its foundations; that they supposed Mr. Mack. would attend to that; that the boat was not launched or presented for
the machinery until iNovember, 1881; that they supposed,
when they commenced to put the machinery upon it, that it
would be sufficiently strong; that the foundations, as they
proceeded, proved wholly insufficient for that purpose, being
too weak; that they reported it to the plaintiff's agent; that
he said to them tb go ahead and put it on and he would guarantee that they would stand; that the defects in the boat and
the bad management of the machinery by the plaintiff caused
all the difficulty and breakage in the machinery, and'all the.
expense in repairing; and, in addition thereto, the defendants,
also offered proof tending to show that the boat was not ready
for their work until about the 10th of :November, 1881, and
that they used due diligence in the manufacture of the machinery and in putting it upon the boat, and that the delay
therein was due to the delay in finishing the boat and in the
character of the boat when presented for the machinery to-be
put upon the same. They also offered proof tending to show
that the material of which the said machinery was constructed
was. of sufficient strength to work 1500 tons and more.. They
also offered proof tending to show that, in March and April,
1882, the plaintiff took possession and control of said machinery, and that it was built and set up on its boat by the
defendants under the contract of June 23, 1881, and afterwards,
to make it more perfect, effectual, and useful, entered into
the contract of April 19f 1882, with the defendants, and the
defendants furnished the labor and the material provided for
in said contract, and that the plaintiff used it on their said
boat. The defendants also gave evidence tending to show
that the machinery for pressing the bark-was constructed of
the very best cast iron, and that that was the only material of
which said machinery is ever constructed ; that the same was
of the very highest and best character, and that the workmen
upon it and the workmanship were of the highest and best
character, and that they endeavored in every way they could
to make this machinery as strong and as well as it could be

OCTQBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

made. They also offered evidence tending to show that, after
the boat was launched and ready for the machinery, they proceeded to put the machinery upon the boat, and thereafter
they worked with due diligence in putting the same upon the
said boat: The defendants also offered proof tending to show
that they had fulfilled their contract and were not liable for
any damage to the plaintiff, but, on the contrary, the plaintiff
owed them for said work, and under the agreement of March
30, 1882, the sum of $8731.46. The defendants also offered
evidence tending to show that they never examined Mack's
contract, and that thera was nothing said about the character
of the foundations of such machinery; that they supposed
that, Mack being a boat-builder, he knew what foundations
for the machinery would be necessary. They also gave evidence tending to show that the McGowan Pump Company
was a corporation at the time of entering into the contract of
June 23, 1881, and was so acting in making the contract, and
that the plaintiff was so informed of it before the signing of the
contract." "They also offered evidence tending to show that
the boat was not constructed to carry freight or passengers,
and the propelling machinery was to be plain, unornamented
machinery, to propel the boat from landing to landing at a
rate of from two to two and a half miles per hour, and that,
on her trip to Paducah and her trial trip up stream, "she did
more than that."
",All the letters of defendants, copies of which are attached
in the cxhibits, had, the following letter-head printed on them:
'Established 1862.
Theo. J. McGowan,
R. C. Bliss.
' Senior partner of late McGowan Bros.
'Manufacturers of railroad water station supplies, water columns, tank valves, steam and power pumps, wrought and
cast iron pipe, &c. 'OFFio
OF THE McGowx Pump Co.,
'Nos. 141 &A
D 143 WEST SEcOND STREET,
'CmicN

AT, --

,

188-.'

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

591

Opinion of the Court.

being the printed letter-head that was in use prior to June
20, 1881, except" the letter of April 23, 1881, which had
the same letter-head, omitting the word "The" before "McGowan Pump Co.," and a letter dated May 8, 1881, signed
"The McGowan Pump Company," and addressed to Darwin.
The bill of- exceptions does not purport to set forth all, the
evidence that was given at the trial.
After the verdict and before judgment, the defendants
moved for a new trial, and, in case it should not be granted,
then in arrest of judgment, and, in case neither of such
motions was granted, then to restrain the issuing of execution
in this case to the amount which should remain after making
the deduction of the amount sued for in the suit mentioned in
the fourth defence in the amendment to the answer. These
motions were denied, and the defendants excepted.
The first error assigned relates to the question whether the
contract of June 23, 1881, was made by the defendants as
copartners, or was made by a corporation called "The McGowan Pump Company." If by the latter, the action must
fail
The court, under exceptions by the defendants, gave the following instructions to the jury:
"1. If the jury find, from the evidence, that defendants, prior
to the making of the contract 6f June 23, 1881, held themselves out to plaintiff 'as partners, and that plaintiff dealt with
them as such prior to the making of said contract, and entered
into said contract believing them to be a firm. and without.
notice of a corporation, then said defendants are liable on said
contract, even though they should find that defendants were
not, in fact, a firm, and that there was a corporation called
'The McGowan Pump Company.'
"2. If the jury find, from .the evidence, that the defendants
were, prior to June 23, 1881, doing business as partners under
the name of ' The McGowan Pump Company' or 'IMcGowan
Pump Co.,' and that plaintiff dealt with them before said date
as such partners, and had no knowledge of any change in said
business, then said contract is the contract of defendants,,and
defendants cannot avoid or escape liability thereon, even if on

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opiniou, of the Court.

that date a corporation existed called I The McGowan- Pump
Company,' with which defendants may have been connected,
and to which they had turned over their entire partnership
business and assets."
The court also charged the jury as follows on the question
of partnership, no part of which charge was excepted to by
the. defendants:
'6The plaintiff has sued the defendants as partners, and can
recover against them only as individuals, jointly, equally, and
severally liable upon their contract. The two defendants,
McGowan and Bliss, undeniably negotiated and executed the
contract, but whether as individuals or as the representatives

and.agents of a corporation is the question you are to determine. On the facts of this case, which are not disputed, the
law charges them as partners, in their liability on the contract
with the plaintiff, unless they have established by proof that
they.were, in making the contract, only the agents of a corporation, and disclosed their agency to the plaintiff, or that this
in fact was otherwise known to the plaintiff. It is wholly immaterial, if they were in fact partners, or held themselves out
to the plaintiff as partners, which is precisely the same thing
as if they were partners in fact, by what name they did their
business or made this contract; whether they were known or
contracted as ' Theodore T. McGowan & Bliss,' as ' McGowan
Pump Company,' or as 'The McGowan Pump Company,' or
whether they used any' or all of these names indifferently or
interchangeably. Now, if they held themselves out to the
plaintiff as partners, it is unimportant whether they were a
corporation or not in fact. Your inquiries are, 1st. Were they
partners in fact in making this contract? If so, they would
be liable as partners. 2d. Did they hold themselves out to
the plaintiff as partners? If so, they would be liable in that
relation. 3d. Were they in fact the authorized agents or representatives of a corporation competent to contract as a corporation, or did they assume to be so authorized, and in that
representative capacity make this contract ? If so, they cannot
be held as partners, provided they disclosed their agency to the
agents acting about this business for the plaintiff co4poration,

MIcGOWAN v. AMIERICAN TAN BARK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

namely Darwin, Beach, or -Hill, or any of them, or if these
agents of the plaintiff corporation otherwise knew that fact.
If the jury find that, on the 23d of June, 1881, there was in

existence a corporation called 'The McGowan Pump Company,' qualified to do business, when the contract af that date
was signed in that name, and that the defendants were authorized to act for it, and informed Beach that it was that corporation making the contract, the verdict must be for the
defendants, because the corporation is not here sued And, in
ascertaining whether the corporation 6xisted in fact, if you
find that the entire amount of capital stock of ' The McGowan
Pump Company' was subscribed, and the subscribers met and
elected directors, and the directors elected Theodore J. McGowan president, and Robert 0. Bliss secretary, and said president and secretary made the contract of June 23, 1881, in
the name of 'The McGowan Pump Company,' and informed
the agent of the plaintiff at the-time that" 'The McGowan
Pump Company' was a corporation, and was contracting in
that capacity, then the defendants are entitled to a verdict,
notwithstanding it may appear-to:the jury that the subscribers to the articles of incorporation failed fo certify to the
secretary of state, as required by law, that said subscription of
stock had been made. But) as a corporation in Ohio can only
act by or under, the authority of its board of directors, and
on the 23d June, 1881, there is no evidence tending to show
any action of the board of the corporation known as the McGowan Pump Company authorizing the contract in this case
to be made, and authorizing either McGowan or Bliss to contract for the corporation, you should consider the fact that
they had no such authority, on that date, to make a contract
for the corporation, in determining whether they did in fact
undertake to contract for the corporation, and whether the
signature to said contract was the signature of the corporation
or of the defendants as partners. But while you should give
this fact its due weight, also the fact that the final organization sought to be proved was only a few days prior to the contract, together with all the other facts relating to the formation
of the corporation, it is proper to say that, in the opinion of
VOL. CxxM-88

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Cort.

the court, the want of direct authority conferred by a board
of directors would not, in this controversy, so affect the con-

tract as to convert it into one 6f partnership, because that is a
question between the corporation and its officers assuming to
act for it; wherefore, if. you find that, notwithstanding this
want of authority, the defendants assumed, hr their corporate
capacity, to contract with the plaintiff, and notified Beach
that they were so assuming to act, or he otherwise knew it,
your verdict must be for the defendants, irrespective of any
want of authority. This point of notifying Beach is one of
direct conflict of testimony between the parties, which you
must settle under the rules to be hereafter mentioned, the
court being content to say here that it is a matter in this lawsuit of paramount importance to both parties, which demands
your most careful consideration. In determining these questions submitted to you on this branch of the case you may
look to all the facts in proof having any bearing on the questions." "I invite your attention to certain features of the.
evidence on this branGh of the case. From the origin of the
transaction in controversy in this case, found in Darwin's let
ter of March 12, 1881, and even, prior to that time, as shown.,
by the defendants' dealings with him as president of another
company, it is undisputed that the defendants dealt, in the
negotiations with the plaintiff "s agent, as partners, no matter
under what name, until, at the very earliest, about the 20th
May, when the alleged transfer of assets to the corporation. is
said to have taken place; an4d it may. be ycu Will find, in the
disputed facts, that they sodealt down to about June 20, 1881,
when the nunatesof 'corporate organization, in proof, show
that amore complete organization was attempted or perfected.
The ex.At -sta-sof this corporation between these dates might
be under some cirpumstances a matter of grave importance, as
to which it -would be the duty of the court to instruct you
more fully. But here the court has, in the instructions already
given, indicated the greatest influence it can have on-this issue
between the parties. -Perhapsl fuller explanation.of the legal
effect of the proof about the status bf this corporation may
aid you. It cannot be denied that the defendants were part-

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

595

Opinion of the Court.

ners from the date of their partnership articles to the dissolution of the partnership by the substitution of a corporation;
nor can it be denied that, as early as 1880, more than a year
before this transaction began, the defendants took the primary
step to organize a corporation, but nothing more until May or
June, 1881, a short time before this contract was made; but it
is equally undeniable that they negotiated and dealt with
plaintiff as partners, necessarily so, until the corporation was
more thoroughly established than it was by this primary step.
Now, there is no proof tending to show the plaintiff's agents
had any sort of knowledge 6f the corporate existence of
' The McGowan Pump Company,' in fact, down to the very
moment of signing the contract of June 23, 1881, when the
defendants testify they told Beach of it, and that they were
contracting as a corporation, which is denied by the plaintiff."
"There is no proof whatever that plaintiff's agents" "were
ever informed by defendants of their own corporate capacity,
be it what it may, at any time prior to the signing of the contract, or that by other means they had such information.
Therefore the court charges you, that, by their relations in
fact, the course of their dealings with the plaintiff, as shown
by their letters and repeated interviews with each other
throughout the negotiations, from the beginning to the moment of signing the contract, the defendants are estopped, in
fact and law, to deny that, as to the plaintiff, they were partners inmaking the contract, unless you believe that they then
disclosed their corporate character to Beach. If you find
that to be a fact, the court has already told you that your verdict should be absolutely for the defendants. If you do not
find that to be a fact, Uut, on the contrary, believe the plaintiff's proof that no such disclosure was made, the defendants
are liable as partners for whatever damages you may find for
the plaintiff, on the merits of the case."
The court also gave the following instruction, at the request
of the defendants: "2. If, before the 23d day of June, 1881,
the McGowan Pump'Company had .become incorporated and
organized under the laws of Ohio, with Theodore McGowan
as president and Robert C. Bliss'as secretary, and if, when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

contract of that date was made, the plaintiff was informed by
the defendants that the McGowan Pump Company, which
eitered into said contract, was a corporation, then the plaintiff, cannot recover against the present defendants."
The court refused to give the following instructions asked
by the defendants, and to each refusal the defendants excepted: "If the McGowan Pump Company, which entered
into the contract of June 23, 1881, was in fact an incorporated company and not a partnership, then the plaintiff cannot
recover in this case, whether the plaintiff supposed it to be a
partnership or not." "31. If the agent of the plaintiff, sent
here to make a contract for thip work, did contract with the
McGowan Pump Company, and had it explained to him that
the said company had organized as a corporation, and the defendants went on under said corporation, and did the work
provided for, which the plaintiff subsequently took from said
corporation, they cannot now deny that they dealt with the
said corporation."
It is objected,. by the defendants, that the court did not
specify any limit of time prior to the making of the contract
of June 23, 1881, during which the holding out of the defendants to the plaintiff as partners, and the dealing of the plaintiff with them as such, would have the effect, in the absence of
notice to the plaintiff bf the change from a partnership to. a
corporation, to fix the liability of the defendants as partners;
that, although the bill of exceptions states that the plaintiff
and the defendants were in correspondence prior to the organization of the corporation, it does not state that there had been
any dealings between them; and that, especially there was
error in refusing to charge proposition 31, above quoted.
The bill of exceptions does not show that there was any evidence that the defendants went on doing the work as a corporation, or that the plaintiff took the work from the corporation. -There was no, exception to the general charge of the
.. court on ,the subject, above quoted. The cqtFt, in its general
charge, -distinctly instructed the jury that, if McGowan, as president of the corporation, and Bliss as its secretary, made the
contract of June 23, 1881, in the name of "The McGowan

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

597

Opinion of the Court.

Pump Company," and informed the agent of the plaintiff at
the time that the MvfcGowan Pump Company was a corporation and was contracting in that capacity, the defendants
were entitled to a verdict. Again, the court instructed the jury
that if, notwithstanding any want of authority in McGowan
and Bliss to contract for the corporation, they assumed, in their
corporate capacity, to contract with the plaintiff, and to notify
the plaintiff's agent, Beach, that they so assumed to act, or he
otherwise knew it, their verdict must be for the defendants,
irrespective of any want of authority. Again, in its general
charge, the court instructed the jury as follows: "If the jury
find that, on the 23d of June, 1881, there was in existence a
corporation called 'The McGowan Pump Company,' qualified
to do business, when the contract of that date was signed in
that name, and that the defendants were authorized to act for
it, and informed Beach that it was that corporation making the
contract, the verdict must be for the defendants, because the
corporation is not here sued."
This disposition of the question of partnership by the court
seems to us to have been proper, and to have been as favorable to the defendants as they were entitled to ask.
The criticism as to the want of the specification of the limit
of time has no force. The bill of exceptions does not purport
to state all the evidence that was given at the trial. It does
not show what dealings had been had between the parties prior
to the making of the colitract of June 93, 1881; nor does it
appear by the record that the attention of the cor-t was drawn
by the defendants to this point of the limit of time, or that any
request was made in regard to it.
It is next objected, by the defendants, that the petition of the
plaintiff alleges that the contract sued upon was fully performed by the plaintiff, and alleges, as a breach, that the defendants failed to erect and complete the machinery within the
time set forth in the contract; that the averment of performance
by the plaintiff is inconsistent with a recovery based on the
theory that the defendants waived the performance by the
plaintiff of the part of the contract relating to the time when
the boat wns to be furnished; that the plaintiff could not recover,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

on the averments of the petition, without proving that the boat
was ready to receive the machinery in time to allow it to be
erected on the boat before the end of sixty days from June
23, 1881; and that the proof was that the boat was not ready
for the machinery until About the 10th of November, 1881.
On this subject the court charged the jury as follov, under
.the exception of the defendants: "If the jury find fhat the
contract was made, as alleged, with defendants, and that,
after the'day named for the completion of the contract, the
work not being then completed, the boaf was not then in readiness to receive it, yet, if the boat was thereafter made ready
by James Mack, and the defendants proceeded under the contract, they were then bound to complete it within the same
length of time contemplated by the original agreement, and
such additional time as may have been lost in the prosecution
of the work, occasioned by Mack's delay in the construction of
the boat, and, failing in this, they are liable for the consequences of such failure and delay. Therefore, the court charges
you that the defendants are only liable for any damage caused
by delay for the period of delay fouind by applcation of the
above rule to the proof in this case."
The defendants contend that this was not & proper charge
under the issues, and that, if the -boat was not ready for the
machinery within the sixty days provided for by the contract,
the agreement of the defendants, if they proceeded to construct the machinery, became an agreement to deliver it
within a remsonable time after the boat should be made
ready to receive it. In accordance with these views, the defendants asked for the following instructions, each of which
4. That the
was refused, and to each refusal they excepted: i"
contract sued on is entire, and required the plaintiff to have
the machinery therein described tiuilt and set up on board a
boat to be furnished by the plaintiff within 60 days from
-Tune 23, 1881, and that, if the plaintiff, failed to furnish such
boat until after the said period of 60 days from June 23, 1881,
had expired, and, by reason of such failure, the defendants
were unable to begin to set up such machinery on board said
boat until after the eNpiration of said period of 60 days from

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

599

Opinion of the Court.

June 23, 1881, then the defendants are entitled to recover."
"21. That, if the boat was not ready for the machinery in
time to have thb same put up within sixty days from the date
of the contract, but the parties subsequently proceeded, at the
request of Beach, to put the machinery upon the boat, they
were only bound to proceed with reasonable diligence under
the circumstances, and were not bound to complete the same
within sixty days thereafter, if the boat or the foundations
provided for the machinery were so insufficient as to prevent,
such completion within said time." "23. That, as the machinery was to be put up on a boat to be furnished by the
plaintiff, to require of the defenlants that they have the machinery finished and put up on the boat within the sixty days,
the plaintiff must have had the boat ready and fit for the
purpose in time to enable the defendants to have put the
machinery in place upon the boat, the same being ready
therefor, within the sixty days, and, if the boat was not ready
in such time, then the plaintiff cannot recover damages for
not having the said machinery so completed within sixty days.
In such case the defendants were only bound to proceed with
due diligence under he circumstances."
The argument on the part of the defendants is, that the
plaintiff, by failing to have the boat ready in time for. the
performance of the contract according to its terms, prevented
such performance; that there was no mere postponement
of it for the number of days of delay caused by the plaintiff;
that there is nothing to show that the defendants agreed, or
would have agreed, to erect the machinery within sixty days
after November 10, 1881; that, although both parties went
on to perform the contract, the element of the fixed time was
eliminated from it; and that the true rule is that the contract
was to be performed in a reasonable time, having regard to
the nature and circumstances of the performance.
The bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff "gave evidence tending to show that the machinery named in the said
contract of June 23, 1881, was not completely finished and
put upon said boat within the sixty days named in said contract, nor for a long time thereafter;" that, in consequence

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of.the Court.

thereof, it "suffered great delay in the use of the said boat
and machinery, and great damage in having to expend a large
sum of money upon the same; and that the plaintiff lost a
very large sum of money by the breach of said contract before it," the machinery, "was finished."
The petition contains an allegation of special damage,
from the loss of tan bark occasioned by the delay in not erecting the machinery within sixty days from Tune 23, 1881; but'
the bill of -exceptions does not show that there was any evito est blish this special damage, except as it
dence
nay betending
inferred, from .the general charge of the court, that
such testimony was offered. :But. the court, in its general
charge, instriicted the jury as follows: "The contract bound
the defendants to complete'the-machiney and set it up on the
boat within sixty days. It is too plain for argument, that the
failure of the plaintiff to have the boat ready would excuse
the defendants from strict compliance with this part of the
contract, and that all delay which occurred before the boat
was ready is out of the case. The plaintiff was as much responsible for that as the defendants, or sufficiently so to preclude him from complaint on that score."
It is, therefore, claimed, by the plaintiff that no damages
were included in the verdict on account of the delay in not
erecting the machinery within sixty days from June 23, 1881.
This appears to be a sound proposition.. We see no error in
the charge of the court, that, if the defendants proceeded
under the contract, they were bound to complete the work
within the length of time contemplated by the original agreement, and such additional time as was lost by the delay in the
construction of the boat. There ig nothing in the bill of exceptions to show that the machinery could not have been
erected withinsixty days after the boat was ready to receive
it. The parties treated the contrac as in full force, except as
to the time in which it was to be performed, and the work
was done and the payments were made under the contract as
thius extended in time. The defendants made no claim before
the suit was lbrougtht, that the contract was rescinded by
reason of the non-readiness of the boat until the 10th of No-

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

601

Opinion of the Court.

vember, 1881, or that there was any reason, in that fact which
prevented them froni-complying with their part of the dontract within the sixty days after the delivery of the boat.
No such defence is set up by them in their answer, and they
introduced no evidence to that effect, so far as the bill of exceptions shows. These views are in accordance with the ruling of this court in Phillips Co. v. Seymour, 91 IT. S. 646.
The plaintiff went on paying the defendants on account for
the machinery, and the defendants proceeded in erecting it
without complaining of the delay in the furnishing of the
boat, and without any claim that they were not required to
furnish the machinery within the sixty days after the furnishing of the boat. See, also, Gravesom v. Tobey, 75 Ill. 450.
The next assignment of error relates to the effect of the
contract of M arch 30, 1882, set up in the third defence in the
amended answer. The theory of the defendants is, that-this
contract was substituted for all prior contracts and ought to
have been the basis of the suit. The Circuit Court treated it
as merely waiving the provision of the original contract in
regard to the time required for pressing and delivering each
bale.
The court, in its general charge, charged as follows, in
regard to the contract of March 30, 18S2, under exception by
the defendants: " - But the plaintiff has not sued on that contract, nor averred any breach of it in that respect. It 'has
sued for breaches of the guaranty for a good machine, and
nothing else. This contract is pleaded by defendants as a
defence to a claim of breach, and, so setting it up, the only
question is whether it constitutes a defence. It is only a
supplemental contract to that of June 23. It continues the
guarantees of that contract, with the exception as to time. It
does not make new guarantees for a new consideration, but
obligates the defendants to carry out the old contract with
the named exception, and imposes on defendants new obligations about the patterns, &c., which are independent and
separable from the old contract and the old consideration.
The court, therefore, charges you, that its only effect is to
reduce the original guaranty of the capacity of the machine,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

in respect to the time for pressing the bale, if you find there
was no fraud in procuring it; if there was such fraud, it
leaves that guaranty still in force." And again: "The defendants claim that its proper construction requires that the
.1500 tons only applies to strength of material to endi - that
pressure, as a maximum of endurance, not for a continuous
working pressure. It belonged to the plaintiff to say what it
wanted, and to defendants to consider it when they made the
contract, whether they could give that which was wanted.
There is no proof tending to show that the proper construction is, that the plaintiff only wanted a machine of sufficient
strength to endure a test of 1500 tons, but, on the contrary,
read i. the light of the circumstances proved, the language of
the contract clearly means, that the plaintiff wanted a machine by which it could deliver on each and every bale a compression of 1500 tons, if it chose so to use it, and which would
endure the work for the length of time such a machine would
wear, under prudent and reasonable management by the plaintiff." Still further: "If the jury find that the terms of the
guaranty provided by the contract are in writing, as expressed in the letters of April 23 and July 5, 1881, then,
while the MkfcGowan Pump Co. did not guarantee that bark
would bale, it did guarantee to furnish practical machinery,
set up on board of the boat, that was capable, in its designs
and in all its parts, of being worked to apply 1500 tons
pressure to .press a bale of bark every two and one-half
minutes, or within a reasonable time, if the contract of Mvfarch
30 be valid, and capable, with reasonable care, in view of
the character of such machinery and of the nature of the
work, of continuous operation for the ordinary duration of
such mechanism constructed for similar uses." "If the jury
find that the contract of MJarch 30, 1882, was duly made and
is binding between the parties, it in nowise affects the right
of the plaintiff to recover for any breach of the original
agreement between the parties upon which this action is
founded, or of the guarantees contained in such original
agreement, except for the failure in respect to the time required to press bark with the machinery into bales, and to

MlcGOWAN v. AMERICA.\ TAN BARK CO.

603

Opinion of the Court.

remove them from the cylinders. All the other obligations
and guarantees of the original contract would remain in full
force, and the plaintiff's right to recover for their breach
would remain unaffected by the contract of March 30, 1882."
The defendants requested the following instructions, each
of which was refused by the court, and to each refusal the
defendants excepted: "5. That the plaintiff cannot recover
upon the issue in this cause if it appear to the jury, from the
testimony, that the contract which has been read in evidence,
bearing date March 30, 1882, was in good faith executed and
delivered by both the parties to this cause." "10. That the
plaintiff does not entitle itself to recover upon the contract of
June 23, 1881, by showing that the defendants failed to comply with the contract of March 30, 1882." "That, even if it
be true, and believed by the jury from the testimony, that the
contract of March 30, 1882, was broken by the defendants by
non-delivery of the receipts, or of assignments of patent rights,
therein described, nevertheless, such breach does not entitle
the plaintiff to recover in this case upon the contract of June
23, 1881." "12. A breach of the contract of March 30, 1882,
entitles the party who did not break such contract, if it suffered damages by reason of such breach, to recover in an action for such damages founded upon such contract, but it furnishes no ground for recovery in this case upon the contract of
June 23, 1881, for damages suffered by reason of a breach of
the last-named contract." "14. That, by the contract of March
30, 1882, the parties waived and withdrew all previous agreements and guarantees relating to the hydraulic machinery,
except only that the material of which it was composed had
sufficient strength to work up to a total pressure of a thousand
tons, and that the defendants are not liable to damages, in this
action, for any defect in said hydraulic machinery, if said
material had sufficient strength to work up to such -pressure,
unless, under the charge of the court, the jury believe, from
the testimony, that the said contract was procured by fraud or
false representation, and is, therefore, not binding upon the
plaintiff." "28. If it appear, in this case, that the machinery
contracted for in the contract of March 30, '1S82, was not pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

sible to be made as working machinery, because the material
of which it was to be made was not capable of sustaining any
such working pressure, yet that the material used by the defendants was .of the strength of 1500 tons, then the contract
of the 80th March, 1882, must be construed as relating to the
strength of the material and not to the working capacity of
the machinery."
The argument on the, part of the defendants is, that the instrument of March 30, 1-882, contained a new contract, and
that the effect of it was to withdraw all guarantees relative to
the hydraulic machinery, except that the strength of the material would be such as to bear 1500 tons pressure; that the new
contract did not modify the original guarantee that the boilers
and machinery, for propelling the steamboat would be made in
a workmanlike manner and of first-class material, with sufficient capacityto do the required work and to pass government
inspection, but that all guarantees in regard to the hydraulic
machinery intended to press the bark into bales were withdrawn, except the one relating to the strength of material;
and that, as to that, all guarantees were withdrawn except
that the material would bear 1500 tons pressure, not for continuous work, but a pressure up to 1500 tons, or without bursting upon. test.
The view taken by the court on this subject is shown by the
following instructions given by it, to each of which the defendants excepted: "15. The written contract, if the jury find it
was made between the plaintiff and the defdndants, requires
the machinery to be made under it to be constructed in a
workmanlike manner and of first-class materials and to be
set up aboard of the plaintiff's boat, in .'ncinnati. The machinery is to have sufficient capacity to do the required work,
and is guaranteed by the McGowan Pump Company. The
contract having thus defined the character of the work, it cannot in that respect be varied by parol evidence, which is
admissible only to enable us to properly interpret the contract.
It required the machinery to be constructed in a workmanlike
manner and of first-class materials." "6. The machinery being constructed to be set up on the plaintiff's boat, it is for the

McGOWAN v.- AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

605

Opinion of the Court.

jury to determine what the boat was that was referred to, and,
if the boat intended was one provided to be constructed by one
James Mack, of a kind, and of dimensions, and -ith bulk-heads
and foundations tlin defined and understood by the parties,
then this contract to construct the machinery required the
McGowan Pump Company to furnish whaf'ver was necessary
for the efficient working of the machinery upon the boat and
bulk-heads so defined and understood by the parties, for rendering the machinery stable to do the required work, when set
up aboard the boat."
The court also refused to give the following instructions
asked by the defendants, and they excepted to each refusal:
"18. If the machinery contracted for in this case was in fact
incapable of working up to the pressure of 1500 tons, required
by contracts between the parties, and this incapacity resulted
not from any defect of workmanship or construction, but from
the fact that such machinery, of the character and description
provided for by said contracts, cannot be made capable of
working up to such pressure, and if the machinery was in fact
made of first-class material and in a workmanlike manner,
and was capable of receiving the greatest pressure machinery
of the description called for by said contract could be made to
work up to, then the fact that said machinery will not work
up to such pressure does not entitle the plaintiff to recover
any damages based on such incapacity to work up to such
pressure." "That the guarantee referred to in the contract
of June 23, 1881, is a guarantee of the machinery to be made,
and not a guarantee as to its operation upon the boat which
the plaintiff might present for that purpose to the defendants."
The defendants also excepted to the following parts of the
general charge of the court: "But, if you find that, within
the range of mnec.hanical art, such pressure could have been
delivered to the bark, it was their obligation to do it. The
whole field of mechanical engineering was open to. them,
except so far as it was restricted by the necessity of placing
the iachine upon a floating foundation, to be furnished by
the plaintiff, of which more hereafter will be given you in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

charge. They were not restricted in plans, specifications, or
materials, and were bound to select such plans and materials
as were available and capable of doing the work. It was
their misfortune if the price demanded was not sufficient to
cover the cost, but that fact, if it be one, cannot relieve them.
In short, they contracted as .'mechanical engineers,' and as
manufacturers, and are bound by the contract as they made it
in this respect."
In regard to the foregoing matters the defendants allege,
as error, that the Circuit Court held that the contract was
broken unless the hydraulic machinery had sufficient capacity
to do the required work, was constructed in a workmanlike
manner and of first-class materials, and would work efficiently
and be capable of continuous operation for the ordinary duration of such mechanism, constructed for similar uses, and be
able to deliver a pressure of 1500 tons to the bark, and that
the plaintiff could by it compress. every bale to the extent of
1500 tons pressure, for the length of time such a machine
would work under prudent and reasonable management.
,The contract of March .30, 1882, did not, as erroneously
stated in the 28th request of the defendants, contract for any
machinery. It refers to the machinery as being in existence,
and provides for the transfer to the plaintiff of the title to it
and to certain extras, and adjusts the amount due under the
original contract at the sum of $11,200. It contains a modification of the original contract in respect to the time required
for each pressing and delivery of a bale, and provides, in substance, that, the original agreement, with its guarantees as tothe hydraulic machinery, shall otherwise remain unaltered.
The court, in its general charge to the jury, cbarged on"these
matters as follows: "But it is insisted this contract of March
30, 1882, is not binding and can have no effect in this suit,
because defendants have not performed their part of the consideration, namely, the delivery of the vouchers or receipts
mentioned, the transfer of the patterns, the interest in the
patents for the accumulator, and the double end; that, as to
the latter, there is no patent and can be no performance.
The defendants insist, on the other hand, that the balance of

McGOIVAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

607

Opinion of the Court.

the money has not been paid by the plaintiff, and it, cannot
complain of non-performance, and there is proof tending to
show defendants have still pending an application for this
patent. The court regards all this subject a's immaterial to
this controversy, and charges you that the obligation to perform these things by the defendants does not arise until the
money is tendered or paid, and no breach could be averred
until that has been done. But the plaintiff has not .sued on
that contract nor averred any breach of it in that respect. It
has sud for breaches of the guaranty for agood machine, and
nothing else. This contract is pleaded by defendants as a defence to a claim of breach, and, so setting it up, the only
question is whether it constitutes a defence." "The court,
therefore, charges you, that its only effect is to reduce the
original guaranty for the capacity of the machine in respect
to the time for pressing the bale, if you find there was no
fraud in procuring it; if there was such fraud, it leaves that
guaranty still in force. But you must, understand that the
failure, if any, of the defendants to deliver the vouchers, patterns, &c., does not at all contribute to any alleged breach of
the guaranty for the capacity and quality of the machine, and
such failure does not entitle plaintiff to recover for anything
sued for in this suit."
We are of opinion that the court rightly..disposed of the
questions involved in the foregoing branch of the case.
It is also alleged, by the defendants, as error, that the court
instructed the jury, that if they found for the plaintiff, they
were not to make any deduction from the amount of damages
on account of any balance claimed to be due from the plaintiff to the defendants on account of the contract for the machinery, or on account of any other contract. The defendants
claimed to recoup the sum of $7200 as remaining due to them
under the contract of June 23, 1881, or that of March 30,
1882, and the further sum of $1531.46 for extra work alleged
to have been performed by them; but they (lid not, in any of
their pleadings, set up any counter claim or right of recoupment as to those items; and it is alleged, in the fourth defence
in their amended answer, that an action is pending againsf the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court

plaintiff by the McGowan Pump Company -to recover the
$1531.46.

It is also alleged, by the defendants, as error, that the court
did not instruct the jury, as requested by the defendants, that,
although the machinery was in fact incapable of working up
to the pressure of 1500 tons, and the incapacity resulted from
the fact that machinery of the character and description provided for by the contract could not be made capable of working up to such pressure, the fact that it would not work up to
such pressure did not entitle the plaintiff to recover any damages based on such incapacity. The bill of exceptions states
that the plaintiff gave evidence tending to show that the machinery was only of the value of scrap, and it does not state
that there was any testimony given to show that, without the
capacity called for by the contract, it was of any value b6
yond its value as scrap iron, or that there was any testimony
tending to show that the loss of actual value upon the machinery was less than the amount found by the jury, or that
the machinery had any value except that of old iron, if the
pressure with which it would work would have no effect in
doing the needed work upon the tan bark.
The rule of damages laid down by the court was as follows,
and was not excepted to: "The rule for measuring the plaintif's damages is to find the difference between the money
value of the machinery contracted for, if it had been constructed in all respects according to the contract as it has
been construed for you by the. court, and the money value of
the machinery as it was actually constructed and delivered
to the plaintiff, to which may be added the items of expense'
for keep of the boat during the delay, caused solely by the
delay."
As to the refusal of the court to give the 24th instruction
requested by the defendants, we are of opinion that the general charge of the court properly covered.the matter involved,
and that the court made no error in refusing to charge as requested in regard to the contract of April 19, 1882.
There are other matters arising on the charge and the
refusals of the court to charge, which are either covered by

HARTRANFT v. WIEG3MANN.
Syll4bus.

the observations already made, or upon which, although the
questions raised in regard to them have been considered by the
court, it is not deemed necessary specially to remark.
The objection to the competency of the testimony of the
witness Kemplin, as an expert, was properly overruled. He
was a hydraulic engineer, and had been engaged in the construction of steam-engines and other machinery for many
years, although he had never built any steam-engines to be
used on the Western rivers. He was on board of the boat
during its trip from Cincinnati to Paducah, and saw the propelling machinery in operation and examined it, and gave testimony as to the value of propelling engines for such a boat
and as to what it would cost to make them good. The question as to the weight of his evidence was one for the jury, in
view of his testimony as to his experience.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no error
in the record, and the judgment of the Circiut Court is
Affirmed.

HARTRANFT v. WIEGMANiN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 20, 21, 18,7.-

Decided May 2, 1887.

Shells cleaned by acid, and then ground on an emery wheel, and some of
them afterwards etched by acid, and all intended to bt sold for ornaments, as shells, were not dutiable at 35 per cent. ad valorem, as "manufactures of shells," under Schedule I of § 2504 of the Revised Statutes,
page 481, 2d edition, but were exempt from duty, as "shells of every description, not manufactured," under § 2505, page 488.
Duties are never imposed on the citizen upon vague or doubtful interpretations.
The findings of a jury, on which the Circuit Court reserved points of law,
having been treated by that court, and by the counsel for both parties in
it, as amounting to either a special verdict or an agreed statement of
facts, this court overlooked the irregularity, on a writ of error, and considered the case on its merits.
vor. c.xXI-39

