488

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement ot Facts.

7Te boree of the Circuit Cb~urt is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, witA a direction to take such
further proceedings as shaZl be in conformity with this
opinion.

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFOtNA.
Submitted March 21,1887.-Decided May 2, 1887.

The grant of swamp and overflowed lands to the several states by act of
September 28, 1850, is one in 'prcesenti,passing title to the lands of the
character therein descibed, from-its date, and requiring only identification thereof to render such-title perfect.
Such identification by the Secretary of the Interior is conclusive against
collateral attack as being the judgment of the special tribunal on which
such duty was imposed.
On neglect or failure of that officer to make such designation, it is competent for the grantees of the State to identify the lands in any other
appropriate mode to prevent their rights from being defeated.
After segregation of the lands by the State, and adoption of the segregation surveys by the proper. Federal officers, the right of the State's
grantees to maintain an action for recovery thereof cannot be defeated
because such lands have not been certified or patented to the State.
The issue of patents for these lands to defendants or their grantorg, under
the preemption laws, upon claims initiated subsequent to .the swamp
grant to the State is not conclusive at law as against parties claiming
under such grant, and in an action for their possession evidenice is admissible to determine whether or not the lands were in fact swamp and
overflowed at the date of the swamp land grant: if proved to have been
such, the rights of subsequent claimants under other laws aresubordinate thereto.
The provisions contained in § 1 of the act of July'23, 1866, "to quiet land
titles in California," do not relate to the swamp ianfds granted to the
State by the act -of September 8, 1850 ; the provisions in §§ 4 and 5 relate to swamp lands7
The legislation of Congress respecting swamp lands, the Departmental
construction of that legislation,'the line of decisions by this court respecting it and the decisions of the highest courts of many of the states
concerning It, stated.

THIs was an action to recover possession of a tract of land
situated in the county of Yolo, in the State of California,

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Statement of Facts.

consisting, according to the public surveys, of portions of sections 24, 25 and 36 of township 11'north, range 2 east, in that
county, and embracing 560 acres. The land was particularly
described as follows: The north half of the southeast quarter,
and the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section
twenty-four (2-), the east half of the northeast quarter and the
southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section twentyfive (25), the southeast quarter of section twenty-five (25), and
the northeast quarter of section thirty-six (36), all in township
eleven (11) north, range two (2) east, Mount Diablo base and
meridian. It was alleged to be swamp and overflowed land,
which was granted to the state by the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, "to enable the state of Arkansas and other
states to reclaim the ' Swamp tands,' within their limits." 9'
Stat. .519. The complaint was in the usual form in such
actions, alleging the plaintiff's seizin in fee of the land and his
right of possession, the unlawful entry thereon of the defendants and their ousting him therefrom, and their continued
withholding of the possession to his damage of $1000. It
also alleged that the rents and profits of the land were of
the value of $560 a year. The prayer was for judgment of
restitution of the premises and for the damages, rents and
profits claimed.
Two of the defendants united in their answer, one of them
being a tenant of the other; the other defendants answered
separately. All denied the allegations of the complaint, and,
except in the case of the tenant, asserted ownership in fee of
portions of the demanded premises, which they described in
their respective answers; and all set up the statute of limita'tions in bar of the action.
The action was twice tried by the state District Court in
which it was commenced, and, by stipulation of parties, without a jury. At both trials the plaintiff asserted title to the
premises as swamp and overflowed lands by conveyance from
parties who had purchased them from the State. The defendants claimed the premises through patents of the United
States, issued under the preemption laws to them or to parties
from whom they derived their interest. On the first trial, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886
Argument for Defendant in Error.

court found that 160 acres were swamp and overflowed land
on the 28th of September, 1850, within the meaning of the act
of Congress of that date, and gave judgment in favor of the
plaintiff for their possession; but, as to the other portions of
the premises, the court failed to find whether or not the
plaintiff was the owner thereof or entitled to their possession.
For this failure the Supreme Court of the state, on appeal,
reversed the judgment, and remanded the cause to the District Court, with directions to find upon those issues from the
evidence already taken, and such further evidence as might
be adduced; and to render judgment upon the whole case.
Upon the second trial thus ordered,, further testimony was
accordingly taken. The court thereupon set aside its previous
findings, found on all the issu'es in favor of the defendants,
and gave judgment in their favor. On appeal to the Supreme
Court this judgment was affirmed.
-YLr. John .Atullan for plaintiff in error.
Mr. IF. C. Belcher for defendant in error.
I. Under the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, granting swamp and overflowed lands to the states, the Secretary
qf the Interior is the officer, and his department the tribunal,
to determine what lands are within the grant, and his decision
is conclusive. Frenchv Fyan, 93 U. S. 169,171. That decision
has been many 'times recognized and affirmed, and by it the
rule was settled that-when the Land Department has *ssued a
patent for any given tract of land as high land, and particularly where, as here, it has issued a patent after having made
special inquiry and examination, through its subordinate officers, to determine the character of the land with reference to
the grant, the question of character is conclusively settled in
favor of the patentee, and cannot be reexamined in an action
at law.,
Here we have as evidence of the decision of the Department
of the Interior as to the character of these lands: First. Patents of the United States to defendants as pregmptors';

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Second. Report of the United States Surveyor General of 'his
investigation -nade upon the application of the plaintiff and
the decision of the Commissioner upon that report; Third.
Decision of the Commissioner and Se cretary of the Interior
refusing to list the land to the state upon its application made
by the stafte Surveyor General.
I. In an action of ejectment, patents of the United States
for the lands involved are conclusive evidence of the legal title.
French v. .fya, 93 U. S. 169; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall.
72; leese v. Clrk, 18 Cal. 535, 572; f.Ailler v. -Dale, 44 Cal.
562; Churchill v. Anderson, 56 Cal. 55 ; Gibson v. Chouteau,
13 Wall. 92, 102; Bagnell v. Broderick, 13. Pet. 436; Patterson v. Tatum, 3 Sawyer, 164, 172; -Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S.
.530; Cahn v. Barnes, '7 Sawyer, 48.
In .FBenchv. _Fyan it appeared that the United States had
issued a patent to the state, upon its request, for the land as
swamp and oierflowed land under the act of September 28,
1850; that Congress had in 1852 made a grant of land to the
Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, and the land involved
had been surveyed and returned as high land, and had been
certified by the Commissioner to the railroad company as part
of the land granted to it. The plaintiff, claimed under the
certificate and grant to the railroad company, the defendants
under the state; and.the party resisting the patent offered to
prove by witnesses that the land was not in fact swamp and
overflowed land within the meaning of the act, while in our
case the plaintiff sought to prove that the land wa swamp
and overflowed land within the meaning of the act by witnesses, by the state segregation map, and the new plat constructed by the United States Surveyor General under the
fourth section of the act of July 23, 1866.
In Leese v. Clark, 18 Cal. 572, Mr. Justice Field, then Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of California, speaking of the
conclusive character of a patent, says: "Upon all the matters.
of fact and law essential to authorize its issuance, it purports
absolute verity; and it can only be vacated and set aside by
directp'oceedings instituted by the .government, or by parties
acting in the name and by the duthoriy f the government.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Until thus vacated it is coiclusive, not only as between the
patentee and the government, but between parties claiming in
privity with either by title subsequent." And in Gibson'v.
Chouteau, 13 Wall. 102, the same learned judge says: "But
in the action of ejectment in the Federal courts, the legal title
must prevail, and the patent, when regular on its face, is
conclusive evidence of that title. So, also, in the action of
ejectment in the state courts, when the question presented
is whether the plaintiff or defendant has the superior legal
title from the United States, the patent must prevail."
Afiller v. -Dale, 41 Cal. 562, was ejectment for land in Santa
Clara County. The land was embraced within the calls of
two Mexican grants-Las Animas and El Solis-both of
which had been finally confirmed by the proper tribunals of
the United States. For El Solis a patent had been issued.
For Las Animas the survey had been finally approved by the
United States District and Circuit Courts, but no patent had
been issued. The plaintiff, claiming under the Las Aninas,
sought to attack the El Solis patent, under which the defendants claimed, on the ground that the confirmation of the
grant had been procured by false testimony, but it was held
that the patent could not be collaterally attacked, and that it
was, so long as it remained unvacated, conclusive against the
government and against all parties claiming .under the government by title subsequent. The judgment in that case was reviewed in this court, and affirmed in ffiiller v. -Dale,92 U. S.
473.
Here the issuing of the patent was, by the act of CQngress,
made to depend upon the existence of particular facts in reference to the condition of the land - whether it was high land,
suited to cultivation, and open to settlement and purchase
under the pregmption laws. The Department of the Interior,
had been appointed to ascertain and determine the facts, and
had given its decision, and upon that decision the patents
had been issued, and they were not open to collateral attack.
The rights of the defendants were based upon settlements
made and declaratory statements filed prior to the passage of
the act of July 23, 1866, and their rights were saved by special

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.

493

Argument for Defendant in Error.

provisions of that-act. IRoseberry's patent for the southeast
quarter of section twenty-five was issued prior to the passage
of that act:
In Cahn v. Barnes, decided in 1881, in the United States
Circuit Court for the District of Oregon, the plaintiff claihed
under a patent from the United States issued under a wagon
road grant to the state of Oregon. The defendant claimed
under a certificate oi purchase from the state, for the land as
swamp and overflowed land. The facts in that case were in
many respects like the facts in this. There the state had
selected the land as swamp and overflowed and issued to the
defendant its certificate of purchase, but the land had not
been listed or patented to the state as swamp. There too the
United States had issued a patgnt for the land as high land.
The reasoning of the learned judge in that case applies
very-exactly to this case, and here as there, the patent of the
United States must be held conclusive evidence that the lands
patented as agricultural lands, were not and are not swamp
land.
There the Secretary of the Interior had not been asked to
determine the character, and list the lands. Here investigations had been had and reports made at the instance of the
state, and after investigation, the Secretary had refused to list
or certify the land to the state. The patents were not open
to collateral attack. The were issued 'under authority of
law, and by the officers to whom the law intrusted "the
issuing of patents for all grants of land under the authority of
the government," and for lands the title to which was in the
government. If there was. any error, it was an error of judgmerit in the Secretary, in determining the actual character of
the land, but that was an error which a court of law cannot
correct. The act of July 23, 1866, could not affect the case,
because the rights -of the defendants were initiated before its
passage, -and were sprecially protected by its provisions.
III. There was no error in the rulings of the District Court
as to the admissibility of evidence.
First. Plaintiff asked the witness Twitohell whether the
map filed in the Surveyor General's office, by Mathews, had

OCTOBER TER-A,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

been recognized as the segregation map of Yolo County.
Recognition by 'the officers of thb Surveyor General's office
could'not give character to the map. The map itself was in
evidence, and was allowed to tell its own story. It was
offered in evidence to show that the land in controversy had
been actually surveyed and segregated as swamp and overflowed land by Mathews, as county surveyor, in 1S62. It
must speak for itself, and recognition by the Surveyor General
could add nothing to it.
Second. The documentary evidence offered by the defendants and admitted against the objections of the plaintiff was
admissible, because it showed that the Land Department auid.
the Secretary of the Interior, as the head of that department,
had, upon application of the state, refused to list or patent the
land involved to the state.
MR. JusTicn FIELD, after making the foregoing statement of

the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
It does not distinctly appear what caused the District Court
to change its first decision with respect to those lands, which
it had originally held to be swamp and overflowed; but, as
it admitted in evidence the patents of the United States, and
held that they passed: the title to the defendants, it probably
had reached the conclusion which the Supreme Court subse'quently announced, that the plaintiff could not maintain an
action upon the title to swvamp ani overflowedl lands 'until
they had been certified as such to the state, pursuant to the
fourth section of the act of Congress of July 23,, 1866, "to
quiet land titles in California." For *ant of such certificate,
the court decided that the title to the demanded premises
never vested in the state, and that she could not convey a title
to the plaintiff upon which he could maintain an action of
ejectment against persons in possession under patents of the
United States. This ruling constitutes the alleged error for
which a reversal is sought. To determine its correctness, it
will be necessary to consider the nature of the grant to the
state of the swamp and overflowed lands, the proceedings

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

taken under the laws of the state and of the United States to
ascertain and define their boundaries, and the effect of the
act of July 23, 1866, and of § 2488 of the Revised Statutes
as confirmatory of previous segregations by the state. The
following is th6 swamp land act of September 28, 1850:
"AN AcT to enable the State of Arkansas and other States
to reclaim the ' Swamp Lands' within their limits.
"Be it enacted 4y the Binate and House of Representatives
of the United States of Amer'ic in Congress assembled, That
to enable the state of Arkansas to construct the necessary
levees and drains to reclaim the swamp and overflowed lands
therein, the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands made
unfit thereby for cultivation, which shall remain unsold at the
passage of this act, shall be and the same are hereby granted
to said state.
"SEC. 2. And be itfurther enacted,That it shall be the duty
of the Secretary of the Interior, as soon as may be practicable
after the passage of this act, to make out an accurate list and
plats of the lands described, as aforesaid, and transmit the
same-to the governor of the state of Arkansas, and at the request of said governor, cause a patent to be issued to the state
therefor; and on that patent the fee simple to the lands shall
vest in the said state of Arkansas, subject to the disposal of
the legislature thereof : Provided,however, That the proceeds
of said lands, whether from sale or by direct appropriation in
kind, shall be applied exclusively, as far as necessary, to the
purpose of reclaiming said lands by means of the levees and
drains aforesaid.
"'SEC. 3. And U it further enacted, That in making out a
list and plats of the land aforesaid, all legal subdivisions, the
greater part of which is 'wet and unfit for cultivation,' shall
be included in said list and plats; but when the greater part
of a subdivision is not of that character, the whole of it shall
be excluded therefrom.
"SEC. 4. And be itfvrther enacted, That the provisions of
this act be extended to, and their benefits be conferred upon,
each of the other states of the Union in which such swamp

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and overflowed lands, known and designated as aforesaid, may
be situated." 9 Stat. 519.
Soon after the passage of this act, the question arose as to
the time the grant took effect; whether at the date of the
act, or on the issue of the patent to the state upon the request
of the governor, after the list and plat9 of the lands were
made out by the Secretary of the Interior and transmitted to
him. The question was one of great importance to all the
states in which there were swamp and overflowed lands.
These lands amounted to many millions of acres. In California alone there were, according to the reports of the Land
Department, nearly two millions of acres.
The object of the grant, as stated in the act, was to enable
the several states to which it was made, to construct the
necessary levees and drains to reclaim the lands; and the act
required the proceeds from them, whether from their sale or
other disposition, to be used, so far as necessary,,exclusively
for that purpose. The early reclamation of the lands was of
great importance to the, states, not only on account of their
extraordinary fertility when once reclaimed, but for the
reason that until then they were the cause of malarial fevers
and diseases in the neighborhood.
The language of the first section of the act indicates a
grant ia _v'cesenti to'each state of lands within its limits of
the character described. Its words" shall be and are hereby
granted" import an immediate transfer of interest, not a
promise of a transfer in the future. It was only when the
other sections of the act were read that a doubt was raised as
to the immediate operation of the act. On the one hand, it
was contended that these sections postponed the vesting of
title in th&state until the lands granted were identified, and a
patent -of the United States for them was issued. On the
other hand, .it was insisted that effect must be given to the
clear words of the granting clause of the first section, which,
ex vi terrmini, import the passing of a present interest, and
that, in consistency with them, the other provisions of the act
should be regarded as simply providing the mode of identifying the lands, and furnishing documentary evidence of their

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

identification, and not as a limitation upon vesting the right
to them in the state, as this would make the investiture
dependent upon the request of the governor, and not upon the
act of Congress. It was also urged that identification of the
lands could be made in a majority of instances from simple
examination of them, and that no policy of the government
could be advanced by postponing the passing of the title until
the identification by the Secretary of the Interior; and that
the clause providing, that upon the issue of the pater" the fee
should pass, was merely declaratory of the nature of the title,
the patent operating merely by way of further assurance.
The question thus brought to the attention of the Department, under whose supervision the act was to be carried into
effect, was one upon' which men might very well differ, but
after its solution had been reached, and the conclusion was
acted upon, necessarily affecting titles to immense tracts of
land, there should be the clearest evidence of error, as well as
the strongest reasons of policy and justice controlling, before
a departure from it should be sanctioned.
There are numerous cases in the history of the country
where Congres , after confirming to parties title to lands, has
directed that patents of the United- States should be issued to
them; yet, it has been held that the piatent in such cases
operated merely as record evidence of the title, and added
nothing to the title itself. An illustration of this is presented
in the case of claims confirmed to lands in the Northwest Territory which originated previously to its cession to the United
States. By the act of Congress of March 26, 1801, 2 Stat.
c77,
335, every person claiming lands within certain designated limits of that territory by virtue of a legal grant made
by the French government prior to the Treaty of Paris of the
10th of February, 1763; or by the British government subsequent to that period, and prior to the treaty of peace between
the United States and Great Britain on the 3d of September,
1783; or by virtue of any resolution or act of Congress subsequent to that treaty, was required to deliver, on or before the
first of January, 1805, to the register of the land office of the
district in which the- land was situated, a notice stating the
voL. cxxi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

nature and extent of his claim, together with a plat of the
tract or tracts claimed. The register of the land office and
the receiver of public moneys were constituted commissioners
within their respective districts for the purpose of examining
the claims. It was made their duty to hear in a summary
manner all matters respecting them, to examine witnesses,
and to take any testimony that might be adduced before
them and decide thereon according to justice and equity, and
to transmit a transcript of their decisions in favor of claimants to the Secretary of the Treasury, who was reqired to
lay it before Congress at the ensuing session.
Among the claims presented: under this act was one by the
heirs of Jean B.- gtiste Tongas for lands in the neighborhood of
Vincennes, the claim being founded upon an ancient grant to
their ancestor.' The commissioners decided in favor of the
heirs and confirmed their claim, and transmitted a transcript
of their decision. to the Secretary of the Treasury, .who laid
the same before Congress. By the act of Mfarch 3, 1807, 2
Stat. 446, c. 47, this and other decisions in favor of persons
claiming lands in the same district of Vincennes, transmitted
to the Secretary of the Treasury, were confirmed. The act
declared that every person, or his legal representative, whose
claim was confirmed, and who had not previously obtained a
patent therefor from the governor of the territory northwest
of Ohio, or of Indiana Territory, should, whenever his claim
was located and surveyed, have a right to receive from the
register of the land office at Vincennes a certificate, which
should entitle him to a patent for his land, to be issued to him
in like manner as is provided by law "for the other lands of
the United States." A survey of the tract thus confirmed
was made in 1820, but no patent was issued until 1872, when
one was issued, reciting'the confirmation, by the act of 1807,
of the decision of the Commissioners under the act of 1804.
The patent purported "to give and grant" to the heirs of
Tongas the tract in question in fee. A party claiming under
the heirs brought ejectment for the premises. The defendant
claimed as tenant under one who had been in actual possession under claim and color of title for thirty years. The

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

question for decision was, when did the title to the land vest
in the heirs of Tongas. The court below held that it vested
by the act of confihnation of 1807, when the land was located
and surveyed in 1820, and that the patent was not itself the
grant of the land by the- United States, but merely evidence
that a grant had been made to the heir of Tongas. The
defendant, therefore, had judgment. The case being brought
to this court, the judgment was affirmed. Iagdeauv. Hans,
21 Wall. 521. In deciding the case, the court said:
"In the legislation of Congress a patent has a double operation. It is a conveyance by the government when the government has any interest to convey, but wvhere it is issued
upon the confirmation of a claim of a previously existing title,
it is documentary evidence, having the dignity of a record, of
•the existence of that title or of such equities respecting the
claim as justify its recognition and confirmation. The ins'trument is not the less efficapious'as evidence of previously
existing rights because it also' embodies words of release or
transfer from the government. In the present case the patent
would have been of great value to the claimants, as record
evidence of the ancient possession and title of their ancestok,
and of the recognition and confirmation by the United' States,
and would have obviated, in any controversies at law respecting the land, the necessity of other proof, and would thus
have been to them an instrument of quiet and security. But it
would have added nothing to the force of the confirmation.
The survey required .for the patent was only to secure certainty of description in the instrument, and to inform the
government of the quantity reserved to private parties from
the domain ceded by Virginia."
The grants by the United States of land to aid in the construction of railroads, in relation to which we have had many
cases before us, are in many particulars analogous to the grant
by the swamp land act. They are usually-of a specified number of sections of land on each side of the proposed route of
the road, with a reservation of certain sales or of other disposition made before such. road becomes definitely fixed. The
usual words of grant in such cases are similar to those in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

swamp land act -"there is hereby granted." Though it is impossible to locate the land granted until the route is fixed,
yet when that is fixed the grant takes effect as of the date of
-the act. This would be equally the case were the mode prescribed to fix the boundaries more complicated and difficult.
Thus, in the case of -Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston
Rtailroad Company v. United States, 92 1U. S. 733, the language
was, "There be and is hereby granted to the state of
Kansas," and in reference to it the court said: "It creates an
immediate interest and does not indicate a purpose to give in
future. ' There be and is hereby granted' are words of
absolute donation and import a grant inpmrpsenti. This court
has held that they can have no other meaning, and the Land
Department, on this interpretation of them, has uniformly
administered every previous similar grant. ....
They vest a
present title in the state of Kansas, though a survey of the
lands and a location'of the road are necessary to give precision
to it, and attach it to any particular tract. The grant then
becomes certain, and by relation has the sime effect upon the
selected parcels as if it had specifically described them." See,
also, Railroad Company v. Baldwin,103 U. S. 426; Atissouri,
ansas and Texas Railway Company v. Zansas Pa&Vftc.lRailway ConPany, 97 U. S. 491; Schulenberg v. -Harriman,21
Wall. 44, 60; Rvutherford v. Greene's -Meirs, 2 Wheat. 196.
It is plain that the difficulty of identifying the swamp and
overflowed lands could not defeat or impair.the effect of the
granting clause, by whomsoever such identification was required to be made. When identified, -the title would becomd
perfect as of the date of the act. The patent would be
evidence of such identification and declaratory of the title
conveyed.' Itiwould establish definitely the extent and boun-,
.daries of the swamp and overflowed lands in any township,
and thus render it unnecessary to resort to oral evidence on
that subject. It would settle what otherwise might always
be a mooted, point, whether the greater part of any legal subdivision was so wet and unfit for cultivation as to carry the
whole subdivision into the list. The determination of the
Secretary upon these matters, as shown by the patent, would

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

be conclusive as against any collateral attacks, he being the
6fficer to whose .supervision and control the matter is especially confided. The patent would thus be an invaluable muniment of title and a source of quiet and peace to its possessor.
But the .right of the state under the first section would not be
enlarged b the action of th6 Secretary, except, as to laud, not
swamp or overflo~ved, "contained in a legal subdivision, as
mentioned in the.fourth section; nor culd it be defeated, in
regard to the swamp and overhfowed lands, by his refusal to
have the required list made out, or the.patent issued, notwithstanding the delays and embarrassments which might ensue.
The conclusion which the Land Department reached upon
its examination of the character of the grant soon after the
passage of the act, was that the title passed to the state at the
date of the act. In a communication to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, under date of December 23,-1851,
Mr. Stuart, then Secretary of the Interior, referring to the act
of 1850 and the act of 1849 to aid Louisiana to drain her
swamp lands, and "staingthat the first question involved was
as to the period when the grants took effect-whether at tle
date of the law, or at the date of the approval of the selections
by *theSecretary - said: "In each case, the granting clause is
in the first section, and the words employed, viz., 'are hereby
granted,' seem to me to import a grant in _prasenti. They
confer the right to the land, though other proceedings are
necessary to perfect the title. When the selections are made
and approved, or the patent issued, the title therefor becomes
perfect, and has relation back to the date of the grant." And,.
further, "As the grants are regarded as taking effect from the
date of the laws making them respectively, and as vesting the
inchoate title in the states, it follows that any subsequent sale
or location of swamp or overflowed lands must be held to be
illegal and the purchase money refunded, or a change of loca'tion ordered." Lester's Land Laws, 549, No. 578.
This construction of the grant has been followed by the
Secretary's successors to this day. In a communication to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, April 19, 1877,
Secretary Schurz said: "The legal character of this grant (of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

1850) has often been passed upon by the courts, and it has
been uniformly held that the act was a present grant, vesting
inthe state, jyoprio igore from the day of its date, title to all
the land of the particular description therein designated, wanting nothing but the definition of the boundaries to make it
perfect." , And, therefore, he held that swamp lands were
notI in March, 1853, when the preemption laws were extended
to California, public lands, and for that reason could not be
entered and *sold under those laws. 4 The act of. September
28, 1850,". he added, ' was notice to the world that all of
the swampy lands in California were thereby granted in prcsenti to the state, and were not subject to pregmption, entry
or sale thereafter; and the person who files a declaratory
statement on lands actually swampy, does so with full notice
that they are not public lands and that he cannot obtain any
iig]ht thereby." Copp's Public Land Laws, vol. 2, p. 1048.
In a communication to the Commissioner of February 25,
1886, Secretary Lamar said: "The principle has been formerly
established- by the decisions of the courts and of this Department that the grant of swamp lands made to the several states
was a grant inprmsenti,and conferred a present vested right
to such lands as of the date of the grant, and that the field
notes of survey may be taken as a -basis in determining the
-character of the land if the state so selects." Decisions of
Dept. Interior, vol. 4, 415.
A similar construction of the grant was given by Attorney
General Black in an official communication to the Secretary
of the Interior, under date of November 10, 1856. In February, 1853, Congress had made a grant of land to the states
of Arkansas and Missouri to aid in the construction of a railroad, and under this grant a part of the lands previously
granted to the state of Arkansas by the act of September 28,
1850, under the designation of swamp lands, was included;
and the question asked of the Attorney General was, which
of the two acts gave the better title. In reply, he said:
"Where there is a conflict between two titles derived from
the sgime source, either of which would be good if the other
were out of the way, the elder one must always prevail; prior

WRIGHT v. ROSELb
Opinion of the Court.

in tempore _potior est in jure. This difficulty, therefore, is
solved if the mere grant [of 1850], as you call it, gave the
State a right to the land, from the day of its date. That it
did so there can be no doubt. In an opinion which I sent you
on the 7th of June, 1857, concerning one of the same laws.
now under consideration, I said that a grant by Congress does
of itself, proprio vigore, pass to the grantee all the estate"
which the Unite~l States had in the subject matter of the
grant, except what is .expressly excepted. I refer you to that
opinion for the reasons and authorities upon which the principle is grounded. It is not necessary that the patent should
-issue before the title vests in the State .under the act of 1850.
The act of Congress was itself a present grant, wanting nothing but a definition of boundaries to make it perfect, and to
attain that object the Secretary of the Interior was directed
to make out an accurate list and plat of the lands and cause a
patent to be issued therefor. But when a party is authorized
to demand a patent for land his title is vested as much as if
he had the patent itself, which is but evidence of his title." 9
Opinions Attorneys General, 254.
The same view of the act'as a present grant, vesting in the
state from its date the title to all the land within its limits of
the particular description d-,signated, wanting only a, defini-,
tion of boundaries to render the title perfect, was taken at an
early period by the highest courts of several states within
which swamp and overflowed lands existed. It was so held
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas in 1859, in Fletcher v.
Pool, 20 Ark. 100; in 1866, in Branch v. .itchell, 24 Ark.
431, 444; and in 1874 in .Ringo's -Executorv. Rotai'sHeirs, 29
Ark. 56.
In 2f letcher v. Pool, the court said: "That the act was a
present grant vesting in the State, porio vigore, from the
day of its date, title to all the land of the particular descrip-.
tion therein designated wanting nothing but the definition of
boundaries to make it perfect, no doubts can be entertained.
The object of the second section was not to postpone the vestiture of title in the State until a patent should issue, but was
to provide for the ascertainment of boundaries and to prevent

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

a premature interference with the lands by the state legislature before they were so designated as to avoid mistake and
confusion."
In Branch v. .Aficheql, the court said: "We continue satisfied with the decisions heretofore made; and again hold that
all the lands in the state, which were really and in fact swamp
and overflowed, and thereby unfit for cultivation, passed to
and vested in the State, on the 28th of September, 1850. The
case is the same as if the grant had been of all the prairie
land, or all the woodland, or all the alluvial land, in the state;
the difficulty of ascertainmrent of its characfer not affecting the
question. The words of grant, the operative words, are direct
and positive: ' Shall be and the same are hereby granted- to the
State; "and the provision of the second section, that the Secretary of. the Interior should make out and transmit to the governor a list and plats of the land described, and at the request
of the gov-rnor cause a patent to issue to the State; and that
' on that patent the fee simple to said lands shall vest in the said
State,' can no more be held to limit the effect of the present
grant in the fi-st section, than if, in a deed,, after immediate and
express conveyance of lands by some general description, it
should b5e provided that, when the numbers should be ascertained, another deed should be made, ' on which the fee simple
should vest2 - This would make the title of the State to any of
the land depend on the request of the governor for a patent.
The words of-the second section must be held to be simply a
definition of the nature of the title which the State took-under
the 'grant, and not a postponement of the period at which the
title should vest." .24 Ark. 444, 445.
And in Ringo's Executor v. Rotan's -eirs, the court held
that the title of the State to ,the swamp and overflowed lands
granted to her by the act of. Septeiiiber 28, 1850, accrued
from the date of the act, and that a ,title derived from the
State took precedence over a grant by the United States subsequent to that time.
The-same, view was held by the Supreme Court of California in 1858, in Owens v. Jackson, 9 Cal. 322; and in Summers v. Dickinson, 9 Cal. 554; and in 1864: in -ernan- v.

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

Griffith, 27 Cal. 87; and in 1882 was assumed to be the correct
view in Sacramento Valley Reclamation Oo. v. Cook, 61 Cal.
341. In the first of these cases, which was an action for the
possession of swamp and overflowed lands held under a patent
of the State, the defendant demurred to the complaint, on the
ground that it did not show that the land had been surveyed
and patented to the State. The demurrer was sustained in the
court below, but the Supreme Court reversed the decision,
holding that the State had the right to dispose of lands of
that character granted to her by the act of 1850, prior to the
.patent of the United States.

."The

act of Congress," said

the court, "describes the land, not by specific boundaries, but
*by its .quality,and is a legislative grant of all the public lands
within the state- of the quality mentioned. The patent is
matter of 'vidence and aescription by metes and bounds.
The office of the-patent is to make the description of the lands
definite and conclusive as between the United States and the
State." The same conclusion was reached in IS61 by the Supreme Court of Iowa, in Allisoa v. H7afacre, 11 Iowa, 450,
which was subsequently followed in all its decisions on the
subject.
At a later day, the Supreme Courts of Missouri and Oregon
held the same doctrine. Clarkson,v. Buchanan, 53 Missouri,
563; Oampbell v. TFortman, 58 Missouri, 258; Gaston v. Stott,
5 Oregon, 48. The Supreme Court of Illinois, in 1863, expressed the same view in S?{ervisors v. State's Attorney, 31
Ill. 68; then receded from it in Grantlarn v. Atkins, 63 Ill.
359; and, in 1873, in Thompson v. Prince, 67 Ill. 281; but
returned to itg first conclusion, in 1875, in .elle," v. Brickey,
78 II. 133.
The question came before this court at the December term,
1869, in Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95, and the mme
doctrine as to the character of the grant was affirmed. On
the 10th of June, 1852, Congress had made to the State of
Missouri a grant of land to aid in the construction of certain
railroads, and the legislature of the state had conveyed the
land to the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company. One
Smith held certain swamp and overflowed lands, which he

OCTOBER TERM, - 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

had obtained from the State, and the question presented was
whether the grant to the State in aid of the railroads covered
the swamp and overflowed lands granted to her by the act of
September 28, 1850, the latter not having been certified to
the State by the Secretary of the Interior, nor patented to her.
After referring to the first section the court said: "Here is a
present grant by Congress of certain lands to the States within
which they lie, but it is by a description which requires something more than a mere reference to their townships, ranges
and sections to identify them, as coming within it. In this
respect it is precisely" like the railroad grants, which only become certain by the location of the road." And after stating
that it was the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to ascertain the character of the lands as swamp and overflowed,
and to furnish the State with evidence of it, the court continued: "Must the State lose the land, though clearly swamp
land, because that officer has neglected to do this? The right
of the State did not depend on his action, but on the act of
Congress, and though the States might be embarrassed in the
assertion of this right by the delay or failure of the Secretary
to ascertain and make out lists of these lands, the right of the
states to them could not be defeated by that delay." The
court added, that, as the Secretary of the Interior had no
satisfactom:y evidence under his control to enable him to make
out these lists, he must, if he attempted it, rely on witnesses
whose personal knowledge would enable them to report as to
the character of the tracts claimed to be,swamp and overflowed; "that the matter to be shown was one of observation
and. examinaation; and, whether arising before the Secretary,
whose duty it was primarily to decide it, or before the court,
whose duty it became because the Secretary had failed to do
it, this was clearly the best evidence to be had, and was sufficient for the purpose." And it was held that the grant in aid
of the railroads did not include the swamp and overflowed
lands.
In F'enehv. Fya, 93 UI. S.169, 170, which was before this
court at October term, 1876, the same view was taken of the
grant, and the effect to be given to a patent of the United

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

States- for swamp lands was stated. That was an action of
ejectment for such lands for which a patent had been' issued
to the State of Missouri under the act of 1850. The lands had
been conveyed to the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company by
the State as part of the land granted to aid in the construction of its road by the act of June 10, 1862, and the plaintiff
had by purchase become vested with the title of the company.
To overcome the p2rimafacie case made by him the defendant
gave in evidence the patent of the State under the swamp
land act of 1850, from which he traced title by regular conveyances. The plaintiff then offered to prove by witnesses
who had known the character of the land from 18-9 down to
the time of the trial, that the land was not swamp and overflowed, and made unfit thereby for cultivation, and that, since
1849, the greater part was not, and never had been, in that
condition. The court below held that the question was concluded by the patent of the United States to the State for the
land as swamp land under the act of September 28, 1850, and
rejected the testimony. The admissibility of the testimony
was thus presented for determination. In giving our decision
we said: "This court has decided more than once that the
swamp land act was a grant inlresenti,by which the title to
those lands passed at once to the State in which they. lay, except as to the States admitted into the Union after its passage.
The patent, therefore, which is -the evidence that the lands
contained ir it had been identified as swamp lands under that
act, relates back and gives certainty to the title of the date of
the grant. As that act was passed two years prior to the act
granting lands to the State of Missouri for the benefit of the'
railroad, the defendant had the better title on the face of the
papers, notwithstanding the certificate to the railroad company for the same land was issued three years before the
patent to the State under the act of 1850. For, while the title
under the swamp land act, being a present grant, takes effect
as of the date of that act, or of the admission of the State into
the Union wheii this occurred afterwards, there can be no claim
of an earlier date than that of the act 1852, two years later,
for the inception of the title of the railroad company." And

OCTOBER. TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the admissibility of parol testimony to show that the
land in the patent was not swamp land, the court said that
by the second section of the act the power and duty were conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior, as the head of the
department which administered the affairs of the public lands,
of determining what lands were of the description granted,
and made his office the tribunal whose decision on that subject was to be controlling. The j~arol evidence, therefore, was
held to be inadmissible. 93 U. S. 172.
In commenting upon the case of Railroadv. Smith, upon
which reliance was placed for the admission of the parol testimony, the court said: "The admission was placed expressly
on the ground that the Secretary of the Interior had neglected or refused to do his duty; that he had made no selections or lists whatever, and would issue no patents, although
many years had elapsed since the passage of the act." "There was no means," it added, "as this court has decided
to compel him to act; and if the party claiming under the
State in that case could not be permitted to prove that the
land which the State had conveyed to him as swamp land was
in fact such, a total failure of justice would occur, and the
entire grant of the State might be defeated by this neglect or
refusal of the Secretary to do his duty."
This view of the character of the grant was recognized in
Rice v. Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company, decided at
the October term, 1883, 110 U. S. 695, 691, 698. The question there was, whether the .swamp land act extended to
territories upon their subsequent admission as states into the
Union. It was held that it did not. Said the court, speaking
by the Chief Justice: "That the swamp land act of 1850,
operated as a grant in prxsenti to the States then in existence of all the swafmp lands in their respective jurisdictions, is
well settled," citing the cases of Railroad Comvany v. Smith,
9 Wall. 95; French v. Fyan, 93 U. S. 169, and .fartn v.
JIa'7s,97 U. S. 345. And again: "The grant under the act
of 1850 was to Arkansas and the other states of the Union.
Arkansas was an existing state, and, the grant was to all the
states in prcsenti. It was to operate upon existing things.

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

and with reference to an existing state of facts." - "It was to
take effect at once between an existing grantor and several
separate existing grantees."
The result of these decisions is, that the grant of 1850 is one
in prmsenti, passing the title to the lands as of its date, but
requiring identification of the lands to render the title perfect; that the action of the Secretary in identifying them is
conclusive against collateral attack, as the judgment of a
special tribunal to which the determination of the matter is
intrusted; but, when that officer has neglected or failed 'to
make the identification, it is competent for the grantees of the
State, to prevent their rights from being defeated, to identify
the lands in any other appropriate mode which will effect that
object. A resort to such mode of identiacation would also
seem to be permissible, where the Secretary d6clares his
inability to certify the lands to the State for any cause other
than a consideration of their character.
The legislati6 n of Congress subsequent to the act of.1850,
for thLe purpose of giving it effect, has been in consonance with
the view stated of the nature of the grant. It has uniformly
recognized the paramount character of the State's title, and
has endeavored to correct the evils which in many cases followed from the delay of the Secretary of the Interior in identifying the lands, and furnishing to the State the required lists
and plats. The 4egislatures of the several states in which such
lands existed very generally themselves undertook t6 identify
the lands and todispose of them, and for that purpose passed
appropriate legislation for their survey and sale and the issue
of patents to the purchasers. Mxuch inconvenience, and in
many instances conflicts of title, arose bet 'reen those claiming
under the State and those claiming directly from the United
States. To obviate this, on the 2d of March, 1855, Congress
passed an act "for the relief of purchasers and locators of
swamp and overflowed lands." 10 Stat. 634, c. 147. The
act provided that the President of the United States should
cause patents to be issued to purchasers and locators who had
made entries of the public lands claimed as swamp and overflowed lands with cash or land warrants or scrip, prior to the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

issue of patents to states under the act of 1850,' "Providf d,
that in all cases where any state through its constituted authorities may have sold or disposed of any tract or tracts of
said land to any individual or individuals, prior to the entry,
sale or location of the same under the preemption or other
laws of the United States, no patent shall be issued by the
President for such tract or tracts of land until such state
through its const ituted authorities shall release its claim thereto, in such form as shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Interior."
The act also provided "that upon due proof by the authorized agent of the State or States, before the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, that any of the lands purchased were
swamp lands within the true intent and meaning of the act
aforesaid, the purchase.money shall be paid over to said State or
States; and when the lands have been located by warrant or
scrip, the said State or States shall be authorized to locate a
quantity of like amount upon any of the public lands subject to
entry at one dollar and a quarter per acre, or less, and patents
$hall issue therefor upon the terms and conditions enumerated in
the act aforesaid."
There is here a plain recognition of the prior right of the
state to the swamp lands within her limits, by the declaration
that no patent of the United States shall be issued to purchasers from them of such lands without a release from the
State, and that, in case of completed purchases from them, the
purchase money shall be paid to the State, or if the purchase
was made by warrant or in scrip, the State may locate an
equal quantity of land upon any other ptiblic lands subject to
entry. By act of March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 251, c. 111/, "to
confirm to the several states the swamp and overflowed lands
selected under the act of September twenty-eight, eighteen
hundred and fifty, and the act of the second March, eighteen
huhdred and forty-nine," the act of March 2, 1855, was continued in force and extended to all entries and locations of lands
claimed as swamp, made since its passage.
The act of Congress of March 12, 1860, 12 Stat. 3, c. 5,, extending the provisions of the swamp- land act to Minnesota

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

and Oregon, recognizes in its second section their right and
that of other states to make selections of the swamp lands, or
rather to provide for their identification, without waiting for
the action of the Secretary of the Interior. That section provides that the selection to be made from lands already surveyed
in each of the states should be made within two years from
the adjournment of the legislature of the state at its next session after the date of the act, and, as to all lands thereafter to
be surveyed, within two years from such adjournment at the
next session, after notice by the Secretary of the Interior to
the governor of the state that the surveys have been completed and confirmed.
By an act passed on the 23d of July, 1866, entitled "An act
to quiet land titles in California," 14 Stat. 218, c. 219, Congress changed ihe provisions of law for the identification of
swamp and overflowed lands in that state. It no longer left
their identification to the Secretary of the Interior, but provided for such identification by the joint action of -the state
and Federal authorities.
As early as 1855 the legislature of California undertook to
control and dispose of those lands. The Secretary of the
Interior had neglected to make out any list and plats of the
lands of this character, and to transmit them to the governor
of the state, as required by the second section of the act of
1850. The State therefore proceeded, in 1855, to assert her
ownership over the lands, by providing for their survey and
sale, and the issue of patents to the purchasers. Further
legislation was also bad on the subject in 1858 and 1859; and,
in 1861, an act was passed providing for their reclamation
and segregation, making it the duty of the county surveyors
to segregate these lands in their respective counties from
the high lands, and to make a complete map of the lands in
legal subdivisions of sections and parts of sections, and to
transmit a duplicate thereof to the surveyor general of the
state. Cal. Laws of 1861, 355.
The act of Congress of 23d of Suly, 1866, -was intended to
effect the purpose indicated in its title. Previously to its
passage there had been great confusion and uncertainty in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

relation to land titles in California.

This arose with respect

to other lands than swamp and overflowed lands, principally
from the delay in extending the public surveys of the government, and the action of the state authorities in attempting
to select and dispose of the lands granted to her in advance
of such surveys. With respect to the swamp and overflowed
lands, the confusion had arisen principally from the delay of
the Secretary of the IhferiQr in listing such lands to the State.
and from inaccuraciesof description arising from the want in
many parts of the couftry of the public surveys. The act of
JJuly 23,.1866, tended to remove this uncertainty and confusion,
principally by recognizing the action of the State in disposing of the lands granted to her, .incases where such disposition was made to parties in good faith, and did not interfere
with previously acquired interests, and by providing a mode
for identifyin the swamp and overflowed lands in the future
without the action of the Secretary of the Interior. The first
section of the act declared, that in all cases where the State
of California had made selections of any portion of the public domain, in part satisfaction of any grant made to her by
act of Congress, and had disposed of the same to purchasers
in good faith under her laws, the lands so selected should be
and were thereby confirmed to the state subject to certain exceptions. This section does not, as supposed by counsel,
apply to the swamp and overflowed -lands. It was not in
satisfaction of a grant of those lands that the State could
select lands from any part of the public domain. All she
could do was to ascertain where those lands were. She had
no power of selection, though that term is sometimes used
when merely the power of ascertainment or identification is
intended. Secretary Schurz, in Kile v. Tu s, July 15, 1879,6 Copp, 108; Secretary Teller, in State of Califor ia, December 21, 1883, 2 Decisions of Dep. Int. 643; Suton v. Fassett,
51 Cal. 12. It is the fourth section of that act which applies
to swamp and overflowed lands. That section, among other
things, provides, "That in all cases where township surveys
have been, or shall hereafter be, made under authority of the
United States,. and the -plats thereof approved, it shall be the

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

duty of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to
certify over to the state of California, as swamp and bverflowed, all the lands represented as such, upon such approved,
plats, within one year from the passage of this act, or within
one -year from the return and approval of such township plats.
The Commissioner shall direct- the United States Surveyor
General for the state of California to examine the segregation!
maps and surveys of the swamp and overflowed lands made
by said state; and where he shall find them to conform
to the system of surveys.adopted by the United States, he
shall construct and .approve township plats accordingly, and
forward [them] to the General Land Office for approval."
As thus seen, lands represented as swamp and overflowed on
the approved plats of township surveys, made under authority
of the United States were, after that date, to be certified, to
the State; and lands were to be represented as swamp and
overflowed on the township plats which were found on the
state segregation maps and surveys of such lands; the approval of the township plats to be made by the Land Office.
Under the act of California of 1861, the surveyor of
the county of Yolo, in 1862, segregated the swamp and
overflowed lands in that county, and made a map thereof,
entitled "Supplemental Segregation of Swamp and Overflowed Land in Yolo County, by Amos Matthews, County
Surveyor," on Which all the lands in controversy were lesig
nated as swamp and overflowed lands, and deposited the
same in the state surveyor general's office. A copy of such
segregation..map, duly certified by the surveyor geneal of
the state, was given in evidence, aco ....
panied with the following certificate of the Surveyor General of the United
States:
"U. -S.SunvE-o GNEi-AL's OFIncE,
S1A Fu.cisco, CALIFORNIA.
"I hereby certify that this diagram has been compared
with the original by me, and that the same is a correct
transcript of a plat embracing townships eleven north, range
two east; twelve north, two east; twelve north, one east
VOL.

Cxxx-33

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

(fractional), and eleven north, one east, Mount Diablo meridian, said plat having been filed in this office between the 22d
of March and 4th of April, 1872, and being plat of survey
made by the county surveyor of Yolo County, under and in
pursuance of the statutes of the state of California then in
force, and showing the segregation lines of the swamp and
overflowed land in said townships; and further, that the
whole of that portion of said plat is designated thereon as
swamp and overflowed land; that I have compared the certificate of approval of said plat with the original indorsed
thereon, and that the same is a full, true and correct transcript
thereof.
"Witness my hand and the seal of this office this 22d day
of September, A.D. 1873.
[SA.]
J. R. HARDENBURGr,
U. S. Surveyor General Californi'."
Objection was taken to a copy of this map, because the one
deposited in the office of the surveyor general of the state
was not marked as filed. If such was the case, the omission
was one of that officer, and could not affect the validity of
the map as evidence. It was in proof that the county surveyor deposited the map in that office, and that ever since it
had remained there. :No other segregation map was ever in
the office.
On the first of July, 1861, the swamp and overflowed lands
in the county, in controversy in this case, and designated as
such on tlii. map, subsequently made, were purchased by
different parties from the State, as shown by certificates of
purchase issued to them bearing that date, which were produced in evidence. These certificates were assigned to the
plaintiff. They are made by statute prima facie evidence of
legal title in the holders thereof; and upon them ejectment
can be maintained for the land described. Act of April 13,
1859; Richter v. Riley, 22 Cal. 639.
On the 10th of January, 1866, a plat or map of the township, in which the lands in controversy are situated, was

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

approved by L. Upson, United States surveyor general for
California, on which map only one parcel of the lands was
designated as swamp and overflowed land. The map showed
on its face that the survey of the township was made in the
field, in 1864. On the 4th of April, 1872, J. R. Hardenburgh,
United States surveyor general for California, who had succeeded Mr. Tipson, compared this map with the segregation
" map of swamp and overflowed lands in the township, made,
by the surveyor of the county under the laws of the state,
which conform to the system of surveys adopted by the
Unted States, and amended the township plat in accordance
with the segregation, and forwarded the same to the General
Land Office, where it was officially used as an approved plat.
Upon this amended map all the lands in controversy are
designated a-s swamp and overflowed. The following letter
of the surveyor general accompanied the map:
"U. S. SUvEYoR GExERw's OFcE,
S w FRmxcisco, Aril 19, 1872.

fHon. Wfris DRummoND,
Commissioner GeneraZ Lznd Oefle, TF8ahington, -D. C.

"Sm: I transmit in a separate roll by to-day's mail certified plats, also certified descriptive lists, of the following
townships, showing all tracts which the state of California
claimed as swamp and overflowed prior to July 23, 1866;
also showing the segregation of swamp and overflowed lands
made by the United States, viz.: Township eleven north,
range one east; township eleven, north, range two east;
township twelve north, range two east, Mount Diablo meridian. The lists of said tracts contain annotations in red ink
made by the register of the U. S. Land Office, at Marysville,
stating all titles to said lands adverse to the claims of *the
state of .California, together with the Register's certificate
testifying to the correctness of such annotations, as appears
from the records of this office.
"These plats and lists are sent you in accordance with the
instructions contained in your letter of July 1, 1871, which in-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

closed for my guidance a copy of a letter addressed to L.
Upson, U. S. Surveyor General, dated Sept. 13, 1866.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"J. R. HARD=UBRGHr,
U. S. Surveyor General for California."
Th6 Commissioier, M9r. Williamson, who suepeeded Mr.
Drummond in office, certifies, under date of January 12, 1878,
to a copy of this plat of township eleven north, range two
east, of Mount Diablo meridian, as one received with the
Surveyor General's letter of April 19, 1872, and "since which
time it has been officially used as approved plat made in
accordance- with § 24,88, U. S. Revised Statutes." This section declares that "it shall be the duty of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office to certify over to the state of
California, as swamp and overflowed lands, all the lands
represented as such upon the approved township surveys and
plats, whether made before or after the 23d day of July,
1866, under the authority of the United States." Subsequently, in July, 1877, the state surveyor general forwarded
. to the Commissioner of the Land Office certified copies of certain swamp land surveys, with a statement that the lands described in them were all sold by the State in good faith as
swamp and overflowed lands prior to July 23, 1866, and
requested that the lands not already listed, which included
those in controversy, be certified to the State. The Commissioner replied that the lands in the township had all been disposed of, and patents issued to settlers Under the laws of the
United States, and upon that ground alone he refused the
application. This refusal was approved by Mr. Schurz, Secretary of the Interior, the latter observing, in justification of
it, that it had been decided by the Supreme Court of the
United States that a patent, when issued and delivered to and
acdepted by the grantee, pas3ed the legal title to the land,
and all control of the executive department over it ceased.
"If any lawful reason exists," said the Secretary in his communication to the Commissioner, "why the patent should b6
cancelled or annulled, such as fraud on the part of the

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

grantee, or mistake or misconstruction of the law on the part
of your office, the appropriate xemedy is by a bill in chancery,
and an action may be maintained by the United States, or
any contesting claimant, but you axe not authorized to reconsider the facts on which a patent was issued, and to recall or
rescind it, or to issue one to another party for the samo
tract," citing United States v. Hughes, 11 How. 552;
United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525; Hugkes v. United States,
4 Wall. 232; and Mtoore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530. There was
no suggestion -by either the Commissioner or the Secretary
that the lands were not swamp and. overflowed as designated
upon the township plat.
The question, therefore, is whether upon the proof thus presented of the segregation of the lands in controversy as swamp
and overflowed lands by the authorities of the state of California, and their designation as such lands on a plat of the
township made by the Surveyor General of the United States,
and approved by him, and forwarded to the General Land
Office, pursuant to the fourth section of the act of 1866, and
approved by the Commissioner, as shown by its official use,
the plaintiff can maintain an action for the recovery of the
lands, they never having been certified over to the State, as
required by § 2188 of the Revised Statutes, or patented to her
under the act of 1850. According to the decisions we have
cited, the holders of the certificates of purchase had a good
title to the lands if in fact they were swamp and overflowed
lands on the 28th of September, 1850.
The certificates were conclusive as evidence against the
State that they were such lands. The statute of California, as
already stated, makes them prirnafacieevidence of legal title
to the premises in the holders, and upon' them ejectment can
be maintained in the state courts. The case of the plaintiff
was therefore prima facie established by the production of
the certificates, and showing their assignment to him. Richter v. Riley, 22 Cal. 639,'cited above.
The representation of the lands as swamp and overflowed
on the approved township plat would be conclusive as against
the United States that, they were such lands, if they had not

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

been patented before the return of such township, plat to the
Land Office. The act of Congress intended that the segregation maps prepared by authority of -the State, and.fied in the
state surveyor general's office, if found upon examination by
the United States Surveyor General to be made in accordance
with.the public surveys of the General Government, should be
taken as evidence that the lands designated thereon as swamp
and overflowed were such in fact, except where this would
interfere with previously acquired interests. In this case the
defendants trace title by patents of the United States purportingfto be issued to settlerm under the pre 'mption laws, in
1866, 1867, 1868, and 1871, upon declaratory statements*made
in 1864, three years after the purchase from the State by the
grantors of the plaintiff, and t*o years after a map segregating these lands had been made by the surveyor of the county,
pursuant to the-law of the-state, and deposited in the surveyor
general's office. These patents were evidence that whatever
title the United States then held passed to the patentees, and
as against a mere iutruder without claim of title from a paramount source, were conclusive that the lands were of the character which by the patents they were represented to be. This
was the case of Erkardt v. Hogaboom, 115 U. S.67. There
the plaintiff claimed by a patent issued to his grantor under
the preemption laws. The defendant admitted he was in possession of twenty acres, and contended that these were swamp
and overflowed lands which passed to the State under the act
of 1850. It appeared, however, that the certificate of purchase, which he produced, did not embrace the lands in controversy, and his offer to prove the character of the land as
swamp and overflowed by parol was rejected. The court
said: "He was, as to the twenty acres, a simple intruder without claim or color of title. He was, therefore, in no position
to call in question the validity of the patent of the United
States for those acres, and require the plaifitiff to vindicate
the action of the officers of the Land Department in issuing
it." And again: "It is the duty of the Land Department, of
which the Secretary is the head, to determine whether land
patented to a settler is of the class subject to settlement under

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

the pre'mption laws, and his judguient as to this fact is not
open to contestation in an action at law by a mere intruder
without title." But this doctrine has no application where a
party, whether plaintiff or defendant, asserts title to premises
in controversy from a paramount source, or by a prior conveyance from a common source. The doctrine that all presumptions are to be indulged in support of proceedings upon which
a patent is issued, and which is not open to collateral attack in
an action of ejectment, has no application where it is shown
that the land in. controversy had, before the initiation of the
proceedings upon which the patent was issued, passed from
the United States. The previous transfer is a fact which may
be established in an action at law as well as in a suit in equity.
As we said in Srnelting Yo. v. Kemp, 104: U. S. 636, 641:

"When we speak of the conclusive presumptions attending a
patent for lands, we assume that it was issued in a case where
the department had jurisdiction to act and execute it; that is
to say, in a case where the lands belonged to the United
States and provision had been made by law for their sale. If
they never were public property, or had previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made no provision for their sale,
or had reserved them, the department would have no jurisdiction to transfer them, and its attempted conveyance of them
would be inoperative and void, no matter with what seeming
regularity the forms of law may have been observed. The
action of the department would, in that event, be like that of
any other special tribunal not having jurisdiction of a case
which it had assumed to decide. IMatters of this kind, disclosing a want of jurisdiction, may be considered by a court of
law. In such cases the objection to the patent reaches beyond
the action of the special tribunal, and goes to the existence of
a subject upon which it was competent to act."
And again, in the same case, we said, p. 646: "A patent
may be collaterally impeached in any action, and its operation as a conveyance defeated, by showing that the department had no jurisdiction to dispose of the lands; that is, that
the law did not provide for selling them, or that they had
been reserved from sale or dedicated to special purposes, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

had been previously, transferred to others. In establishing
any of these particulars the judgment of the department upon
matters properly before it is not assailed, nor is the regularity
of its proceedings called into question; but its authority to
act at all is denied, and shown never to have existed."
"There are cases," said Chief Justice Marshall, "in which a
grant is absolutely void; as where the State has no title to the
*thing granted, or where the officer h~d no authority to issue.
the grant. In such cases the validity of the grant is necessarily examinable at law." -Polk v. W'endal, 9 Cranch, 87,
99. Indeed, it may be said to be common knowledge that
patents of the United States for lands which they had previously granted, reserved for sale, or appropriated, are void.
Easton v. Salisbury, 21 How. 426;

eichart v. Feps, 6 Wall.

.160; Best v. Polk, 18 Wall. 112. It would be a most extraordinary doctrine if the holder of a conveyance of land
,from a state were precluded from establishing his title simply
because the United States may have subsequently conveyed
the land to another, and especially from showing that years
before, they had granted the property to the state, and thus
weie without title at the time of their subsequent conveyance.
As this court said in -ew Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet.
662, 131: "It would be a dangerous doctrine to consider the
issuing of a grant as conclusive evidence of right in the power
which issued it. On its face it is conclusive, and cannot be
controverted; but if the thing granted was not in the grantor,
no right passes to the grantee. A grant has been frequently
issued by the United States for land which had been previously granted, and the second grant has been held to be
inbperative."
The court below held, and placed its decision upon the
ground, that, because the Commissioner of the General Land
Office had not certified the lands in controversy to the State
as swamp and overflowed, when this action was commenced
in 1870, there was no title in the state by the grant of 1850
which could be enforced, thus making the investiture of title
depend upon the act of the Commissioner instead of the act
of Congress; whereas the certificate of that officer, when the

.

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

previous requirements of the law have been complied with, is
only an official recognition that the lands are of the charac-

ter designated, and of the completeness of their segregation.
The decision is in conflict with its previous decisions, and
with the adjudged cases to which our attention has been
called.
In Sacramento Valley Reclrmation Company v. Cook, 61 Cal.
341, decided as late as 1882, that court recognized the swamp
land grant of 1850 as one in yrwesenti. Its language was:
"It is as well settled as anything can be by the courts that
the donation of swamp and overflowed lands by the United
States to the states in which such lands were situated at the
date of the passage of the act of September 28, 1850, 'was a
grant in p'a enti, by which the title to those lands passed at'
once to the states in which they lay, except as to states admitted into the Union after its passage,' citing F'rench v.
.Fyan,93 U. S.169.
For the error in holding that the certificate of the Commissioner was necessary to pass the title of the demanded
premises to the State, the case must go back for a new trial,
wvhen the parties will be at liberty to show whether or not the
lands in controversy were in fact swamp and overflowed on
the day that the swamp land act of 1850 took effect. If they
are proved to have been such lands at that date, they were
not afterwards subject to preemption by settlers. They were
not afterwards public lands at the disposal of the United
States. Parties settling upon such lands must be deemed to
have done so with notice of the title of the State, and after
the segregation map was deposited with the surveyor general
of the state, with notice also that they were actually segregated and claimed by the State as such lands.
Judgment reversed and cause remandedforfurtherproceedinge not inconsistent wita this opinion.

