LAIDLY v. HUNTINGTON.
Counsel for Appellant.

has been made for getting such an agreement now., The
curative act is consequently inoperative so far as this subscription is concerned.
Many other questions were discussed in the argument for
the plaintiffs in error, but, as they all grow out of the ' mistaken idea that the original subscription payable in bonds
could have been made under the charter as amended in 1858,
they need not be specially referred tQ. Bonds issued without
legislative authority cannot be made binding by me; 3 municipal ratification, because there is no more power to ratify than
there was to create orginally.
The judgment i8s afflmed.

LAIDLY v. HUNTINGTON.APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGIXIA.
Argued

arch 22,1887. -Decided Apr.4,1887.

In a suit by a widow in a court of the state of which she is a citizen, seeking
to have dower assigned to her in land within the state conveyed by her
husband to A, a citizen of another state, and by the latter conveyed to a
corporation created under the laws of the state in which the land lies,
to which suit A is made party defendant, there is no separable controversy (if there be any controversy at all) as to A, which warrants its
removal to-a Circuit Court of the Upited States.
A petition for removal filed after the case has been heard on demurrer on
the ground that the bill does not state facts sufficient to entitle the
complainant to the relief prayed for, and after a decree sustaining the
demurrer, is too late.

Tins was an appeal from a decree overruling a motion to
remand the cause to the state court from whence it had been
removed, and .from the final decree in the cause. This court.
disposed of the case only on the first issue. The case is stated
in the opinion.
-. r. I F. Brown for appellant.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for appellees.
MR.

CIF

JUSTICE

WArITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is'a suit begun by Vesta Laidly, a citizen of West
Virginia, the widow of Albert Laidly, deceased, on the 20th of
December, 1881, in the Circuit Court of Cabell County, West
Virginia,' against 0. P. Huntington and Elizabeth Huntington
his wife, citizens of New York, and the Central Land Company, a West Virginia corporation, for an assignment-of dower
in certain land in that county conveyed by and for Albert
Laidly to C. P. Huntington, and afterwards by Huntington,
during the life of Laidly, to the Land Company, in whose possession it was, under that conveyance, when the suit was begun.
The prayer of the bill is, 1, for an assignment in money, to be
estimated according to the valuation of the land at the time
of the alienation, or if that cannot be done, then,'2, in land.
Attached to the bill as exhibits are copies of the deeds under
which the conveyances were made to Huntington, two of
which purport to have been executed by I aidly and his wife,
and a third by another person who held title for Laidly. In
addition to these exhibits there ik a copy of thedeed by Huntington ahd wife which purports to convey all the land to the
Land Company.
To this bill a joint demurrer was filed by Huntington and
wife,, May 2,-, 188% and,'a separate demurrer by the Land
Company. The ground of each demurrer is, that the bill is
not sufficient in law. On the 26th of the same month of May,
these demurrers were argued and overruled by the court, "but
without deciding upon the sufficiency of the acknowledgments.
to the several exhibits filed with 'the bill." Thereupon Mrs.
Laidly moved the court to dismiss the suit as to Huntington
and wife, to which they objected. This motion was argued on
both sides and submitted, but, before a decision was reached,
Huntington and wife presented their petition for the removal
of the suit to the District Court of the United States for the
District of West Virginia., sitting in Charleston, having Circuit
Court powers, on the ground "that there is a controversy in

LAIDLY v. HUNTINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

said suit which is wholly between citizens of ffifferent, states,
nanlely, between your petitioners, who are defendants in said
suit, and the plaintiff." After ,the presentation of this petition,. the suit was docketed in the District Court upon an order
to that effect made by that court November 1, 1882. On the
8th of November, Mrs. Laidly moved that it be remanded,
and this motion was denied November 11. Thereupon the
defendants moved for leave to reargue the demurrer, and this
motion was granted, On the 10th of May, 1883, the court
refused Mrs. Laidly leave to dismiss the suit a:,o the Huntingtons, overruled the demurrers, and dismissed the bill. From
that decree this appeal was taken. The grounds now relied
on for reversal are, 1,the refusal to remand, and, 2, the overruling of the demurrers and the dismissal of the bill.
The District Court was learly in error in refusing to remand.- There is no separable controversy in the suit, and
Mrs. Laidly, the plaintiff, was, when the suit was begun, a
citizen of West Virginia, and the Land Company, one of the
defendants, a West Virginia corporation, and in law a citizen
of the same state. As the legal title to the land was in the
Land Company at the time of the death of Albert Laidly, and
at. th&time of the commencement of the suit, the company
"was an indispensable party. It is difficult to see how
Huntingtofi and wife were-even proper parties, for according to the
bill they"had parted with their interest in the land during the
life of the husband of Mrs. Laidly, and there is nothing whatever to indicate that when the suit was brought they had any
claim whatever to the property. The whole controversy in
the case, as we infer from the argument here, is as to the
sufficiency of the acknowledgments by Mrs. Laidly of the
deeds to Huntington, which she signed and sealed with her
husband, to bar her dower.
ikayer v. Life Association, 112'
U. S. 717.
The petition was al~o filed too late, for it was after the case
had been heard on a demurrer to the bill because it did not
state facts sufficient to entitle the complainant to the relief
prayed for, and the demurrer sustained. Alley v. -Mott, 111
U. S. 472.

182

•OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree is reversed on the single ground that the suit
should have been remanded to the state court, and, without
passing on any of the other questions involved, the cause is
remitted to the District Court, with instructions to send it
back to the State Court as a suit which had been improperly
removed, and of which the District Oofut had no jurisdiction.
Reversed.

BURLINGTON, CEDARI RAPIDS & NORTHERN
RAILWAY v. DUNN.
ERROt TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
SubmitLd April 1, 1887.-Decided April 4,1887.

A case brought here in error from the Supreme Court of a state, in which
the trial court refused to let go its jurisdiction on a petition for removal,
and in which the Supreme Court of the state affirmed that ruling, is
within the spirit of Rule 32, 108 V. S. 591-2, relating to the advancement
of causes, and the court, on motion in such a cause, advances it to he
heard under the rules prescribed by Rule 6; 108 U. S. 574-5, in regard
to motions to dismiss.

Tins was a motion to advance.
3_3r. TFi liam A. iMoKenney for the motion.
No appearance in opposition.
AIR. CiEi

TuSTIcE WAiTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is within the spirit, although not within the letter
Rule 32. The state court refused to 'let go its jurisdiction
on a petition for removal, and the Supreme Court of the State
has affirmed the ruling of the trial court to that effect. The
only questioii for our consideration on the -writ of error is
whether this decision was right. The case is advanced to be
brought on for hearing in the way provided by Rule 32, that
is to say, under the rules prescribed by Rule 6 in regard to
motions to dismiss writs of error or appeals.
-lfotiongranted.

- of

