OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

of the tongue and spring, by itself, would be anticipated by
the patent of Palmer and Simmons, and that of Hull. If it
has any novelty, it consists in its new application to the snaphook as devised by Bristol; and this was a snap-hook provided
with the peculiar solid pivot, or fulcrum-pin, which is the subject of his second claim, and to which, as we have seen, the
form and arrangement of the tongue and spring were specially
adapted, and requisite to its beneficial use. This necessary
restriction of the first claim renders it clear that it is not infringed by the defendants; for, as before stated, they do not
use the solid pivot, but the old and long-used pin, passing
through both ears or cheeks of the tongue and the hook.
The defendants also use a different device from that described by Bristol, in the arrangement of the spiral spring, the
two ends of which, instead of pointing towards the hook,
point in different directions, one towards the hook and pressing against the body of it, and the other in the opposite direction, and pressing against the side of the recess in the tongue,
which is prolonged and cured around for that purpose.
On the whole view of the case, we are satisfied that the defendants do not infringe the patent sued on when construed as
it must be to give it any validity.
17w decision of the Circuit Court mu.t, therefore, be reversed,
and the ease remanded,with instructionsto dismiss the bill.

McCOY v. NELSON7.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued April 22, 1887.-Decided May 2,1887.

A bill in equity for the infringement of letters-patent for an invention held,
bn a general demurrer, to be in proper form; and the requisites of such
a bill considered.

BILL in equity for the infringement of letters-patent. The
bill was dismissed on general demurrer. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.

McCOY v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Leigh Robinson for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
_M.JUSTIOE BLATcHForD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, by George C. Mc
Coy against Frederick Nelson, for the infringement of letterspatent of the United States, No. 254,993, granted to McCoy,
March 14, 1882, for an "improvement in boots." The bill sets
forth a copy of the patent, and of its specification and drawings, at length. The defendant interposed a general demurrer
to the bill, for want of equity, specifying no grounds of
demurrer. The court sustained the demurrer and entered a
decree dismissing the bill, from which the plaintiff has
appealed.
We are not furnished with a copy of any opinion of the
Circuit Court, nor with any brief from the appellee, and the
case was not orally argued on his part. We are left, therefore, without information as to the grounds upon which the
demurrer was sustained.
The bill alleges that the plaintiff "is the original and first
inventor of a new and useful improvement and invention in
boots, which are fully and particularly described in the letters-patent hereinafter mentioned, and which had not been
known or used before his said invention." It then sets out
that he applied for and obtained the patent. The patent
states, on its face, that he has applied for a patent "for an
alleged new and useful improvement in boots, a description of
which invention is contained in the specifications, of which a
copy is hereto annexed and made a part hereof." The patent
grants to him, his heirs or assigns, for seventeen years from
its date, "the exclusive right to make and vend the said invention'throughout the United States and Territories." The
specification states that he has "invented a new and improved
boot, of which the following is a full, clear and exact descripthe production." It says: "The object of my invention is.
tion of a boot of novel and improved construction, as herein-

'OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

after described and claimed."1

It refers to seven figures of

dra-vangs which accompany the specification, one of which
"is a perspective view of my improved boot."- It states that
"the, sole and heel of the bootare of ordinary form, and the
upper and counter may be secured to the sole by any of
the well-known and common means." It then describes the
vamp, the quarters which form the leg, the mode of sewing
the quarters together, the hooks and holes for -lacing -and the
.lacing device, and the strip secured over the front seam, and
the leather tongue which closes the opening in front in the
main material of the leg and is itself secured to the leg pieces
or quarters and the vamp. The claim is as follows: " H aving
thus described my invention, I claim as new, and desire, to
secure by letters-patent, the herein-described boot, consisting
of the vamp B, the quarters d, sewed together in the back,
and a short distance in front from the top down, and provided
with the hooks e, holes i, and a suitable lacing device, the strip
f, secured over the said front seam, and the-tongue G, secured
to the said leg pieces and vamp, substantially as set forth."
The bill then alleges that the plaintiff was and is the owner of
the patent; that he has invested and expended large sums of
money for the purpose of carrying on the business of making
and selling boots containing the invention; that the invention
has been of great utility; that boots were made according to
it, and containing it, and sold by him, to the great advantage
of the public; that the public have generally acknowledged
and acquiesced in the validity of the patent and in his rights;
that the defendant has nlanufactured, used and vended to
others to be used, boots containing and embracing the invention, in the District of Colorado, without the license of the
plaintiff, and in violation of his rights, and in infringement of
the patent, with full knowledge of those rights, and to the
injury of the plaintiff, whereby he has been and still is being
deprived of profits which he otherwise would have obtained;
and that the defendant has made and sold large quantities 6f
said boots, and is still engaged in selling the same, and has a
.large quantity thereof oh hand, which he is offering for sale,
and has made large profits from such sales. The bill prays

McCOY v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

for an answer on oath; and that the defendant may account
for and pay to the plaintiff the profits acquired by the
defendant, and the damages suffered by the plaintiff, from
the unlawful acts of the defendant. It also prays for an
injunction.

Groping in the dark and grappling with shadows, we are
unable to perceive the objection to this bill. The brief of the
appellant does not state upon what ground it is understood
the court below proceeded. If it be suggested that the claim
of the patent is for the boot described, and that the bill merely
"allegesthat the defendant has made, used and sold boots containing and embracing the invention covered by the patent,
instead of alleging that the defendant has made, used and sold
the invention or the patented boot, we are of opinion that there
is no force in the objection. If the boot made, used and sold
by the defendant is not a boot consisting substantially of
the parts mentioned in the claim of the patent, it does not
infringe the patent, and is not, in judgment of law, a boot
containing and embracing the invention, in the language of
the bill Although the claim of the patent is a claim to the
described boot, consisting of the elements specified, the invention patented is an "improvement in boots," as stated in the
patent, and any boot which contains that improvement, according to the terms of the claim, infringes the patent and is a
boot containing and embracing the invention patented. The
bill is entirely sufficient to put the defendant upon his answer,
and the rights of the parties will be properly and adequately
adjusted in the further proceedings in the cause. The bill is
in accordance with approved precedents, and is in the usual
form.
The patent having been issued fifteen months before the bill
was filed, and having nearly sixteen years then to run, and the
bill alleging that the public have generally acknowledged and
acquiesced in the validity of the patent, and that the invention
has been put in practice by the plaintiff, and has been of great
utility, it was not necessary to show a recovery at law, to
warrant jurisdiction in equity, for an injunction and an account.
Root v. _Raiway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 205.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement ot Facts.

7Te boree of the Circuit Cb~urt is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, witA a direction to take such
further proceedings as shaZl be in conformity with this
opinion.

WRIGHT v. ROSEBERRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFOtNA.
Submitted March 21,1887.-Decided May 2, 1887.

The grant of swamp and overflowed lands to the several states by act of
September 28, 1850, is one in 'prcesenti,passing title to the lands of the
character therein descibed, from-its date, and requiring only identification thereof to render such-title perfect.
Such identification by the Secretary of the Interior is conclusive against
collateral attack as being the judgment of the special tribunal on which
such duty was imposed.
On neglect or failure of that officer to make such designation, it is competent for the grantees of the State to identify the lands in any other
appropriate mode to prevent their rights from being defeated.
After segregation of the lands by the State, and adoption of the segregation surveys by the proper. Federal officers, the right of the State's
grantees to maintain an action for recovery thereof cannot be defeated
because such lands have not been certified or patented to the State.
The issue of patents for these lands to defendants or their grantorg, under
the preemption laws, upon claims initiated subsequent to .the swamp
grant to the State is not conclusive at law as against parties claiming
under such grant, and in an action for their possession evidenice is admissible to determine whether or not the lands were in fact swamp and
overflowed at the date of the swamp land grant: if proved to have been
such, the rights of subsequent claimants under other laws aresubordinate thereto.
The provisions contained in § 1 of the act of July'23, 1866, "to quiet land
titles in California," do not relate to the swamp ianfds granted to the
State by the act -of September 8, 1850 ; the provisions in §§ 4 and 5 relate to swamp lands7
The legislation of Congress respecting swamp lands, the Departmental
construction of that legislation,'the line of decisions by this court respecting it and the decisions of the highest courts of many of the states
concerning It, stated.

THIs was an action to recover possession of a tract of land
situated in the county of Yolo, in the State of California,

