FISHER v. KELSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

FISHER v. KELSEY.
ErOR TO THE omour

couRT oF THE uNITED_

STATES FOr THE

EASTN DISTRICT OF MIssoURI.
Argued March 30,1887.-Decided April 11, 1881.

The particular responsibility imposed, at common law, upon innkeepers
does' not extend to goods lost or stolen from a'room in a public inn
furnished to a person for purposes distinct from his accommodation as
a guest.
A statute of Missouri provides that no innkeeper in that state "shall be
liable . . . for the loss of any merchandise for sale or sample belonging to a guest, unless the guest shall have giyen written notice of
having such merchandise for sale or sample in his possession after eutering the inn, nor shall the innkeeper be compelled to receive such
guest with merchandise for sale or sample." Held, That actual knowledge that a guest has in his possession merchandise for sale, or the consent of the innkeeper to the guest's use of one of his rooms for such a
purpose, does not fix upon the innkeeper full responsibility for the
safety of such merchandise: such responsibility arises only upon written notice being given as required by the statute.

was an action at law. Judgment for defendants.
Plaintiffs sued out this writ. of error. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.
THIs

X-r. Chester H. Eurn for. plaintiffs in error submitted on
his brief.
.T. ohn .lVoble for defendants in error. .&. T.. alzett Philipsand Ab'. H Orrick were with him on the brief.
MR. JUsTcn

HfL&

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the general statutes of Missouri of 1865, c. 99, it was provided that § 1. "No innkeeper in this state, who shall constantly have
in his inn an iron safe, in good order, and suitable for the safe
custody of money, jewelry,'and articles of gold and silver
manufacture, and of the like, and who shall keep a copy of

OCTOBER TERMel,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

this chapter printed by itself, in large, plain English type, and
framed, constantly and conspicuously suspended in the office,
bar-room, saloon, reading, sitting, and parlor room of his inn,
and also a copy printed by itself in ordinary size plain English
type posted upon the inside of the entrance door of every public sleeping-room of his inn, shall be liable for the loss of any
such articles aforesaid suffered by any guest, unless such guest
shall have first offered to deliver such property lost by him to
such innkeeper for custody in such iron safe, and such innkeeper shall have refused or omitted to take it and deposit it
in such safe for its custody, and to give such guest a receipt
therefor.
§ 2. "No innkeeper in. this state shall be liable for the loss
of any baggage or other property of a guest caused by fire not
intentionally, produced by the innkeeper or his servants; but
innkeepers shall be liable for the losses of their guests caused
by the theft or negligence of the innkeeper, or of his servants,
anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding."
The last section was amended by an act approved April 1,
1872, so as to read: "No innkeeper in this state shall be liable for the loss of any baggage or other property of a guest
caused by fire not intentionally produced by the innkeeper or
his servants; nor shall he be liable for the loss bf any merchandise for sale or sample belonging to a guest, unless, the
guest shall have given written notice of having such merchandise for sale or sample in his possession after entering the inn,
nor shall the innkeeper be compelled to receive such guest
with merchandise for sale or sample. BAt innkeepers shall be
liable for the losses of their guests caused by the theft of such
innkeeper, or his servants, anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding."
William M. Fisher, having in his possession, as a travelling
salesman for the firm of which he was a member, certain
gdods, consisting mainly of gold chains, chain trimmings, and
necklaces, was received, with his goods, into the Planters'
House, in St. Louis a,public inn kept by the defendants ifi
error -and was supplied, at his own request, with a room in
which such articles could be exhibited to customers. During
-

FISHER v. KELSEY.
Opinion of.the Court.

his occupancy of t] o room for that purpose, $12,626.32 in:
value of the articles were, without his knowledge,'taken and
carried away, so that they could not be recovered. It does
not appear that the loss was attributable to the neglect either
of Fisher or of the innkeepers. Although the nature of his
business was well known'to the defendants, and they were
aware that the articles in question were brought into the hotel
to be exhibited for sale, in a room to be occupied for that pur'pose, written notice was not served upon them that Fisher
had " such merchandise for sale oi sample in his possession
after entering the inn." In this action, brought to recover
the value of the goods stolen or lost, the court held that such
-a notice was required, by the statutes of Missouri, in order
,to fix liability upon the innkeeper. The -jury having been.
so instructed, there was a verdict and judgment for the .defendants.
Although Fisher was received by the defendants into their
hotel, as a guest, with knowledge that his trunks contained
articles having no connectioi with his comfort or coilvenidnce
as a mere traveller or wayfarer, but which, at his request, were
to be placed 6n exhibition or for sale, in a room assigned 'to
him for that purpose, they would not, under the doctrineg of
the common law, be held to the same degree of care £id responsibility, in respect to the safety-of such articles, as is
required in reference to baggage or other personal property
carried by travellers. He was entitled, as a traveller, to a room
for lodging, but he could not, of right, demand to be supplied
with apartments in which to conduct his business as a salesman or merchant. The defendants being the owners or mauagers of the hotel, were at liberty to permit the use by Fisher
of one of their rooms for such business purposes, but they
would not,,for that rbason and without other circumstances,
be held to have had his goods in their custody, or to have
undertaken to well and safely keep them as constituting part
of. the property which he had with him in his capacity as
guest. Kent says that, "if a guest applies for a room in an
inn, for a purpose of business distinct from his accommodation as a guest, the particular responsibility does not extend
VOL. cxxI-25

386

OCTOBER TERAI,

886.

Opinion of tWe Court.

to goods lost or. stolen from that room." .2 Kent Com. 596.
See also .A[yers v. Cottrill, 5 Bissell, 465, 470, Drummond,-J.;
Story on Bailments, § 476; Burgess v. O/ements, 4 . . & S. 306 ;
Redfield on Carriers and Bailees, 443; Addison Law of Contracts, 6th ed. 360.
- Such, we think, was the state of the law in Missouri prior
to the passage of the act of 1812. That act prescribes the
conditions upon which an innkeeper in that state may be'
made liable for the loss of merchandise belonging to a guest,
and brought into the hotel onl r to be exhibited or sold. In
view of the large and constantly increasing business transacted
by travelling salesmen, the legislatute of Missouri deened it
just to all concerned, that their relations with innkeepers, in
respect to goods 'carried by them, should be clearly defined and
not left to depend upon mere inference or usage. The statute
makes the innkeeper responsible, in every event, for the loss of
bagg-age or other property of the guest by fire, intentionally
produced by the innkeeper or his. servants, or by the theft of
himself or servants. But since the innkeeper is not ordinarily
bound to the same care for the safety of goods, in the possessio-d of a guest for the purpose merely of being exhibited or
sold, as for articles carried by the latter for his comfort or
convenience -s a traveller, the statute changed the rule so as
to make his responsibility the same in both cases; provided,
:in the former case, the person received as a guett gives written
notice that he has merchandise for sale or ample in his possession in the hotel; .leaving the innkeeper, upon such notice,
to elect whether he will permit the guest to remain in the
hotel with'.such merchandise for sale or sample. Notice in this
form, .. 2en the guest is'permitted to remain in the hotel with
merchandise in his possession "for sale or sample," is made by
the statute evidence that the innkeeper has assumed responsibility for the safety of such merchandise, to the full extent
.that he is bound by the settled principles of law for the safety
of the, baggage or other articles brought by guests into the
hotel.
It is suggested that the.purpose of the act of 18112 was to
protect innkeepers, and, therefore, actual -knowledge that a

FISHER 'v. KELSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

guest has in his possession merchandise for sale, or, at least,
the consent of the innkeeper to the guest's use of a room in
his hotel for such purpose, should be deemed sufficient to
fasten upon the innkeeper responsibility for the safety of
such merchandise. It seems to us that the statute is equally
for the benefit of travelling salesmen. Be this as it may, as
the law in regard to the liability of an innkeeper is one of
extreme rigor, he should not be held to any responsibility beyond that arising from the relation of innkeeper and guest,
unless, at least, the circumstances show that he distinctly
agreed to assume such additional responsibility. There is no
pretence in this case that the defendants made an express
agreement of that character. Nor can such an agreement be
implied merely from the knowledge on the part of the innkeeper that a guest has in his possession in the hotelfor exhibition or sale, merchandise for the safe custody of which he
is not ordinarily responsible. Such knowledge implies nothing
more upon the part of the'innkeeper than his assent to the use
of his rooms for purposes of that kind.If as to such mer6handise, it is intended to hold the innkeeper to the strict liability imposed, at the common law, in '
respect to the baggage or other personal property of a guest,
the statute indicates the mode in which that intention must be
manifested. The guest must-give notice of such intention.
And as the notice is expressly required to be in writing, no
other form of notice can be deemed a compliance with the
statute. Porter v. Gilkey, 57 Missouri, 235, 237. With the
reasons which induced the legislature to prescribe a written
notice in order tb fix upon the innkeeper responsibility for
the safety of merchandise carried by travelling salesmen "for
sale or sample, we, have nothing to do. The law of Missouri is
so written, and it is our duty to give it effect according to the
fair meaning of the words employed.
It results that the court below did not err in refusing 'the
instruction asked by the plaintiffs, but correctly held 'that the
absence of the written notice required by the act of 1872 was
fatal to their right to recover, The judgment is
A4firmed.

