FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.

215.

Counsel for Appellants.

of the company, including this right of way, to the payment
of its debts, and that no forfeiture of the title, on the'ground'
of an abandonment, can be enforced, except by the. state,
and on payment to the'company of the, value of the property, of which, in consequence of such abandonment, it takes
possession.
We find no error in the decree of the District Court, and it
is accordingly
______Afflrmzed.

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUTr COURT OF THE UNIUED STATES FOR"
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Argued December 3, 1886. -Decided

April 11, 1887.

The decision of this court in Hoyt v, Sprague, and in Franckiyn v. Sprague,
103 U. S. 613, so far as applicable to this case, is afflrmed and adhered to.
On the organization of the A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company, and
the conveyance to it of the assets of the old partnership, including the
interests of minors conveyed under valid authority derivd fr~m the
Legislature of Rhode Island, the property ceased to be partnership
property; the partners ceased to be partners and became shareholders;
their lien on the partnership property as partners ceased when their
character as stockholders began; and those who claim through a stock-,
holder cannot set up such lien.
A corporation, formed by and consisting of the members of a partnership,
for the purpose of conducting the partnership business and taking the
partnership property, takes the latter freed from partnership equities,
all of which are settled and extinguished by the transfer.
While a person of unsound mind remains a minor, an ordinary guardian is
all the custodian of either his person or estate that is necessary; and an act done by such guardian in relation t6T his estate, is as valid as if done
by a committee appointed to take charge of him and his estate, as ,a
person of unsound mind.

Tnis was an appeal from a final decree- of the Circuit Court
dismissing a bill in eqaity.

The case is stated in the opinion

bf the court.

-Y. Wlliam AZlen Bu&r .for appellants.
McEen was with him on the brief.

-Mr. James

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinioxf of the Court.

""..Benjamin_F. Thurstmn for appellees.,
Parkhurst was with him on the brief.
Mn.

TUSTTTE ]RPADLEY

Mr. C. Fank

delivered the opinion of the court.

All the essential facts on which this case is based are the
same as thoge involved in the cases of HUoyt v. iSrague and
Francyn v. Sprague, reported in 103 U. S 613. The evidence used in those cases was imported into this by agreement
of t66 parties, and only one new feature has been added. This
is the mental incapacity of the present complainant, Edwin
.Hoyt, called Edwin Hoyt, Jr., in the former cases. .The bill
of complaint contains substantially the same statements as the
bills in those cases, with the addition of an averment that the
complainant, by certain proceedings had in the Supreme Court
-of New York in April, 1874, commonly called a commission
of lunacy, was declared to be of unsound mind, incapable of
,taking care of himself or his property; that he had .been in
that condition during all his life; and that said Charles G.
Franklyn and William S. Hoyt were appointed the committee of his person and estate. The principal facts out of which
the litigation grew are stated in the report referred to; but it
is proper to restate such of them here as may have a special
bearing upon the questions growing out of the alleged incapa -city of the complainant.
The brothers, Amasa and William Sprague the'elder, were
engaged' as manufacturers in Rhode Island under the firm of
A. & W. Sprague for many years prior to December, 1843,
when Amasa Sprague died, leaving a widow, Fanny Sprague,
two sons, Amasa and William the younger, and two or three
daughters. William, the survivor, with the consent of his
brother's widow, who became administratrix of his estate,
continued the business under the same partnership name for
the joint benefit of himself and his brother's family, until
October, 1856, when he died, leaving a widow, Mary Sprague,
a son, Byron Sprague, and four grandchildren, being the
children of a deceased daughter, Susan S. .Hoyt, wife of Edwin
Hoyt, of New York. This, daughter had died in October,_

FRAXCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.
1853, and her children were Sarah Hoyt, Susan S. Hoyt, born
October, 1845, William S. Hoyt, born January 1, 1847, and'
Edwin Hoyt, the complainant, born July 16, 1849. Shortly
prior to the death of William Sprague the elder, he had taken
into the firm as partners with him, his son Byron, and his two
nephews, Amasa and William Sprague the younger; so that
at the death of William Sprague, in October, 1856, these young
men were the surviving partners of the firm. By the enterprise of William Sprague, the property of the joint concern
had greatly accumulated, being estimated at the time of his
death at several millions of dollars. His widow, Mlary, took
out letters of administration on his estate; and, on the petition
of her son-in-law, Edwin Hoyt, she was appointed guardian of
the property and estate, in Rhode Island, of each of her grandchildren, who were the children of the said Edwin Hoyt, and
all under fourteen years of age. This was done in February,
1857.
The parties then interested in the joint propeity of A. & W.
Sprague were the two families of Amasa and William Sprague
the elder in equal parts; that of the former being represented
by Fanny Sprague, widow and administratrix, and her two
sons Amasa and William (who had purchased the interest of
their sisters); and that of the latter being reprsented by
Mary Sprague, widow and administratrix, her son Plyron, and
her four grandchildren, the Hoyts, whose interests were represented by her as guardian of their property and estate.
This made the property divisible into six equal shares: each
widow being entitled to one-third of her huliband's part, and
the two sons of Amasa being each entitled to a third of his
interest; Byron. Sprague being entitled to one-third of his
father's interest, and the Hoyt children being entitled to the
remaining third. As the factories were in successful operation,
and as a division of the property was deemed undesirable, all
the parties concerned capable of exercising judgment, including
Edwin Hoyt, the father of the four minors, were agreed upon
the expediency of continuing the operation of the works as a
joint concern for the benefit of all in proportion to their several 'interests, and it was so done, the factories and operations

218

OCTOBER .ERA,

1886..

Opinion of the Court.

being conducted.by Amasa and William Sprague the younger
and Byron Sprague. In 1862 Byron Sprague sold out his
interest to his cousins Amasa and William fok $600,000, which
gave to each of the latter. a share and a halt of the entire six
.shares.
Soon after this, two charters were obtained from the legislature of Rhode Island, for the purpose of vesting the propertr of the concern in corporate bodies, one to be called the
A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company, and the other the
Quidnick Company.
In ;January,- 1863, Mary Sprague, as guardian of the estate
of her four. minor grandchildren, together with their father,
Edwin Hoyt, presented a petition to the legislature of Rhode
Island, representing that they deemed it advisable and expedient that the interests of the said minors should be vested in
such corporation or corpprations as should be organized under
and in accordance with the charters granted as aforesaid, and
praying as follows:
I"Wherefore your petitioners pray that whenever any. corporation or corporations shall be organized under either or
any of the charters aforesaid) and conveyance or conveyances
shall become necessary to vest the title of the parties interested in any of said property in any such corporation or corporations, upon the execution by said Mary and Edwin as
principals of evdry such bond or bonds in such penal sum or
sums, and with such sureties, as the court of probate of Warwick shall require, conditioned for the investment of the
amount of the full value of the interests hereinafter prayed to
_be conveyed in the capital stock of any such corporation or
corporations to which. such interests shall be conveyed as hereinafter prayed, in the names and for the use and benefit of
said minors; and on the delivery of such bond or bonds to
said court of probate, the said Mary in her capacity as guardian may make, execute, seal, acknowledge, stamp, and deliver
all and, any such conveyance and conveyances to any such
corporation or corporations as shall be necessary fo vest the
title of the said minors in and to said property in any su h
corporation or corporations; and that any such conveyance or

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUt.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyances so executed, acknowledged, stamped, and delivered shall be. deemed and held as valid and effectual in lawand equity to vest the title of said. minors in any such corporation or cprporations as though the same were executed, acknowledged, and delivered by said minors after attaining
their majority; and as in duty bound will ever pray.
"MARY SPuAGuE, Guardian.
"EnwIm EoYr."

In pursuance of this petition, the legislature, on the 9th of
March, 1863, passed a resolution, having the effect of a law, by
which it was enacted as follows:"
"Voted and Resolied, That the prayer of said petition be,
and the same is hereby, granted; and the said Mary Sprague,.
in her capacity as guardian of the estate of Edwin Hoyt, Jr.,
Susan S. Hoyt, Sarah Hoyt, and Win. S. Hoyt, is hereby authorized and fully empowered, whenever any corporation or
corporations shall be' organized under either or any of the
charters heretofore granted by the General Assembly of this
state, and conveyance or conveyances shall become necessary
to vest the title of the parties interested in any of said property so held, owned, or managed by the firm of A. & W.
Sprague in any such corporation or corporations, to make,
execute, seal, acknowledge, stamp, and deliver all and any
such conveyance and conveyances to any such corporation or
corporations as shall be necessary to vest the right, title, and
interest of the said minors in and to said property, or any portion thereof, in any such corporation or corporations; and'that
any suchi conveyance or conveyances so executed, acknowl-"
edged, stamped, and delivered shall be deemed and held as
valid and effectual in law and in equity to vest the title of
said minors in any such corporation o4' corporations as though
the same were executed, acknowledged,- stamped, and delivered by said minors after attaining their majority: P ovided,
That before the delivery of any such conveyance or conveyances the said Mary shall have executed and delivered to the
court of probate of Warwick every such bond or bonds with
herself in her said capacity and said Edwin Hcyt as principals,

OCTOBER TEI 1, .1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in such penal sum or sums and with such sureties as said probate court shall require conditioned for the investment of the
amount of the full value of the interests of said minors which
she shall then be about to convey in the capital stock of any
such corporation or corporations to which the same shall be
conveyed in the names- and for the use and benefit of said
miinors."

•This legislative act was adjudged by this court, in the cases
of Hoyt and Fr'nkclyn v. 8.prague, before mentioned, to be
valid alid effective to authorize Mary Sprague as guardian of
the estate of the four minors, to convey their interests in the
A. & W. Sprague property to the corporations named.
The terins of the act were duly complied with, and by an
agreement executed on the 1st of April, 1865, by and between
all the parties interested in the property, in their various
capacities, including Edwin Hoyt, as father of the four minor
children, and Mary Sprague, as the guardian of their estate,
and as administratrix of her husband's estate, referees were
appointed to appraise the entire property and to report the
amount of each one's interest therein, with a view to adjust
the several shares of capital stock in the corporations to be
formed to which each would be entitled. This duty was performed by the referees, who brought the accounts down to the
31st day of March, 1865, and reported that on that day the
cash value of the whole property and assets, exclusive of the
Quidnick Company property,' (which was appraised by itself in
consequence of outside parties having some interest therein,)
was $6,732,906.69, and that the liabilities amounted to $2,871,921.79, leaving the net value of the-.e~tate equal to $3,860,984.90. The different interests in this amount they reported
to.be as follows-

Mary Sprague's individual interest

.

.

Fanny Sprague's interest .....
.....
. .
Williamn Sprague's interest ..
........
...
A masa Splague's interest .............
Mary Sprague, guardian of children of Susan Hoyt

$62-,9S625,511
978,867
978,867
652,753

69
69
42
42
68

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of, the Court.

They then stated the result of the individual accounts of the.
several parties with the firm, showing what each was indebted
thereto, and what was due to each; and, in this connection,
the sum of $188,333.33 was credited as due from the firm to
Mary Sprague, guardian of the heirs of Susan Hoyt, to equalize the amounts drawn out of the firm by the two Rhode
Island families for their family expenses.
The stock of the A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Couinpany
was awarded by the referees to the various parties according
to the value of their respective interests in the property independently of the amounts due from or to them respectively,
which last amounts remained as debts due to or from the
company. When the property was conveyed to the corporation, as hereinafter mentioned, it was stipulated as an express
condition, that the corporation was to assume all the, liabilities
of the firm of A. & W. Sprague. There being found due to
Mary Sprague, as administratrix, for a dividend previously
made by the firm, the sum of $164,250.26,- she elected to take
stock for that, instead of the liability of the company ; which
increased the total amount of the stock to the sum of 81,025,235.16. This' being divided into 10,000 shares, made eabh
share equal in value to $402.52, and gave to Mary Sprague, as
guardian of her grandchildren, including their portion of the
shares allotted to her as administratrix, 1751 shares, or 439
shares each.
The Quidnick pr6perty.was valued at $776,065, and divided
into 5000 shares, of which 489 shares were allotted to -Mary
Sprague as guardian of her grandchildren, including their
portion of the shares allotted to her as administratrix, being
122 shares to each.
The precise interests of the parties having thus been ascertained, in August, 1865, Mary Sprague, as guardian of the
Hoyt children, applied to the probate court of Warwick (the
proper jurisdiction) for an order to authorize her, in pursuance
of the act of assembly, to convey to the respective corporations
the interesV of her wards in the properties of the firm of A. &
W.'Sprague, and of the Quidnick Company, in exchange for
the shares to which they were entitled by the report of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the -Court.

referees.*On the 5th of August, 1865, an order was made
accordingly; and on the 9th of August, 1865, an instrument
was ekecuted by all the parties, including Mary Sprague, as
'guardian of the Hoyt children,. by which, after reciting the
powers given to her by the act of assembly and the order
of the probate court, they conveyed and transferred to the
A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company all their respective
right, title and interest in the entire property of A. & W.
Sprague, except the Quidnick property, including all the right,
-title and interest of said minors, with the following stipulation, to wit: "It being expressly understood that this conveyance is made upon condition that the grantees are to assume
the liabilities of said firm of A. & W. Sprague, in accordance
with said agreement of reference hereinbefore referred to."
-A similar deed of cbnveyance-was made to the Quidnick
Company (corporation) for the Quidnick property and assets.
Thereupon, after adjusting the fractional shares, each party
was credited, on the stock ledgers of the respective companies
with the shares to which they Were severally entitled, the
Hoyt children being each credited with 439 shares of the
A. & W.. Sprague Manufacturing Company, and 122 shares of
the .Quidnick Company.
In June, 1866,'Mary Sprague,' as guardian of her said grandchildren, presented to the probate court a petition for the
appointment of appraisers, to appraise the property bf her
wards -in her hands, in order that she might return an inventory thereof. Appraisers were acedrdingly appointed, and
performed the duty required of them, and presented inventories and appraisements of each ward's estate, which were
sworn to by Mary Sprague, and filed, and approved by the
court on the 13th of August, 1866.. That of Edwin Hoyt, Jr.,
with which the .others substantially corresponded, was as follows, to wit:

-FRANOKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

124 shares National Bank of Commerce, $51 .
....
.......
1 U. S. 6 per cent. bond
2 N. Y., Prov. & Boston R. R. bonds, $950
439 shares A. &W. Sprague M'f'g Co. stock, 402.5?,
122 shares Quidnick Co. stock .........
.

Cash.............

...

& W. Sprague, as cash,
Dividend due from A.
March 31, 1865, with interest from that date ..

'$6,324 00
108 50
"1,900 00

176,707 82T
18,935.98
387 44
$204,363 74

47,083 34$251,447 -08

Mary Sprague, in her answer, states that the bank stock
and .bonds had been purchased by her, before the organization
of the corporations, with moneys drawn by her from time to
time, as guardian, from the firm of A. &- W. Sprague. The
dividend of $47,083.34, "due from A. & W. Sprague, as cash,,
March 31, 1865,'" was one-fourth of the sum of $188,333.33
allowed to the Hoyt children, as before stated.
At the Same tim?, Mary Sprague presented her account, as
guardian, with each of her wards, based on the appraisement,
notice of such presentation having been duly published in
pursuance of a previous order; and the accounts were sever-.
ally allowed on the same 13th of August, 186.6.
After these proceedings were had, Mary Hoyt resigned her
guardianship, which resignation was accepted by 'the court;
and on the application of Edwiii Hoyt, the father, stating that
it was the desire of his three younger children, Susan S. Hoyt,
William S. Hoyt, and Edwin Hoyt, Jr., that William Sprague,
should be appointed guardian of their estate in Rhode Island,
(Sarah having become of age,) the appointment was made as
requested, and William Sprague, as guardian of the estate of
the three younger children, on the 1st of September, 1866,
gave the. requisite bonds, and fled an inventory in each case,
the same as had been presented and ified by Mary Sprague,
with the addition of a fIuher dividend made by the corpora:
tions on the 1st of September, less amounts paid for the benefit of the wards respectively. The account in the case of

-

221,

OCTOBER' TER-I; 1886."
Opjilon' of the Court.,

Edwin Hoyt, Jr., the complainant in this case, duly. verified
by appraisers aild by the oath of William Sprague, gudrdian,,
was as follows, to ivit:
.124 shares National Bank of Commerce, $51
$6,324 00
IU. S. 6 per cent. bond ..
......
. . ..
108 50
2'N. Y., Prov. & Boston R. ER. bonds, 950
1,900 00
-489 shares A. &W. Sprague Mfg, Co., 4025275
$176,707 82
122 shares Quidnick Co., 15521. ........
...
18,935 98
Dividend due from A. & W. Spra;gue, as cash,
March 31,1865, . . . ... ...
......
47,08a 34
Dividends due from A. & W. Spragud
I f'f'g Co., cash, Sept. 1, 1866
6585 00
Less payments by above company
2979 60
• ,-

3,605 40'

Dividends due from Ouidnick Co. as cash, Sept.
1, 1866 . . .".. ....
...........
No real estate

1,220 00
$255,885 04

At this time Edwin Hoyt, Jr., the now complainant, was
seventeen years of age, Susan, nearly twenty-one, and William'
S., nineteen.
The record shows various accounts rendered to Susan and
William after they became of age, and various amounts paid
them.' Whether any further sums were advanced on Edwin's
account beyond the $2979.60 charged in the inventory, does
not appear. lHe lived with his father in New York, who was
a member of the firm of Hoyt, Sprague & Co., a firm intimately connected with the Rhode Island companies, and may
have had no occasion for advances on account of his interest.
In the fall of 1873 the A. & W. Sprague kanufacturing
Company became embarrassed and suspended payment, and
on, the 1st of November, 1873, the said company, together
with Amasa and William Sprague, and the said Fanny and
Mary -Sprague, made an assignment to Zachariah Chafee, of
all the property, real and personal, of said company and of
the said parties individually, and of the firm of A. & W.

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of the Court..

Sprague, (excepting shares of capital stock in any corporation,) in trust for the benefit of such creditors as should accept,
in paymenit of their debts, the notes of the company payable
in three years from January 1f -18,74, with interest. Subsequently, on the 6th of April, 1874, a further assignment was
made by said A. & W. Sprague, and the A. & W., Sprague
Manufacturing Company to said Chafee, of all of said property,
in trust, first, for the benefit of such creditors as should come
in and take said notes in payment of their debts; and, secondly,
the residue for the benefit of all other creditors of said parties.
In December, 1873, Susan S. Hoyt, who came of age in
October, .1866, and who afterwards married Charles G.
Francklyn, received"from her guardian, William Sprague, the
stocks and bonds mentioned in his inventory of her estate
before referred to (except the shares in the A. & W. Sprague
Manufacturing Company, which were probably deemed worthless); and William S. Hoyt received the stocks and bonds
mentloned in the like inventory of his estate. It is also to be
inferred from the pleadings and evidence that Edwin Hoyt,
Jr., the complainant, at the same time, received the stocks and
bonds mentioned in the like inventory of his estate. The bill
admits that William Sprague, the guardian, delivered to the
complainant (Edwin Hoyt, Jr.) "123 share§ in the Quidnick
Company and certain other shares of stock," to which he informed the said Francldyn and William S. Hoyt the said
Edwin was entitled. It also appears that, on the 9th of
December, 1873, Edwin Hoyt, Jr., by an instrument executed
by him, sold and assigned his Quidnick Company stock (122
shares) to-said Charles G., Francklyn for the sum of $3, 00;,
and on the same day executed a power of attorney to his
father, Edwin Hoyt, to transfer the same. Both of these instruments were acknowledged by said Edwin Hoyt, Jr., before.
a commissioner for the State of Rhode Island in the city of
:New York. A week previously to this, namely, on the 1st of
December, 1873, ,William S. Hoyt went to Providence to get.
the various stocks transferred by the guardian to the parties;
for whom they were held, but, not finding him there, wrote
him the following letter, to wit:
voT. cxxr-15

S26.,

OCTOIBER TERM,. 1886. '
Opinion' of the Court.

,PRovmENcE, Dec. 1, 1873.
"Hon. WILLIAM SPEAGUE:
1DEAR Sn: I come here to get you to transfer to the respective owners the Quidnick and bank stock which you hold as
guardian for my sistef, brother, and me, but, as you are absent,
I leave with Mr. Greene the power appointing me attorney for
my byother and sister, and enclose power appointing Mr. Greene
attorney to make the necessary transfer, which please execute,
and send to him by return mail
"Yours truly,
W. S. HoYT."

From these statements and proofs it is not only fairly to be.
inferred that the complainant actually received the bonds and
stocks held for him by his guardian, William Sprague, but that
his father and the said Charles G. Francklyn and William S.
Hoyt, his brother-in-law and brother, who now appear as his
committee in this suit, dealt with him as a person capable of
transacting business as late as December, 1873.
Indeed, in view of the decision of this court in the cases of
Hoyt v. Sprague and Franc7lyn v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613,
the appellarjt, by his said committee, does not claim, before
this court, anything but his one-fourth part of the sum of
$188,333.33, which was allowed to the Hoyt children by way
of compensation for the amounts drawn out of the concern by
the Rhode Island families for their family expenses. The contention is, (and that is the matter now presented for consideration,) that this sum was never converted into the stock of the
corporation, but remained a lien on the partnership prcperty,
and followed it as such in the hands of the corporation with
priority over all other claims against it, except the debts of
the firm then due and owing. Can this proposition be maintaine ? There is no doubt that in 1865, before the property
of A. & W. Sprague was conveyed to the corporation, Mary
Sprague, as administratrix of her husband's. estate, had a lien
on the partnership property (subject to the debts then due) for
the whole amount of her interest therein; and it was then in
her power, had she thought fit, to have demanded a settlement
and distribution of the partnership property according to the

FRANCKIYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

-

several equities of the parties concerned, including the' just
share of herself and her wards, and, in that share, and as a
part of it, the said sum of $188,333.33. But she deemed it'
more for their atvantage (as well, as her own) that the property
should be kept together, and vested in-the corporations proposed to be formed; and in this view she was supported by the
opinion and advice. of -Edwin Hoyt, father of the minors. The
act of the legislature of March 9, 1863, gave her power to
convey all the right, title, and interest of the said minors in
and to the property, to the respective corporations. And this
she did. By her conveyance, and that of the other. interested
parties, the entire property and assets of the partnership were
conveyed to, and vested in the corporations, those of A. & W.
Sprague, in the A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company,
and those of the Quidnick Company in the Quidnick corporation, subject, however, to the debts and liabilities of every kind
and description. The debts and liabilities of the firm of A. &
W. Sprag, thereupon became thb debts and liabilities of the
A. & W. Spi-gue Manufacturing Company. The property
ceased to be partnership property and became consolidated in
a unity of interest in the corporation. The partners ceased tobe partners, and became holders of shares in the capital stock
of the company. Their lien as partners ceased when their
character of stockholders began. The mutual accounts showed
that various sums were due to the .everal partners from the
firm, or from, them to the firm. They might have'adjusted
these individual balances by stock, adding an equivalent in
stock to those who had balances of credit, and deducting an
equivalent of stock from those whose balances were against
them. But they preferred that these balances should stand as
debits and credits against or in favor of the -corporation when
organized, and they were all disposed of in that way, except
one item due to. Mary Sprague, as administratrix, for a dividend formerly made by the firm, as before stated. This she
preferred to take in stock, and the others consented to it; and
she afterwards allotted to her wards their proper share of it.
The sum of $188,333.33 which had been credited to Mary
Sprague as guardian .of her grandchildren, to equalize, the

OCTOBER TERm, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

sums drawn out by the other parties for family expenses, she
preferred to stand as a debt of the corporation, as it had been
a debt of the firm. It was so arranged. The corporation, by
the terms of the transfer of all the property, succeeded to and
assumed all the debts and liabilities of the firm, -this amongst
the rest. This liability was .treated exactly like all others,
whether due to the partners or to strangers. It was treated
as a debt.
Now, can it be justly contended that these debts due to the
several partners, when they became the assumed debts of the
corporation, continued to be liens on the property, as theyhad
been when it was partnership property? We think not. This
would have been subversive of the whole plan. The relation
of the parties to the property was entirely changed. Their
lien as partners, as well as their character of partners was extinguished. A conveyance or release of property by one who
has a lien on it necessarily extinguishes the lien. Mary
Sprague, - as administratrix hnd guardian, after conveying to
the corporation all her interest and the interest of her wards
in the property, parted with all right in it, and accepted in
lieu of it shares for her aliquot part in the body of it, and the
assumption and engagement of the corporation to pay the
balance due -to her on the accounts. Having conveyed and
parted with the property by virtue of an authority conferred
by law, her lien upon it was gone; and those who claim
through and under her cannot set up any such lien.
It cannot be said that she sacrificed the interests of her
wards by retaining the claim as a debt instead of taking stock
for it, as she might have done; because a debt always has
priority over capital stock, and is a more favored claim in the
law.
The argument that the corporation, being the creature of
th6 partners, was not a bonafde purchaser, and must be con-sidered as having taken the property subject to all partnership
equities against it, is not a sound one. The constitution of the
corporation and the transfer to it of the property, were authorized by law, and were intended to settle and extinguish theser
equities, and to plac6 the concern on a new footing; and the

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

very parties entitled to equities were the ones who organized
the corporation, and'made the conveyance to it. Besides, it is
not the- corporation alone which is concerned in the transfer,
but the creditors who trusted it after it was formed. They, or
at least the great mass of them, certainly stand in the position
of bona fRde'claimants against its property and asseis. They
may not be able to claim any precedency over the former
partners hiving debts due to them, but they stand on an equal
footing with them.
With these views as to the effect of the conveyance of the
interest of the Hoyt childrien to the A. & W. Sprague M1anufacturing Company, the proceedings taken in 1874 by C. G.
Francklyn and Wimn S. Hoyt, to have the complainant in this
case declared to be of unsound mind from his birth, cannot
have any effect to change the conclusion which we reached in
the former cases. Whether he was of unsound mind or not,
Mary Sprague was the lawful guardian of his property and
estate in Rhode Island from the tine of her first appointment
in 1857, when he was seven years old, and continued such,
with all the rights and powers of a guardian until she resigned
that charge in 1866; and the act of the legislature was just as
efficacious ii relation to his estate as it was in relation to that
of the other children. As long as he was a minor an ordinary
guardian was all the custodian of' either his person or estate
that was required. It was only after he became of age, and
the power and functions of the guardian ceased, that a committee to take charge of his person and estate was needed.
In Shelford on Lunacy it is said: "It seems, that a commission of lunacy may issue against an infant ; but as the court of
chancery has power over infant wards of court and their estates, such a proceeding seems unnecessary during the minority
of the ward, except under particular circumstances when the
more ample powers given in lunacy may be required for managing their estates." IIn Stock on Non Compos Mentis, it is.
also said, that, "Infancy is not a ground for withholding [a
commission of lunacy], except in so far as it renders such a
proceeding unnecessary, by subjecting the infant to another
protective power of the Ohancellor." Both writers refer to

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Statement of Facts.

'Halse's case cited in argument in Ex pa'rte Southeot 2 -es.
Sen. 401, 403. In the present case, no word of the complainant's imbecility was ever heard- until after tlhe insolvency of
the company; and, even if it had appeared, whilst he was a
minor, that he was of unsound mind, the legislative act gave
full power to the guardian to dispose of his estate, in the manner she did, and removed all objections on that score.
The.decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

Affl2-ed.
Mi. JUSTICE BLATcHFORD die not sit in this case, or take any
part in its decision.

FARGO v. "ICIHIGAN.
ERROR TO TE

SUPR

COURT OF MICHIGAN.

Submitted December 9, 188.-Deceded April 4, 1887.

A state statute which levies a tax upon the gross receipts of railroads for
the carriage of freights and passengers into, out of, or through the state,
is a tax upon commerce among the states, and therefore void.
While a state may tax the money actually within the State, after it has
passed beyond the stage of compensation for'carrying persons or property, as it mdy tax other money or property within its limits, a tax upon
receipts for this class of carriage sjecifically is a tax upon the commerce out of which it arises, and, if that be interstate commerce, it is
void under the Constitution.
The States cannot he permitted, under the guise of a tax upon,business
transacted within their borders, to impose a burden upon commerce
among the States, when the business so taxed is itsulf interstate commerce.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Michigan to bring here for review a decree sustaining a
demurrer to the complainant's bill in chancery, and dismissing
the bill. The complainant brought suit 'as President of the
Merchants' Dispatch Transportation Company, averring that
said company was a joint stock association, organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, and by the

