BLOOMFIELD v

CHARTER OAK BANK.
Syllabus.

leave "to the receiver to apply to the court, or this court in
Special Term, for such instructions and orders as may be
proper."
We are also of opinion that the appeal to this court from
the final decree of June 16, 1883, even though perfected with
a supersedeas, did not deprive the court below of its power to
adjudicate upon such a matter as that involved in the order of
January 8, 1886. There is nothing in this view inconsistent
with the general rule that an appeal suspends the power of the
court below to proceed further in the cause, by executing the
decree. The order of January 8, 1886, was strictly confined
to the preservation-of the property in litigation.
As to the order of the General Term 'of April 5, 1886, in
the Blair matter, it was clearly merely an interlocutory order,
and not a final one, in reference to the matter to which it relates, as it merely directed proceedings in the court in Special
Term in reference to the application made in regard to Blair,
with a view to a decision upon the application.
The order a#Prrningthe order of January8, 1886, is afflrmed,
and the appealfromr tMe order of April 5, 1886, in regard
to Blair,is dismissedfor want of jurisdictio.

BLOOMFIELD v. CHA-RTER OA

BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued January5, 6,1887.-Decided April 4,1887.

A town in Connecticut cannot make a contract, or authorize any officer or
agent to make one in its behalf, except by vote of the inhabitants at a
meeting warned by publicly' posting a notice specifying the subject
of the vote; and any one, who relies upon a vdto -as giving him rights
against thd town, has the burden of proving such a notice, afthough the
selectmen and town clerk have neglected their duty of filing and recording the notice, and although the record of the meeting states that it was
"legally warned."
The property of any inhabitant of a town in Coniecticutmay be taken on
execution upon a judgment against the town.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
Neither the selectmen nor the treasurer of a town. in Connecticut have
general power to make contracts, to borrow money, or to incur debts, in
behalf of the town.
The reports made to an annual meeting of a town in Connecticut by the
selectmen and treasurer, as required by statute, are not, unless acted on
by the town, evidence to charge it with debts which those officers had
no authority to contract in its behalf.
A promissory note, made by the treasurer of a town in Connecticut to a
bank, of which he has borrowed money without the knowledge of the
town, does not bind the town, unless authorized or ratifled by a vote of
the town at a meeting warned for the purpose; and is not made valid,
nor the town estopped to deny its invalidity, by the acceptance, at an
annual meeting, of the reports of the selectmen and treasurer, showing
various sums paid to other persons, ore received, "on town notes," and
an "indebtedness of the town by notes;" or by a vote at a subsequent
meeting duly varnelj authorizing the selectmen to pay certain notes
made by the treasurer to other persons, and by the selectmen's paying
those notes accordingly.

THIS action was brought June 5, 1880, by a natihfial bank
against the Town of Bloomfield in the State of Connecticut,
upon three promissory 'notes, dated June 20, June 21, and
July 1, 1879, and payable three months after date, for the
aggregate sum of $19,433.30, and all alike in form, the first

being as follows:
"Hartford, June 20, 1879. $5500. Three months after
date The Town of Bloomfield promise to pay to the order of
S. J. Mills fifty-five hundred dollars at Charter Oak National
Bank- Value received.
"1S. J., MILLS, Treasurer."
The answer denied that the defendant made the notes, or
that Mills, as its treasurer, had authority to make them in its
behalf.
A trial by jury was had, resulting in a verdict for the plaintiff in the full amount of the notes and interest; and a bill of
exceptions was tendered by the defendant and allowed by the
court, so much of which as is material to be stated was as
follows:.
The Town of Bloomfield was incorporated in the usual manner of Connecticut towns, by a resolve of the legislature of
Connecticut, in May, 1835, by which'the inhabitants of the

BLOOMFIELD v. CHARTER OAK BANK.
Statement of Facts.

town and their successors forever residing therein "shall have
and enjor all the powers, privileges and immunities which are
enjoyed by other towns in this state."
It was admitted that Mills was elected treasurer of the town
on October 5, 1868, and was re~lected annually and acted as
treasurer until July 16, 1879, when he resigned; and that he
made and signed the notes in suit, and indorsed them to the
plaintiff.
The defendant objected to the admission of the notes inevidence, because the plaintiff had shown no authority from the
defendant to Mills to borrow money or execute notes. 'But
the court, against the defendant's objection and exception,
admitted the notes, "subject to the duty of the plaintiff to
prove such authority."
The plaintiff then offered in evidence a copy, certified by
the town clerk February 16, 1871, of the record of this vote
of the town:
"At an annual town meeting, legally warned and held at
the usual place, October 5, 1868; S. J.Mills, moderator; E.
W. Rowley, assistant town clerk; Voted, That hereafter the
town treasurer be authorized and empowered to borrow money
for the use of the town."
The defendant objected to the admission of this vote, because the plaintiff offered no evidence that the warning of that
meeting specified any such object as was contained in the vote.
It was admitted that the warning had not been recorded by
the town clerk, and was not on file in his office.
The court overruled the objection, and admitted the vote in
evidence, "not as showing a legal or'valid vote of the town,
but subject to the duty on the part of the plaintiff to prove
that the town at its meetings, by its affirmative acts and conduct, had assented to and treated as authoritative the power
of the treasurer under said vote to borrow m.oney for the use
of said town; or for the purpose of establishing that by the
course of conduct of the town in its town meeting it had practically established the authority of the treasurer under said
vote; and of establishing an estoppel in pais against the power
of the town to treat as invalid a vote the validity of which

OCTOBER TERIM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

had been affirmatively declared by its acts, if it should appear
that the defendant had intentionally caused the plaintiff to
believe in a state of facts which it now claims not to exist, and
induced it to act on such belief." To this ruling the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff thereupon, "for the purpose of proving that
the town had made the said Mills its general agent in fact to
borroir money, and had at its town meetings, and by its affirmative acts in said meetings, treated the treasurer as authorized
under said vote to borrow money for the town," offered the
following evidence:
1st. Forty-four notes, for the aggregate sum of more than
$64,000, made by Mills as treasurer in behalf of the town to
sundry persons, other than the plaintiff, and mostly citizens of
Bloomfield, between the times of the passage of that vote and
of his resignation, all of which bore indorsements of payments
of interest, and had been paid and taken up.
2d. Copies of the annual printed reports made by the selectmen of the town, together with the treasurer's annual reports,
to the annual town meetings from 1869 to 1878 inclusive; and
the records of the town meeting§, showing the action of the
town thereon.
The reports of those officers in 1869 showed sums paid for
"interest on town notes" to sundry individuals named, $1507,
and to two of them for "town notes taken up," $1616.58;
"indebtedness of town by notes, $27,100;" and "amount received on town notes, $6559.88." The reports in the subsequent years showed similar items, varying in amount, and the
"indebtedness of the town 'by notes" gradually incrqasing to
$48,416.28. It was admitted that the sums paid for interest
included the' payments of interest on the forty-four notes
aforesaid.
The records of the town meetings showed that at an adjournment of the annual meeting of 1868 it was "Voted, That
the. selectmen be directed to have the report of items of account printed yearly, 500 copies;" that at the annual meeting
in 1869, the reports-of the selectmen and treasurer were "read
and accepted;" that in 1870, "the reports of selectmen and

BLOOMFIELD v. CHARTER OAK BANK.
Statement of Facts.'

town treasurer, being in printed form, were not called for;"
and that there was no record of any action of the town at the
subsequent meetings with reference to such reports. But it
was admitted that the printed reports were in fact distributed
to all who attended those meetings.
3d. A vote of the town, passed at a special meeting, duly
warned, and held May 29, 1880, authorizing the selectmen to
make and deliver notes in the name and behalf of the town to
take up and cancel "certain memoranda of indebtedness,
signed by the selsctmen or other officers of said town, and all
bearing date July 1, 1879," for money lent to the town and
unpaid. Also, evidence that, in pursuance of this vote, the
selectmen took up twenty notes, some signed by Mills as treasurer, and others both by him as treasurer and by the selectmen, amounting in all to $45,184, and given by him in their
presence on July 1, 1879, to various persons, in renewal of or
substitution for notes which he had previously given to them;
and that these notes were afterwards taken up and paid by
the selectmen.
The defendant objected to all this evidence as irrelevant and
immaterial. But the court admitted it, for the reasons above
stated, and the defendant excepted to its admission.
The bill of exceptions proceeded as follows:
"The plaintiff's account with Mills as such treasurer commenced in March, 1871, and continued until July, i879. The
first note which he procured to be discounted as such treasurer
was discounted on March 241, 1871, and thereafter he continuously obtained discounts and renewals of old notes until the
date of the last note, when the. three notes in suit were outstanding. The aggregate of his account was over $250,000.
"In this account, he deposited moneys of the town, and,
without the knowledge of the plaintiff, small amounts of his
own, and checked out from said account, both for the use of
the town, and, without the knowledge of the, plaintiff, small
amounts for himself. "The plaintiff offered evidence and attempted to trace each
note in suit, so as .to show that nearly the whole amount of
the proceeds of said notes went to the use of the town, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

nearly all of the checks drawn against said proceeds were given
to inhabitants of the town in payment of town orders given
by the selectmen. But no evidence was offered to show that
the town in its town meeting assembled knew that Mills kept
his bank account with the plaintiff, or that he was borrowing
the money represented by these notes, or those of which these
were renewals, of the plaintiff.
"The plaintiff disclaimed any advantage by virtue of being
indorsee of the notes rather than payee, and did not claim that
it stood on that account in any other relation to the defendant
than if it had been the payee.
"The plaintiff also offered evidence which the defendant
claimed showed that at the time when the plaintiff first obtained a copy of said vote of October 5, 1868, from the town
clerk of said town, viz:, on February 22, 1877, all the moneys
represented by the notes in suit had been advanced to said
Mills, treasurer, except the sum of $1500, and the notes in suit,
except so far as said $1500 was concerned, were renewals of
notes made before said date, and before the plaintiff knew of
said vote from the record itself. The plaintiff denied the
validity of said claim.
"It sufficiently appeared from the evidence in the case that
the plaintiff supposed or thought that Mills was authorized to
borrow money for the use of the town and give its notes
therefor, from the commencement of the account of the plaintiff with Mills as such treasurer.
"There was no other evidence in regard to any affirmative
acts of the town in its town meetings assembled, which would
constitute an agency in Mills, or raise an estoppel against the
town, other than those which are hereinbefore contained;
and this comprised all the evidence in the case in regard to
estoppel, ratification, or agency, the, court having confined the
plaintiff in its testimony to acts of the town in town meetings, and excluded any acts Or knowledge of the selectmen."
The plaintiff thereupon rested its case; and the defendant
a gain objected to the admission in evidence of the notes sued
on, and the'vote of October, 1868, on the grounds above
stated; also on the grounds "that no sufficient evidence had

BLOOMIELIo v. CHARTER OAK BANK.
Statement of Facts.

been offered to prove a ratification by the town of the said
vote, 'or .to establish any estoppel against the town which
would prevent it from setting up the invalidity of said vote,
or in connection with said vote to prove a general authority
given by the town to Mills to borrow money for the town and
give notes therefor, sufficient to make the town liable on the
notes in question;" "that the town, as a municipal corporation, had no inherent power to borrow money or give notes
therefor, nor had any special authority therefor been proved;
that even if it had such power, it could only exercise it by'a
vote specifying objects for borrowing money, which were
within the duties of the town to perform, and limiting the
amount so to be borrowed; and that~even if the town had
such power, it could not delegate to its treasurer power to
borrow money, unlimited either in object or in amount ;"
"that by proper construction of said vote, it did not authorize any person who might thereafter be treasurer to borrow
any sum of- money which he might think fit, and make the
town liable therefor, and did not authorize Mills to borrow
the money and give the notes in question;" and "that even if
the town had given authority to Mills to borrow, it -had. not
given him power to give negotiable promissory notes like
those in suit for the money so borrowed."
]But the court overruled the objections, and admitted the
notes and the vote in evidence, and to this ruling the defendant excepted.
The defendant then introduced evidence tending to show
that the warning of the town meeting of October 5, 1868,
did not, in fact, contain any notice that the matter of authorizing the treasurer to, borrow money would come before the
meeting; and als6 evidence tending to show. that Mills, during
all the time from 1869 to 1879, was largely in"
default to the
town, having embezzled large sums of money belonging to
the town, in addition to the sums obtained ly him from the
plaintiff, and that the moneys obtained by him from the plaintiff were not used to pay debts of the town, or, if so used in
part, only to pay debts for the payment of which the town
had furnished him sufficient money, which he had embezzled

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Counsel for Parties.

as aforesaid, and so were in fact obtained and used by him for
his own purposes, to cover such embezzlement.
The defendant also put in sundry votes passed by the town
in,1862, 1863 and 1864, authorizing the selectmen to borrow
money to pay bounties to soldiers, and to give orders on the
town treasurer or notes of the town therefor, which 7otes had
been ratified and confirmed by the legislature of Connecticut
before the town meeting of October 5, 1868; as well as evidence that at the meeting of May 29, 1880, and before the
passing of the vote above mentioned, one of the selectmen
read to the meeting a list of the notes signed by Mills as
treasurer, either alone or with other officers , f the town,
which contained no notes given by Mills to the plaintiff.
Before the charge to the jury, the defendant renewed its
objections by requests for instructions, which the court refused
to give.
The court instructed the jury that in the absence of all
testinohy there was no presumption that the warning of the
town meeting of October 5, 1868, specified the subject of
giving authority to borrow money; and that the vote of that
meeting, "standing alone, did not give general authority to
borrow money and to act as general agent in that regard;"
but submitted the evidence in the case to the jury as sufficient
to authorize them to find that the defendant, by continuous
and affirmative action and conduct in its town meetings,
knowing that its treasurer had generally and freely borrowed
money and given notes under that vote, had made him in fact
its general agent for that purpose, had held him out to the
plaintiff as such, and had ratified his acts, and was estopped
to deny theirvalidity.
The defendant excepted to the refusal to instruct as requested, and to the instructions given, and sued out this writ
of error.
Afr. CJ arles E. Perkins for plaintiff in error. -3fr.A. F.
Eggleston was with him on the brief.
Xr2.AlIvan P. R,'de for defendant in error.

BLOOMFIELY v. CHARTER 'OAK BANK.

129

Opinlon of the Court.
YIRE. JUSTICE Gnkr, after stating the'ease as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

We have not found it necessary to consider how-far a town in'
%Connecticut has the power to give promissory notes, because
in our opinion the evidence in this case is incompetent to prove
that this town ever authorized its treasurer to make the notes
in suit, 6r did any act which made them binding on the town.
TGwns in Connecticut, as in the other N'few England Stat~s,
differ from tradihg companies, and even from municipal cor.poratigns elsewhere. They are territorial edrporatios;-into
which the State is. divided by the legislature, from time' to
at its disbretion, for political purposes and the, convenient
.ime,
..administration of .government; they have those powers only,
which have' been e4ressly, conferred upon them by statute,
•or Which. are necessary for conducting municipal affairs; and
all the inhabitants of 4' town are members .of the quasi corporation. 1 Swift's System, 11 , 117; Granby v. Thurston,
ebsler v. Hawinton, 32 Conn. 131; Dillon:
23 Conn. 416;

Mun. Corp. §§ 28-30.
In Connecticut, as in Massachusetts and Maine, by common
law or immemorial usage, the property of any inhabitant may
be taken on execution upon a judgment -against the town.
Atwater v. TFoodbridge, 6 Conn. 223, 228; 1 aLoud v. Selby,
10 Conn.390; 2 Beardseyv. Smith, 16 Conn. 368; 3 5 Dane Ab.
158; (kase v., errimaek Bank, 19 Pick. 561, 569; 4 Gaskill
v. -Dudley,6 Met. 546 ;5 Adams v. Wiscasset Bank, 1 Green].
361;6 _Fernaldv. Lewis, 6 Greenl. 264. See also Hopkins v.
Elmore, 49 Vt. 176; Rev. Stats. N. H. 1878, c. 239, § 8.
A town cannot make a contract, or authorize any officer or
agent to make one in its behalf, except by vote in a town
meeting' duly notified or warned; and the notice or warning
must specify the matter to be acted on, in order that all the
inhabitants (whose property will be subject to be taken on
execution to satisfy the obligations of the town) may know
in advance what business is to be transacted at the meeting.
2 .C. 27 Am. Dec. 669. a S. C. 41 Am..Dec. 148.
IS. C. 16 Am. Dec.40.
5
S. .10Am. Dec. 88.
S. C.39 Am. Dec. 750.
SS. C. 31 Am. Dec. 163..
VOL. Cxxr-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

If the subject of the vote is not'spepcffied in the notice or
warning, the vote has no legal effect, and binds neither the
town nor the inhabitants.. No one can rely upon a vote as
giving hind any rights against the town, without proving a
-sufficient notice or warning of the meeting at which the vote
was passed. _eynold8 v. .few Zaem, 6 Mfet. 340; S"tougndon
Scwol Dist7-et v. Atherton, 12 Alet. 105; .Moo v. .A7eufeZd,
4 Greenl. 44; Dillon Mun. Corp. §§ 266-268.
Upon this point*the. statutes and decisions of Connecticut
are perfectly clear.
* The statutes require the annual town meetings to be held.in
October, November or December, and permitspecial meetings
to be convened when the- selectmen deem it necessary, or on
the application of twenty inhabitants qualified to vote in town
meetings; and provide for notifying or warning both annual
and special meetings as follows: "When town meetings are
to be held, a notification, either writen or printed, specifying
the objects for which -theyare to be held, signed by the.selectmei, or a majority of them, set upon the sign post or sign
posts in the towns, at least- five days inclusively before the
meeting is to be held, shall be sufficientnotice to the inhabitants to attend such meetifig."' Rev. Stats. 1866, tit. T, §§ 19,
21; 1821, tit. 103, § 2. They also provide that ",the warning
of every meeting of any borough, city, ecclesiastical society,
school society, school distri~t, or other public community, shall
specify the objects for which such meeting is to be held."
Rev. Stats. 1866, tit. 7, § 232.
Whenev6r a town meeting is warned agreeably to the provision above quoted, the statutes, with a view to preserving the
best evidence of the contents of the notice or warning, make
it the duty of the selectmen to cause a copy or duplicate thereof
to be left with the town clerk before the meeting, and the
duty of the clerk to .record it. Rev. Stats. 1866, tit. Y, § 19.
Bdt these duties are imposed on the selectmen and the clerk as
public officers, not as agents of the town. They are not made
duties of the inhabitants of the town in their corporate capacit.y, but official duties of those charged with their performance.
The neglect of- the officers to file or to record a sufficient

BLOOMIFIELD v CHARTER OAK BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

notice of a town meeting is theirs'only, and not 'the neglect of
the' town. So far as the town is concerned, the utmost effect.
.of an omission to record the notice is to authoize its contents
to be proved by other evidence: Brunswick Fi rst Parish,v..Xc.Kean, 4 Greenl. 508.
The annual election of town officers, or any other act wb'ch
the statutes require to be done by the inhabitants at ,eachannual meeting, might perhaps be sufficiently proved by the
record of what was, done at the meeting, without proving, a
special notice of it in the warning. Thayer v. Stearrm; 1 Pick.
109; Gilmre v. lolt, 4 Pick. 25S. But, with those exceptions, such'a notice is a necessary prerequisite to the validity of
any a'ct of the town, either at the annual meeting or at a
special meeting.
The statutes, for instance, provide that "the inhabitants-of the
respective towns, in legal meetings assembled, shall have power"
to make certain by-laws for.the welfare of the towns.. Rev. Stats.
1866, tit. 7,§ 31; 1821, tit. 103, § 6. But it has always been
held that no by-law, though passed at an annual meeting, is
valid, without a previous notice thereof in the warning.
In the leading case, decided in 1824, of Hayde7v. .Yoyes, 5
Com.n 391, where the annual meeting of a. town was warned to
choose town officers, "and to do any other business then
thought proper by said meeting,' the Supreme Court of Errors
decided that by-laws passed at that meeting, to 'regulate the
shell fishery df the town, were void; and Chief Justice Hosmer, delivering judgment, said:
"By the act concerning towns, the mode of warning town
meetings is specially prescribed. There is to be a notification
in writing, 'specifying the objects for which they are to be
held,' signed by the selectmen, and set upon'the public sign
post or posts in the town, at least five days before the meeting. A meeting not warned agreeably to the mode designated
is no legal congregation of the town; and its acts n that
capacity are void. If the object be to regulate the clam and
oyster fisheries, that object must be specified in the warning,
in an intelligible manner. A notification to assemble a town
meeting for a lawful purpose, duly specified,.and to do other

OCTOBER TERM, 'mot.
Opinion of the Court.

town ?usiness, is, except as to tho specification, as entirely
exceptionable as if the town were warned to meet and, do any
business they should think proper.. It is the purpose of the
' law, not to prescribe a frivolous form, but to give substantial
information. If the object of 'the meeting is specified, it will
present a motive to the inhabitants to be present, and they
will leave business, even if itbe pressing, provided they feel an
interest in the subject to be determined. On the other hand,
if-the subject is unimportant, and any of the inhabitants should
feel no concern in the result, they may with safety pursue
* their ordinary business ;-and this certainly is matter of convenience." "The warning, in the case before us, neither conforms
to the words nor spirit of the law, and, if sanctiorfed, would
repeal the statute." 5 Conn. 395, 396.
SIn a similar case in 1830, that decision was followed, and it
was adjudged, reversing the judgment of a lower cdurt, that it
was incumbent on the party offering the vote of the town in
evidence, and seeking to avail himself of it, to prove that the
meeting was duly warned, although the vote purported on its
face to have been passed by the town "in legal meeting assembled;" and the court said: "Tile borough and the town are,
confessedly, inferior corporations. They act not by any inherent right of legislation, like the legislature of the State; but
their authority is delegated; and their powers, therefore, must
be strictly pursued. - Fithin the limits of their charter, their
acts are valid; without it, they are void. It having been established, in the case of Hrayden v.' Noyes, above cited, that to
render an -act of a town, precisely of this character, valid, it
must appear that the meeting of the town had been specially
warned for that purpose; and this not appearing on the doings
of the town, in this case, nor from any proof aliunde to establish the fact, the judgment is erroneous. Perhaps it should
appear on the face of the proceedings; but, at least, he who
seeks to enforce the act should prove such warning to have
been given." TfRillard v. i lingworth, 8 Conn. 24[, 254.
There is nothing in the later decisions of that court, which
tends to shake the rules thus established.
In .Brownell v. Palmer, 22 Oonn. 107, the vote of the town,

BLOOMFIELD v. CHAiRTER OAK BANK.

133

Opinion of 'the Court,

which was presumed to be valid, without proof of the warning, was a vote passed at an annual meeting twenty-five years
before, accepting a discontinuance in due form by the selectmen of an ancient highway, which was proved to have been
disused ever since some time before that vote, and which there
was strong ground therefore for presuming to have been discontinued. See Avery v. Stewart, I Cush. 496; Fletcler v. Fulle,,120,U. S. 534. In the case of a recent vote, the rule is otherwise. For instance, in State v. Taff, 37 Conn. 392, a vote of
a town, fifteeii years before, accepting the laying out of a
highway by the selectmen was held insufficient for want of
any proof of the warning; and the highway was established,
upon the independent ground of dedication.
In Isbell v. New York & lVew Haven_Railroad, 25 Conn.
556, the town clerk's record of the nieeting at which the bylaw in question was passed rkcited that the meeting was
"legally warned and held for the p urpose of making a bylaw" upon the particular subject; and the case was thus recon"ciled -with that of Willard v. illingworth, above cited. The
record made by the clerk in the performance of his legal -duty
was sufficient, and perhaps' conclusive, evidence of the fact
recorded. ['hayer v. Searn, 1 Pick. 109.
In Society foJr Savings v. New London, 29 Conn. 174, the
sufficiency of the warning was not questioned. -In BaZdwi- v. Hofrth _B'ranford, 32 Conn. 41, a vote passed
upon an insufficient warning, and therefore invalid, was upheld
because it had been, ratified by the town at a subsequent meeting duly warned and held under a confirmatory act of the
legislature.
The two remaining Connecticut cases, cited at the bar, were
suits to compel towns to guarantee the bonds of a railroad
corporation, in accordance with votes passed under authority
conferred by statute.
In the one, the vote was passed at a meeting duly warned
and held; and the decision w-as that the vote, as recorded by
the town, taken in connection with the warning, which was
also recorded, appeared to have been taken by ballot, as required by law, and that the town was estopped to show, by an
-

134

OCTOBEI

TERM, '1886.

Opinion of the Coufrt.

amendment of the record, made after the railroad corporation
and its contractors had acted upon the vote for three year6,
'that the vote was not so taken.

.lew _aven, .XiJddletoium &r

Wilimamtic Railroad v. CMiatham, 42 Conn. 465. The case
is an exceptional one, depending on its peculiar circumstances.
Dillon Thun. Corp. § 164, note.
- But in the other case, in which the warning, as recorded,
showed that it had been posted less than, the requisite number
of days before the meeting at whicli the town voted to guarantee the bonds on ,certain conditions, it was adjudged that
the .vote was invalid; and that the town was not estopped to.
prove 'ie'defect in the Warning, and the .consequent invalidity of the vote, by a recital in the record that the vote was
.passed At a meeting "legally warned and held," or by subsequent proceedings, after the railroad coiporation had substan*tiaUy ,complied with those, conditions, by 'which. the town,
under a warning to determine what disposition' should. be
made of the bonds of the railroad- corporation .held by the.
town, afid tQ pay interest on its bonds, and to take such action as to secure the completion bf the railroad, voted to let
the conditions of the former vote remain as they were. The
court said, "The assembled voters are without power to act
for or bind the town, 'unless they have been called together in
tie statutory way and at the statutory time;" and also, after
observing that "'every'voter who read the call" for the second
meeting-" might safely ab.ent himself from the meeting iii the
certainty that under the call it could not impose the burden of
a giarantee tipon the town," added, "We cannot order the
town to guarantee any bonds, unless it is made clear that at a
lawful meeting, so called as to give the voters full- knowledge
of its purpose, they have assumed the burden - it is not'to be
placed upon them by inference."" Brooldyn Tm st Co. v. Hebron, 51 Conn. 22, 29, 30.
It follows that the vote passed at the annual meeting of the
town of Bloomfield in 1868, purporting to authorize the town
treasurer to borrow money for the use of the town, was invalid, for want of any evidence that the subject was specified
in the warning. The statement in the record of the meeting,

BLOOMFIELD'

135

CHARTER OAK- BANK.

Opinion of the Court.
that it was "legally warned," shows only that it had been
duly warned for some purposes, not for what'purposes.
The Circui Court ruled that this vote did not of itself authorize the treasurer to borrow .money; but submitted the
vote, with the other evidence in the case, to the jury, as sufficient to authorize them to find either that the town had made
him its general agent to borrow-money, or that it had ratified
his acts, or that it was estopped to deny their validity.
That evidence consisted only, 1st. Of forty-four notes made
by the treasurer to sundry individuals' after the passage of that
vote; 2d. Of the reports made ifi print by the selectmen and
treasurer to the annual meetings of the town from 1869 to
1878 inclusive, showing various sums received or paid "on
town notes," and a gradually increasing "indebtedness of the
town by notes;" and the records of those meetings, showing
that in 1869 such reports were "read and accepted," and that
in after years no action on them was taken by the town; 3d.
Of a vote passed by the town in 1880, authorizing the selebtmen to make notes in behalf of the town to take up and cancel certain memoranda of indebtedness, made by officers of
the town, dated July 1, 1879, for money lent to the town by
various persons; and the acts of the selectmen pursuant ,to
that vote.
Any ratification of an act previously unauthorized must, in
order to bind the principal, be with full knowledge of all the
material facts. Owings v.. Hull, 9 Pet. 607; Bennecke v. Insurance Co., 105 IT. S. 355. And no estoppel in pais can be
created; except by conduct which the person setting up the
estoppel has the right to rely upon, and does in fact rely and
act upon. _Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.; Scovill v.
Dkayer, 105 U. S. 143; Brant v.- Virginia Co., 93 U. S. 326.
The vote of those who attend a town meeting being of no
validity against the town or its inhabitants, unless the object
of the vote is set forth in the notice or warning of the meet!
ing, the town can no more ratify an act afterwards, than authorize it beforehand, except by vote passed pursuant to a
previous notice specifying the object. Without the indispensable prerequisite of such a notice, those present at a town
-

OCTOBER TERM, 188i.
Opinion of the, Court.

meeting 4ave. no greater power to bind the town indirectly by
-ratification or estoppel, than they have to bind it directly by
an: original vote. .ars
v. Fulton County, 10 'Wall. 676;
Daziesas Oountyv. Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657; Vorton v. ASelby
County, 118 U. S. 425; Prattv. Swanton, 15 Vt. 147; Lander
v. S~it~fteld School District,33 Maine, 239; American Tube'
WTorks v. Boston Xachine Co., 139 Mass. 5.
By the statutes of Connecticut, it is, made the duty of the
selectmen to superintend the concerng of the town, to adjust
and, settle all claims against it, and to draw orders on the
.treasurer for their payment, to keep . true and regular account of all the expenditures of the town, and to exhibit the
same at the annual meeting; and it is the duty of the treasurer
to receive all the money belonging to the town for taxes, fines,
forfeitures, debts or otherwise, and to make an annual statement of the receipts of money into the treasury, and the expenditures, which shall be adjusted by the selectmen, and laid
before the town at tha annuaimeeting. Rev. Stats. 1866, tit.
7; § 45, ,67; 1821, tit. 103, § 8, tit. 105, § 20. But neither the
selectmen nor the treasurer have any general power to make,
contiacts, to borrow money, or to incur new debts, in behalfof the town, except for particular objects having no relation
to this case'. Sharon v. Salisbury, 29 Conn. 113; Iadd v..
Franklin,87 Conn. 53; Goa v. Rehoboth, 12 Met. 26.
The reports made by the selectmen and the treasurer to theannual meetings, in performance of the duties imposed upon
those officers by.statute, were not, unless expressly approved
or acted on by the town at a meeting duly held upon sufficient
warning,- evidence to charge the town with liability'for debts
which those officers had- no authority to contract. The only
reports of the seleatmen and treasurer upon which the town
* took any action were those of 1869. The acceptance by the
town of those reports might be a ratification of the debts and
payments therein stated, but could have no further effect.
Burlington v.. New -Haven& ITorthampton Co., 26 Conn. 51;
Benoit v. Conway, 10 Allen, 528; Dickinson v. Conway, 12
Allen, 487; .Arlington v. Pierce,. 122 Mass. 270; Bean v.
Ht~yde Park,143 Mass. 245. In .insLey v. -trris,60 N. HI.

BLOOMFIELD v. CHARTER OAK BANK.
Opinion .of the Court.

131, cited for the plaintiff,, the town, under an appropriate

article in the warrant, had voted not only to accept the report
of the doings of an agent, but also to give him additional
powers.
There is nothing in the case at bar, which tends to show
that any of the promissory notes to individuals, offered in evidence, or of the notes mentioned in, the annual reports of the,
selectmen and .treasurer accepted by the town in -1869, or in
the vote of the town in 1880, were held by the plaintiff. Th6
bill of exceptidios explicitly states that no evidence was offdrecl
that the town in town meeting assembled knew that its treasurer kept his bank account with the plaintiff, or was borru.wr
ing of the plaintiff the money represented bythe notes in suit,
or by notes of which these were renewals; and also states that
the plaintiff disclaimed any advantage by virtue of being the
indorsee, instead of being the payee, of the notes in suit.
The bill of exceptions does state that it appeared by
of its acthe evidence that the plaintiff, from the beginning

count with Mills as treasurer, "supposed or thought that
Mills was authorized to borrow money for the use of the towh.
contains nothing fendand give its notes therefor." But i#t
ing to show that the supposition was based upon anything but
false representations of the treasurer, which would not bind
the town. Railroad. Bank-v. Lowell, 109 Mass. 214; Agawam.
Bank- v. South Hfadley, 128 Mass. 503. Ncr was there any
evidence that the plaintiff, at the time of lending money to
the treasurer, kiew of any acts of the town or of the selectmen since the vote of 1868 ; and the vote of 1880, and the act4
of the selectmen under it, took place -after the notes in suit
had been made and delivered to the plaintiff, and therefore
could not have influenced it Jn taking them.
Upon the whole case, there was no.proof of original authority, or of subsequent ratification, or of estoppei, to bind
the defendant town; none of original authority, for want of
any vote passed pursuant to due notice in the warning; none
of ratification, for the same reason, as well as because it was
not-shown that the acts proved were done with intent to ratify
the acts bf the treasurer in issuing the notes sued on, or with

'13:8

OCTOBER TERI,' 1886.
SSyllabus.

,kn6wledge. of all thematerial facts attending their issue; none

of estoppil, because there was no evidence of any acts of the
town; which the plaintiff had a legal right to rely upon, or did
in fact rely upon, -in taking these notes. The jury having been
instructed otherwise, the
Judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to set aside the verdict and
:to order a new trial.

MEROANTILE BANK v. N-EW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT
THE SOUTHERN

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 11, 12, 1887.- Decded April 4, 1887.

The main purpose of Congress in fixing limits to state taxation on investinents in shares of national banks was, to render it impossible for the
state, in levying such a tax, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring institutions or individuals carrying on
a similar business, and operatiohis and investments of like character.
The term "moneyed capital;" as used in Rev. Stat. § 5219, respecting state
taxation of shares in national banks, embraces capital employed in national banks, and capital employed by ifdividuals when the object .of
their business is the making of profit by the use of their moneyed capital as money- as in banking as that business is defined in the opinion
of the court; 1but it does not include moneyed capital in the hands of a
corporation, even if its business be such as to make its shares moneyed
Capital when in the hands of individuals, or if it invests its capital in
securities payable in money.
The mode of taxation adopted by the State of New York in reference to its
corporations, excluding trust companies and savings- banks, does not
operate in such a way as to make the tax assessed upon shares of national banks at a greater rate than that imposed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens.
Although trust companies created under the laws of' New Ybrk are not
banks in"the commercial sense of the word, shares in such companies
are moneyed capital in the hands of individuals: but as these companies are taxed upon the value of their capital stock, with deductions on
accQunt of property in which it is invested either otherwise taxed or
not taxable, and are additionally taxed upon their income by way of

