OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

COVINGTON STOCK-YARDS COMPANY v. KEITH.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CASE PENDING ON APPEAL FROM THE CIRCuIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF XEZTTUCKY.
Submitted April 4,1887. -Decided

April 11,1887.

The provision in Rev. Stat. § 1007, that if a plaintiff in error "desires to
stay process he may, having served his writ of error as" directed in the
Revised Statutes, "give the security required by law within sixty days
after the rendition of judgment, or afterwards with the permission of a'
justice br judge of the appellate court," applies to an appeal from a final
decree against an intervenor in a suit in equity when a partial supersedeas is granted below, and furnishes a reason why a motion on his
behalf for a full supersedeas should be denied here.

THE trustees in a mortgage of the Kentucky Central Railroad filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
for Kentucky to foreclose the mortgage, and the court appointed a receiver. The defendants in error intervened, setting forth that they were engaged in the business of buying
and selling live stock, and that they were the proprietors of stock
yards near said railroad, and adjoining the stock yards of the
Covington Stock-Yards Company, the plaintiff in error; that before the commencement of the suit the railroad company and
the plaintiff in error entered into a contract for the loading
and unloading by the latter of all stock transported by the railroad company; that they agreed with the receiver that they
would construct a platform suited to receive the stock for
their own yard, and the receiver agreed to deliver it at the platform; that the stock company thereupon obtained from a
state court of Kentucky an injunction against them to prevent
them from erecting the platform, but that Lhu suit in which it
was granted had been discontinued; that the receiver nevertheless continued to deliver stock for them through the yards
of the stock company, and that they were unable to get possession of it without payment of lotage to the company. The
petition closed with a prayer for a rule on the receiver to
show cause why he should not deliver to the petitioners their

COVINGTON STOCK-YARDS CO. v. KEITH.

249

Statement of Facts.

stock outside of the yards of the stock company, free from
charge, other than the customary charges for transportation.
The receiver having answered, the court granted in substance the prayer of the petitioners, but further granted leave
to the stock-yard company to file an intervening petition to
litigate the rights of the company, making the company and
the defendants in error parties. This the company did, fixing
their damages at $10,000. After hearing, the court among.
other things "ordered and decreed that the said railroad
company and said receiver shall hereafter receive and deliver
from and to the said Keith & Wilson at and through the said
Covington Stock Yards all such live stock as may be brought
to them or offered by them for shipment over said road and
its connections, upon the consent of said stock yards, in writing, that it may be so done, being filed in this court and cause
on or before the 1st day of January next after the entry of
this decree, free of any charge for passing through said yards
to and from the cars of said railroad company. In default of
such consent being so filed, it is ordered and decreed that upon
said Keith & Wilson putting the platform and chute erected
by them on the land of said Keith adjacent to the live-stock
switch of said railroad company north of said stock yards, the
said railr6ad company and said receiver shall receive and deliver all such live stock to said Keith & Wilson as shall be
consig ed to them or either of them, or be offered by them or
either of them for shipment at said platform.".
This decree was entered December 22, 1886. The stockyard company at once appealed, and on the 25th of January,
1887, filed their appeal bond in the sum of $2500, whereupon
on the same day the court after decreeing that the stock-yard
company should pay to Keith $1209.19, illegally exacted,
further made the following order:
"It is ordered that the appeal bond heretofore tendered by
the Covington Stock-Yards Company in the cause on its appeal
from the decree on the interpleader between said Covington
Stock-Yards Company and Charles W. Keith and Edward W.
Wilson be, and the same is, accepted, approved, and filed, but
the same is to operate only as a supersedeas to the extent of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the judgment rendered against said Covington Stock-Yards
Company, and not further or otherwise, and particularly is
not to operate as a supersedeas so far as concerns any order,
decree, or judgment directed to the receiver herein affecting
the receipt, delivery, or shipment to or by said Keith and
Wilson of live stock on or over the line of said railroad and
its connections.'
To all of the foregoing order, except so much ag accepted,
approved, and filed said appeal bond, the said Covington StockYards Company excepted.
The appeal being docketed here, the stock-yards company
moved that the entire decree be superseded and stayed until
the determination of the appeal.
_lk. T G. Carlisle and Xr.T. F. -alamn
MR.CHIEF

JUsTIcE WAITE

for the motion.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The qualified acceptance of the bond given on this appeal
shows that the judge who took it considered the security only
sufficient for a stay of the execution of that part of the decree appealed from, which was for the payment of money.
Under these circumstances the appeal only operates as a
supersedeas to that extent. As the appeal was taken, within
sixty days after the rendition of the decree, Mr. Justice Matthews, the justice of this court, assigned to the Sixth Circuit,
has power, under § 1007 of the Revised Statutes, to grant, in
his discretion, a further stay of execution, if application to
!in for that purpose is made. For this reason
•The present motion is denied.

