IN RE LENNOX.

393

Statement of the Case.

In re LENNON.
APPEAL FROM THE oRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTIiERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Wo. 925. Argued November 17, 1893. -Decided November 27,1893.
The Toledo and Ann Arbor Railway Company, which connected with the
Michigan Southern Railway in the carrying on of interstate commerce,
filed a bill in the Circuit Court to restrain the Michigan Southern from
refusing to receive its cars used in such commerce, and discriminating
against it, on the ground that it employed engineers who were not imembers of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers. An injunction was
issued, and a few days later the Lake Shore applied for an order of
attachment against some of its employ~s who had refused to haul cars
and perform service for them, thps hindering them from complying with
the order of the court in respect to the Toledo and Ann Arbor Company.
A rule to show cause was issued, and such proceedings had thereunder
that one of the employ6s was adjudged guilty of contempt, was fined,
and was ordered to be committed until payment of the fine. This employ6 applied to the Circuit Court for a writ of habeas co:pus. The petition, after setting the facts forth, claimed that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of the cause in which the original order of injunction had
been issued, for reasons stated, and further, that it had no jurisdiction
of the petitioner's person, because he was no party to that suit, and had
not been served with process. The application was denied and the petition dismissed, from-which -judgment the petitioner appealed to this
court. .geld,
(1) That while the general right of appeal from the judgments of Circuit
Courts on h abeas coTus directly to this court is taken away by the
act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, nevertheless, that right
still exists in the cases designated in section 5 of that act;
(2) That the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the petition for
habeas corpus was not in issue, and was not decided adversely to
the petitioner, and this appeal therefore did not come within the
first of the classes named in section 5 of the act of 1891;
(3) That the construction or application of the Constitution was hot
involved, in the sense of the statute, and that the petition did not
proceed on that theory, but on the ground of want of jurisdiction
in the prior case over the subject-matter, and in this case over the
person of the petitioner;
(4) That the appeal must be dismissed.

ON March 11, 1893, the Toledo, Ann Arbor and North

M1ichigan Railway Companr filed its bill of complaint in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Ohio against the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company and other railroad companies, which connected
with complainant in the carrying on of interstate commerce,
charging that it was the duty of defendants under the act of
Congress of February 4, 1888, and the amendments thereto,
regulating commerce between the States, to afford equal and
reasonable facilities for the interchange of traffic with complainant, and to forward cars and freight in the ordinary
transaction of its business without discrimination. The bill
further averred that the defendant companies had threatened
to refuse to receive from complainant cars offered by it, and
to deliver to complainant cars billed over its road for transportation to their destination, and that, because complainant
had employed as locomotive engineers men who were not
members of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, those
in the employment of defendants had refused to handle cars
to be interchanged with complainant's railroad; that the
defendant companies offered to other companies free interchange of traffic, but refused to transact business with complainant, thereby discriminating illegally against it; and
complainant charged that irreparable damage would result if
defendants carried out their threats, and prayed for an injunction.
On March 11 an injunction was granted, restraining, among
others, the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Company, its
officers, servants, and employ~s, from refusing to offer and
extend to complainant equal facilities for the interchange of
traffic on interstate business, and to receive from that company cars billed from points in one State to points in
another State,. offered by complainant to defendant companies; and to deliver in like manner to complainant cars
billed over complainant's line from points in one State to
points in other States. March 18, the Lake Shore and Michigail Southern Company filed its application for an order of
attachment against certain engoineers and firemen in its service, and among them James Lennon, as being in contempt
of the restraining order by refusing to haul cars and performn

SIN
RE LENNON.
Statement of the Case.

service, and thereby preventing compliance with that order
by the company. A rule to show cause was issued, and such
proceedings were thereafter had that Lennon was adjudged
guilty of contempt, and ordered to pay a fine of fifty dollars
and costs, and stand committed until they should be paid,
and, upon his refusal, was committed to the custody of the
United States marshal for the Northern District of Ohio,
whereupon an application for a writ of habeas copus to
release him from. such custody was made to the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Ohio.
The petition represented that Lennon was unlawfully held
in custody and restrained of his liberty in violation of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, under the order
of the Circuit Court, which order was made in the cause
heretofore referred to, and copies of the bill, the restraining
order, the application of the railway company for the attachment, the order to show cause, the order in the matter of contempt, and the evidence on the application for the attachment,
in that cause, were annexed as exhibits. The p6tition then
proceeded thus:
" Your petitioner further states and alleges, as he is advised,
that the said Circuit Court had no jurisdiction or lawful
authority to cause the arrest of your petitioner nor to proceed
against him in manner as aforesaid, and that the said pretended order and judgment, whereby your petitioner was committed to the custody of the said marshal and whereby he is
held in custody of the said marshal and imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, were and are wholly without authority
of law and void.
"Said order was issued in a suit whereof
the said Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction, because the complainant and one
of the defendants were at the time of the filing of the said
bill of complaint and ever since have been citizens of the
sane State, to wit, the State of Michigan, and which did not
arise under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
"SaCid Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the person of
your petitioner, because he was not a party to the said suit,
nor was he served with any process of subpcena notifying him

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

of the same, nor did he have notice of the application made by
the complainant for the mandatory injunction, nor was he
served by the officers of the court with the said order of
injunction, nor did he have any notice whatever of the issuing of the said order of injunction by the Circuit Court, nor
of the contents of said order, before the doing of the acts
alleged to have been in contempt of said order.
" Said Circuit Court was also without jurisdiction to make
the order aforesaid, because it was beyond the jurisdiction of
a court of equity to compel the performance of a personal contract for service, and to interfere by mandatory injunction with
the contract by which the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railway Company hired your petitioner as its servant."
And the petition concluded with the usual prayer for the writ.
Upon hearing, the application was denied and the petition
dismissed, from which order an appeal was prayed, allowed,
and perfected to this court, and the Circuit Court then made
the following certificate:
"The questions certified to the Supreme Court for its decision are the questions of jurisdiction presented by the petition
herein filed, to wit:
"1. Is the suit in which the order was made one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States?
"2. Did the court have jurisdiction of the person of the
petitioner by reason of his having had sufficient notice of the
proceedings and orders set out in the petition?
"3. Was it beyond the jurisdiction of a court of equity to
issue the orders made in said case ?"
The opinions of the Circuit Court upon the motion for an
injunction and upon the application for the attachment will
be found reported in 54 Fed. Rep. 730, 746.
.Mr. G. .M. Barker and l/,. Frank If. Hurd for appellant.
31r. Walter Ht. Smith and .r. James H. Southard were with
them on the brief.
A/v. George C. Greene, by leave of court, filed a brief on the
part of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
Company.

IN RE LENNON.
Opinion of the Court.

TMR.

CHIEF

JUSTICr FULLER delivered he opinion of the court.

We had occasion in Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, to examine the various statutes in reference to appeals to this court
from judgments of. Circuit Courts on habeas corpus. The
question there was whether this court had jurisdiction to
review judgments of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia on habeas corpus by. reason of section 846 of the
Revised Statutes of the District, which provided that final
judgments, orders, or decrees of the Supreme Court of the
District might be reexamined or reversed or affirmed by this
court upon writ of error or appeal "in the same cases and in
like manner as provided by law in reference to the final judgments, ordefs, or decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United
States;" and we held that such an appeal would not lie in
view of the provisions of the act of Congress of March 3, 1885,
entitled "An act regulating appeals from the Supreme Court
of the District of Colunibia and the Supreme Courts of the
several Territories." 23 Stat. 443, c. 355. That act did not
apply to criminal cases, but was applicable to all judgmients or
decrees. in suits at law or in equity in which there was a pecuniary matter in dispute, and inhibited any appeal or writ of
error therefrom, exeept.as therein stated; and as a proceeding
in habeas corpus is a civil aid not a criminal proceeding, and
the matter in dispute had noimoney value which could be cal-"
culated and ascertained, the conclusion was that we could not"
entertain jurisdiction. But inasmuch as the final judgments
of the Supreme Court of the District-could not be reixamined
here except iii the same cases and in like manner as the final
judgments of the Circuit Courts of the -United States, we
added that "it may also be noted that under the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828, c: 517, ยง 5, appeals
from decrees of Circuit Courts on habeas corpus can no longer
be taken directly to this court in cases like that at bar, but
only in the classes mentioned in the fifth section of that act."
This observation indicated another ground upon which the
case might have been disposed of and was not made without
consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

By the fourth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, it was provided that "the review, by appeal, by writ of
error, or otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be
had only in the Supreme Court of the United States or in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals hereby established, according
to the provisions of this act regulating the same." Section
five defined the cases in which appeals or writs of error
might be taken from the Circuit Courts directly to this court;
and by the sixth section the Circuit Courts of Appeals were
vested with appellate jurisdiction to review final decisions in
the Circuit Courts "in all cases other than those provided for
in the preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided
by law." Section fourteen expressly repealed all acts and
parts of acts relating to appeals or writs of error inconsistent
with sections five and six, and we remarked in- La Ow Bew
v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 56,, that the words "unless
otherwise provided by law" were manifestly inserted in the
sixth section "out of abundant caution, in order that any
qualification of the jurisdiction by contemporaneous or subsequent acts shoulZI not be construed as taking it away except
when expressly so provided. Implied repeals were thereby
intended to be guarded against. To hold that the words
referred to prior laws would defeat the purpoge of the act,
and be inconsistent with its context and its repealing clause."
By section '763 of the Revised Statutes it was provided that
an appeal to the Circuit Court might be taken from decisions
on habeas co2pus in the case of any person alleged to be
restrained, of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or of
any law. or treaty of the United States, and in the- ease of
the subjects or citizens of foreign States, committed, confined,
or in custody as therein set forth; and by section 764, as
amended by act of Congress 6f March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 437,'
c. 353, an appeal to this court from the Circuit Court was
provided for. Section 765 referred to the terms, regulations,
and orders on and under which appeals should be taken, and
section 766 prescribed that, pending the proceedings or appeal
"in the cases mentioned in the three preceding sections," and
until final jjudgment therein, and after final judgment of dis-

IN RF LENNON.
Opinion of the Court.

charge, there could be nio valid state proceedings in interference with the same matter. By act of Congress of March 3,
1893, 27 Stat. 751, c. 226, section 766 was amended by adding
thereto the following words: ".Provided, That no such
appeal shall be had or allowed after six -months from the date
of the judgment or order complained of." And it is argued
that if sections 763, 764, and 765 had been repealed by the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, this amendment would have
been meaningless, -nd that if it had been intended that under
that act appeals in habeas corpus were to be taken from the
Circuit Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the limitation
of six months prescribed by the amendment would have been
unnecessary because that limitation was already provided for
in section 12 of the act; and that, therefore, it must be concluded from the amendment that Congress regarded the
sections specially providing for appeals on hiabeas corpus as
unrepealed by the act of March 3, 1891. We do not concur in
this view. While the right of appeal from the judgments of
Circuit Courts on habeas corpus directly to this court, in all
cases, is taken away by the act of March 3, 1891, that right
still exists -in the cases designated in section 5 of that act,
and upon such appeals the amendment may operate.
In .Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, jurisdiction of an appeal on habeas cwrpus directly from the Circuit Court was taken, as it was in Horner v. United States,
(No. 2,) 143 U. S. 570, upon the ground that the constitutionality of a law of the United States was drawn in question;
and this would be so in any case that involves, within the intent
and meaning of the statute, the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States, or where the constitution or law of a State was claimed to be in contravention of
the Constitution, and the disposition of the case turned upon
such constitution or law. These would be cases within the
classes enumerated in section 5, but the only one of those
classes within which it seems to have been contended, when
this appeal was taken, that this case fell, is the first class,
which is composed of those cases "in which the jurisdiction
of the court is in issue; in such case the question of jurisdic-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion alone shall be certified from the court below to the Supreme Court for decision." And, allowing the appeal to this
court on that ground, the Circuit Court certified certain
questions to this court "as questions of jurisdiction presented
by the petition herein filed." But these questions relate not
to the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this
matter of habeas corpus, but to the jurisdiction of that court
in the case of the Toledo, Ann Arbor and North Michigan
Railroad Company against the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railway Company and others, in which the writ of
injunction was issued, and the order fining Lennon for contempt was made.
This is not an application to us fo issue the writ of habeas
corpus in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, accompanied
by a writ of certiorarito bring up the record and proceedings
of the court below, though even then, the writ is, not to be
used to perform the office of a writ of error or appeal. Zn i'e
Tyler, Petitioner,149 U. S. 164. It is a direct appeal from the
judgment of the Circuit Court on habeas corpus, in reaching
which that court considered the questions certified; but the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the petition for habeas
corpus was not in isshe, and a decision in respect thereof was
not rendered against appellant, but, on the contrary, jurisdiction was entertained.
Granted, as contended, that the jurisdiction to discharge the
prisoner in this case depended.upon a want of jurisdiction to
commit him in the other, yet the jurisdiction invoked by-the
petitioner was the jurisdiction to remand as well as to discharge, or, in other words, the power to hear and to determine
whether he was lawfully held in custody or not.
This appeal, therefore, as ruled in Carey v. Texas and Houston, Central Railway, ante, 170, and for the reasons therein
given, does not come within the first of the classes specified in
the fifth section,
Nor can the attempt be successfully made to bring the case
within the class of cases in which the construction or application of the Constitution is involved in the sense of the statute,
on the contention that the petitioner was deprived of his liberty

ROOT v. WOILWORTH.
Syllabus.

without due process of law. The p6tition does not proceed on
any such theory, but entirely on the ground of want of jurisdiction in the prior case over the subject-matter and overthe person
of petitioner, in respect of inquiry into which the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was sought. If, in the opinion of that court,
the restraining order had been absolutely void, or the petitioner were not bound by it, he would have been discharged,
not because he would otherwise be deprived of'due process,
but because of the invalidity of the proceedings for want of
jurisdiction. The opinion of the Circuit Court was that jurisdiction in the prior suit and proceedings existed, and the discharge was refused, but an appeal from that judgment directly
to this court would not, therefore, lie on the ground that the
application of the Constitution was involved as a consequence
of an alleged erroneous determination of the questions actually
put in issue by the petitioner.
Appeal dismised.

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
APPEAL

FROM[ THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 77. Argued and submitted November 10, 1893.-Decided November 27, 1893.

In 1870, M., a citizen of Indiana, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska against R., a citizen
of Nebraska, io establish his right to real estate near Omaha, to which
R. set up title. Each claimed under a judicial sale against PT Al. obtained a decree in 1872, establishing his title, and directing R. to convey
to him, or, in default of that, authorizing the appointment of a master
to make the conveyance. R. refused to make the conveyance,.and it was
made by a master to Al. under the decree. The entire interest of Al. came
by mesne conveyances to W., a citizen of Nebraska. M. reentered upou
the premises, and set up the title wuich had been declared invalid in the
decree of 1872. W. thereupon filedT in the same court an ancillary bill,
praying that R. be restrained from asserting his pretended title and from
occupying the premises; -that he might be decreed to have no interest in
the lauds; that a iv:rit'of possession issue, commanding the marshal
summarily to remove R., his tenants and agents from the premises, and
YOL. CL-26

