OCTOBER TERM, -1893.
Statement of the Case.

a support to hang a charge of infringement upon. When the
essential operation of tte two devices is so different there is
no equity in charging iufringement upon the defendant by an
apparently accidental adoption of an immaterial feature of the
plaintiff's patent.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the court below committed no error in its disposition of the case; but, in view.of the
fact that the appellee has seen fit to encumber the record with
copies of some. fifty himmater'ial patents, we tlink it a proper
case for the application of the 10th rule, which authorizes us
()iragraph 9) to impose costs upon - an appellee guilty of -requiring unnecessary parts of the record to be printed, and
that he should be charged with half the cost of printing the
re6ord in this case. "Care should be taken that costs are not
unnecessarily increased by incorporating useless papers, and
that the case is presented fairly and intelligently."' Railway
Co. v. Stewa?,t, 95 U. S.279, 281. With this qualification the
decree is
Affirmed.

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT, couRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE,
WESTERN DISTRICT OF AR)ANSAS.
No. 838. Submitted October19, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.
Where objection is made in a criminal trial to comments upon facts not' in
evidence or statements having no connection with the case or exaggerated expressions 6f the prosecuting officer, it is the duty of the court
to interfere and put a stop to them if they are likely to be prejudicial to
the accused.
The wife of a person accused of crime is not a competent witness, on his
trial, either in his own behalf or on the part of the governnqent, and a
comment to the jury upon her absence by the district attorney, permitted
by the court after objection, is held to be reversible error.

Tuis was a writ of error upon the conviction of the plaintiff
in error for the murder of an unknown man in the Indian
Territory on the 13th day of February, 1889.

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement.of the Case.

The evidence on the part of the prosecution tended to show
that several days"before the murder two men stopped together
at Vian, and obtained a contract to make rails for one
Waters, and lived in a house about one mile from Waters'
residence. They came from Winslow, in the State of Arkansas, in an old vehicle drawn by two horses, and were on their
way to Oklahoma, staying at Fian for a few days for the
purpose of earning provisions for themselves and horses. One
of these men was accompanied by his wife and two small'
children. After remaining for several days they left the
neighborhood, and were next seen camping near the scene of
the murder, on the evening of February 13. Their personalities were remembered although their names were forgotten,
except that a boy remembered the name of one of them to
have been John Graves. The morning after they were seen
together in camp one of the men was seen putting the horses
to the vehicle, in which were the w6man and a child, but the
witness- saw but one man and one child. About the 1st of
May following, the remains of a dead man were found near
the place where the witness claimed to have seen the people
camped. The body was decayed, but was identified' mainly
by peculiarities of the teeth and clothing. He was the man
who had claimed to own the horses and wagon. The witnesses for the prosecution recognized the defendant Graves
as the other man, though to most of them his name had
been unknown. Defendant's wife was admitted to have
been in town at the time of the trial, but did not appear in
the court-room. She was seen by one of the witnesses of the
prosecution outside of the court-room, and was believed by
the witness to have been the woman who had been with the
party.
The defence was an alibi, and was supported by several
witnesses, who swore that in the months of January, February,
and March of that year defendant was in Washington County,
Arkansas, a distance of one hundred miles or more from the,
place where the remains of the dead man were found. Upon
conviction of murder, defendant sued out this writ of error,
making fifteen assignmelfts of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

XJ.

A. B. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
Mi. JusTICE BRowN-,
opinion of the coutt.

after stating the case, delivered the

The first assignment of error is to the action of the court in
permitting "the district attorney in his closing argument to
the jury, over the objections of the defendant, to comment
upon the absence of the defendait's wife from the presence
of the court, and to state ,among other things to the jury,
that the defendant's wife ought to have been sitting by the
side of her husband during the trial, so that, witnesses for the
government could see her and identify her as the.woman who
was said to have been with the defendant in the Indian country before the unkfiown man's remains or bones were found,
and other like argunents, statements, and declarations."
While we do not wish to be understood as holding that domments by the district attorney upon the facts not in evidence,
or statements made having no connection -with the case, or
exaggerated expressions, such as counsel in the heat of tridl
are prone to indulge in, will necessarily vitiate a verdict, if
not objected to, yet when the attention of the court is called
to them specially, and objection is made, it is its duty to
interfere and put a stop to them if they are likely to be
prejudicial to the accused. Wilson v. United States, 149
U. S. 60; Rall v. United States, ante, 76.
Had the wife been a competent witness, the comments upon
her absence would have been less objectionable. It was said
by Chief Justice Shaw in the case of the Commonwealth v.
lebster, 5 Cush. 295, 316: "But when pretty stringent proof
of circumstances is produced tending to support the charge,
and it is apparent that the accused is so situated that he can
offer evidence of all the facts and circumstances as they existed,
and show, if such was the truth, that the suspicious circum-

GRA.VES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

stances can be accounted for consistently with his innocence,
and he fails to offer such proof, the natural conclusion is that
the proof, if produced, instead of rebutting, would tend to
support the charge." The rule even in criminal cases is that
if a party has it peculiarly within his power to produce witnesses whose testimony would elucidate the transaction, the
fact that he does not do it creates the presumption that the
testimony, if produced, would be unfavorable. 1 Starkie on
Evidence, 54; People v. Hovey, 92 N. Y. 554, 559; 21ercer v.
State, 17 Tex. App. 452, 467; Gordon, v. People, 33 N. Y.
501) 508.
But this presumption does not apply to every fact in the
case which it may be in the power of the defendant to prove.
He is not bound to anticipate every fact which the government may wish to shew in the course of the trial, and produce
evidence of that fact. In this case the wife was not a competent witness either in behalf of, or against her husband; if he
had brought her into court, neither he nor the government could
have put her upon the stand, and he was under no obligation
to produce her for the purpose assigned by the district attorney, that the witnesses for the government could see her and
identify her as the woman who was said to have been with
the defendant in the Indian country before the unknown
man's remains or bones were found. Permission to make this
comment was equivalent to saying to the jury that it was a
circumstance against the accused that he had failed to produce
his wife for identification, when, knowing that she could not
be a witness, he was under no obligation to do so. The jury
would be likely to draw the inference that she was prevented
from testifying" for her husband because her evidence might
be damaging. It was in fact as if the court had charged the
jury that it was a circumstance against him that he had
failed to produce his wife in court.
The view we have taken of this assignment of error renders
it unnecessary to consider the others.
The judgment must be
Reve'sed, and the case remanded with instructions to set
aside the verdiet and grant a new trial.

OTOBER TERI, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.
MR.JUsTIcE BREWER

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case. I think that the absence of the defendant's wife from
the court-room was, under the circumstances, a legitimate subject of comment in argument. The theory of the prosecution
was, that one of the two men who came to Vian was murdered by the other; that the body found was that of the
murdered man; that the defendant was the murderer. The
testimony. was abundant that these men were accompanied in
their trip by the wife and two small children of one of them.
Defendant atteinpted to prove an alibi, and to show that at
-the times named, and when these two men were in the Territory, he was in Washington County, Arkansas, - more than
a hundred miles away,-and that his wife was with him
there. Witnesses for the prosecution who saw the two men
and the woman at Vian, and who identified this defendant
as one of those men, would unquestionably be strengthened in
their testimony, if upon seeing the woman they were also able
to identify her. There .night be some mark, some peculiarity
of feature in the wife-something, perhaps, for the time
being forgotten - which would make the witnesses absolutely
sure that she was the woman who was present in the Territory. And, conversely, there might be some peculiarity in
the features of that woman which, not found in the defendant's wife, would have led the witnesses to hesitate as to their
identification of him. One way or the other, a sight of her
by the witnesses for the prosecution might be a significant
fictor in det~rmining his identity. There was evidence before
the jury that she wvas in Fort Smith during the trial, and yet
she was not in. the court-room by the side of her husband, or
where she could be seen by all the witnesses. It istrue several reasons for her absence might be suggested': She might
have been in such a condition of health as to render it unsafe
for her to come to the court-room; she might have been
alienated from him, and indifferent as to his conviction or acquittal. But, nevertheless, it was a suggestive fact, and an
obvibu§ fact, and, therefore, a legitimate subject of comment

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

by counsel. I do not understand that a jury in their, deliberations are limited to a consideration of that which is, strictly
speaking, testimony, tut may properly consider any facts developed in the trial from which a reasonable inference may be
drawn for or against either party. If, for instance, the fruits
or instruments of crime are introduced in evidence, is not the
action and conduct of the defendant at the sight of them, as
also his demeanor generally in the presence of the jury, a matter of consideration and legitimate comment? If it be developed that a witness exists, presumably under the control of the
defendant, who can throw light upon a vital matter, and he
is not produced, may not the jury fairly consider that fact, and
may not counsel comment on it? In the case of Commonwealth v. Olark, 14 Gray, 367, there was testimony tending
to show that the son of defendant was present and participated in some of the acts relied upon as evidence of guilt.
The son was not called as a witness by the defendant., and in
the argument of the*district attorney this fact was commented
upon as tending to show his guilt. An instruction was asked
to the effect.that the jury must find the defendant guilty, if
at all, upon the evidence given under oath in the case, and not
from the absence of any witness who might have been produced, but was not. This instruction" the court refused to
give, but told the jury in substance that it was proper to" consider the omissioi to produce this witness. In respect to this
matter the Supreme Court observed as follows: "The omission
of the defendant to produce his son as a witness to meet and,
explain the evidence offered by the government in support of
the indictment was a proper subject of comment by counsel,
before the jury, and might well be considered by them in connection with the testimony in the case. The witness was in
the employment of the defendant and in his interest, and
could probably have given an explanation of some, of the. facts
tending to show the guilt of the defendant, if they were susceptible of any construction favorable to his innocence. The
failure -to call the witness was not relied on as substantial proof
of the charge by the government ; other evidence had been
offered to establish that, which was submitted to the jury

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion:. Brewer, 3.

with proper instructions. If this evidence, unexplained, tended
to prove his guilt, and he failed to bting evidence within his
cpntrol to explain it, his omission to do so was a circumstance
ntitled to some weight in the minds of the jury."
In that case, as in this, there -might have been some satisfactory reason for the absence of the witness; but none was
given, and -it, was held, and rightly, that his non-production
was a subject for consideration and also for comimnnt. See
also Gaviganm v. Scott, 51 AMichigan, 373; TobiM v. Shaw, .45
Maine, 331; Commonwealth v. 1Febster, 5 Gush. 295, 316;
3lMoDonough v. O'iVeil, i13 Mass. 92; Blatch v, Archer, Cowper, 63, 65; 1 Starkie on Evidence, 54. Somewhat analogous
are the following cases: State v. G'iffln, -87 lissofiri, 608, in
which the prosecuting attorney commented upon the fact that
the defendant's mother, though living only-fifteen miles from,
the court-room, was not present at the trial, and had evidently
.abandoned him; and such" comments were held by the Supreme
Court not sufficient to disturb the judgment. It is true, how,ever, the attention of the trial court was not called to the
matter. .Aforth Carolina v. Jones, '77 N. C. 520, in which. the
defendant, having had a witness sworn, declined to examine
him, and that fact was commented on by the prosecuting
officer in his closing argument. Objection was made by the
defendant, but the court declined to interpose; and in this it
was held by the Supreme Court that there was no error. 1n-.
*mab v. Geor&, 72 Georgia, 269, 2M8. In this case it appeared
that a contnuance had once been obtained on the ground of
the absence of a witness, and that when the trial was had the
witness was present in court, but was not sworn or examined.
Objection was made, but the court permitted the counsel to
proceed, and in respect to this the Supreme Court observed:
"The court held that the conduct of the accused and his counsel duri ngL the continuanlce of the trial were the proper subjects
*of comment by the counsel engaged in the case. Counsel are
allowed the largest liberty in the argument of cases before
juries; and whether the argument be logical or illogical, or
whether the inferences and deductions drawn by. them are
correct or not, this court will have no power to intervene.

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

Facts not proved cannot be discussed, but illogical conclusions
from facts proved may be insisted upon, and there is no reinedy; but in this case, we think, it was legitimate for counsel
to allude to what had transpired in the case, from the time it
was called through its whole proceeding, anid the conduct of
the party or his counsel in connection t.herewith was the
proper subject of comment, and there was no error on the
part of the court in allowing the comments of the solicitor.
general in this case." People v. l17tite, 53 M ichigan, 537, 539.
This was a case of bastardy, in which counsel commented upon
the resemblance between the defendant and the child of the
complaining witness, then present in the court-room, and in
respect to this the Supreme Court said: "We do not well see
how the jury could be pl'eventcd from noticing the child,
which was properly enough in courl; and while arguments of
resemblance in so young an infant, in the absence of peculiarities, are a little preposterous, it is difficult on this record to
determine that any rule of law' was violated in discussing it."
In this case the wife could not be a witness for her husband,
it is true; and yet her presence in the court-room, a presence
ordinarily to be expected, would most certainly and obviously
have aided materially in the identification of the defendant.
She was in the city, as the testimony showed, and her absence
from the court-room, unexplained, certainly suggested &
motive, and that motive one which, cast suspicion upon the
defendant. I think the rule that should be laid down is, that,
in the absence of express prohibition, every fact which, in no
illegal manner, comes to the knowledge of the jury during the
progress of a trial, and which may influence their minds, is a
subject of comrhent by counsel in their argument. The fact
that defendant's wife was in the city was developed by the testimony; that she was not present in the court-room was an
obvious fact; the witness who saw the defendant at or near
Vian, as they testified,. saw his wife there with him; and it
would most certainly add to the force of their testimony if
they could have said, We there saw not merely this defendant on trial, but this woman sitting by his side. Every man
would feel surer of an identification which included two

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer J.

persons than if limited to but one. Some stress seems to be
laid in the opinion of the court upon the fact that the defendant's wife was not a competent witness, and that this distin'guishes the case from that cited from .14: Gray, and others
in which the books abound. While it is true that she could
not be sworn and called upon to give testimony, yet she was
herself. testimony, and material testimony. Take this illustration: Suppose one of the witnesses for the government,
in this case had testified that while with the defendant at Yian
he. had seen in his possession a knife of a peculiar make, had
there taken it and made a mark upon it, and the government
had proved by some other witness that he had seen in the
possession of the defendant, on the very morning of the trial,
a knife of substantially the same make, and no knife was produced by the defendant; would not the omission to produce
that knife be a significant fact, and one which. the prosecuting attorney was at liberty to comment upon? If produced, and bearing the mark described by the first witness, it
would tend very strongly to support the identification. Just
so if this wife of defendant had been in the court-room an'
these various witnesses for the prosecution had testified that
she was the same woman they had seen at Vian; can there
be any doubt that the identification would have been more
certain? So; because in the natural progress of the trial,
without any misconduct on the part of the prosecution, this
fact came to the -notice of the jury, and was a fact which
would naturally tend to affect the conclusions of men-it
was a fact in respect to which the prosecuting officer was at
liberty to comment, and suggest to the jury his own conclusions therefrom.
Again, the defence in this case was an alibi. The witnesses
for the defence who testified to seeing the defendant in
Washington County, Arkansas, at or about the time of the
alleged murder testified that his wife was with him there;
that they had seen her in the city of Fort Smith during the
trial, and that she was the same woman With him theretofore
in Washington County. It also appeared from the testimony
qf one witness that she had been in the hall of the court-house,

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

and that, though in the city, she had not been around with
the other witnesses.
Now, commenting.upon the testimony, the counsel foi the
defence could argue to the jury that they had a double
identification -that of the defendant and that of his wifewhile the government had only one identification, that of the
defendant. Was it not a legitimate argument .for the district
attorney to make in response to this that, if the wife had been
in the couit-room by the side of her husband during-the trial,
as ordinarily she would be expected to be, the government
might have had a double identification equally with the
defendant; and as the testimony further showed that she was
'in the city, that she came up into the hall of the court-house,
and still was not around with the other witnesses. for the
defendant, so that the govefnment witnesses might have had
a chance to meet and see her - was it not also a legitimate
argument, and was not the district attorney justified in
making it, that there was probably a reason for her conduct,
and that reason the danger of a double identilication? The
conclusion, it is true, cannot be positively affirmed to be
correct; but surely a case ought not be reversed because the
counsel for the government draws erroneous conclusions from
the facts developed in the trial. If such a rule were laid
down, how many verdicts could stand?
It must be borne in mind that there was nothing denunciatory, harsh, or abusive in the language of the district attorney.
He simply commented upon the fact, obvious to the jury, that
the wife of the defendant was not in the court-room, although
shown by defendant's witnesses to be in the city, and drew
his conclusions from such facts. The comment was one which
would naturally occur to every man aware of the facts,
whether on or off the jury.. -Can it be that the defendant was
prejudiced by that? Ought the deliberate judgment of twelve
men as to the defendant's guilt, approved as it was by the
judge who presided, to be set aside for an error, if error it be,
so frivolous as that?
For these reasons I dissent.

