GORDON v. WARDER.
Counsel for Appellees.

in the Gory and Sargent patents. These changes were simply
obvious modifications of such prior patents, and cannot be sustained as a patentable invention.
We are of opinion, therefore, that there was no error in the
decree below and that the judgment should be
Affirned.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN did not sit in this case and took no part
in its discussion.

GORDON v. WARDER.

GORDON v. HOOVER.
GORDON v. CHAMPION MACHINE COMPANY.
GORDON v. WHITELEY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES TOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Nos. 34, 35, 36, 37. Argued October 16, 17, 1893.

Decided October 30, 1893.

The first claim in lettcrs patent No. 77,878, granted May 11, 1868, to
James F. Gordon, was a claim "for a binding arm capable of adjustment
in the direction of the length of thle grain, in combination with" an
automatic twisting device, substantially as and for the purposes
described;" and it was not infringed by the devices used by the defendants for attaining the common purpose of securing the stalks of grain
into bundles by passing around them a iband at the middle of the
stalks.

THESE four bills in equity, for the alleged infringement of
the same letters patent by different parties, were argued
together here. In each the bill was dismissed below, from
which decree the complainant appealed in each case.
_Y. Esek Cowen and ff'. Fr.ederick P. Fish for appellants.
_Yr.. Robert H. Parkinson and Mr>. Eldmund IFetmore for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from decrees of the Circuit Cburt of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, dismissing
the bill of complaint in each of the four cases. The questions
in controversy are the same in all of the cases, and can be considered and determined in one opinion.
The bills of complaint, as -originally filed, averred infringements by the defendants of three different patents, respectively
dated -May 12, 1868, June 16, 1874, and October 26, 1875,
granted to James F. Gordon, and held and owned by the
several complainants; but, before final hearing, the complainants withdrew those portions of the bills that pertained
to the two latter patents, and the decrees only dealt with the
alleged infringement of the letters patent dated May 12,
1868.
The invention of James F. Gordon related to an improvemerit in that class of harvesters by which the grain, as itis
out, is bound by the operation of the machine. It was not
claimed by Gordon that he was the first to devise a grain
binder as part of a harvester; such devices were well known
in the art. A pradtical difficulty in the operation of such
machines was found in the fact that, in-different fields of
grain, and often in the same field, the- grain stalks were of
different lengths. Hence, if the binding apparatus occupied a
fixed and unchangeable position with respect to the bundle or
gavel of grain when brought to the operation of the binder,
the binding wire or cord would be passed round the bundle
without reference to the length of the stalks, and thus it
would happen that the cord that would pass around the
middle of a.bundle of long stalks-would, in case the stalks
were short, pass round the bundle near the head of the stalks.
A sheaf formed by the passage of the cord round the bundle
at any place, except the middle of the stalks, will be apt to
fall apart, and the operation of binding thus become unsuccessful.
Gordon claimed to have surmounted this difficulty by contriving a binding apparatus that should be movable at the will

GORDON v. WARDER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the operator, and adjustable to suit the varying lengths of
the grain, and thus operate to pass the binding cord always
round the middle of the stalks.
Having, in the specification forming par.t of his letters
patent, described the difficulty to be overcome and the method
devised by him to, do so, the inventor made eleven several
claims to different parts and combinations of parts in his
machine. In this litigation, however, the complainants have
restricted their case, as against these defendants, to an alleged
infringement of the first claim made by Gordon.
This claim is for "a binding arm, capable of adjustment in
the direction of the length of the grain, in combination with
an automatic twisting device, substantially as and for the purposes described." The specification discloses that the binding
arm and the twisting device are to remain in juxtaposition
with each other, and are adjustable, with respect to the grain
to be bound, by a movement horizontally along a shaft, so as
always to apply the binding wire to the centre of the sheaf.
This longitudinal movement is regulated by a lever, which is
applied by the driver or operator, and which enables him to
change the position of the binding arm and twister so as to
operate on the middle of the bundle of grain.
The view that we take of these cases relieves us from going
at length into the history of mechanical binding devices, and
from minutely considering the nature of Gordon's first claim.
We content ourselves with saying that, upon the evidence laid
before us, we are satisfied that Gordon was the. first inventor
*of a mechanical binder and twister adjustable, at the will of
the operator, to affect the binding by passing the cord or wire
round the middle of the bundle, where this adjustability was
reached by mounting the binder and twister upon a frame
which was movable upon a shaft in a longitudinal direction.
We are willing to adopt, as a fair definition'of Gordon's claim,
that given by complainant's counsel in his brief: "The invention of Gordon consisted in this: In so arranging the binding
arm and twister, or its equivalent, that while they continuously act with each other, for the purpose of placing the band
aroun(l the grain and uniting the ends of the band, the driver
VOL. cL-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

can instantaneously change their position with reference to
the grain-delivering mechanism of the harvester, so as to lay the
band in the centre of the bundle, without stopping the machine
or dismounting from his seat."
We do not regard the patent of Watson, Renwick and Watson, dated May 13, 1851, as an anticipation of Gordon, although
the specification in that case did contain a paragraph stating
that it might be advantageous, in some cases, to make the
binder adjustable in respect to the cutting apparatus. No
means were there provided, or method pointed out, whereby
such a desirable result could be obtained. Nor do we find, in
the other patents put in evidence by the defendants, any such
anticipation of the Gordon claim as above defined, as to invalidate the grant made to Gordon on May 12, 1868, though such
a state or condition of the art was brought about, by these
earlier patents, as to require us to restrict the scope of the
Gordon patent closely to the devices and methods claimed by
him.
It was claimed on behalf of the defendants, and apparently
conceded by the court below, that in the Gordon machine the
rake, which gathers and moves the grain to the place where
the bundle is to be bbund, is a part of the binding mechanism;
that without the action of the rake, as an adjunct of the binding apparatus, no successful operation could be effected. But
Gordon, while describing the rake and its mode of operation,
does not claim the rake as a part of his combination. His
invention assumes that some instrumentality must be used to
bring the grain within the grasp, of the binder, but his claim
can and must be restricted to ',he devices applied by him to
render the binder and twister adjustable, at the will of the
driver, to the varying lengths of the stalks to be bound. It
was further contended, on behalf of the defendants, that the
Gordon invention is exemplified by a machine into which harvesting or cutting devices and binding devices are incorporated
as integral parts, and in which some of the parts belong
equally to the harvesting mechanism and to the binding
mechanism. The object of this contention was to afford a
ground on which to distinguish the defendants' machine, which

GORDON v. WARDER.
Opinion of the Court.

is claimed to consist of an aggregation of two distinct and
independent organisms, to wit, a complete harvesting machine
and a complete binding machine.
It is doubtless true that several of Gordon's claims do
apparently involve a blaim of parts of the harvesting machine
in conbination with the binding apparatus, thus constituting
an organic whole. But, as we have seen, the complainants
have withdrawn from our consideration all of the claims
except the first, and that is restricted, as above stated, to the
special devices therein described.
We do not attach much importance to the defendants' contention that Gordon's invention was not a practical success.
Our examination of the evidence in that respect has not satisfied us that the alleged failure, in the harvest field, of
machines embodying the Gordon invention was owing to the
failure of the binding and twisting apparatus to successfully
operate, but it rather seems to have been occasioned by
mechanical defects in other parts of the harvesters. On the
other . hand, there. was testimony that, in several instances,
the Gordon apparatus operated successfully.
This brings us to a consideration of the question of infringement,.
A large part of the argument on behalf of the defendants
goes to show that the Gordon patent is substantially for a
machine combining the cutter and rake and other parts of a
harvester with the binder and twister, all the parts being
mounted on one frame, and -constituting an organic whole;
whereas the defendants use, in combination, two machines,
each complete in itself, one a harvesting machine composed of
a substantial frame, in and upon which are erected mechanisms
for cutting grain, for moving the grain, when cut, laterally
as it falls upon the platform, and for elevating and "discharging it over the top of the main wheel, upon which the greater
portion of the weight of the machine is supported, together
with suitable gearing for transmitting from -the main wheel
the necessary power to operate these mechanisms; the other,
a binding machine composed of another frame, in and upon
which are erected devices for packing grain into bundles, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

compressing said bundles, for applying and tying a cord around
the compressed part of each bundle, and for discharging the
bound bundle to the ground, together with suitable gearing
for transmitting motion to these devices from the prime shaft
of the binder.
The Gordon specification does seem to describe a composite machine whose purpose is to cut and bind the grain,
and if the eleven claims are read together, as if they constituted the invention claimed, the defendants' argument would
properly demand that we should consider the distinction suggested between a machine composed of the cutting and binding
apparatus mounted upon one frame and constituting an entirety, and two machines coiperating in the manner used by
the defendants.
But as the complainants have restricted their case to an
alleged infringement of the first claim, and as that claim is
merely for the devices used to make the binder and twister
movable, at the will of the operator, along a horizontal shaft,
we are.only called upon to compare the devices of Gordon with
those used by the defendants, for attaining a common purpose,
namely, securing the stalks of grain into bundles by passing
around them a band'at the middle of the stalks.
Bearing in mind the previously given definition of Gordon's
claim, we shall now compare it with the devices used by the
defendants in converting a bundle of stalks into a sheaf.
A distinction is pointed out between a twister and a knotter,
one designed for use when a wire forms the band, and the
other for use when a cord or string is used. But we do not
regard such a distinction as a vital one, and prefer to consider
the twister and the knotter as substitutes for and equivalents
of each other.
The novelty of the structure mentioned in the first claim of
the Gordon patent consists solely in the fact that the automatic twisting device and the binding arm possess the capacity
of fore and aft adjustment with relation to all the other parts
of the binding apparatus, including the binder receptacle,
which is the platform extension upon which the bundle of
grain, collected by the rake, is deposited preparatory to

GORDON v. WARDER.
Opinion of the Court.

being bound; and the binding arm and twisting device are
adapted to slide upon the shafts by which they are operated,
for the purpose of adjusting the machine for binding the
bundles in the middle.
The defendants have mounted both binding arm and knotter
immovably in the.supporting frame of the binding machine,
excluding the capacity for adjustment with which Gordon
endowed them. The arm and knotter are not pushed backward and forward on their shafts. To adjust for central
binding, the entire binding machine is moved bodily frontward or rearward, in order to bring different parts of the
binder opposite the centre of the path along which the grain
is delivered from the harvester elevator belts.
In the Gordon machine the devices belonging to the binder
cannot be taken away without dismantling the harvester, or
if the harvester be left intact, then what is left of the binding
mechanism will not be operative as a binder. In defendants'
case, the binding mechanism can be wholly detached from the
harvester without in any way affecting the capacity of the
harvester to operate, and when so removed the binder will
continue to operate as such whenever it is fed with grain and
power is applied to its shaft. Doubtless this difference between the two machines would not, of itself, prevent the
complainants from claiming an infringement of the Gordon
first claim, restricted, as it is, to the method of adjusting the
binder and tNister. But, as above stated, and as clearly appears
on an inspection of the defendants' machines, their devices to
bring the bundles to the binder, so as to present them to be
bound in the middle, are altogether different from those
described in Gordon's first claim. The end sought to be
effected is the same in both methods, but the devices are n6t
the same; and in the state of the art, as shown by the earlier
patents in evidence, and of which we may mention the patent of
Watson, Renwick and Watson, dated May 13, 1851; of Watson and Renwick, dated June 6, 1853 ; of S. S. Hurlburt, dated
February 4, 1851; of Sherwood, dated September 14, 1858,
and August 30, 1859; we cannot regard Gordon's first claim
as entitled to protection as a pioneer invention, covering the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

achievement of the desired result in its widest form, unlimited
by specific details. If this claim can be sustained, in the light
of the previous inventions, it can only be done by restricting
it narrowly to the particular devices described, and under such
a construction the machines of defendants cannot be deemed
to infringe.
None of the defendants are shown to have ever made, sold,
or used a machine containing a binding arm and twister, or
any equivalent device, adjustable with reference to the binding machine in which they are mounted, or with reference to
the platform on which the binding takes place, or with reference to the bundles of grain in position to be bound. In the defendants' machines the binding arm and knot-tying mechanism
are permanently secured in a fixed position and incapable of
adjustment by being moved to and fro in the machine. When
th.binding machine itself is moved so as to adjust it to the
middle of the stalks to be bound, the binding arm and tying
mechanism, by virtue of their permahent attachment to the
frame of the machine, are necessarily moved with it, but they
cannot be adjusted in it.
Our examination of these cases has brought us to the conclusion reached by the court below, and its decrees, dismissing
the severa bills of complaint, Are, therefore,
.Afl 'med.

UNITED STATES v. BAIRD.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMs.
No. 963. Submitted October 20,1893.-

Decided October 30, 1893.

A marshal of the United States is not entitled to commissions on disbursements for the support of a penitentiary, made under Rev. Stat. ยง 1892.

This was a petition by the marshal of the United States for
the Territory of Idaho for fees earned in executing warrants
of commitment of certain prisoners to the penitentiary at
Bois6 City, and also for commissions upon disbursements for

