OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

sion, if you can, and, as near as you can, how long he remained
in possession before the commencement of this suit. Then
your verdict will be, in addition to that, ' We therefore find
that at the commencement of this suit the defendant was the
owner and entitled to the immediate possession of the premises
in dispute.' That disposes of the whole controversy as far as
the verdict of the jury is concerned."
Nor do we think that this is one of those cases in which
erroneous or insufficient instructions in one part of a charge
are corrected or supplied by unobjectionable instructions, on
the same questions, appearing in another part. It is evident
that the attention of the jury must have been withdrawn from
the instructions formally given, as requested, to those announced by the judge, as given on his own motion, and it
seems evident that this action of the court misguided the jury,
and led them to overlook essential questions involved in the
issue they were trying. Smiths v. Shoernaker, 17 Wall. 630;
-Moores v. N ational Bank, 104 U. S. 625; Gilman v. Higley,
110 U. S. 47; Vicksburg &.i-eridian Railroad Co. v. O'Brien,
119 U. S. 103.
Whether, then, we regard the verdict as a special one, not
containing findings sufficient to support the judgment, or as a
general one, rendered in pursuance of imperfect instructions,
we reach the conclusion that the judgment of the court below
must be
Reversed and the cause remanded,with instruction to award
a venire de noo.

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOCK COMPANY.
AIPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 124. Argued December 5,1893.-Decided December 18,1893.

In chancery proceedings in the Federal courts, when a plea in bar meets
and satisfies all the claims of the bill, and it is sustained, it will, under

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOCK CO.
Statement of the Case.
equity'rule 33, avail the defendant so far as to require a final decree in
his favor.
In this case tbe proofs taken fully' and clearly establish the truth of the
matters set up and alleged in the defendants' plea, including the complainant's receipt in full satisfaction, of all claims.
While it is true that a receipt is' open to explanation by parol proof to
show what its real consideration was, the issue to'that effect must be
raised by the pleadings9, and must have been taken in the court below,
to be available here.
An accord and satisfaction cannot be set aside for mutual mistakes in
regard to material facts, if the alleged mistakes have not been set up
by proper pleadings.

THE single question presented by the record in this case is
whether the action of the court below, in sustaining the plea
in bar of the suit and dismissing the bill, was correct.
The appellant, who was the complainant below, alleged in
her bill that in July, 1880, she was the owner of the steamers
Garland and Excelsior, which were, used and employed in
navigating the Detroit River and the connecting waters; that
the Detroit Dry Dock Company (one of the appellees) held
mortgages on these steamers aggregating $22,643, the equity
of redemption in which was of considerable value; that on
July 22, 1880, the Garland, under command of George Born,
son of the complainant, while proceeding down the Detroit
River collided with the steam yacht Mamie, which had on
board an excursion party, several of whom 3ere drowned as
the result of the collision; that the personal representatives
and heirs of those drowned, claiming that the Garland was in
fault, commenced suits in admiralty in the United -States District Court at Detroit .to recover damages on account of their
deaths; that the Detroit Dry Dock Company furnished bond
for the steamer Garland, and became responsible to counsel
for their fees, it, being' agreed between -the complainant and'
the company that the latter should hold the title to the
steamer Garland, in connection with its mortgage, as security
for the indebtedness of the complainant, and of all liabilities
incurred on her behalf ; that shortly after the collision various
suits were commenced in the state courts against the complainant personally for damages on account of the collision,

OCTOBER

TERI, 1893.

Statement of the Case.

and also a prosecution against her son, George Horn, as master of the Garland; that the complainant employed counsel
to defend these suits; that at or about the same time a suit
was commenced in the Maritime Court of Ontario against the
Garland for supplies furnished the boat by parties residing in
Canada, under which an attachment was issued, and the vessel was levied upon and ordered to be sold j2edente lite, and
at the sale thereof the Detroit Dry Dock Company purchased
the steamer for $17,050, which sum it was alleged the company advanced on agreement with the complainant, thus
making her total indebtedness to that company amount to
the sum of $39,693; that the sum for which the Garland was
thus sold, and which was paid into the Maritime Court of
Ontario by the Dry Dock Company, was in excess of the
claims proved in that court, and that the Dry Dock Company
subsequently filed a petition to have the surplus proceeds,
amounting to about $11,000, paid over to it as mortgagee,
which sum it agreed to credit the complainant after payment
of all expenses and costs for collecting the same; that subsequently on September 21, 1880, the complainant conveyed the
Excelsior, subject to the mortgage aforesaid, to her son, John
Horn, and shortly afterward an execution against him was
levied upon the steamer, which was sold thereunder and purchased by the Detroit Dry Dock Company in the name of its
secretary for the sum of $505, which was paid by the company
under an agreement that it would hold it and the steamer
Garland as security for the indebtedness of the complainant
and advances made by the company, and would run and
operate both vessels, and render an account of their earnings,
and that when her indebtedness and advances were paid,
return the steamers to the complainant; that the Detroit Dry
Dock Company organized a corporation called the Detroit
River Ferry Company, to which the steamers were conveyed,
as trustee, to carry out the agreement with complainant, all of

the stock in which corporation was subscribed for and held
by the stockholders of the Detroit Dry Dock Company, and
actually belonged to it; that shortly thereafter the Dry Dock
Company purchased, for the stim of $23,000, the steamer For-

HORN

. DETROIT DRY DOCK CO.
Statement of the Case.

tune, and caused her to be conveyed to the Detroit River
Ferry Company; that this last named company and the
Detroit and Windsor Ferry Company, engaged in. a similar
and rival business, were thereafter consolidated and incorporated under the laws of Michigan under the name. of the
Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Company, and the
three steamers were conveyed to the consolidated company
for the sum of $83,000 of its capital stock, the steamers Garland and Excelsior being estimated at $60,000, or 600 shares
of the stock of the concern, which were held by the Detroit
Dry Dock Company on the same terms it held the steamers
Garland and Excelsior; that the par value of the $60,000 of
stock was actually worth $70,000.
The bill also alleged that on Tune 27, 18S1, the complainant
entered into a written contrapt. with the Dry Dock Company,
which, after reciting in its preamble the history of the litigation growing out of the Garland's collision with the Mamie,
and the transfer of the two steamers to the Detroit, Belle
Isle and Windsor Ferry Company, and the desire of Sarabh
Horn to purchase a part of the stock held by the Dry Dock
Company, stipulated that the Dry Dock Company agreed to
sell and deliver to the complainant, her executors, administrators, or assigns, 600 shares of the capital stock of the
Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Company, each of
the par value of $100, and that it would advance and pay the
complainant's attorneys their disbursements, expenses, and
charges for services rendered, or to be rendered, in all suits,
above referred to, growing out of the collision, and would
also pay to the complainant or apply to her indebtedness
whatever might be paid to the company by the Maritime
Court of Ontario out of the proceeds of the steamer Garland,
after deducting costs and expenses, and that in consideration
of this agreement the complainant agreed to pay the Dry
Dock Company the sum of $51,000 within three years from
the date thereof,. with annual interest at the rate of ten per
cent, and also such sum or sums of money as might be paid
by the company to her counsel, and any other sums that
might be paid by the company on any decree or decrees that

'OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

might be rendered against the complainant or the steamer
Garland growing out of the collision with the steam yacht
Mamie, all sums so paid to her counsel, or upon any decree or
decrees in the pending suits were to be added to and form a
part of complainant's indebtedness, which was to be paid
within three years from the date of the agreement, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum; that 600
shares of stock were to be delivered upon the payment of
such sums, and upon the failure to pay the same within the
time provided the Dry Dock Company might sell enough of
the stock, upon ten days' notice, to pay the same, but at not
less than its par value. It was further agreed. that any dividends received by the Dry Dock Company upon the stock
should be applied upon the indebtedness. It was further
stipulated that "the said Sarah Horn in consideration of the
said agreement of the Said Detroit Dry Dock Company does
hereby release, discharge, convey, and quitclaim any and all
interest, claim, or demand of any kind or nature whatsoever
she may have, or pretend to claim to have, against said
Detroit Dry Dock Company, to either of said boats or to the
earnings or -the proceeds of the sale, received or to be received
by said Detroit Dry Dock.Company, or by either of said ferry
companies."
The bill also alleged that on the day following the execution
of this agreement, her son-in-law, Albert R. Schulenberg,
having falsely and fraudulently represented to her that the
Detroit Dry Dock Company would not carry the 600 shares
of, stock for her account, suggested that his father (the appellee, Frederick Schulenberg) would advance the money to pay
the Dry Dock Company, and would assume all liabilities
which that company had assumed on behalf of the cornplainant, and would pay her the sum of $200 per month for three
years for living expenses, and would take and hold the stock
and manage the same, and at the end of three years deliver
to her $25,000 of the par value of the stock, free and clear
of all incumbrances; that the complainant relied upon this
representation and agreed to that proposal; that Albert
Schulenberg thereupon brought her a paper, signed by

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOCK CO.
Statement of the Case.

Frederick Schulenberg; that upon reading it she discovered
that it only referred to the monthly payments and was silent
as to the $25,000 of stock which the said Schulenberg had
agreed to return to her free of all incumbrances at the end
of three years; that she refused to accept the -paper on the
ground that it did not represent the agreement of Frederick
Schulenberg, and that her son-in-law Albert, upon her refusal,
said that "it would make no difference, that his father would
carry out the agreement to the.letter," and thereupon placed
the paper in a desk in the complainant's house, where it
remained.
The bill then states that Frederick Schulenberg paid the
complainant during the next three years the sum of $200 per
month as agreed, but at the end of three years repudiated his
agreement to. return to her $25,000 of the par value of the
stock; that she thereupon brought suit against him in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Michigan, and that it was held by that court that she had no
remedy at law, and it directed a verdict in favor of the defendant Schulenberg, and for greater certainty reference was
made to the files, records, and proceedings in that case.
The bill also sets out that Frederick Schulenberg held all
of the 600 shares of stock, except 175 shares held by the
Detroit Dry Dock Company; that in equity and good conscience the complainant was entitled-if the agreeinent with
Frederick Schulenberg is valid-to the $25,000 of the par
value of the stock and the earnings thereof; that all of the
claims, suits, and proceedings against the steamer Garland
and against the complainant, arising out of the collision, had
been fully compromised and settled, and wholly released and
discharged by the Dry Dock Company paying, with her
approval, the sum of $3000 in full satisfaction of the same.
It was further alleged that the earnings of the 600 shares
of stock were very large, and that Frederick Schulenberg and
the Dry Dock Company received the same and refused to
render the complainant any account of the amounts received
by them from time to time as dividends -thereon.
The prayer of the bill was that Frederick Schulenberg, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

case his agreement with the complainant is held to be valid,
may be decreed to transfer to her $25,000 of the stock free
and clear of all incumbrances, and to account ior and pay over
to the complainant the earnings of that amount of stock since
the time the same should have been transferred to her; and
with the alternative prayer, in case said agreement with
Schulenberr is held to be invalid, that he and the Dry Dock
Company shall be declared trustees for her of 600 shares of
the capital stock of the Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry
Company, and be required to account to her for the amount
thereof, and all dividends received thereon to be. applied on
her indebtedness to the Dry Dock Company until the same
shall have been discharged, and the balance paid over to her.
To this bill the Dry Dock Company filed its plea, averring
that before the bill was filed it had transferred all of the 600
shares of stock which it held in lieu of its mortgages on the
steamers Garland and Excelsior to the defendant, Frederick
Schulenberg, as assignee of the complainant, under and in pursuance of the complainant's assignment to him, and that for a
long time prior to" the filing of the bill it had not, nor had it
then, in its hands or under its control any of the 600 shares of
stock, or any claim to or interest in the same, and that neither
the Dry-Dock Company nor the Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Company had any further interest in or connection
with the case.
The defendant Frederick Schulenberg, for plea to the whole
bill, set up the maritime proceedings against the steamer Garland at Windsor, Ontario' under which that steamer'was sold
and purchased by the Dry Dock Company; that thirteen suits
were commenced by one James H. Cuddy, as administrator, in
the District Court of the United States at Detroit, Michigan,
against the steamer Garland to recover damages for loss of life
occasioned by the collision mentioned in the bill with the steam
yacht Maamie; that the Garland had been seized by the marshal of the district under process issued in said suits, and being
in custody was duly appraised and bonded by and under the
claim of the Detroit River Ferry Company, which was formed
by the officers of the Detroit Dry Dock Company for the pur-

HORN v. DETROIT DIRY DOCK 00.
Statement of the Case.

pose, and to whom the Detroit Dry Dock Company had sold
and conveyed the same; that these cases were put at issue and
on March 5, 1883, one of them was brought on to be heard on
pleadings and proofs, and that a decree was made by the District Court of the United States dismissing the libel with costs,
from which Cuddy appealed to the Circuit Court of the United
States, where the decree was affirmed with costs, from which
last decree the libellant appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States; and that on October 14, 1880, James H. Cuddy,
as administrator of the estates, respectively, of the persons lost
by the collision, commenced thirteen suits at law in the Superior
Court of Detroit against the complainant as owner of the Garland at the time of the collision, to recover the same damages
as claimed in the admiralty cases. These suits were put at
issue. On December 3, 1883, her.attorney presented her petition to the District Court of the United States for a limitation
of her liability as owner of the steamer Garland, and alleged
therein the pendency of the thirteen suits at law in the Superior
Court of Detroit, to which petition James H. Cuddy, as administrator, answered, and on February 22, 1885, the matter was
submitted for decision. Subsequently the judge of the United
States District Court signed a decree limiting her liability as
Qwner of the Garland at the time of the collision to the sum
of $60. Upon the filing of the petition in the Federal court
limiting her liability, a plea puis darnein continuance, setting
up said proceedings as a bar to the further prosecution of those
suits in the state court, was entered in each of the pending
cases, and the plaintiff in each and all of those suits, except in
case No. 4410, failing to reply to the plea as required by the
rules and practice of that court, a default was entered in each
case and made absolute, and a judgqnent entered in favor of
the complainant for costs in each of the cases; that the complainant, by her new attorney, declined to accept the benefits
of the decree limiting her liability.
It was fuither averred in the plea that on August 24, 1884,
the complainant, by her attorney, commenced a suit at law
against the defendant in the Circuit Court of the United
States, which was afterwards brought to trial and resulted

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

in a verdict being rendered in favor of the defendant upon
the ground, as stated in paragraph 1.1 of the bill, that the
complainant had no remedy at law and that her proper
remedy was in equity, and upon which verdict judgment
was entered against the complainant in favor of the defendant Frederick Schulenberg.
It was further averred that on January 20, 1886, the complainant commenced suit for the same cause of action as in
this case by filing a bill of complaint in the Superior Court
of Detroit., in chancery, against the Dry Dock Company,
the Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Company, and
Frederick Schulenbero, seeking the same relief .sought in this
case and in her suit against defendant Schulenberg in' the
United States Circuit Court.
That on April 10, 1885, in the suit No. 4410 at law, against
the complainant personally in the Superior Court of Detroit,
by her consent a judgment was entered against her in favor
of the complainant Cuddy, as administrator for $15,000
damages, and $270 costs, and by stipulation of her attorney
defaults in the other twelve cases were set aside; that on the
same day said judgment was entered, the plaintiff therein
filed affidavits separately against the Dry Dock Company
and Frederick Schulenberg as garnishee debtors of Sarah
Horn, the judgment debtor in the case. The plea further
averred that writs of garnishment were duly issued out
of said court, and served on the parties, who appeared and
'filed their disclosures thereto; that the foundation of the
garnishment proceedings was the same, and based -apon the
same claim of indebtedness from the said parties to Sarah
Horn, as was the foundation for and claim of indebtedness in
this case; that the aforesaid litigation being pending and
a judgment against the complainant being in full force and
wholly unsatisfied, the issue in the garnishment proceedings
came on to be tried before a jury duly impanelled, and the
trial continued in progress on the 12th, 15th, 16th, and 17th
days of March, when on March 17, and during the trial,
all of the parties, together then and there, entered into a full
and complete adjustment and settlement of all claims and

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOOK CO.
Statement of the Case.

demands, and of all litigation, and all of the conditions of the
agreement were then and there performed, and in pursuance
thereof there was paid in behalf of the Detroit Dry Dock
Company and Frederick Schulenberg to Caddy, as administrator, and to Sarah Horn, the sum of $3000, in settlement
of all the claims against the garnishees, and that stipulations
were signhd and delivered discharging all of the judgments
and decrees, anid for the discontinuance of all of the pending
suits as aforesaid; and that Cuddy and Sarah Horn then and
there executed and delivered receipts and acquittances in the
words and figures following:
"For a vgluable consideration to me in hand paid by Sarah
Horn, owner of the steamer Garland, I hereby acknowledge
satisfaction of all claims ana demands of every name and
nature which I may have against said Sarah Horn, personally
or as administrator of the several persons drowned July 22,
1880, through a collision between said steamer Garland and
steamer Mamie, or which I may have against said steamer
or persons who have become interested since said collision.
"Detroit, March 17, ISSO.
JA-,uES H. CUDDY,
"Personally aml as Administrator.
"For a valuable consideration to us in hand paid we hereby
acknowledge satisfaction of all claims and demands of every
name and nature which we or either of us may have from the
beginning of the world up to the present time against the
Detroit Dry Dock Company, the Detroit River Ferry Company, the Detroit, Windsor and Belle Isle Ferry Company,
Alexander MeVittie, Albert R. Schulenberg, or Frederick
Schulenberg or any of them.
" Joiiw HoRN, JR.
"Detroit, March 17, 1886.
"S.nA

HoRN."-

The plea further averred that the receipts were in the possession of the defendant and ready to be produced, and that
the stipulations were thereupon duly filed in the respective

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

courts; and that the aforesaid'suits in the District Court of
the United States, in admiralty, and in the Supreme Court of
the United States, and in the Superior Court of Detroit, in
law and in chan cery, were all discontinued without costs, and
satisfaction of judgments and decree in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Mlichigan'in favor
of the defendant and the claimant of the steamer for costs;
and in the Superior Court of Detroit in favor of said Cuddy
for damages and costs, were duly entered. Whereupon the
defendant pleaded- the settlement and release in bar to the
whole of the complainant's bill, and prayed judgment of
the court whether he should make any further answer thereto,
and further prayed that he be hence dismissed.
The complainant, by a general replication, put this plea in
issue.
The agreement of the complainant.with Frederick Sohulenberg, referred to in the pleadings, as reduced to writing, was
as follows:
"Know all men by these presents that I, Sarah :orn of
Detroit, iMiohigan, for and in consideration of the sum of one
dollar and of other valuable considerations, to me in hand paid
by Frederick Schulenberg of St. Louis, Missouri, have assigned,
sold, transferred, and set over, and do hereby assign, sell,
transfer, and set over, to said Frederick Schulenberg all my
interest, claim, or demand of, in, and to six hundred shares of
stock of the capital stock of the Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Company, which are to be delivered to ine upon
payment of certain moneys mentioned in a written agreement
made and dated on the twenty-seventh day of June, 1881,
between the Detroit Dry Dock Company and myself, and also
all my interest, claim, or demand of, in, and to the moneys
payable to me by said agreement subject to the payment by
said Frederick Schulenberg of the moneys by me agreed in
said instrument to be paid to the performance by him of all
the other terms and conditions of said instrument, reference
being made thereto for greater certainty; and I do authorize
and empower the said Frederick Schulenberg, his executors,

HORN v. DETROIT DRY -DOCK CO.
Statement of the Case.

administrators, or assigns, in my name, place, and stead, to
demand and receive the said stock, money, or other claim or
interest hereby transferred, and to otherwise enforce the performance of said agreement in all respects the same as I might
have done, with power of substitution and revocation.
"Ii witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal
this twenty-eighth day of June, A.D. 1881, in duplicate.'

SRHo R. [EAL.]
"Witness : John Horn, Jr."
Schulenberg, upon receiving this agreement, executed and'
delivered the following written acknowledgmefit:
"In consideration of the assignment by an instrument of this
date, made by Sarah Horn to me all her interest in and claim
to six hundred shares of the stock of the Detroit, Belle Isle
and Windsor Ferry Company, agreed to be delivered to her by
the Detroit D'y Dock Company in an agreement dated June
27, 1881, and also of interest in and claim to certain moneys
mentioned in said agreement, and to be paid to her by said
company, and which assignment is made subject to the performance of the conditions, payments, and other terms therein
contained and by her to be performed or paid, I do hereby
agree to pay to said Sarah- Horn the sum of two hundred
dollars ($200) per calendar month for three years from and
after this date."
He thereupon gave notice of the assighment as follows:
"To the Dry Dock Company:
"Take notice that Sarah Horn has made an assignment to
me, of which the above is a duplicate original, and I claim all.
the rights to the stock and moneys thereby assigned to me
which Mrs. Horn was entitled to under her agreement with
you, it being my intention to carry out the terms of the agreement on her part to be performed.
"June 28, 1881.
" FREDESIOK SO1 ULENBRG."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

Yr. -1.
A. Baker for appellant..
I. The case presented by complainant's bill is a simple and
meritorious one.
Sarah Horn's right to redeem the 600 shares of stock in the
Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor Ferry Co. was a very valuable
,right of property. Any one at all familiar with the great
beauty, and usefulness to the people of the city of Detroit and
-vicinity, of the Detroit River, with Belle Isle, and its park, Lake
St. Clair, and the St. Olair Flats.on the north, and Grosse
'Isle, Sugar Island, Bois Blanc, and Lake Erie on the south,
can readily understand the successful and lucrative nature of
the ferry and excursion business in which the complainant and
the corporations who succeeded her were engaged.
Under negotiations between complainant and Frederick
Schulenberg, which were conducted by Albert Schulenberg,
whp is the son-in-law of one of the parties and the son of the
other, the complainant assigned her. rights under the agreement of June 27, 1881, to Frederick Schulenberg. In virtue
of this assignment Frederick Schulenberg redeemed the 600
shares of stock and became the owner and holder thereof.
.The com*plainant shows that the agreed consideration for this
assignment was $200 a month for three years, and the return
to her at the end of the three years of $25,000 of the stock at
,its par value.
Frederick Schulenberg, in his petition for*,removal to the
Federal court, denies that he was to return any of the stock
to complainant; but.no such defence is interposed to the bill
by plea or answer, so that the complainant's case stands on
this record as confessed.
It is also worthy of note, that Frederick Schulenberg was
not sworn as a witness in his own behalf, and that although
Albert Schulenberg was sworn as a witness for his father, he
makes no denial of the complainant's case on the merits as
stated in her bill.
As far as .the merits are concerned, therefore, the complainant isentitled to a, decree, and the only question is whether
the plea of accord and satisfaction can be sustained.

HoRN v: DETROIT DRY DOCK CO.
Argument for Appellant.

II. Under the proofs as they stand ini this record, the court
should hold that the plea of accord and satisfaction is not
sustained.
The receipts of March 17, 1886, do not mention the $3000,
or any other specific sum or thing as their consideration. On
the contrary, they simply recite that "For a valuable consideration," etc.
It is clear that it is competent to explain a receipt of this
kind by oral proof showing vhat the real consideration actually
was, and that a mere receipt is always subject to explanation
by parol evidence.
This d(yctine is distihctly recognized by this ,court in the
second subdivision of the opinibn of the court, as prepared by
Mr. Justice Brown, 4n Fire Insurance Association v. Ifiekham, 141 U. S. 564, in which the learned justice cites the following cases approvingly: Simons v. Johnson, 3 B. & Ad.
175; Lawrence v. Schuylkill _Stav. Co., 4 Wash. C. 0. 562;
Payler v. Hontersham,-1 M. & S. 42S; Jaksoan v. Stackhouse,
1 Cow. 122; . 6. 13 Am. Dec. 514; Grunley v. WTelb, 441
Missouri, 444; Price v. Treat, 29 Nebraska, 536; St. Louis,
Wichila &c. Railroadv. -Davis,35 Kansas, 464.
Inasmuch as these receipts do not purport to give the consideration on which they were based, they are not evenprima
facie evidence thereof, and it is just as competent for the complainant to prove that the consideration included a-promise to
her, as it is for the defendant to prove that the agreed consideration was the $3000, actually paid.
The receipt signed by Sarah Horn left the question of the
actual consideration open, and subject to parol proof, so that
she is in no sense concluded thereby.
The plea of accord and satisfaction, therefore, cannot be
sustained, because the party having the affirmative on that
issue has not sustained the plea with a preponderance of evidence.
The minds of the parties did not meet, and the supposed
agreement to- compromise for that reason fails. Utley v.
Donaldson, 94 U. S. 29, and cases cited.
And further, Frederick Schulenberg was not a party to the

OCTOBER TER-6, 1893;
Opinion of the Court,

agreement. There is no proof in this record that he or any one
authorized to represent him, had anything to do with the
settlement, or that he was in any way a party to it, or bound
by it. The case calls, therefore, for an application of the
familiar doctrine that one party to ' contract is not bound
unless the other is.
An accord and satisfaction would certainly have to be binding as to both of the parties, in order to be binding at all;
and in fact it is the rule as to all contracts that there must be
.mutuality of obligation. Dorsey v. Paokwood, 12 How. 126.
Xr. C. E Warner, (with whom was Mr. Levi T. Grifltn
on the brief,) for appellees.
MR.

JUSTiCE TACKSON,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The garnishment proceedings on the part of Cuddy,
administrator, against Sarah Horn, as the principal debtor,
and the Dry Dock Company and Frederick Schulenberg, as
garnishees, regularly taken and prosecuted under the statutes
of, Mvichigan, were designed to reach and subject -to the payment of Cuddy's confessed judgment against Sarah Horn, the
claim and demand which she seeks to enforce in the present
case. So that the garnishment proceeding involved directly
the liability of the Dry Dock Company and of Frederick
Schulenberg to the complainant for either $25,000 in stock,
which she alleged Schulenberg was to return to her, or any
other credits in their hands in her favor.
The proofs taken in the case clearly and fully establish
the truth of the matters set up -and alleged in the plea,
including the complainant's foregoing receipt in full satisfaction of all claims against the Dry Dock Company and
Frederick Schulenberg.
As a part of the documentary proof there was produced
a stipulation filed in the cause of Sarah Horn against
Frederick Scbulenberg, in the 'United States Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan, which cause involved

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the same claim upon the part of the appellant against the
appellee Schulenberg as is presented in the present case. The
stipulation was as follows: "It is hereby stipulated that
the bill of exceptions settled and filed in this cause shall
be withdrawn, and that the judgment entered herein in favor
of defendant shall stand as the final determination of the
issue, and that full satisfaction of the same for costs may be
entered." This, with other documentary and parol evidence,
fully established the truth of the plea, and the plea being
thus sustained the court thereupon dismissed the bill. It
could not have done otherwise under the well-settled rules
of chancery pleading and practice.
- In chancery proceedings a plea in bar may be set down for
hearing by the complainant upon its sufficiency, or it may
be replied to and put in issue. If the latter course is pursued,
and the plea is sustained, then, according to the English
chancery practice, which formerly prevailed in this court, the
bill must be dismissed, without reference to the equity arising
from any other facts stated in the bill. Hughes v. Blae, 6
Wheat. 453, 472; Rhode Island v. fassachusette, 14 Pet.
210, 257. This practice has now been modified by Equity
Rule 33 of this court, which is as follows: "The plaintiff
may set down the demurrer or plea to be argued, or he may,
take issue on the plea. If, upon an issue, the facts stated
in the *pleahe determined for the defenDdant, they shall avail
him as far as in law and equity they ought to avail him."
See Farleyv. Iittson,120 U. S. 303, 314, 315; Pearce v. Rice,
142 U. S. 28, 41, 42. But even under this -rule, when the
plea meets and satisfies all the claims of the bill, it ought,
in law and equity, to avail the defendant so far as to require
a final decree in his favor.
In the taking of proof upon the issue raised by the replication to the plea, the appellant attempted to show that in,
addition to the $3000 paid by the appellees in settlement and
compromise of all claims and demands against them, or either
of them, upon the part of the appellant as already stated, it
-was understood and agreed that Albert R. Schulenberg, her
son-in-law, was. to pay her $50 a month and turn. over to her
voL. OL-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

$25,000 of the stock of the Detroit, Belle Isle and Windsor
Ferry Company, whenever he should acquire the same from
his fathe", Frederick Schulenberg; and that this part of the
agreement had not been performed. This contention is not
established by the testimony in the case, but suppose it was ?
It could not affect the result or show that there was error in
the dismissal of the bill which followed from sustaining the
plea, for no such question was ever raised or presented by the
pleadings.
Again, it is urged by counsel for the appellant that her
receipt of March 1'(, 1886, exe6uted upon the making of the
compromise, is open to explanation by parol proof for the purpose of showing what the real consideration was under the
rule recognized ana applied in Fire lns. Co. v. Wickham, 141
U. S. 564. While this may be true in respect to receipts
generally, the fact is overlooked that the issue made by the
replication was simply the existence of the receipt as set forth
in the plea. The complainant, neither in her bill nor in her
replication to the plea, raised any question as to the correctness of the receipt executed by her. Her replication, as
already stated, simply put in issue the truth of the plea,
and that being established, the dismissal of the bill necessarily
followed under the authorities referred to. Her claim of a
mistake in tile receipt was wholly foreign to the issue which
she, by her pleadings, had presented for the determination of
the court. No such question as she now raises was properly
presented in the court below, or is available here.
It is further urged on her behalf that mutual consent of the
parties was necessary to the compromise contract, and that
there was no such mutuality, inasmuch as she supposed that
she was to receive $50 a month from Albert R. Schulenberg.
But this is equally unavailable, if such a mistake were shown
to exist, for the simple reason that it was not put in issue in
any shape by the ple .dings. While an accord and satisfaction
may be set aside, if it is shown that the parties to the transaction were mutually mistaken in regard to the material facts,
such mistake must be set up by proper pleading. It is not
available where it is neither averred in the bill, nor referred

GILES v. BEYSINGER.
Statement of the Case.

to in a plea in bar anI a general replication thereto, which
merely puts in issue the truth of the plea.
There is no error in the judgment of the court below, and
.Af'med.
the same is, accordingly,

GILES v. HJEYSINGER.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U

rTD STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 152. Argued December 7, 1893. -Decided December 18, 1893.
When, in a suit in equity for the infringement of letters patent, the court
below makes an interlocutory decree in plaintifs favor, and then entertains a motion for a rehearing and receives affidavits in support of it,
and deniesthe motion, this court does not feel itself at liberty to con-'
sider those affidavits.
The first claim in letters patent No. 215,300, issded August 5, 1879, to
William Mfills and Christian H. Hershey, for an improvement in hair.
crimpers, viz.: "A hair-crimper consisting of a non-elastic metal core C,
and braided covering A, said covering A being cemented to -said core C
throughout its entire length, substantially as described," is void for want
of novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity brought by Heysinger and one
Christian H. Hershey, now represented by the administrator
of his estate, against the appellants, trading under the name of
:Noyes, Smith & Co., to recover damages for the infringement
of letters patent No. 218,300, issued August 5, 1879, to William
M ills and Christian H. Hershey, for an improvement in haircrimpers.
In their specification the patentees state that "this haircrimper is intended to be applied to the hair in the manner of
the crimping-papers formerly in common use, the ends being
turned inder out of sight, and the hair retained by the folds
thus made."
"It consists,.essentially, of a strip of soft, non-elastic metal,
preferably fiat, covered, with a fibrous coating, cemented
thereto, so that when out into proper lengths for use the ends

