342 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

balance shown in favor of either side will bear interest from
that date.
The decree is reversed, and the cause is remanded to the
court below, to be proceeded with in conf6rrmity with this
opinion.

GIBSON v. PETERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 61. Argued November 2,1893.-Decided November 13,1893.

The receiver of a national bank is an officer and agent of the United States
within the meaning of those terms as used in Rev. Stat. § 380, providifg
that all-suits and proceedings arisingoutof the provisions of law governing national bankiug associations, in which the United States or any of
its officers or agents are parties, shall be conducted by the District Attorneys of the several'districts, under the direction and supervision of the
Solicitor of the Treasury.
If a District Attorney of the United States, acting under the provisions in
Rev. Stat. § 380, conducts a suit or proceeding arising out of the provisions of law, governing national banking associations, he is entitled to
no remuneration other than that coming from his salary, from the compensation and fees authorized to be taxed and allowed, and such additional compensation as is expressly allowed by law, specifically, on
account of services named.

THE plaintiff in error brought this action against the defendant in error as receiver of the Exchange National Bank of
Norfolk, to recover the value of legal services alleged to have
been rendered, or offered to be rendered, by him as United
States District Attorney in a certain suit brought in the name
of that receiver against one R. H. McDonald, which suit was
gibsequently, in August, 1885, dismissed on motion of the
receiver as settled.
Pursuant to a written stipulation of the parties, the case
was'heard by the"court without a jury. Judgment was rendered-for the defendant in conformity with the opinion of the
Circuit Judg&. 35 Fed. Rep. 721, 729; 36 Fed. Rep.' 487.
The case is before this court upon a certificate of division of
opinio i.

GIBSON v. PETERS.
Statement of the Case.,

There was evidence, on behalf of the plaintiff, as to the
extent and value of the services rendered, or offered- to berendered, by him as United States District Attorney. The
defendant introduced evidence tending to show that the plaintiff had neither rendered, nor been requested by the receiver
to.render, any services in the action against McDonald; that
by direction of the Comptroller of the Currency the- receiver
employed other counsel; that the plaintiff's present claim had
never been presented to the Treasury Department, nor been
allowed by the Comptroller of the Currency ; and that he bad
not been directed by the Solicitor of the Treasury to render
the alleged services.
The following are the questions upon which the judges were
divided in opinion:
1st. Whether the United States District Attorney is entitled by virtue of his office to appear and act as counsel for
the receiver of a national bank in collecti-ng its assets and
winding up its affairs without the request or consent of said
receiver, and without the direction of the Solicitor of the
Treasury?
2d. Whether, conceding his right so to appear, and he does
so appear of his own motion, he is entitled to any extra conpensation beyond that prescribed by law for his official services ?
3d. Whether, conceding his right so to appear, and act, he'
is entitled to any extra compensation beyond that provided
by law for his official services, except such as the Comptroller
of the Currency may allow after his claim therefor has been
presented to the Treasury Department, according to the pro-.
visions of section 299 of the Revised Statutes?
4th. Whether the United States District Attorney, whose
official service had been tendered to such- receiver and declined
by him for the reason that he had employed other counsel
acting under the directions of the Comptroller of the Currency
and Solicitor of the Treasury, is entitled to extra compensation
for such offer of services, whether the service was rendered by.
the District Attorney or not?
5th. Whether, conceding his right so to receive extra con-

OCTOBER TERI M, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

pensation when he has offered to appear and act as official
counsel without the request or consent of the receiver, is such
compensation payable out of the assets of the bank in the
hands of the receiver or out of the funds provided by law for
the payment of District Attorneys for their official services?
.Wr. Robert Z. HYughes for plaintiff in error.
.A&. L. T. tichener and fr. T. S. Ga'nett,(with whom was
-Mr. IV. If. Dudley on the brief,) for defendant in error.
Mn.

JusTICE

iHRLAx,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is provided by section 380 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, that all suits and proceedings arising out of the
provisions of law governing national banking associations, in
which the United States or any of its officers or agents are
parties, shall be conducted by the District Attorneys of the
several districts under the. direction and supervision of the
Solicitor of the Treasury.
The suit brought against McDonald was one arising out of
the provisions of the act of Oongress governing such associations, and the receiver in who~e name it was instituted was an
officer and. agent of the United States within the meaning of
the above-section. Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 504; P'ice v.
Abbott, 17'Fed. Rep. 506; Frelinghuysen v. Baldwia, 12 Fed.
Rep. 395; Ilendee v. Connectict &c. Railroad,26 Fed. Rep.
677 ; Pacific Ban k v. Xfixtei., 11-1 U. S. 463.
: But the important inquiry is whether a District Attorney is
entitled to special compensation for services rendered by him
in a suit of the class mentioned in section 380.
The appellant's contention is that he is entitled to reasonable compensation, to be paid from the funds in the hands of
the receiver5 under that clause of the statute relating to the
dissolution and receivership of national banking associations,
which provides that all expenses of any receivership shall be
paid out of the assets of such association before distribution of
the proceeds thereof. Rev. Stat. § 5238.

GIBSON v. PETERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 770 of the Revised Statutes fixes the sum which a
District Attorney is entitled to receive on account of salary.
Sections 823 to 827, inclusive, prescribe certain fees that
may be taxed and allowed to attorneys, solicitors, and proctors
in the courts of the United States, to.District Attorneys and
to other officers. Those sections are as follows:
"SEC. 823. The following and no other compensation shall

be taxed and allowed to attorneys, solicitors, and proctors in
the courts of the United States, to district attorneys, clerks
of the circuit and district courts, marshals, commissioners,
witnesses, jurors, and printers in the several States and Territories, except in cases otherwise expressly provided by law.
But nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit attorneys,
solicitors, and proctors from charging to and receiving from
their clients, other than the government, such reasonable compensation for their services, in addition to the taxable costs, as
may be in accordance with general usage in their respective
States, or may be agreed upon between the parties.
"SEC. 82-4. On a trial before a jury, in civil or criminal

causes, or before' referees, or on a final bearing in equity or
admiralty, a docket fee of twenty dollars: J),'ovided, That in
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, where the libellant recovers less than fifty dollars, the docket fee of his proctor shall be but ten dollars. In cases at law, iNhen judgment
is rendered without a jury, ten dollars. In cases at law, when
the cause is discontinued, five dollars. For scire facias, and
other proceedings on recognizances, five dollars. For each
deposition taken and admitted in evidence in a cause, two dollars and fifty cents. For services rendered in cases removed
from a District to a Circuit Court by writ of error or appeal,
five dollars.
"For examination by a District Attorney, before a judge or
commissioner, of persons charged with crime, five dollars a
day for the time necessarily employed. For each day of his
necessary attendance in a court of the United States on the
business of the United States, when the court is held at the
place of his abode, five dollars; and for his attendance when
the court is held. elsewhere, five dollars for each day of the

OOTOE3ER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

term. For travelling from the place of his abode to the place
of holding any court of the United States in his district, or to
the place of any examination before a judge or commissioner,
of a person charged with crime, tenacents a mile for going and
-ten cents a mile for returning. When an indictment for crime
is tried Iefore a jury and a convictiori is had, the District
Attorney unay be allowed, in addition to the attorney's fees
herein provided, a counsel fee, in proportion to the importance
and difficulty of the cause, not exceeding thirty dollars.
* "SEc. 825. There shall be taxed and paid to every District
Attorney two per centum upon all moneys collected or realized in any suit or proceeding arising under the revenue laws,
and conducted by,him, in which the United States is a party,
which shall be in lieu of all costs and fees in such proceeding.
"SEC. 826: No fee shall accrue to any District Attorney
on. any bond left with him for collection, or in a suit commineced on any bond for the renewal of which prqvision is
made by law, unless the party neglects to apply for such renewal for more than twenty days after the maturity of the
bond.
,,c SE. 827. When a District Attorney appears by -direction
of the Secretary or Solicitor of the Treasury, on behalf of any
officer of the revenue in any suit against such officer, for any
act done by him, qr for the recovery of any money received
by him and paid into the Treasury in the performance of his
official duty, he 'shall receive such compensation as may be
certified to be proper by the couirt in which the suit is brought,
and-approved by thi Secretary of the Treasury."
'Another section authorizes just and suitable coinpensation
to be ma le to District Attorneys in prize causes. Rev. Stat..
4616.
The above provisions must, however, be construed in connection with sections 1764 and 1765, which are as follows:
"SEC. 1764. No allowance or -compensation shall be made
to any officer or clerk, by reason of the discharge of duties
which belong to any other officer or clerk in the same or any
other department; and no allowance or compensation shall be
made for any extra services whatever, which any officer or

GIBSON v. PETERS.
Opinion of the Court.

clerk may be required to perform, unless expressly authorized
by law.
"Sc. 1765. No officer in any branch of the public service,
or any other person whose salary, pay, or emoluments are
fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay,
extra allowance, or compensation, in any form whatever, for
the disbursement of public money,' or for any other service or
duty whatever, unless the same is authorized by law, and the
appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such
additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation."
It ought not to be difficult under any Teasonable construction of these statutory provisions to ascertain the intention of
Congress. A distinct provision is made for the salary of a
District Attorney, and he cannot receive,, on that account,
any more than the statute prescribes. But the statute is
equally explicit in declaring, in -respect to compensation that
may be "taxed and allowed," that he shall receive no other
than that specified ih §§ 823 to 827 inclusive, "except in cases
otherwise expressly provided by law." It, also, declares thatU
no officer in any branch of the public service shall receive any
additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation, in any form
whatever, for any service or duty, unless the same is expressly
authorized by law, or unless the appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation. No room is left here for construction.
It is not expressly provided by law that a District Attorney
shall receive compensation for services performed by him in
conducting suits arising out of the provisions of the national
banking law in which the United States or any of its officers
or agents are parties. Without suoh express provision, compensation for services of that character cannot be taxed, allowed, or paid. Nor can the expenses of the receivership be
held to include compensation to the District Attorney for conducting a suit in which the recei"er is a party, for the obvious
reason that the statute does not expressly provide compensation for such services. Congress evidently intended to require
the performance by a District Attorney of all the duties imposed upon him by law, without any other remuneration than.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that coming from his salary, from the compensation or fees
authorized to be taxed and allowed, and from such other compensation as is expressly allowed by law specifically on account
of services named.
Nothing in the last clause of § 82-3 militates against this
view. On the contrary,the proper interpretation of that clause
supports the conclusion we have reached. Its principal object
was to make it clear that Congress did not intend to prohibit
attorneys, solicitors, and proctors, representing individuals in
the courts of the United States, from charging and receiving,
in addition to taxable fees and allowances, such compensation
as was reasonable under local usage, or such as was agreed
,upon between them and their clients. But to prevent the
application of that rule to the United States, the words "other
than the government" were inserted. The introduction of
those words, in that clause, emphasizes the purpose not to
subject the United States to any system for compensating
-District Attorneys except that expressly established by Congress, and, therefore, to withhold from them any compensation for extra or special services, rendered in their official
capacity, which is not expressly authorized by statute. Whatever legal services were rendered or offered to be rendered by
the plaintiff in the McDonald suit were rendered or offered to
be rendered by him as United States District Attorney, and
in that capacity alone. As such officer he is not entitled to
demand compensation for the services so rendered or offered
to be rendered
What we have said is a sufficieut answer to the questions
certified, and requires an affirmance of the judgment.
Affir'med.

