GILES v. BEYSINGER.
Statement of the Case.

to in a plea in bar anI a general replication thereto, which
merely puts in issue the truth of the plea.
There is no error in the judgment of the court below, and
.Af'med.
the same is, accordingly,

GILES v. HJEYSINGER.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U

rTD STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 152. Argued December 7, 1893. -Decided December 18, 1893.
When, in a suit in equity for the infringement of letters patent, the court
below makes an interlocutory decree in plaintifs favor, and then entertains a motion for a rehearing and receives affidavits in support of it,
and deniesthe motion, this court does not feel itself at liberty to con-'
sider those affidavits.
The first claim in letters patent No. 215,300, issded August 5, 1879, to
William Mfills and Christian H. Hershey, for an improvement in hair.
crimpers, viz.: "A hair-crimper consisting of a non-elastic metal core C,
and braided covering A, said covering A being cemented to -said core C
throughout its entire length, substantially as described," is void for want
of novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity brought by Heysinger and one
Christian H. Hershey, now represented by the administrator
of his estate, against the appellants, trading under the name of
:Noyes, Smith & Co., to recover damages for the infringement
of letters patent No. 218,300, issued August 5, 1879, to William
M ills and Christian H. Hershey, for an improvement in haircrimpers.
In their specification the patentees state that "this haircrimper is intended to be applied to the hair in the manner of
the crimping-papers formerly in common use, the ends being
turned inder out of sight, and the hair retained by the folds
thus made."
"It consists,.essentially, of a strip of soft, non-elastic metal,
preferably fiat, covered, with a fibrous coating, cemented
thereto, so that when out into proper lengths for use the ends

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

will not fray out, but remain the same into whatever number
of pieces the crimper may be divided, thus rendering it specially
adapted for use 'with children, where crimpers of different
lengths are often required, while at the same time greatly
simplifying and cheapening the cost of manufacture."
The crimper consists of a Pore of what is known as
Cgardeners' lead," which is passed in long strips through a
liquid cement known as dextrine, and is then wound about by
a braid of fibrous covering, and the adhesive material, taken
up in the passage through it of the leaden core, is thus interposed between the fibrous covering and the soft metal core,
making an adhesion between them, while leaving the outer
surface of the braid soft and unsaturated. "Were the fibrous
surface thoroughly saturated with adhesive matter, the crimper
would.be comparatively useless, as the least moisture in the
hair would cause its adhesion thereto." -The article is manufactured in long strips which are laid away and dried, after
which they are run through a cutting machine, which cuts thestrip into pieces of equal length, laying them out in dozens,
which are then bundled and boxed for the market.
The first claim of the patent-the only one charged to
have been infringed - reads as follows: "A hair-crimper consisting of a non-elastic metal core 0 and braided covering A,
said covering A being cemented to said core C throughout its
,entire length, substantially as described."
Upon the hearing in the court below, a final decree was
entered for $360.85 with costs, from which decree defendants
appealed to this court.
.Mv'. John J Jennings for appellants.
-Mr. Augustys B. Stoughton for apppllees.
MR. JusTicn- BRowN, after stating "the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case was defended upon the ground that- one Gilbert
H. Blakesley, the real defendant in the case, long before this

GILES v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

patent was issued, manufactured hair-crimpers in. substantially
the manner specified in the patent. The substance of the
testimony in this connection is that in the latter part of 1875,
one Julius Wright, whose principal business was the manufacture of garters at Bristol, Connecticut, began the manufacture
of hair-crimpers by rolling a sheet of copper to the proper
thickness, putting it upon a reel, and braiding it with silk.
"Then," says he, "I had this taken off a reel and stretched
out on a bench, and at certain lengths that I wanted to cut
the crimps I used the dextrine with a brush for the same purpose that we did for cutting up the garter, that is, to assist in
cutting up. Then those that I made, I made a little brass tip,
as I called it, which I put on to- give the crimper a finish, or
ornament, whichever might be proper." He states the object
of applying the cement to have been "to adhere the silk to
the metal, and stiffen it, so as to cut it." lie was engaged in
this way for one or two months, and made up about thirty
gross of crimpers. The dextrine was laid on at intervals of
about two and a half inches, and the advantage of using it
seems to have been to facilitate the cutting of the crimpers at
these points, and providing them with a silver-plated clip at
each end. It was not claimed that Wright cemented the
braided covering to the core "throughout its entire length,"
as specified in the first claim of the patent.
lie further testified that Blakesley took up the business in
the spring of 1876, by passing the strips of metal up through
a dish of dextrine, after which it was braided with silk. He
says the metal was not covered when it entered the dish, but
it looked wet and discolored as it emerged,' and that the effect
of passing the strip through the cement or dextrine, and .then
applying the silk covering, would be to secure the covering to
the metal.
Blakesley stated the process as follows: "I
directed a plain strip of brass through a dish of dextrine pro,
vided with a roller journalled in a dish, thereby to immerse the
strip, passing it to the braider, while wet with cement; to
which the silk cover adhered throughout ihe length of the
strip. I then cut them up at any point I desired." lie judges
that he made some fifty gross or more in this way, and then

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

changed - his plan by making them with a double covering.
"I first covered the plain strip of metal with cotton, the strip
being dry. I then conducted the cotton-braided strip through
the silk braider, applying a cover of silk. The cotton-covered
strip was conducted throuigh a dish of dextrne under a roller
journalled in the dish, thence to a pair of stripping rolls situated
between the dish and -the braider. This dextrine saturating
the cotton thoroughly throughout its length, the stripping
rolls depriving it .of the surplus cement, leaving it wet and
thoroughly saturated, and wet enough to receive the silk
covering, and cement it, so that all three - core'-cotton cover,
and silk cover- wee cemented together. They were cut up
and packed as before."
The couft below held, with regard to- the double-cover
process used by Blakesley, that the braided covering was
inmmersed in the dextrine, "not in order to cement Itto the
core, but to enable-the material to be cut without. fraying out.
The adhesion of the strands together,- and not their adhesion
,to the core, was the object he had in view." The court,
however, regarded the theory that Blakesley made crimpers
also by immersing a strip of metal in dextrine and then
covering it, as refuted by the omission of both Blakesley and
Wright to mention the fact in their affidavits used to oppose
a motion for a preliminary 'injunction, as those affidavits
purported to give, a full history of the manufacture of
criiupers ,by Blakesley, "and the omission to state what was
so impDrtant, iftrue, is significant."
Acting upon this theory, the court directed -an interlocutory decree for the plaifitiffs. ' Defendants thereupon moved
immediately for an order to reopen the case for the admission of additional testimony bearing upon the question of
anticipation, and for a rehearing; and presented seven affidavits in support of. Blakesley's testimony, concelming the
manufacture of crimpers by passing a baxe strip.of metal
through the dextrine before the silk braid was applied ; and
-also the affidavif of his counsel, explaining the omission of the
mention of this particular'in the affidavits of Wright and.
Blakesley,, read in opposition to the -motion for a preliminary
-

GILES v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction. The court denied a rehearing, and the case was
referred to a master, who proceeded to take testimony in
respect to the damages, and submitted a report, upon which
a final decree was entered. Under these circumstances, we
have not felt at liberty to consider the affidavits for a
rehearing.
But assuming that the court was correct in its conclusion
that the testimony of Wright and Blakesley, with respect to
the process of immersing the bare strip of metal in the dextrine, and then covering it, should be disregarded, by reason
of their omission to mention the fact in their affidavits to oppose the injunction, the question still remains whether the process about which they did testify, and which it is admitted
Blakesley did adopt, was not a substantial anticipation of the
Mills and Hershey patent. This, which is known as the
double-cover process, consisted in covering the plain strip of
metal with cotton, and conducting the strip so covered through
a dish of dextrine under a roller, journalled in the dish, and
thus saturating the cotton thoroughly throughout its length;
thence to a pair of stripping rolls, which deprived it of the
surplus cement, when the cover was braided on, so that, as he
states, "all three- core, cotton, cover and silk cover-were
cemented together." Blakesley states that the cotton strands
did not make as compact a braid as silk, but left the meshes
somewhat open, so as to allow the cement to circulate more
freely through the covering. If, as he states to have been the
case, the saturation of the cotton was so thorough that all
three - core, cotton cover, and silk cover- were cemented
together, it is difficult to see why this process did not cover
everything that is claimed for the Mills and Hershey patent.
The advantage of cementing the braid to the core throughout
its entire length is stated in their patent to be "so that%when
cut' into proper lengths for use the ends will not fray out, but
remain the same into whatever number of pieces the crimper
may be divided," while the outer surface of the braid is left
soft and unsaturated.
This was precisely the object sought to be accomplished,
though for a temporary purpose, by Wright, in his first experi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion- of the Court.

ments, by applying dextrine to the braided covering at intervals of two or three inches, and by Blakesley in the several
processes used by him, including the one which is charged to
be an infringement, and which consists in enclosing the metal
core in long strips of paper passed through a bath of dextrine,
before the braided covering is applied. But whether Blakesley
applied the dextrine to the bare metal in the manner described
in the Mills and Hershey patent, or to the metal after it was
covered with the cotton braid, makes apparently little practical difference with respect to fraying out, and was a matter
which rested in the judgment of the manufacturer. If either
plan were known, the adoption of the other would involve no
invention, the dextrine in both cases being used for the same
object,. namely, to prevent the silk braid from fraying at the
point where it is cut. It was a matter of simple mechanical
skill to determine whether that object were better accomplished
by running the bare metal or the covered metal through the
dextrine before the outer braid of silk was applied. If the
meshes of the cotton were loose or open, the adhesion of the
core would be amply sufficient to prevent the fraying out,
which it was the object of the patent to accomplish. The
bath of dextrine was the essential feature of both devices, and,
even if the double cover were less efficient than the other, it
required no exercise of the inventive faculty to omit the cotton
cover and immerse the bare metal.
It is evident that if Mills and Hershey had been the first to
use the process described in this patent of immersing the bare
metal in a bath of dextrine and then covering it with a fibrous
coating, the double-cover process of Blakesley would have been
an infringement. The intervention of a loose cotton covering
between the outer braid and the bare metal would have been
treated simply as an evasion.
In an examination made of the plaintiffs' and defendants'
exhibits put in evidence in this case it appears in fact there is
very little adhesion between the covering and the core in the
plaintiffs' device, and none at all in the defendants', though it
is possible this may be due to their age. Such adhesion as
there is in plaintiffs' crimpers seems to be due rather to the

HAMMOND v. CO NECTIOUT LIFE IXS. CO.

638

Statement of the Case.

pressure of the braid upon the core than to the use of an adhesive material.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill.

HAMMOND v. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
HAMMOND v. GORDON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Xos. 937, 938. Submitted December 11, 1893.-

Decided December 18, 1893.

The court follows Ifammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73, on a substantially
similar state of facts, and holds that the ruling of the state court was
broad enough to maintain the judgment, without considering the Federal
question.
MOTiON to dismiss. By stipulation of counsel in No. 938,
both cases were heard on the printed record in No. 937, it being

"agreed

that for all purposes of trial

.

.

.

the records

in both cases are identical."
The Supreme Court of Missouri in its opinion in that case
said: "The facts of the case, so far as they are material to the
questions raised in this court, are these:
"1Joseph Ilunot claimed a head-right, under a concession
dated in 1802, for 800 arpens of land in what is now New
Madrid County. In 1810 he conveyed the land to Joseph
Yandenbenden. The claim was presented to the first board of
commissioners for confirmation, but the board rejected and
disallowed it on the 31st January, 1811. It was presented
again to Frederick Bates, recorder of land titles, and by him
approved and recommended for confirmation on the 1st November, 1815. The claim Was then confirmed by the act
of Congress of April 29, 1816. Prior to the confirmation

