HOLDER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

HOLDER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 826.

Submitted October 20, 1893.-Decided October 30, 1893.

The question of excluding a witness, pending the testimony of other witnesses in a trial for murder, is within the discretion of the trial court;
but if a witness disobeys the order of withdrawal, he is not thereby disqualified, but may be proceeded against for contempt,, and his testimony is open to comment to the jury by reason of his conduct.
A general exception to a charge, which does not direct the attention of. the
court to the particular portions of it to which objection is made, raises
no question for review.
The denial of a motion for a new trial cannot be assigned for error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
No appearance for plaintiff in error.
21&. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
M i. OuIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered' the opinion of the
court.

Holder was convicted of the murder of one Bickford, in the*
Choctaw Nation, on December 24, 1891. Upon the trial three
exceptions were saved, namely: to the overruling of objections to the testimony of a witness who had been present during the examination of the other witnesses in disobedience of
an order of court on that subject; to the entire charge of the
court; and to the denial of a motion for a new trial.
1. It seems that the court directed the witnesses, except the
one under examination, to be excluded from the court-room,
and that John Bickford, an uncle of the deceased, remained
notwithstanding, but that no objection on that ground was
made to Bickford'testifying until after he had done so, other'
evidence had intervened, and he was recalled to testify in rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion to the turning over to him by the United States marshal
of some personal property of the deceased.
It was then objected that he had heard the testimony of the
other witnesses in disregard of the direction of the court in
that behalf, and the objection was ovierruled.
Upon the motion or suggestion -of either party, such a direction as that in question is usually given. If a-witess disobeys
the order of withdrawal, while he may be proceeded against
for contempt and his testimony is open to .comment to the
jury by reason of his conduct, he is not thereby disqualified,
and the weight of authority is that he cannot be excluded on
that'ground merely, although the right to exclude under particular circumstances may be supported as within the sound
discretion of the trial court. 1 Greenl. Ev. (15th ed.) ยง 432,
and cases cited; Chandler v. Born, 2 Moody & IRob. 42a;
Rx v. Colley, Moody & Malkin, 329; Bulliner v. People, 95
Illinois, 394; State v. Ward, 61 Vermont, 153, 179; Laughdin
v. State, 18 Ohio, 99; Wilson v. State,; 52 Alabama, 299 ; Lassiter v. State, 67 Georgia, 739; Smith v. State, 4 Lea, (Tenn.,)
428; Hubbard v. -tubbard,7 Oregon, 42. Clearly, the action
of the court in admitting the testimony will not ordinarily
be open to revision. Tested by these principles, the exception
under consideration cannot be sustained.
2. There is no pretence that the charge of the court, occupying twenty-four pages of the printed record, was erroneous
in every part, and no exception to any particular part is shown.
The rule is that a general exception to a charge, which does
not direct the attention of the court to the particular portions
of it to which objection is made, raises no question for review.
Burton v. West Jersey Ferry Co., 114 U. S. 474; Clateaugay
Ore & Iron Co. v. Blake, 144 U. S. 476, 488; Lewis v.
United States, 146 U. S. 370.
3. It has also been settled by a long line of dhcisions of
this court that the denial of a motion for new trial cannot
be assigned for error. .As observed by Mr. Justice Lamar, in
an,Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 128, 134,
no authorities need be cited in support of the proposition.
Judgment afl'med.

