OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ant's request to submit the case to the jury, and in directing
a verdict for the plaintiffs. For this error
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded, with
directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
AI. JUSTICE

BREWER

dissented.

1Mr. JUSTICE BRoW-N was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

HALL *v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 822. Stubmitted October ), 1893. -Decided October 30, 1S93.

Upon a trial for murder in Arkansas, on cross examination of witnesses to
the .defendant's character, and by his own testimony to meet evidence
that he had since fled to Mississippi, it appeared that ]ic had killed a negro
in Mississippi two years before, and had since been tried and acquitted
there. The district attorney, in his closing argtment to the jury, said:
"We know, from reading the newspapers and magazines, that trials in
the State of Mississippi of a white man for killing a negro are farces.
Tle defendant came from Mississippi with his hands stained with the
blood of a negro." And he added other like expressions and dcclarations
that the killing of a negro in Mississippi, for which the defendant had
been tried and acquitted there, was murder. To all these declarations,
expressions, and arguments of the district attorney, the defendant at the
time objected, and, his objections being overruled by the court, alleged
exceptions. field, that lie was entitled to a new trial.

THIs was an indictment, found at August term, 1891, of the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Arkansas, against
Robert M1. Hall, for the murder of James Yates, by shooting
him vith a gun, at Choctaw Nation in the Indian country in
that district, on August 4, 1S91.
At the trial, at August term, 1892, before the District Judge,

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

it was proved, and not denied, that the defendant, being then
twenty-two years of age, shot and killed Yates at the time
and place alleged, and that both were white men. The United
States introduced evidence tending to show that the killing
was murder; and that the defendant had come from Mississippi, and had been in the Indian country for about four
months before the killing. The defendant introduced testi-"
mony tending to explain the circumstances of the killing, and
to show that it was not murder.
The United States, against the defendant's objection and
exception, were permitted by the court, for the purpose of
showing that the defendant fled from the Indian country after
killing Yates, to put in evidence a warrant issued by a United
States judge in Mississippi, dated March 2, 1892, reciting the
commitment of the defendant by a United States commissioner
"upon the charge of murder on an indictment from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas," aild ordering him to be taken and delivered to the United
States marshal for this district.
Witnesses called by the defendant testified that his character
.as a peaceful and law-abiding man was good. On cross exam*ination of these witnesses, the district attorney, against the
defendant's objection and exception, was permitted by the
court, for the purpose of testing their knowledge of his reputation, to ask them whether they had heard that he had killed
a negro in Mississippi before he came to the Indian country.
The only witness, who admitted that he had heard -of the
killing of the negro by the defendant, testified on refxamination that he had also heard that he had been acquitted of it.
The defendant, having offered himself as a witness in his own
behalf, testified that he went back to Mississippi to stand.his
trial there in a court of the State in February, 1892, upon a
charge of murdering a negro whom he had killed there in
August, 1889, and was thereupon arrested, tried and acquitted
upon that charge; and that, immediately after killing .the
negro, he had left Mississippi by the advice of his father, with
whom he then lived. This testimony was not objected to by
the district attorney, nor changed on cross examination.

OCTOBER TERMV, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

One exception taken by the defendant was stated in the bill
of exceptions allowed by the court as follows:
"The district attorney, in his closing argument to the jury,
made use of the following language: ' We know what kind of
trials they have in the State of Mississippi of a white man for
killintDa negro. We know from reading the newspapers and
magazines that such trials there are farces. We are not living in Egyptian .darkness, but in the light of the nineteenth
century. The defendant came from Mississippi with his hands
stained with the blood of a negro, and went to the Indian
country, and in less than four montls had slain another man.'
And other like expressions and declarations that the killing of
a negro in Mississippi, for which the defendant had been tried
and acquitted there, was murder. To all of which declar'ations, expressions, and arguments of the district attorney the
defendant at the time objected; but his objections were by the
court overruled, and the defendant at the time excepted."
The defendant was convicted of the murder of Yates, as
charged in the indictment; and sued out this writ of error,
under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517 .ยง 5. 26 Stat. 827.
.Mr. A. IT.Garlan'dfor plaintiff in error.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defenants in
error, to the point on which the case tUrns in this court, said ,
The court's reasons for allowing the district attorney to prodeed are stated in its opinion on the motion for a new trial.
The court .held that it could take judicial notice of the fact or
supposed fact that trials of white men in Mississippi for killing
negroes are farces, and that counsel could properly allude to
any historical fact or facts "generally recognized by everybody." The court states that defendant's counsel, in objecting to the rQmarks, admitted their historical character.
Upon an exception to a ruling on a motion to check argumbnt of counsel, the right of review is to be exercised but
cautiously, when there is an abuse of discretion, and when it is
probable that the jury have been misled. 1 Thompson on
Trials, ยง 964, and cases cited.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

It is now settled in this court, ( Wilson. v. United States, 149
U. S. 60, 67, 68,) in accordance with the general, though not
universal, rule elsewhere, that such an exception lies. But the
court has recognized that by opening the gate wide to such
appeals "a new element of uncertainty would be introduced
into the administration of justice in a criminal case." Ioqt v.
Utah, 120 U. S.430, 44:2.
In Texas it is settled that the exception will not be noticed
except when the court has subsequently refused to instruct the
jury to disregard the improper remarks. Young v. State, 19
Tex. App. .36; Comer v. State, 20 S. W. Rep. 547. See also
Thomp)son v. Barkley, 27 Penn. St. 263 ; State v. llahdlt6n,
55 Missouri, 520; State v. Brooks, 92 Missouri, 542;, Combs v.
The State, 75 Indiana, 215; Shular v. The State, 105 Indiana,
289; Cross v. Tihe State, 68 Alabama, 476; Sore)jps v. Reilly,
35 Michigan, 371; Pierson v. Thie State, 18 Tex. App. 524.
The district attorney, in commenting op the method of trial
in the State of Mississippi, did not profess to inform the jury
as to any fact, but to remind them of what he considered a
matter of current notoriety through newspapers and magazines.
The remarks were of a kind familiar to every summing up in
a criminal case. The jury can hardly have estimated them at
more than their true value. The case is somewhat similar to
that of 17e State v. Stark, 72 Missouri, 37, where counsel stated
that "defendant had gone to the -Indian Territory, where all
rascals go." The court on appeal said: "Defendant in his
own testimony states that he went there. The additional
words ' where all rascals go,' whether true or false, could certainly have had no effect upon the jury."
The exception, however, is not specifically directed against
the remark of the district attorney concerning the method of
trials in Mississippi. -.It is a general exception directed to four
sentences, and if any of these sentences contain correct propositions, the exception is valueless according to authorities
already cited. The last proposition that "defendant came
from Mississippi with hands stained with the blood of a negro,"
etc., was true and, proper enough for .the district attorney to
include in his summing up, whether defendant, when he killed

OOTO,3ER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the negro, was guilty of murder or manslaughter, or was jus.
tifled by the right of self-defence. The fact that he had been
engaged in such broils is one which the jury cannot possibly
have overlooked in considering his true character as developed
on this trial.
MR. JusTic GRAY, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
f

The defendant was on trial for killing Yates in Arkansas
in 1891, and not for killing a negro in "ississippi two years
before. Evidence as to his killing the negro and his arrest
and trial therefor in Mississippi was introduced for two
purposes only: first, by the district attorney, to test the
knowledge of the witnesses to the defendant's character; and
afterwards by the defendant himself, to show that his return
to Mississippi after the killing of Yates had another object
than to flee from justice.
If the defendant had murdered the negro in Mississippi,
and had been theFe convicted therefor, evidence, either of the,
murder, or of the conviction, would have been incompetent to
support the indictmeht against him for the murder of Yates in
'Arkansas. Boyd v. United States, 142 U. S. 450, 458. But
it was testified by the defendant, and assumed by the district
attorney, that the defendant had been acquitted of the charge
of murdering the negro; and it was not objected that the
record of the acquittal should have been produced.
The district attorney, in his closing argument to the jury,
insisted that, from reading the newspapers and magazines,
we know trials in the State of Mississippi of a white man for
killing a negro to be farces; that the defendant came to the
Indian country from Mississippi "with his hands stained with
the blood of a negro;" and that "the killing of a negro in
Mississippi, for which the defendant had been tried and acquitted there, was murder." The defendant instantly objected
to all these declarations, expressions, and arguments of the
district attorney; and excepted to the action of the court in
overruling his objections.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court,

The ground on which the presiding judge, in the opinion
delivered on overruling a motion for a new trial, (contained in
the record, and cited by the attorney for the United States
in this court,) justified his own action and that of the district
attorney in this regaid, was that "it is unquestionably a sound
rule that historical facts, of which courts take judicial notice,
may be alluded to in arument for the purpose of illustration,"
and that he considered it "a historical fact in this country"
that in Mississippi the trial and acquittal of a white man for
the killing of a negro is a farce.
Whether or not such is the condition of things in that State
is a matter of personal belief and opinion rather than of unquestioned historical fact. It is hard to see how the fact, if
admitted, that in a certain locality all persons indicted for
crimes or offences of a certain class are acquitted, has any
tendency to prove that every person, or any particular person,
there indicted for such a crime or offence, is guilty.
But the district attorney did not content himself with alluding to the supposed fact by way of illustration. He relied
upon it, and upon his inference therefrom that the defendant's
hands were stained with the blood of the negro, and other like
expressions and declarations of his own, to establish that "the
killing of a negro in M ississippi, for which the defendant had
been tried and acquitted there, was murder." This whole
branch of his argument was evidently calculated and intended
to persuade the jury- that the defehdant had murdered one
man in Mississippi, and should therefore be convicted of murdering another man in Arkansas.
The attempt of the prosecuting officer of the United States
to induce the jury to assume, without any evidence thereof,
the defendant's guilt of a crime of wtlich he had been judicially acquitted, as a ground for convicting him of a distinct and
independent crime for which he wai being tried, was a breach
of professional and official duty, which, upon the defendant's
protest, should have been rebuked by the court, and the jury
directed to allow it -no weight.
The presiding judge, by declining to interpose, notwithstanding the defendant's protest against this course of argument,
VOL. CL-6

OCTOBER TER-M, 1S93.
Statement of the Case.

gave the jury to understand that they might properly and
lawfully be influenced by it; and thereby committed a grave
error, manifestly tending to prejudice the defendant with the
jury, and which, therefore, was a proper subject of exception,
and, having been duly excepted to, entitles him to a new trial.
1Filson v. United States, 149 U. S. 60, 67, 68.
The instructions given to the jury upon other subjects may
not take the same shape upon another trial, and need not be
considered.
Judgment 'eversed, and case remanded,with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new trial.

BUSRNELL v. CROOKE MINING AND SMELTING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE .SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
Wo. 195 ef October Term, 1892, Submitted October 23, 1893.-

Decided October 30, 1893.

An application for a rehearing cannot be entertained when presented after
the expiration of the term at which the judgment was rendered.

THIS was an application for leave to file a petition for a
rehearing of a case decided dt October term, 1892. The
petition was supported by the following affidavit, entitled in
the cause.

"A. -R.Bushnell being duly sworn on oath, says that he is
attorney for himself and coplaintiffs in error in the above
entitled cause, and had exclusive charge of the conduct of
the same in said court; that the decision therein, dismissing
the writ for want of jurisdiction, was rendered April 17,
1893, and immediately on being informed thereof by letter
from thle clerk of said court, which he received as soon there
after as it could be sent by due course of mail, with a view to
filing a petition for a rehearing in said cause under the rules,
he made inquiry of attorneys more familiar than himself with
the usual time of the final adjournment of the annual terms

