OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

law, as set forth in section 62 of chapter 61 of the Code of 1873.
But Judge Hinton sufficiently disposes of this objection and
apparent .difficulty by pointing out that the proceedings here
were by virtue of a special act of assembly upon this very
subject, passed not only subsequently to the code, but enacted
to govern this particular case. The questions raised as to the
election are considered and disposed of there, and furnish reasons satisfactory as to this case."
The Fourteenth Amendment was not referred to by the
court, and although the conclusion of the opinion, that "on all
other questions we are of opinion to affirm the decree appealed
from," is broad enough to cover the objection that the statute
was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, we
presume that allusion to the subject was thought unnecessary
in view of the settled construction of the railroad charter to
the contrary of that upon which the supposed conflict depended.
As to that construction, we perceive no reason for declining
to accept it in accordance with the general rule applicable to
the decisions of the highest court of a State in reference to the
laws of the State. Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S.338, 348.
Writ of error di&misserl.

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE cIRcurr CQURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 971. subm~itted. November 16, 1893.-

Decided November 27, 1893.

H.was indicted jointly with R. for the murder of C. Before the day of
trial R. was killed, whereupon H. was tried separately. It was clearly
proved at the trial that H. did not kill C.nor take any part in the physical struggle which resulted in his death at the hands of R. There was
evidence tending to show that by his language and gestures H. abetted
R., but this evidence was given by persons who stood at some distance
from the scene of the crime. H. denied having used such language, or
any language with an intent to participate in the murder, and insisted
that what he had said had been said under the apprehension that R., who

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
was in a dangerous mood, was about to shoot him (H.).. The court instructed the jury that it was proved beyond controversy that R. fired the
gun, and continued: "If the defendant was actually or constructively
present at that time, and in any way aided or abetted by word or by
advising or encouraging the shooting of C. by R., we have a condition
which under the law puts him present at,the place of the crime; and if
the facts show that he either aided or abetted or advised or encouraged
R., he is made a participant in the crime as thoroughly and completely
as though he had with his own hand fired the shot which took the life of
the man killed The law further says that if he was actually present at
that place at the time of the firing by R. and he was there for the purpose of either aiding, abetting, advising, or encouraging the shooting
of C. by R., and that as a matter of fact he did not do it, but was present
at the place for the purpose of aiding or abetting or advising or encouraging his shooting, but he did n'ot do it- because it was not neces~ary, it
was done without his assistance, the law says there is a third condition
where guilt is fastened to his act in that regard." Held, that thlis in-.
struction was erroneous in two particulars:
(1) It omitted to instruct the jury that the acts or words of encouragement and abetting must have been used by the accused with the
intention of encouraging and abetting R.;
(2) Because the evidence, so far as the court is permitted to notice it,
as contained in the bills of exception, and set forth in the charle,
shows no facts from which the jury could have properly found
that the rencounter was the result of any previous conspiracy or
arrangement.
Under the provisions in the act of March 16, 1878, 20 Stat. 30, c. 37, H. at the
trial offered himself as a witness in his own behalf. In charging the
jury the court said: "The defendant has gone upon the stand in this
case and made his statement. You are to weigl its reasonableness, its
probability, its consistency, and: above all you consider it in the light
of the other evidence, in the sight of the other facts. If he is contradicted by other reliable facts, that goes against him, goes against his
evidence. You may explain it perhaps on the theory of an honest mistake or a case of forgetfulness, but if there is a -conflict as to material
facts between his statements and the statements of the other witnesses
who are telling the truth, then you would have a contradiction that would
weigh against the statements of the defendant as coming from such
witnesses." Held, that this was error, as it tended to defeat the wise
and humane provision of the law that "1the person charged shall, at his
own request, but not otherwise, be a competent witness."
The exception to the judge's charge does not embrace too large a portion
of it, and is not subject to the often sustained objection, of not being
sufficiently precise and pointed to call the attention of the judge to the
particular error complained of.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.r. A. H. Garladfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. A8sistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error,
Mir. JusTiCE Snn.As delivered the opinion of the court.

In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Arkansas, John Hicks, an Indian, was jointly
indicted with Stand Rowe, also an Indian, for the murder
of Andrew J. Colvard, a white man, by shooting him with a
gun on the 13th of February, 1892. Rowe was killed by the
officers in the attempt to arrest him, and Hicks was tried
separately and found guilty in March, 1893. We adopt the
statement of the facts in the case made in the brief for the
government as correct and as sufficient for our purposes:
"It appears that on the night of the 12th of February, 1892,
there was a dance at the house of Jim Rowe, in the Cherokee
Nation; that Jim Rowe was a brother to Stand Rowe, who
was indicted joffntly with the defendant; that a.large number
of men and women were in attendance; that the dance continued until near sunrise the morning of the 13th ; that Stand
Rowe and the defendant were engaged in what was called
'scouting,' viz., eluding the United States marshals who were
in search of them with warrants for their arrest, and were
armed for the purpose of resisting arrest; they appeared at
the dance, each armed with a Winchester rifle; they were
both Cherokee Indians. The deceased, Andrew J. Colvard,
was a white man who had married a Cherokee woman; he
had been engaged in the mercantile business in the Cherokee
country until a few months before the homicide; he came to
the dance on horseback on the evening of the 12th. A good
deal of' whiskey was drank during the night by the persons
present, and Colvard appears to have been drunk at some
time during the night. Colvard spoke Cherokee fluently, and
appears to have been very friendly with Stand Rowe and the
defendant Hicks.
"On the morning of the 13th, as the party were dispersing,

HIOKS v. UINITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Colvard invited Stand Rowe and Hicks to go home with him,
and repeated frequently this invitation. Finally, he offered
as an inducement to Stand Rowe, if he would accompany him
home, to give him., a suit of clothes, and a hat and boots. The
urgency of these invitations appears to have excited'the suspicion of the plaintiff in error, who declared, openly, that if
Colvard persisted in his effort to take Stand Rowe away with
him he would shoot him.
"Some time after sunrise on the morning of the 13th, about
7 o'clock, S. J. Christian, Benjamin *F.Christian, Win. J.
Murphy, and Robert Murphy, all of whom had been at the
dance the night before and had seen there Colvard, Stand
Rowe, and the defendant, were standing on the porch of the
house of William J. Murphy, about 414 steps west from the
house of Jim Rowe, and saw Stand Rowe, coming on horseback in a moderate walk, with his Winchester rifle lying down
in front of him, down a ' trail,' which led into the main travelled
road. Before Stand Rowe appeared in sight the men who
were on the porch had heard a ' whoop' in the direction from
which Stand Rowe came, and this ' whoop ' was responded to
by one from the main road in the direction of Jim Rowe's
house. Stand Rowe halted within five or six feet of the main
road, and the men on the porch saw Mr. Colvard and the
defendant Hicks riding together down the main road from the
direction of Jim Rowe's house.
"As Colvara and .Hicks approached the point where Stand
Rowe was sitting on his horse, Stand Rowe rode out into the
road and halted. Colvard then rode up to him in a lope or
canter, leaving licks, the defendant, some. 30 or 40 feet in his
rear. The point where the three men were together on their
horses was about 100 yards from where the four witnesses
stood on the porch. The conversation between the three men
on horseback was not fully heard by the four men on the
porch, and all that was heard was not understood' because
part of it was carried on in the Cherokee tongue; but some part
of this conversation was distinctly beard and clearly understood by these witnesses; they saw Stand Rowe twice raise
his rifle and aim it at Colvard, and twice he lowered it; they

OCTOBER TER-M, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

heard Colvard say, 'I am a friend to both of you;' they saw
and heard the defendant Hicks laugh aloud when Rowe
directed his rifle toward Golvard; they saw Hicks take off his
hat and hit his horse on the neck or shoulder with it; they
heard Hicks say to Oolvard, ' Take off your hat and die like a
man ;' they saw Stand Rowe raise his rifle for the third time,
point it at Colvard, fire it; they saw Colvard's horse wheel
and run back in the direction of Jim Rowe's house, 115 or 116
steps; they saw Colvard fall from his horse; they went to
where he was lying in the road and found him dead; they saw
Stand Rowe and John Hicks ride off together after the
shooting."
Hicks testified in his own behalf, denying that he had encouraged Rowe to shoot Colvard, and alleging that he had
endeavored to persuade Rowe not to shoot.
At the trial the government's evidence clearly disclosed that
John Hicks, the accused, did not, as charged in the indictment, shoot the deceased, nor take any-part in the physical
struggle. To secure a conviction it hence became necessary
to claim that the evidence showed such participation in the
felonious shootin& of the deceased as to make the accused an
accessory, or that he so acted in aiding and abetting Rowe as
to make him guilty as a principal. The prosedution relied on
evidence tending to show that Rowe and Hicks co6perated in
inducing Colvard to leave the house, where they and a nunber
of others had passed the night in a drunken dance, and to accompany them up the. road to the spot where the shooting took
place. Evidence was likewise given by two or three men, who,
from a house about one hundred yards distant, were eyewitnesses of the occurrence, that the three men were seated on
their horses a few feet apart; that Rowe twice raised his gun
and aimed at Golvard; that Hicks was heard to laugh on both
occasions; that Rowe thereupon withdrew his gun; that Hicks
pulled off his hat, and, striking his horse with it, said to Colyard: "Pull off your hat and die like a man;" that thereupon Rowe raised his gun a third time and fired at Colvard,
whose horse then ran some distance before Colvard fell. As
the horse ran, Rowe fired a second time. When Colvard's

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

body was subsequently examined it was found that the first
bullet had passed through his chest, inflicting a fatal wound,
and that the .second -had not taken effect.
The language attributed to Hicks, and which he denied
having used, cannot be said to have been entirely free from
ambiguity. It was addressed not to Rowe, but to Colvard.
Ilicks testified that Rowe was in a dangerous mood, and that
he did not know whether he would shoot Colvard or Hicks.
The remark made - if made - accompanied with the gesture
of taking off his own hat, may have been an utterance of desperation, occasioned by his belief that Rowe would shoot one
or both of them. That Hicks and Rowe rode off together
after seeing Colvard fall was used as a fact against Hicks,
pointing to a conspiracy between them. Hicks testified that
he did it in fear of his life; that Rowe had demanded that he
should show him the road which he wished to travel. Hicks
further testified, and in this he was not contradicted, that he
separated from Rowe a few minutes afterwards, on tlme first
opportunity, and that he never afterwards had any intercourse
with him, nor had he been in the company of Rowe for several
weeks before the night of the fatal occurrence.
Two of the assignments of error are especially relied on by
the counsel of the accused. One arises out of that portion
of the charge wherein the judge sought to instruct the jury
as to the evidence relied on as showing that Hicks aided and
abetted Rowe in the commission of the crime. The language
of the learned judge was as follows:
"We are to proceed then to see whether the defendant
was a party to the killing- that is, whether he was connected
with it, or so aided or assisted in producing the act, as under
the law he is responsible by the rules of the law for that act,
as well as the man who fired the fatal shot if he were alive.
We go to the first proposition where the crime of murder
has been committed, which asserts that he who with his own
hand did the act which produced the result is guilty. The
second proposition is, that if at the time that Andrew J.
Colvard was shot by Stand Rowe, the defendant was present
at that time and at the place of shooting, that, of course,

OCTQBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

would not alone make him guilty -the mere -fact that he
was present. Yet it is an element that we are to take into
consideration to see whether his connection with the killing
was such that he is guilty of the crime, because he could not
be guilty unless present actually or constructively. Then we
are to see whether he was present at the place of the killing.
That does not Inean that he had to be right at the man who
was shot, right by the side of Stand Rowe, but that he was'
so near to that place as that he could in some way contribute to the result that was produced by some act done
by him or by some words spoken by him. First, then, we
inquire i. he was present at the place of the shooting, and
then while so present whether he aided, abetted, or advised,
or encouraged the shooting of Andrew J. Oolvard by Stand
Rowe. Now, that is the secofnd proposition I have asserted.
Stand Rowe, as the proofs show beyond controversy, (and
when the proof shows, anything beyond controversy I may
allude to it in that way,) is the man who fired the gun. If
the defendant was actually or constructively present at that
time, and in any way aided or abetted by word or by advising or encouraging the shooting of Colvard by Stand Rowe,
we have a condition which under the law puts him present
at the place of the crime; and if the facts show that he either
aided or abetted or advised or encouraged Stand Rowe,
he is made a participant in the- crime as thoroughly and
completely as though he had with his own hand fired the
shot which took the life of the man killed. That is the
second condition. The law further says that if he was
actually present at that place at the time of the firing by
8tand Rowe, and he was there for the purpose of either
aiding, abetting, advising, or encouraging the shooting of
Andrew J. Golvard by Stand Rowe, and that as a matter
of fact h6 did not do it, but was present at the place for
the purpose of aiding or abetting or advising or encouraging
his shooting, but he did not do it because it was not necessary,
it was done without his assistance, the law says there is
a third condition where guilt is fastened to his act in that
regard."

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

We agree with the counsel for the plaintiff in error in
thinking that this instruction was erroneous in two particulars. It omitted to instruct the jury that the acts
or words of encouragement and abetting must have been
used by the accused with the intention of encouraging and
abetting Rowe. So far as the instruction goes, the words
may have been used" for a different purpose, and yet have
had' the actual effect of inciting IRowe to commit the
murderous act. Hicks, indeed, testified that the expressions
used by him were intended to dissuade :Rowe from shooting.
But the jury were left to find Hicks guilty as a principal
because the effect 9 f his words may have had the result
of encouraging IRowe to shoot, regardless of Hicks' intention.
In another part of the charge the learned judge did make an
observation as to the question of intention in the use of the"
words, saying: "If the deliberate and intentional use of
words has the effect to encourage one man to kill another,
he who uttered these words is presumed by the law to have
This
intended that effect, and is responsible therefor."
statement is itself defective in confounding the intentional
use of the -words with the intention as respects the effect
to be produced. Hicks no doubt intendel to use the words
he did use, but did he thereby intend that they were to be
understood by Rowe as an encouragement to act , Iowever
this may be,.we do not think this expression 'of the learned
judge availed to cure the defect already noticed in his charge,
that the mere use of certain words would suffice to warrant
the jury in finding Hicks guilty, regardless of the intention
with which they were used.
Another error is contained in that portion of the charge
now under review, and that is the statement "thaf if Hicks
was actually present at that place at the time of the firing by
Stand Rowe, and he was there for the purpose of either aiding,
abetting, advising, or encouraging the shooting of Andrew J.
Colvard by Stand Rowe, and that, as a matter of fact, he did
not do it, but was present for the purpose of aiding or abetting
or advising or encouraging his shooting, but he did not do it
because it was not necessary, it was done without his assistance,
VOL. CI--29

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the law says there is a third condition where guilt is fastened
to his act in that reogard."
0

We understand this language to mean that where an accomplice is present for the purpose of aiding and abetting in a
murder, but refrains from so aiding and abetting because it
turned out not to be necessary for the accomplishment of the
common purpose, he is equally guilty as if he had actively
participated by words or acts -of encouragement. Thus understood, the statement might, in some instances, be a correct
instruction. Thus, if there had been evidence sufficient to
show that there had been a previous conspiracy between Rowe
,and Hicks to waylay and kill Colvard, Hicks, if present at the
time of the killing, would be guilty, even if it was found
.unnecessary for him to act. But the error of such an instruction, in the present case, is in the fact that there was no evidence on which to base it. The evidence, so far as we are
permitted to notice it, as contained in the bills of exception,
and set forth in the charge, shows no facts from which the
jury could have properly found that the rencounter was the
result of any previous conspiracy or arrangement. The jury
might well, therefore,, have thought that they were following
the court's instructions, in finding the accused guilty because
he was present at the time and place of the murder, although
he contributed neither by word or action to the crime, and
although there was no substantial evidence of any conspiracy
or prior arrangement between him and Rowe.
Another assignment seems to us to present a substantial
error. This has to do with the instructions by the learned
judge to the jury, on the weight which they should give to
the testimony of the accused in his own behalf. Those instructions were in the following words:
"The defendant has gone upon the stand in this case and
made his statement. You are to weigh its reasonableness, its
probability, its consistency, and above all you consider it in
the light of the other evidence, in the light of the other facts.
if he is contradicted by other reliable facts, that goes against
him, goes against his evidence. You may explain it perhaps
on the theory of an honest mistake or a case of forgetfulness,

HICKS

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

but if there is a conflict as to niaterial facts between his state- ments and the statements of the other witnesses who are telling the truth, then you would have a contradiction that would
weigh against the statements of the defendant as coming from
such witnesses. You are to consider his interest in this case;
you are to consider his consequent motive growing out of that
interesf in passing upon the truthfulness or falsity of his statement. He is in an attitude, of course, where any of us, if so
situated, would have a large interest in the result of the case,
the largest, perhaps, we could have under any circumstances
in life, and such an interest, consequetitly, as might cause us
to make statements to influence a jury in passing upon our
case that would not be governed by the truth; we might be
led away from the truth because of our desire. Therefore it
is but right, and it is your duty to view the statements of
such a witness in the light of his attitude and in the light of
other evidence."
The learned judge therein suggests to the jury that there
was or might be "a conflict as to material facts between the
statements of the accused and the statements of the other witnesses who are telling the truth," hnd that "then you would
have a contradiction that would weigh against t he statements
of the defendant as coming from such witnesses."
The"obvious objection to this suggestion is in its assumption
that the other witnesses, whose statements contradicted those
of the accused, were "telling the truth."
The learned judge further, in this instruction, argued to the
jury that, in considering the personal testimony of the accused,
they should consider "his interest in this case." "You are to
consider his consequent motive growing out of that interest in
passing upon the truthfulness or falsity of his statement. He
is in an attitude, of course, where any of us, if so situated,
would have a large interest in the result of the case, the
largest, perhaps, we could have under any circumstances in
life, and such an interest consequently as might cause us to
make statements to influence a jury in passing upon our case
that would not be governed by the truth; we might be led
away from tile truth because of our desire. Therefore it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

but right, and it is but your duty to review the statements of
such a witness in the light of his attitude, and in the light of
the other evidence."
It is not easy to say Nyhat effect this 'instruction had upon
the jury. If this were the only objectionable language contained in the charge, we might hesitate in saying that it
amounted to reversible error. It is not unusual to warn juries
that they should be careful in giving effect to the testimony
of accomplices; and, perhaps, a judge cannot be considered as
going out of his province in giving a similar caution as to the
testimony of the accused person. Still it must be remembered
that men may testify truthfully, although their lives hang in
the balance, and that the law, in its wisdom, has provided that
the accused shall have the right to testify in his own behalf.
Such a privilege would be a vain one if the judge, to whose
lightest word the jury, properly enough, give a great weight,
should intimate that the dreadful condition in which the accused finds himself should deprive his testimony of probability.
Theuise and humane provision of the law is that "the person
charged shall, at his own request, but not otherwise, be a competent witness." The policy of this enactment should not be
defeated by hostile comments of the trial judge, whose duty it
is to give reasonable effect and force to the law.
These strictures cannot be regarded as inappropriate when
the facts of the present case are cohsidered. The only substantial evidence against the accused, on which the jury had
a right to find him guilty, was that of witnesses who testified
to words used by him at a distance of hot less than one hundred yards. Apart from the language so attributed to him,
there was no evidence that would have warranted a jury in
condemning him. His denial of his use of the words and his
explanation of his conduct should, we think, have been submitted to the jury as entitled to the most careful consideration.
There was nothing intrinsically improbable in his statements;
and it is not without significance that the inculpatory words
were not testified to by the witnesses at the preliminary
examination before the commissioner when the incident was
fresh in their, recollection.

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

It is urged in the brief filed for the government that the
exception which is the subject of the first assignment of error
should not be considered by this court because it embraces too
large a portion of the judge's charge, and cases are cited in
which this court has censured wholesale excepti6ns to acharge.

It is justly said that the exception ought to be so precise and
pointed as to call the attention of the judge to the particular
error complained of, so as to afford him. an opportunity to
correct any inadvertence, in form or substance, into which he
may have fallen. And it is further said that the revising court
ought not to be compelled to search through long passages in
an exception to reach errors that hiay be contained therein.
Conceding that such criticisms have ofteii been justly made,
we yet think that they do not apply to the exception iinder
consideration. To enable us to form a just view of 'the error
complained of, it was necessary, or at least useful, to cite the
entire passage of the charge that covered it. To have selected
certain obnoxious sentences as the subject of special exoeptions
might have justified the very opposite criticism, that the
omitted context would have explained or nullified the error.
The learned judge below seems to have been satisfied with
the shape inwhich the exceptions were presented to him, and
we think they sufficiently raise the questions we have considered.
The judgment of the court, below is
R eversed and the cause 'emanded, with directions to set
aside the 'verdict and award a new triaZ.
AIR. JITSTIOE BRwER, with whom concurred MR. JusTon,

BnowN, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case.

It seems to me th'at the opinion proceeds in dis-

regard of rules long ago established in regard to the conditions under which an appellate court will review the instructions given on the trial. Take the first matter referred to in
the opinion. A page or so of the court's charge is excepted

OCTOBERl TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, J.

to, and the exception' is taken in this way: "To the giving
of which charge to the jury the defendant at the time excepted." No particular sentence or proposition on this page
is excepted to; no ground of objection is noted; the attention
-of the trial court is not directed to any matter, whether of
.statement or omission, which the defendant claims is objectionable, and so no opportunity given to correct the alleged
mistake.
I understand the rule of law to be wdll settled that the
attention of the trial court must be called to the specific
matter which is claimed, to be objectionable, and so called
that an opportunity is given to make a correction. Non constat, but that if the attention of the court is thus called to the
particular matter it will correct, and thus remedy any supposed error. Now, as stated, this whole page is objected to,
and no grounds of objection given-no particular matter
pointed out as erroneous. And yet there can be no doubt that
much of what is said, .and some, at least, of the propositions
found in this portion of the charge, are unobjectionable.
What is there wrong, for instance, in these declarations of
law:
"We go to the fii'st proposition where the crime of murder
has been committed, which asserts that he who with his own
hand did the act which produced the result is guilty. The
second proposition is that if at the time that Andrew J. Colyard was shbt by Stand Rowe the defendant was preseit
at that time and at the place of the, shooting, that, of
course, would not alone niake him guilty --the mere Tact that
he was present." "Yet it is an element that we are to take
into considerqtion to see whether his connection with the act
of killing was such that he is guilty of the crime, because he
could not be guilty unless pfesent actually or c6nstructively."
"Then we are to see whether he was present at the place of
the killing. That 'does not mean that he had to be right at
the man who was shot -right
by the side of Stand Rowe but that he was so near to that place as that he could.in some
way contribute to the result.that was produced by some act
done by him or some words spoken by him."

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.

455'

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

The decision of this court is that in the latter part of the
charge on this page there was an omission of certain matter
which was necessary to make the statement of the law full
and accurate. What is the omission? Simply this, that when
the court spoke of aiding or abetting" by word or by advising
or encouraging," it did not add that "the acts or words of
encouragement and abetting must-have been used by the
accused with the intention of encouraging and abetting."
Can a party "advise" another to kill without intendifig to
encourage the killing? Does not the word "abet" imply an
intent that the party shall do that which he is abetted to do?
Bouvier (vol. 1, p. 39) says : "To abet another to commit a
murder is to command, procure, or counsel him to donmit it."
We are not dealing with the mock scenes and shows of the
stage, but with real life, and in 'that who does not understand
that the significance of the word "abet" is as Bouvier defines
it, and carries with it the intent that the party shall do that
which he is commanded, counselled, or encouraged to do? But
whatever of technical criticism may be placed upon this language, can there be any doubt that twelve ordinary men,
sitting as jurors, would understand that there was implied the
intent on the part of the defendant to bring about the homicide by the use of the words? If the counsel for defendant
thought there was any possibility of the jury being misled, or
that any juror -would understand the court as meaning to tell
them that a party who, with no thought of murder, makes
some casual remark, upon the hearing of which a third person
is prompted to shoot and kill, was alsoguilty of murder fron
the mere fact of this accidental remark, all that would have
been necessary would have been to call the attention of the
court to the matter, and to avoid the possibility of misunderstanding a correction would unquestionably have been made.'
It seems to me that great injustice is being done to the government and wrong to the public when verdicts of guilty are
set aside by reason of an omission from the charge, which
probably did not mislead the jury, which would unquestionably have been corrected if called to the attention of the
court, which was not specially excepted to, which affects but

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

one proposition among many, all of which were challenged by
only a single exception running to them as an entirety,
which was not noticed in the motion for a new trial or in the
assignment of errors, and is evidently an afterthought of
counsel, with the record before them studying up some ground
for a reversal.
With regard to the second error, said by the court to exist
in this page of the charge, it is found, as clearly appears from
the opinion, only in the'last sentence, and as an independent
proposition. No -separate exception was filed to that proposition., Could anything more clearly emphasize the fact that
by this opinion the court is reversing the rule heretofore laid
down as law in the quotations presently to be made, than thus
picking out a single sentence containing an independent proposition, not especially excepted to, and declaring that a general
exception to an entire page brings this error up for review.
And that, too, when it is conceded that the objectionable
words stated a proposition of law correctly applicable to some
cases, though, as claimed, not to the facts of this. And here
it is well to note the language of rule 4 of this court: "The
judges of the Circuit and District, Courts shall not allow any
bill of exceptions which shall contain the charge of the court
at large to the jury in trials at common law, upon ahy general
exception to the whole of such charge. But the party except:
ing shall be required to state distinctly the several matters of
law in such charge to which he excepts, and those matters of
law, and those only, shall be inserted in the bill of exceptions,
and allowed by the court."
What matter of law was distinctly stated in the bill of exceptions ? I understand the court to concede that the rule is
substantially as I have claimed, but hold that it is inapplicable
here, and that in order to present a just view of the error
complained of, it was necessary, or at least useful, to cite the
entire passage of the charge that covered it. The law is-good,
but it ought not to be enforced. When, as here, the entire
.charge is preserved in the record it is not necessary to extend
an exception to a whole page in order to see the bearing of
the particular matter of alleged error. Even if the entire

HICKS v. UNITEI) STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

charge was not preserved, and we had only this page before
us, and the consideration of the entire charge was necessary
to disclose the bearing of the particular sentence or proposition claimed to be erroneous - conceding all this, it. does not
obviate the difficulty that the specific error now complained
of was not called to the attention of the trial court. And,
after all, the rule is as shown in the quotations following, that
an objection must be made in such a way that the trial- court
knows what it is that is objected to, and has an opportunity
'to make a correction.. Nothing of that kind is possible when
a party excepts to a whole page of the charge, and in the
appellate court, for the first time, calls attention to the specific matter in a portion of that page which is said to be objectionable.
The suggestion that, because the learned judge below was
satisfied with the shape in which the exceptions were presented to him, this court must consider them as sufficient for
any matter which the ingenuity of counsel may, since the trial, have discovered, has certainly the merit of novelty. No one
can say, from this record, that the questions which have been
argued and upon which the reversal is ordered were ever suggested to the trial court at the time the instructions were
given, or pn the motion for a new trial, and they are not
named in ihe assignments'of error. And yet, because the trial
judge did not direct that the exceptions be prepared in some
other way, this court holds that they' are sufficient to bring all
thq matters involved in this page of the chargebefore this court.
In the case of Carver v. Jackson,4 Pet. 1, 81, the entire
dharge was placed in the record, with a general exception to
each and every part ther'eof. This practice was strongly coindemned, and in the opinion Mr. Justice Story uses this language, quoted approvingly by Chief Justice Marshall in Ew
parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190, 198:
"If, indeed, in the summing up, the court should mistake
the law, that would justly furnish a ground. for an exception.
But the exception should be strictly confined to that misstate.
Iment, and, by being made known at the moment, would often
enable the court to correct an erroneous expression, or to

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

explain or qualify it in such a manner as to make it wholly
unexceptionable, or perfectly distinct."
In the case of the First Unitarian Society v. Faulkner, 91
U. S. 415, 42:3, this court said:
"Two or three passages of the charge, it must be admitted,
are quite indefinite, and somewhat obscure; but they are not
more so than the exceptions of the defendants, which are addressed'to nearly a page of the remarks of the judge, without
any attempt to specify any particular paragraph or passage as
the subject of complaint; nor does the assignment of erroPs
have much tendency to remove the ambiguity.
"Instructions given by the court to the jury are entitled to
a reasonable interpretation; and they are not, as a general
rule, to be regarded as the sibject of error on account of omissions not pointed out by the excepting party."
In Railroad Comripany v. Varnell, 98 U. S. 479, 482, a similar
-matter was presented to the court and disposed of in these words:
" Three exceptions are embraced in the first assignment of
error, and the complaint is that the court erred in failing to
give the defendants the full benefit of their evidence as to the
contributory negligence of the plaintiff.
"Turning to the record, it appears that the first exception
to the chairge of the court is addressed to nearly a page of the
remarks of the presiding justice, with nothing to aid the inquirer in determining what the complaint is, beyond what
may be derived from the exception, which is in the following
words: ' To which instruction the counsel for the defendants
then and there exc*epted.'
"Much less difficulty would arise if the assignment of error
contained any designation of the precise matter of complaint;
but nothing of the kind can be obtained from that source.
Certain portions of those remarks appear to be unobjectionable; as, for example, the judge told the jury that they must
first determine whether the plaintiff was a passenger on the
railroad of the defendants, and he called their attention to
the testimony of the conductor, that the plaintiff was not in
the car in which it seems he claimed that he had been riding
just before he received the injury."

HICKS v. U.NITtD STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

In Aobile & X ontgomery Railway v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584,
596, the rule is thus stated:

"Conceding that the chafge in respect to the rate of interest was erroneous, the judgment should not be reversed on
account of the error. The charge contained at least two
propositions, first, that the measur6 of dAmages was the value
of the, cotton in New Orleans, with interest from the time
when the cotton §hould have been delivered ; second, that the
rate of interest should be eight per cent. It is not disputed
that the first proposition was correct. But the exception to.
the charge was general. It was, therefore, ineffectual. It
should have-pointed out to the court the precise part of the
charge that was objected to" 'The rule is, that the matter of
exception shall be so brought to the attention of' the court,
before the retirement of the jury to make up their verdict, as
to enable the judge to correct any error if there be any in his
instructions to them.'"
See also BogTe v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, 26.
And this, I understand, is the rule in all appellate courts:
I think it should be strictly adhered to, and that this court
should not notice an exception which runs to a page of the
court's charge, which points out no sentence or clause which
is objected to, and specifies no ground of objection.
Again, in that portion of the charge calling attention to the
weight to be given to the testimony of the defendant, I thinkthe court committed no error. The statute makes the defendant a competent witness. It affirms nothing as to his credibility. I.understand the rule to be that a court is always at
liberty to refer to any matters, interest, impeachment, contradiction, feeling, or otherwise, that .bear upon the question of
the credibility of any witness. When .he defendant becomes
a witness he subjects himself' to the same liability to criticism.
Stress is laid upon these words "the other witnesses Wiho are
telling the truth," and it 'is said that there, is an assumption
that the witnesses who contradict the defendant are telling
the truth. If the first "the'" had been omitted, and the language been "other witnesses," etc., no such iinplication would
arise. Is not this a refinement of criticism which offends corn-

OCTOBER TEIRA.

1893.

Syllabus.

mon sense? Does any one suppose that the jury understood
the court to instruct them that the witnesses for the government were telling the truth, and that the defendant was lying
When he testified differently? Is it not clear that they would
understand simply that -their attention was called to the effect
on his credibility of a contradiction between his testimony and
that of disinterested witnesses ? Ias it come to this that the

use of the "definite article" in a charge is sufficient to set
aside b verdict and overthrow a trial? It is indisputable that
where the government calls an accomplice, it is the right, if
not the duty, of the court to call the attention of the jury to his
relationship to the case,. and the bearing which such relationship has upon his credibility. If it may iind ought to do that
to protect the defendant against the danger oF perjury on the
part of witnesses of the government, may ft not, and ought it
not to, do the same to protect the government against thn, at
least equal, danger of perjury on the defendant's part? It is
the duty of the trial court to hold the scales even between
the government .and the defendant, and, generally speaking,
what it may and ought to do on the one side it may and
ought to do on the other. For these reasons I dissent.
I am authorized to say that MR. JusTIcE B.RowN concurs
with me in this dissent.

COLUMBIA MILL COMPANY v. ALCOR{N.
AIPEAL FRO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 115. 'Submitted Novembei- 24, 1S'33. -Decided

Deamber 4, 1893

A person cannot acquire a right to the exclusive use of the word " Colunibia" as x trade-mark.
To acquire a right to the exclisive use of a nmne, device, or symbol as a
trade-mark, it must appear that it was adopted for the purpose of identifyiug the origin or ownership of the article to which it is attached, or

