UNITED STATES v. MORMOI

CHULCH.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. THE LATE CORPORATION OF
THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS.
AI'PEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 887. Submitted October 27,1i893.- Decided November 6, 1803.

Convss having, by joint resolution approved October 25, 1893, declared
the tises to which the property of the Mormon Church should be devoted,
the court remands this case for further proceedings in the Supreme Court
of the Territory in conformity with the provisions of that resolution.

Tins was a motion for a decree.
opinion.

The case is stated in the

.Mr. Franklin S. Riohardsfor the motion.

.Mr.. Solicitor General watched the case on behalf of the
United States.
MR. C=nEF

JusUTIE

FutLmR

delivered the opinion of the

court.
When this case was before the court on the former appeal,
136 U. S. 1, it was adjudged that Congress had the power to
repeal the Act of incorporation of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and that having done so, and the corporation having, been dissolved, its property, in the absence of
any other legal owner, devolved to the United States, subject
to be disposed of according to the principles applicable -to
property devoted to religious and charitable uses; the real
estate, however, being also subject to a certain condition of
forfeiture and escheat contained in an act of Congress of
July 1, 1862r, 12 Stat. 501, and that Congress, as the supreme
legislature of the Territory of .Utah, had full power and
authority to.direct the winding up of the affairs of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a defunct corporati6n,
VOL. CI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and to order its property to be applied to lawful religious and
charitable uses, conformable as near as practicable to those to
which it was originally dedicated, which power was distinct
from that which might arise from the forfeiture and escheat
of the property under the act of 1862.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah,
then under consideration, was in the main affirmed, with a
modification in the seventh clause thereof, the decree of this
court in the premises being as follows:
"The decree entered in this case on the 19th day of May,
1890, having been set aside by an order of the court made on
the 23d day of May, 1890, it is now upon further consideration
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the decree of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah be affirmed with the following
modification, that is to say, that the seventh clause of said
decree be changed and modified so as to read as follows:
" [7th. And the court does further adjudge and decree that
the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints having become by law dissolved as aforesaid, there
did not exist at it$ dissolution, and do not now exist, any
trusts or purposes within the objects and purposes for which
said personal property was originally acquired, as hereinbefore
set out, whether said acquisition was by purchase or donation,
to or for which said personalty or any part thereof could be
used, or to which it could be dedicated, that were and are
not, in whole or in part, opposed to public policy, good morals,
and contrary to the laws of the United States; and, furthermore, that there do not exist any natural persons or any body,
association, or corporation who are legally entitled to any portion of said personalty as successors in interest to said Church
of -Jesus Christ of Latter-day Sairits,.and the said personal
property has devolved to the United States; and not being
lawfully applicable to the purposes for which it was originally
dedicated or acquired, and to which, at the commencement of
this suit, it was being devoted by the said corporation and its
controlling authbrities, the same ought to be limited and
appointed to such charitable uses, lawful in their character, as
may most nearly correspond to those to which it was origi-

UNITED STATES v. MORMON CHURCH.
Opinion of the Court.

nally destined, to be ascertained and defined (unless in the
meantime Congress should otherwise order) by reference to a
master-for due examination, inquiry, and report thereon, subject to the approval of the court; and to be established,
administered, and carried out in such manner and according
to such scheme as may be suggested and reported by said master and approved by the court. It is further ordered and
decreed that until the ascertainment and determination of
such uses- and the adoption of such scheme, and until direction
be taken for the ultimate funding or investment, of the said
personal property for the purposes aforesaid, the receiver
appointed in this cause do continue in the custody and charge
thereof, with all accumulations, subject to the further order of
the court, and (conjointly with the rents and income of the
real estate) to the payment of the costs and expenses of this
proceeding and of the receivership aforesaid. The reference
herein provided for to be made by a separate order.]
"Wherereupon it is consideked, adjudged, and decreed that
the 6ause be remanded to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah, with directions to modify its decree as herein directed,
and to take such further proceedings as to law and justice
may appertain in conformity with the opinion of this court
delivered on this appeal at the last tekim of the court." 140
U. S. 665.
The mandate of this court having gone down, further proceedings were had in the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah, which resulted in the entry of the following order or
decree by that court on November 12, 1892, to wit:
"This cause having come on to be heard before this court
at a former day of this term upon exceptions to the master's
report filed herein on the.19th day of tcober, 1891, and the
same having been argued by counsel for tbe respective parties
and submitted to the court, and the c6ftrt being now fully
advised in the premises, it is hereby ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the scheme for the disposition of the fund in
controversy, reported and sugg6sted to this court for adoption
by the master in his said report, be, and the same is, disapiproved and rejected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said
fund, and the whole thereof, be, and the same is hereby, vested
in Leonard G. Hardy, in trust, to be by him invested to the
best advantage, having in view the security of the fund as
well
as the income to be derived from the investment.
"And
to collect and receive the proceeds of all such
investments and to apply such proceeds, or such portion thereof, and
so much of the principal from time to time as may be necessary for that purpose,, to the support and aid of the poor
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,.
and to the building and repairing of houses of worship for the
members of said church.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
the said Leonard G. Hardy be required to give a bond to the
government of the United States in the sum of five hundred
thousand ($500,000) dollars, to be approved by this court, or
the chief justice thereof, and-to be conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duties as such trustee.
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
said Leonard G. Hardy, as such trustee, be, and he is hereby,
required to make a report ta this court on the first day of
January of each year of his administration of said trust."
, From this decree an appeal was taken by the United States
to this court. The appellee now moves that the decree of the
court below be revetsed, and a decree entered here, in effectuation of the terms of a joint resolution of Congress approved
October 25, 1893; and that the cause be remanded to the
court below with instructions to take such further proceedings
as may be necessary to carry into effect such decree of this
court. Due notice having been given, the United States,
without opposing or consenting to the motion, submitted the
matter to the court, stating that the government did not
appea to have any further interest in the cause, the subjectmatter involved having been disposed of by the joint resolution of Congress, but suggesting that the case should be
remanded to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah for
such decree there as might be proper to be made therein.
By the resolution of Congress referred to it was: "1.Resolved

UNITED STATES v. MORtION CHURCH.
Opinion of the Court.

y the Senate and Houcse of .Representatives of the United
States qf America in, Congress assembled, That the said personal property and money now- in the hands of such receiver
not arising from the sale or rents of real estate since Marcha
third, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven be, and the same is
hereby, restored to the said Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, to be applied under the 'direction and control of
the first presidency of said church to the charitable uses and
purposes thereof: That is to say: For the payment of the
debts for which said church is legally or equitably liable, for
the relief of the poor and distressed members of said church,
for the education of the children of such members, and for the
building and repair of houses of worship for the use of said
church, but in which the rightfulness of the practice of
polygamy shall not be inculcated. And the said receiver,
after deducting the expenses of his receivership, under the
direction of the said Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah,
is hereby required to deliver the said property and money to
the persons now constituting the presidency of said church, or
to such person or persons as they may designate to be held
afid applied generally to the charitable uses and purposes of
said church as aforesaid.
It will be perceived that judicial action is not sought to be
controlled by the resolution, but that this court havingo indicated the mode to be pursued to ascertain and define the particular charitable uses, lawful in their chafacte, to which the
property should be devoted, in the absence of legislation upon
the subject, and this appeal from the decree of the court below
to that end having been taken, Congress has now declared
such uses. This disposition of the property by the United
States renders any further consideration of the case here
unnecessary, and the decree below is
Reversed and the cause remanded to the uprf.eme Court of
Utah Territoryfor suchfur'therproceedings as to law and
justice may appertain,in conformity with the provisions
of the afoiesaid resolution of Congress.

