SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK a). BOLLONG.

85

Statement of the Case.

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. BOLLONG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURt OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
Wo. 5i8. Argued October 17,1893.-Decided October 30,1893.
In orler to maintain a writ of error against a judgment of the highest court
of a State, it must appear that the judgment involved a decision against
a right, title, privilege, or immunity claimed by the plaintiff in error
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, which was specially
set up or claimed in the state court at the proper time and in the proper
way; and, as the record in this case does not show such facts, the writ
of error is dismissed without intimating any opinion upon the questions
sought to be raised here.

Tins was an action brought by Hector 0.Bollong against
the. Schuyler National Bank, a corporation located and doing
business in Colfax County, Nebraska, in the District Court of
that county, to recoter the penalties imposed by the statutes
of the United States for knowingly contracting for a-d receiving usurious interest. The original petition or complaint was
filed March 19, 1887, and the judgment recovered thereon was
reversed by the state Supreme Court and the cause remanded,
(Sc7wyler Bank v. Bollong, 24: Nebraska; 821,) whereupon on
January 11, 1889, Bollong filed by leave of court his amended
petition containing thirty-one counts. The defendant submitted several preliminary motions, which were overruled and
exception taken, and among them one to dismiss the action
upon the grouids:
"First. That this court has no jurisdiction to try avd determine the subject-matter of fhe above-entitled action.
"Second. That exclusive jurisdiction is by the laws of the.
United States, to wit, sectioil711 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, vested in the courts of the United States to
try and determine the subject-matter of the above-entitled
action."
The motions having been disposed 'of, the defendant
answered, denying all the material allegations of ,the petition
and pleading in addition the limitation of 'two years provided

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

by Congress for actions of this character. Issues being joined,
a jury was waived and the cause was submitted to the court
for trial. The defendant objected "to the introduction of any
evidence under this petition on the ground that it does not
state grounds sufficient to constitute a cause of' action," and
the objection being overruled, excepted.
The court made findings of fact and conclusions of law to
which the defendant filed exceptions, and also a motion for
new trial, which were severally overruled and exception taken.
Judgment was thereupon rendered against the bank for
$1601.84, and costs.
The fifth ground assigned for a new trial was : "That the
court erred in admitting any evidence to sustain the allegations of the amended petition, for that the said petition states
no facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action."
The bank then brought its petition in error in the state
Supreme Court, setting forth among other grounds the following: "Eighteenth. That the findings and decision of the
court herein are contrary to law. Nineteenth. That the
court erred in finding that the allegations of the said amended
petition are sustained by sufficient evidence. Twentieth.
That the court erred in overruling the motion for a new trial
made by the plaintiff in error."
The Supreme Court held that the state courts had jurisdiction in this class of cases; that the questions of law involved
had been decided in SchuylZ' Bank v. Bollong, 24 Nebraska,
821, 825; that the findings of facts were amply sustained by
the evidence; and affirmed the judgment. The opinion will
be found in 32 Nebraska, 7O. The case having been brought
to this court by writ of error, the following errors were assigned in the brief of counsel, and argued at the bar:
"I. The complaint of the plaintiff below is fatally defective
in that it contains no averment negativing the exception of
section 5197, Revised Statutes United States, viz.: 'except
that where by the laws of any State a different rate is limited
for banks of issue organized under state laws, the rate so
limited shall be allowed for associations organized or existing
in any such State under this title.'

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. BOLLONG.

87

Opinion of the Court.

"II. The complaint of the plaintiff below contains no allegation of the rate of interest allowed, in any case, by the
laws of the State of Nebraska. Withoiut such allegation, the
averment that the interest charged by the defendant below
'was at a rate of interest greater than is allowed by the laws
of the State of TNebraska,' is wholly insufficient to support this
action under said section 5197.
"III. That the supposed causes of action *are-alleged to
have accrued to the plaintiff below by force of section 5198 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States; whereas the same
accrued, if at all, under and by force of sections 519T and 5198
of the Revised Statutes, and not by force alone of section
5198, as alleged.
"IV. That there is a fatal variance between the allegations
of the complaint of the plaintiff below and the requirements
of the said sections of the Revised Statutes.
"V. That there is no allegation in either of the counts or
causes of action to the petition that the indebtedness of the
plaintiff below to the bank, as therein specified, has been
paid; and for aught alleged the several transactions complained of are still infieri.
"VI. That there are other manifest and fatal errors appearing on the face of the petition of the 'plaintiff below that
will be specified in the argument."
".Mr.J. G. Bigelow, (with whom was Xr. William Twombly on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. C. T. Pelps, 1i. J A. GCrimisom and X?,. C. 0.
,Sabin filed a brief for defendant in error, but the court did
not call upon them.
MR. Cmp JusTin FULT.R, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

In view of the provisions of section 5198 of the Revised
Statutes, as corrected by the act of February 18, 1875, 18
Stat. 316, 320, c. 80; the proviso of the fourth section of the
act of "July12, 1882, 22 Stat. 162, 163, c. 290, and the decision

OCTOBER TERM4, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of this court in First Hational Bank of Uharlotte v. .Morgan,
132 U. S. 141, counsel properly limited his assignment of
errors to the matters specified, and does not now seek to rest
the jurisdiction of the court upon any other ground than may
be involved therein. And it is not contended that the writ
of error can be maintained except upon the theory that the
decision of the state court was against some title, right,
privilege, or immunity claimed by plaintiff in error under the
statutes of the United States. But by the requirements to
the exercise of our jurisdiction of section 709 of the Revised
Statutes, the title, right, privilege, or immunity thus relied
on must be specially set up or claimed in the state court at
the proper time and in the proper way. The decision must
be against the title, right, privilege, or immunity so set up or
claimed. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; Brooks v. .issouri, 124- U. S. 394; Cappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132;
Texas & Pacific Railway v. Southern Paci'ft Co., 137 U. S. 48.
The errors assigned are in substance that the complaint or
petition was fatally defective, in that it 6ontained' no avermbnt negativing the exception of section 5197 of the Revised
Statutes, under which national banks might charge the rate
of interest permitted to banks of issue organized under state
laws; in that it contained no allegation of the rate of interest
allowed in any case by such state laws; in that the supposed
causes of action were alleged to have accrued by force of
section 5198 of the Revised Statutes, whereas they accrued,
if at all, under had by force of sections 5197 and 5198 taken
together; in that there was a fatal variance between the
allegations of the complaint and the requirements of said
sections; and in that there was no allegation in either of the
counts that the indebtedness of plaintiff below had been paid;
and in support of these alleged errors many considerations
were urged in argument here, in respect of which, however,
counsel observed that "none of the considerations herein
presented to the court against the sufficiency of the complaint
or petition of the plaintiff below were called to the attention
of the Supreme Court of Nebraska."
Yet it is urged that the bank had contended at every stage

SCHUYLER NATIONAL BANK v. BOLLONG.

89

Opinion of the Court..

of the litigation that the trial court had no power to proceed
to judgment against it under sections 5191 and 5198, because
of the want of averment in the petition of facts essential to
give such jurisdiction, and hence that the bank must be held
to have specially set up or claimed the title, right, privilege,
and immunity under said sections to be exempt from liability
to the plaintiff below for any matter or thing alleged in his
complaint. But we are unable to accede to this view. Tho
case was necessarily tried in accordance with the procedure
and practice prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure of
Nebraska. That provided a form of action to be called a
civil action, and to be commenced by the filing of a petition
and the issue of summons thereon; what the petition must
contain; that the pleadings should be liberally construed; that
redundant matter might be stricken out and the allegations of
a pleading required to be made definite and certain by amendment when necessary; that neither presumptions of law nor
matters of which judicial notice is taken need be stated in the
pleading; that amendments in furtherance of justice might
be made before or after judgment; that the court should disregard errors or defects in the pleadings or proceedings not
affecting the substantial rights of the adverse party, and that
by reason of such error or defect no judgment should be reversed or affected; for the assignment of grounds for a new
trial, including that the verdict, report, or decision was not sustained by sufficient evidence, or was contrary to law, and for
error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to. (§§ 2;
62; 92; 121; 125; 136; 144; 145; 314 of the Code of Civil
Procedure of Nebraska.)
The questions raised upon the pleadings were disposed of
by the Supreme Court in accordance with these provisions and
the jurisprudence of the State in that regard, and there is
nothing whatever to indicate that in passing upon the technical sufficiency of the complaint its attention was invited to
the proposition that by its judgment thereon it might be
depriving the defendant below of some title, right, privilege,
or immunity arising in virtue of the sections under which the
liability accrued.

OCTOBERt TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

It is true that the jurisdiction of the trial court was objected
to, but that was on the confessedly untenable ground that the
courts of the United States had exclusive jurisdiction in this
class of cases, and therefore that the state courts had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter, but no such contention as
that before us was suggested.
This being so, without intending in any degree to intimate
that the determination by the state courts that the petition
was sufficient might have presented a question revisable by
this court, we must direct the writ of error to be
.Dismissed.
MR. JusTicE BRowN did not sit in this case, and took no
part in its decision.

v. BOLLONG. No. 39.
No. 317. SCHUYLER
Error to the Supreme Court of
NAkIONAL BANK ;. BOLLONG.
Nebraska. Argued with No. 518, October 17, 1893. - Decided
October 30, 1893. MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER: These cases were
submitted at the same time with Schuyler lationalBankc v. Hector
C. Bollong, just decided, and must be disposed of in the same way.
V'its of errordismissed.
No. 38. SCHUyrmEE

SCHUYLER NATINAL

NATIONAL BANK
v. B OLLo-g.

BANK

.Mr. J. G. Bigelow, (with whom was Mr. William Twombly on
the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. . T. Phelps, Mr. J. A. qrimison and Mr. C. 0. Sabin filed
briefs for defendants in error; but the court did not call upon
them.

