IN RE HOHORST, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

would appear to be Withirf the power of the court, although
by section '725 it is provided that contempts of the authority
of courts of the United States may be punished 0 by fine or
imprisonment, at the discretion of the court." But be that as
it may, the sentence here was that the petitioner be imprisoned
"until he returns to the custody of the receiver; the barrel
taken by him from the warehouse without warrant of law.
And when that has been surrendered, that he suffer a further
imprisonment thereafter in said county jail foi, three months
and until he pay the costs of these proceedings, ' As the prisoner has neither restored the goods nor suffered the imprisonment for three months, even if it was not within the power of
the court to require payment of costs and its judgment to that
extent exceeded its authority, yet he cannot be"discharged on
habeas corpus until lie has performed so much of the judgment
or served out so much of the sentence as it was within the
power of. the court to impose. Ex parte -Lange,18 Wall. 163;
Emparle Parks, 93 U. S. 18.
The applicationrforthe writ of habeas corpus is denied..

In re HOHORST, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No.1. Original. Argued November 14,1893. -Decided

December 18, 1893.

In the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by the act of August
13, 1888, c. 866, giving the Circuit Courts of the United States original
jurisdiction, "concurrent with the courts of the several States," of all
suits of a civil nature, in -which the matter in dispute exceeds $2000 in
amount or value, "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States" or in which there is "a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens or subjects," the provision that" no civil suit
shall be brought against any person by any original process or proceeding
in any other.district than that whereof he is an inhabitant," is inapplicable to an alien or a foreign corporation sited here, and especially in a suit
Xor the infringcment of a patent righ't; and such a person or corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
may be sued by a citizefi of a State of the Union in any district in which
valid service can be macie upon the defendant.
I6 is a sufficient service of a subpona upon a foreign steamship company,
which has within the district no officer, and no agent expressly authoized to accept service, to serve it upon its financial agent, at his office, at
wvhich the financial and monetary business of the company in this country
is transacted, and which has been advertised by the company as its own
office; although'the docks of the company, where its steamships land
and take and discharge cargo, and its office for the transaction of matters
connected with its actual industrial operations in this country, are in
another district.
If a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United States against a foreign
corporation and against individuals is erroneously dismissed as against
the corporation for want of jurisdiction thereof, mandamus lies to compel that court to take jurisdictiqn of the suit as against the corporation.
And when an appeal, taken by the plaintiff to tiis" court within six weeks
from the order of dismissal, rernaitis upon the docket, without any
imotion by the appellee to dismiss it, until the case is reached for argu-ment, and is then dismissed by the cburt for want of jurisdiction, and
the plaintiff, within five weeks afterward, applies for a writ of mandamus, there is no such laches as should deprive him of this temedy.

'Tuis. was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Judges
of the CircUit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of :New York, to command them to take jurisdiction
aid proceed against the Hamburg-American Packet Company
upon a bill in equity, filed in that court on September 15, 1888,
by the petitioner, described in the bill as of the city of New
Tbrk, and a citizen of the State of New York against "the
Hamburg-American Packet Company, a corporation orgauized
and existing under the laws of the Kingdom of Hanover,
Empire of Germany, and doing business in the city of New.
York; Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr., .Henry R. Kunhardt, Jr.,
George H. ]biehl, citizens of the United States and residents
of the State of-New York, and A,*end Behrens ajid William
Koester, citizens of the United States and residents of tbd
State of New Jersey;" for the infringement by all the-defendants of letters patent granted by the United States to the
plaintiff for an improvement in slings for packa ges. Upon
that bill the following proceedings took place:
A subpoena was issued, addressed to all the defendants, and
was served Qn September 17, 1888, as stated in the marshal's

IN RE IIOHORST, Petitioner.

•655

Statement of the Case,

return thereon, "upon the within named defendant, Henry R.
Kunhardt, Sr., by exhibiting to him the within original, and
at the same time leaving with" him a copy thereof;" and
"upon the within named defendant, Hamburg-American
Packet Company, by exhibiting to Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr.,
general agent for said company, the within original, and at
the same time leaving with him a copy thereof."
Qn November 5, 1888, the return day of the subpoena, a
general appearance for all the defendants was entered by a
solicitor.
On December 18, 1888, the company, " by Kunhardt & Co.,
agents," filed a demurrer to the bill, for multifariousness, for
want of equity, "and for divers other good causes of demurrer
appearing in the said bill of complaint" and not otheriise
specified; and supported the demurrer by the affidavit of
Behrens, that he was an agent of the company, that the"
demurrer was not interposed for delay, and that he was duly
authorized to make the affidavit, in behalf of the company.
On December 24, 1888, the plaintiff moved for leave to
amend his bill, by alleging that the defendants jointly. infringed his patent; and "that all of the defendants above namned
are inhabitants of the city and county of New York; that the
defendant, the .Hamburg-American Packet Company, has its
principal business offi6e in this country located in the city and
county of New York; that the defendants Henr, R. Kunhardt,
Sr., Henry R. Kunhardt, Jr., George H. Diehl, Arend Behrens'
and William Koester are, and during the time of the infringement above set forth were, copartners under the firm name of
Kunhardt & Company, and as such copartners are and were
the agents and managers of the business of the HamburgAmerican Packet Company in this .country, and have their
principal business office as such located in the city and county
of New York; and that the said infringements were committed
in the Prosecution of such business, and all the defendants have
coiperated and participated in all the said acts and infringements?
An affidavit bf Behrens, filed in opposition to this motion,
contained the following statements; "I do not regard it as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

-

true that the Hamburg-American Packet Company has its
principal business office in this country located in the city and
county of New York. -The actual facts are that the said company has its docks, where all its steamers land and take and
discharge cargo, situated in the State of New Jersey. There
also is the office of the company for the transaction of the
matters immediately connected with all its actual industrial
operations in this country. Said company advertises that it
has an office in the city of New York, which is the office of
the firm of Kunhardt & Co., is rented by Kunhardt & Co.,
and entirely under their control. It is in fact the office of
Kunhardt & Co., agents for the Hamburg-American Packet
Company; and in said office of Kunhardt & Co., and by
Kunhardt & Co. as agents, the usual monetary and financial
transactipns of said Hamburg-American Packet Company are
conducted. All the actual physical business of said HamburgAmerican Packet Company within the United States, however, is cofiducted within the, State of New Jersey, as aforesaid.
It is not true that Kunhardt & Co. have, jointly with said
Hamburg-American Packet Company, infringed the letters
patent set forth in the bill of complaint. All operations of
loading and unloading the cargo. from the said Hamburg-'
American Packet Company's vessels in this country are performed in New Jersey as aforesaid, under the immediate
direction and control of a superintendent especially employed
and appointed by the Hamburg-Ameriban Packet Company
for that .purpose and whose salary or compensation is paid by
said company, and with the direction and details of whose
supervision of 'said loading and unloading the firm of Kunhardt
& Co. have no concern and exercise no control."
On January 7,1889, the company moved 'to dismiss the bill
'for want of jurisdiction.
On January 11, 1889, the motion to amend and the motion
to dismiss were heard together; and the court denied the
motion to dismiss, "but without prejudice to any subsequent
demurrer, plea, answer or motion to dismiss, because of lack
of jurisdiction.;" gave the plaintiff leave to amend the bill, as
prayed for, nunc _Jro *unc as of the time when it was filed;

IN RBIHTOILORST. Fetitioner.
Statement of the Case.

and gave the defendants leave to answer, plead or demur to
the bill, as amended, on or before the first Monday of. March.

On February 2, 1889, the plaintiff filed a bill so amended.
On February 16, 1889, the company served on the plaintiff
notice of hearing upon the bill and demurrer.
On February 21, 1889, the company moved for leave to
amend its general appearance into a special appearance for the
specific and only purpose of moving to set aside the service of
the subpcena upon it through its alleged agent Henry R. Iunhardt, Sr., and to dismiss the bill as against it for want of
jurisdiction; and also moved to set aside the service and to
dismiss the bill as against it, "bec a u se of lack-of jurisdiction.
of this court over the person of said defendant."
An affidavit of :Richard John Cortis, filed in support of this
motion, stated that for -several years he had been well acquainted with the details of the organization and residence
and general business of the company; that its principal offices
arid place of business were and always had been at the city of
Hamburg in the Empire .of Germany, ana the residences of
all its directors and stockholders were within the territorial
limiti of that empire; and that it had never had an office in
the city of New York, or at any place within the Southern
District of New York.
On April 5, 1889, the court ordered- that this motion be
granted, unless the plaintiff should, within five days, file a
stipulation to withdraw the amended bill as to the company,
and to go to trial as to the company upon the original bill.
38 Fed. Rep. 273. No such stipulation having been filed, on
April 1, 1889, fhe court ordered that the appearance be
amended as moved for; that the service of the subpcena upon
the company be set aside and quashed; and that the bill be
dismissed as against the company.
From that order the plaintiff, on May 23, 1889, took an
appeal, which was entered in -this court on October 8, 1889,
argued on March 13, 1893, and dismissed on March 27, 1893,
for want of jurisdiction, because that order, not disposing of
the case as to all the defendants, was not a final decree, from
which an.appeal would lie. 148 U. S. 262.
VOL. CL-42

OCTOBER TERMt, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

On May 1, 1893, an application was made to this court for
leave to file the present petition, praying for a writ-of mandamus to the Judges of the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction
.and proceed against the company in the suit aforesaid, and to
strike from the record the order of April 11, 1889, and to
make such disposition of the suit as ought to have been made
had that order* not been made; and for such other relief in
the-premises as might be just.
On Mh[y 10, 1893, this court gave leave to file the petition,
and granted a rule to show cause, returnable at this term.
On October 17 a return was filed, setting forth the foregoing
,proceedings of the Circuit Court, and stating that the order of
April 11, 1889, was made upon the following grounds:
1st. That it was made to appear, and the Circuit Court
found, that the company had originally made a general, instead of a special, appearance in the suit, because of a justifiable mistake on its part as to the nature of the suit, caused by
the plaintiffls own allegations in the original bill.
2d. That it appeared by the affidavits and other proceedings
set forth in the record that the company is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Kingdom of Hanover, Empire of Gertnany, and is not, and was not at the time
of the service of the subpcena upon Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr.,
-an inhabitant of the Southern District of New York.
S3d: That, upon the facts as presented to the Circuit Court,
and shown by the record, it did not appear that said Kunhardt
was. at any time the general agent of the company, or such an
agent that service upon him of the subpcena in the suit was
sufficient to confer jurisdiction over the company.
21fr. Charle X. Demond for petitioner.
Xr. Walter -D. Edmonds opposing.
MR..

JUSTiCE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the Constitution of the United States, art. 3, sect. 2, the
.judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity,

IN RE HO1ORST, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States,
and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority; to controversies to which the United States shall be a
party; to controversies between citizens of different States;
between' citizens of the same State.claiming lands under grants
of different States ; and between citizens'of a State and foreign
States, citizens or subjects.
By the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by the
act of August 13, 18S8, c. 866, "the Circuit Courts of the
United States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with
the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature,,.
at common law or*in equity, where the matter in dispute ex4,.
ceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value. of
two thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution on
laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be.'
made, under their authority, or in which controversy the United
States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there shall be
a controversy between citizens of different States," "or a controversy between citizens of the same St.ate claiming landsunder grants of different States, or. a controversy, between
citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens or subjects.";
24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 434.
The intention of Congress is manifest, at least as to cases of
which the courts of the several States have concurrent jurisdiction, and which involve' a certain 'amount or value, to vest.
inthe Circ.uit Courts of the United States full and effectual
jurisdiction, as contemplated by the Constitution, over each of
the classes of controversies above, mentioned.; and (what particularly concerns the case at bar) Congress, following the
very words of the Constitution, has here vested in those courts
jurisdiction of controversies "between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens or subjects."
The question then arises how -far the jurisdiction thus conferred over this last class of controversies, and especially ovir
a suit by a citizen of a State against a foreign citizen or subject, is affected by the subsequent provisions of the same section, by which, &fter other regulations of the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts and District Courts of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

it is enacted that "no civil suit shall be brought before either
of said courts against any person by any original process or
proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant; but, where the jurisdiction is founded only on the
fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit
shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either
the plaintiff or the defendant."
Of these two provisions, the latter relates only to suits between citizens of different States of the Union, and is therefore manifestly inapplicable to a suit brought by a citizen of
one of these States against an alien. And the former of the
two provisions cannot reasonably be construed to apply to
such a suit.
The words of that provision, as it now stands upon the
statute book, are that "no civil suit shall be brought before
either of said courts against any person by any original process
or.proceeding in any other district than that Whereof he is an
knhabitant." These words evidently look to those persons,
and these persons only, who are inhabitants of some district
within the United States. Their object is to distribute among
the particular districts the general jurisdiction fully and clearly
granted it the earli6r part of the same section; and not to
wholly annul or defeat that jurisdiction over any case comprehended in the grant. To construe the provision as applicable
to all suits between a citizen and an alien would leave the
courts of the United States open to aliens against citizens, and
close them to citizens against aliens. Such a construction is
not required by the language of the provision, and would be
inconsistent with the general intent of the section as a
whole.
This view is confirmed by a cobsideration of the earlier
statutes upon this subject, which, -although repealed, may
properly be referred to in aid of the construction of existing
laws. Ex 2prte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561; 7Fiterbo v.
Friedlander, 120 U. S. 707, 725, 726. The corresponding
provision, as originally enacted in the Juldiciary Act of
September 24, .1789, c. 20, § 11, continued in force for the
greater part of a century, and retained in the Revised Statutes,

INT RE HOHORST, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

applied only to inhabitants of the United States; for its words
were that no civil suit should be brought "against an inhabitant of the United States by any original process in any other.
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he
shall be found at the time of serving the writ." 1 Stat. 79;
Rev. Stat. § 739. The substitution, in the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, § 1, of the words "against any person" for the words
"against an inhabitant of the United States," has been assumed
to be an immaterial change. 18 Stat. 470; 1)o re Zouisville
Underwriters, 134 U. S. 488, 492; S)aw v: Quincy .Xining
Co., 145 U. S.444, 448. But if the act of 1875 could have
been treated as extending the provision to suits against aliens,
it could only be by virtue of the clause permitting defendants
to be sued in the district in which they were found. That
clause having been stricken out in the acts. of 1887 and 1888,
the provision, as it stands in these acts, must be limited by
imrlication, as the provision in its original form was by express
words, to inhabitants of the United States; and it is therefore
inapplicable to an alien or to a foreign corporation.
Moreover, the pre~ent suit is for an infringement of a patent
for an invention, the jurisdiction of the national courts over
which depends upon the subject-matter, and not upon the
parties; and, by statutes in force at the time of the passage
of the acts of 1887 and 1888, the courts of the nation had
original jurisdiction "exclusive of the courts of the several
StAtes," "of all cases arising under the patent-right or copyright-laws of the United States," without regard to the amount
or value in dispute. Rev. Stat. § 629, cl. 9; § 711, cl. 5. The
section now in question, at the outset, speaks only of so much
of the civil jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States, as is "concurrent with the courts of the several States,"
and as concerns cases in wyhich the matter in dispute exceeds
two thousand dollars in amount or value. The grant to the
Circuit Courts of the United States, in this section, of jurisdiction over a class of cases described generally as "arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States," does not
affect the jurisdiction granted by earlier, statutes to any court
of the United States over spccified cases of that class. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

clause of this section defining the district in which suit shall
be brought is applicable to patent cases, the clause limiting the
jurisdiction to matters of a certain amount or value must be
held to be equally applicable, with the result that no court of
the country, national or state, would have jurisdiction of patent
suits involving a less amount or value. It is impossible to
adopt a construction which necessarily leads to such a result.
United States v. -3ooney,1161.T. S.104, 107; [killer-2Lfagee Co.
v. Carpente', 34 Fed. Rep. 433.
It was contended in behalf of the company that this case
was governed by the recent decisions of this court in Shaw v.
Quiney Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, and Southern .Paci~fc Co.
v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202. But those decisions went no further
than'to hold that within the meaning of the Judiciary Acts a
corporation cannot be considered a citizen, an inhabitant or a
resident of a State in which it has not been incorporated; and
that under the act. of 1888 a corporation, incorporated in one
of the United States and in that State only, cannot be compelled to answer in another State in which it has a usual place
of business, and of which the plaintiff is not a citizen. In the
first of those cases it was observed that the question what
might be the rule in suits against an alien or a foreign cor*poration was not before the court,. and might be governed by
different considerations. 145 U. S.453.
Upon deliberate advisement, and for the reasons above stated,
:we are of opinion that the provision of the existing statute,
which prohibits suit to be brought against any person "in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant," is inapplicable to an alien or a foreign corporation sued here, and
especially in a suit for the infringement of a patent right; and
that, consequently, such a person or corporation may be sued
by a citizen of a State of the Union in a.ny district in which
valid service can be made upon the defendant. In re -Louisville Underwriters,134: U. S.488. "
, The question, then, whether.the Hamburg-American Packet
Company was bound to answer to the suit brought by this
petitioner against it, depended upon the question whether
Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr., upon whom the subpoena was served,

IT

RE HOHORST, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

was such an agent of the company that service upon him as
its agent was sufficient service upon the company.
The marshal's return upon the subpcena states that the service thereof upon the company was made by serving it upon
This
said Kunhardt, "general agent for said company."
return, of course, is not conclusive of that fact. But upqn
the affidavits filed by the company, giving them the utmost
effect in its favor,,the real state of facts was as follows: There
is no room for suggesting that there was within the district
any director' or other officer of the company, or any agent
expressly authorized to accept service upon it. The company's docks where its steamships land and take and discharge cargo, and its office for the transaction of matters
immediately connected with its actual industrial operations
in this country, were in the State of New Jersey, and under
the charge of a superintendent employed and paid by the
corporation for the purpose, and not a member of the firm
of Kunhardt & Co., But the usual monetary and financial
transactions of the corporatipn were transacted by that firm,
as agents of the corporation, at the office of the firm in the
city of New York, which had been advertised by the corporation as its own office.
The firm of Kunhardt & Co. being the financial agents of the
corporation, the office of the firm being in the city of New York,
and being the office of the corporation for the transaction of
its monetary and financial business in this country, the service
of the subpcena in NewYork upon the head of the firm as
general agent of the corporation was a sufficient service upon
the corporation.
t. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 359; Sooijtg
Foncire v. .Milliken, 135 U. S. 301; Lexican Central-Railway v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194; New York Code of Civil Procedure, § 432; Tvchband v. COicago & Alton Railroad,115
N. Y. 437.
The Hamburg-American Packet Company being liable to
this suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York if duly served with process in
the district, and having-been so served, and the order of that
court dismissing the suit as against the corporation not being

OCTOBER TERM, 189s.
Opinion of the Court.

reviewable on appeal at this stage of the case, there can be no
doubt that mandamus lies to compel the Circuit Court to take
jurisdiction of the suit as against the corporation. Railroad
Co. v. Viswall, 23 Wall. 507; Ex pairte Schollenberger, 96
U. S. 369; In 'e Pennsylvani Co., 137 U. S. 451,.452.
The order of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill as against
th'e corporation was made on April 11, 18S9. Six weeks afterwards, the plaintiff appealed from that order; and his appeal
was entered in this court on the first day of October term,
1889. The appellee might, at that or any subsequent term,
under Rule 6, have made and submitted on - briefs a motion to
dismiss that appeal.; but never did so before the case was called
for argument in tffhe regular order of the docket on March 13,
1893. The delay in disposing of that appeal, therefore, was
less owing to the plaintiff than to the defendant. The appeal
was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. on March 27, 1893;
and within five weeks afterwards the plaintiff presented his
application for leave to file this petition for a writ of mandamus, and obtained a rule to show cause, returnable at the
present term. There is no ground, therefore, for imputing to
him such laches as should deprive him of this remedy.
These reasons being conclusive in favor of issuing a writ of
mandamus to the Circuit Court to set aside the order of dismissal, and to take jurisdiction of the bill as against the defendant corporation, even if the appearance in its behalf in
that court had been only a special appearance for the purpose
of moving to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction, it is unnecessary to consider whether, under the circumstances of the
case, the corporation was rightly allowed to amend its general
appearance into a special appearance, or whether the action of
the Circuit Court in that respect could be controlled by writ
of mandamus.
Writ of mandamus to issue.

