ASPEN MINING & SMELTING CO. v. BILLINGS.

31

Statement of the Case.

ASPEN

MINING

AND SMELTING
BILLINGS.

COMPANY v.

SAME v. SAME AND OTHERS.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Nos. 918, 919. Submitted October 10, 1893.-Decided October 23, 1893.

An'order allowing an appeal to this court is, so long as the appeal remains
unperfected and the cause has not passed into the jurisdiction of the
appellate tribunal, subject to the general power of a Circuit Court over
its own judgments, decrees, and orders during the existence of the
term at which they are made,
Evans v. State Bank, 131 U. S. 330, distinguished from this case.
If a motion or petition for rehearing is made or presented in season and
entertained by the court, the time lihited for a writ of error or appeal
does not begin to run until the motion is disposed of.
No appeal lies to this court from a judgment of a Circuit Court in execution
of a mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

This was a bill of complaint filed- by
James 0. Wood and others against the Aspen Mining and
Smelting Company and others in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado on April 14, 1888,
which resulted, upon final hearing on pleadings and evidence,
in a decree, October 20, 1890, one of the days of the May
term, 1890, of the court, dismissing the bill at the costs of the"
complainants. The record, after setting forth the decree, thus
proceeds: "And afterwards, and on, to wit, the 25th day of
October, A.D. 1890, came again the said complainants by their
solicitor aforesaid, and filed in said court, and in said cause,
their motion for rehearing. And the said motion is in words
and figures as follows; to wit:" and then follows a lengthy
application for rehearing duly indorsed as filed on that day.
The November term, 1890, o f the Circuit Court began on the
first Tuesday, being the fourth day of November, 1890, and
adjourned on March 20, 1891. On April 26, 1891, the complainant filed in the cause a "request for decision on motion
MOTION to dismiss.

OCTOBER- TER-IM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

for rehearing," which recited that the motion had b-en submitted "in open court at the beginning or very early in the
last term." The May term, 1891, opened on the iirst 'I uesday,
being the 5th day of May, 1891, and on that dy the record
recites that "the motion for a rehearing of this cause having
heretofore come on to be heard, and having been submitted
upon briefs," the court being sufficiently advised, denied the
motion. On the same day complainants prayed an appeal from
the decree to the Supreme Court of the United States, "which
is allowed them, conditioned that they file herein their bond
conditioned according to law in said appeal in the sum of three
hundred dollars." June 24, 1891, counsel filed a direction to
the clerk to "make out full record in the above-entitled suit
for an appeal to the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals at St.
Louis, Mo.," stating what was to be copied. On July 2, 1891,
one of the days of the May term, 1891, of the court, complainants prayed an appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and an order was entered
vacating the order allowing an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, and allowing an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, conditioned upon the filing of bond in the
sum of three hundred dollars, and on the same day such bond
was filed and approved together with an assignment of errors
on appeal. Citation was issued August 15, 1891, and duly
served. From the records of this court it appears that the
appeal was duly prosecuted to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and the decree reversed, July 5, 1892. And that thereupon
the appellees petitioned for a rehearing, which was denied.
The opinions of that court will be found reported in 10 U. S.
App. 1; Id. 322.
November 7, 1892, appellees on that appeal presented to
this court their petition for a writ of certiorari under section
six of the act of March 3,'1891, which was denied. on November 28.
December 21, 1892, the complainants filed in the Circuit
Court a mandate from the United States Circuit .Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, reversing the decree of the
'Circuit Court with costs, and directing the court to take fur-

ASPEN MINING & SMELTING CO. v. BILLINGS.

33

Counsel for the Motion.

ther proceedings and enter a decree in conformity with the
opinion of said Circuit Court of Appeals.
Objections on behalf of defendants Wheeler and the Aspen
Mining Company were thereupon, on December 24, 1892,
made to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to proceed further with the cause. January 13, 1893, these objections were
overruled,, dnd an application, on behalf of the defendant
Wheeler, that the question of jurisdiction be certified to the
Supreme Court, was denied. The .opinion is reported in 53
Fed. Rep. 561. The Circuit Court then,-January 24, 1893,
entered a decree in pursuance of and in conformity with the
directions contained in the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, in compliance with the mandate of that court. On
March 21, 1893, an appeal was granted to the Mining Company and Wheeler to this court by one of the Justices thereof,
under the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891; bond to
operate as a supersedeas was given as directed, and approved;
and citation was issued and served. And, in view of the allowance of the appeal, the Circuit Court, on April 3, 1893, certified the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to
make and enter the decree of January 24, 1893, or to proceed
further in the case, to this court for decision. April 15, 1893,
a short record was filed by appellees and a mot'ion - made to
dismiss the appeal, the consideration of which was objected to
by counsel for appellants. The then nuniber of the case was
1325. It is now 918. On April 19, a full record was filed by
appellants, and the appeal docketed as No. 1326, which is now
919. The motion to dismiss in No. 1325 was postponed, May
10, 1893, to the next term of this court, and counsel for appellees directed to serve notice of the motion to dismiss, and to.
embrace therein No. 1326. This having been done, the motion
to dismiss was submitted on briefs, coupled with a motion to
affirm. At the same time a motion was made on behalf of
appellants to advance No. 919 under the 32d rule and for oral
argument.
r. T. A. Geen (with whom was Mr.Felix T. HZuge
the brief,) for the motion.
VOL. cL-3

on

OCTOBER TERMtr, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.M. Calderon Carlisle opposing.

MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the 32d rule as amended, (146 U. S. 707,) cases brought
to this court by writ of error or appeal under section five of
the act of March 3, 1891, when the only question at issue is
the question of the jurisdiction of the court below, will be advanced on motion and taken on printed briefs or arguments in
accordance with the prescription of rule six in, regard to
motions to dismiss writs of error or appeals; but as this appeal
will be disposed of on the motion to dismiss an order to advance is unnecessary, and would, indeed, be superfluous under
the circumstances in view of the motion to affirm.
Nor do we find sufficient reason for the allowance of oral
argument in the character of the questions involved; nor in
the solicitude of appellants' counsel to repel in that form suggestions in the briefs of counsel for appellee questioning the
propriety of the application for the allowance of the appeal,
as we perceive no ground calling for defence from imputation
in that regard. It is sufficient to dismiss the remarks referred
to with the observation that they are lacking in the courtesy
and temperance of language due from the members of the bar,
and as such obnoxious to animadversion. The condition of
the record justified the application, and the allowance of the
appeal, although upon consideration we are of opinion, that it
cannot be sustained.
The contention is that the appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals was unauthorized and void, because the allowance of
the appeal to this court, May 6, 1891, vested in it exclusive
jurisdiction of the cause, which could not be divested by a
vacation of that allowance by the Circuit Court; and also
because the original final decree was entered October 20, 1890,
one of the days of the May term, 1890, of the Circuit Court,
while the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was prayed,
allowed, and perfected on July 2, 1891, and at the Mfay term,

ASPEN MINING & SMELTING CO. v. BILLINGS.

35

Opinion of the Court.

1891, of the Circuit Court, contrary, as insisted, to the rules
and the statute.
1. The appeal to this court was allowed on condition that
bond should be given as designated, but this was not done nor
any other step in effectuation of the appeal taken, and the
order of allowance was vacated on a subsequent day of the
same term.
The general power of the Circuit Court over its own judgments, decrees, and orders during the existence of the term at
which they are made is undeniable, and an order allowing an
appeal is subject to that power so long as the appeal remains
unperfected and the cause has not passed into the jurisdiction
of the appellate tribunal.- Exaarte Roberts, 15 Wall. 384;
Goddaid v. cihvdway, 101 U. S. 745; Dra)er v. Davis, 102
U. S. 370; .eyser v. Farr,105 U. S. 265.
There is nothing to the contrary in Evans v. State Bank,
134 U. S. 330, in which it was held that our jurisdiction may
be maintained when the record on appeal has been filed here
during the term to which the appeal was returnable, even
though bond had not been approved and citation signed. No
such state of case is presented, nor was the question of the
power of the court below to set aside its order of allowance
involved in that case or in others in which like rulings have
been made.
Equally unavailing is the reference to the provision of the
joint resolution of March 3, 1891, "to provide for the organization of the Circuit Courts of Appeals," 26 Stat. 1115, that
nothing in the act of March 3, 1891, 26 'Stat. 826, c. 517,
should be held or construed to impair the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court in any case then pending before it, or in
respect of any case wherein the appeal had been taken to that
court before the first day of July, 1891, for this merely preserved the jurisdiction as stated, and did not operate *to give
jurisdiction as to appeals not perfected, which would not other- wise have existed.
In our judgment the Circuit Court had power to vacate the
allowance of the 5th of May during the term and allow the
appeal of July 2, and this, even if after March 3 and prior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

July 1, 1891, an appeal might iiave been taken either to this
court or the Circuit 'Court of Appeals, a point suggested, but
upon which'it is unnecessary to pass.
2. The decree dismissing complainants' bill was entered on
October 20, 1890, but an application for a rehearing was made
shortly thereafter and during the same term, but not disposed
of until May 5, 1891.
The rule is that if a motion or a petition for rehearing is
made or presented in season and entertained by the court, the
time limited for a writ of error or appeal does not begin to
run until the motion or petition is disposed of. Until then
the judgment or decree does not take final effect for the purposes of the writ of error or appeal. Brockett v. L. .,'cett, 2
How: 238, 249; Texas. & Pacijc Railway v. Mirphy, Il1
U. S. 488; Mlemphis v. Brown, 94 U. S.'715.
If this case falls within that category, then the six months
within which the appeal had to be taken under section 11 of
the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, did not commence t6 run
until May 5, 1891, and the appeal was in time.
It is true that equity rule 88 provides that "no rehearing
shall be granted after the term at which the final decree of
the court shall have been entered and recorded, *ifan appeal
lies to the Supreme Court;" but if this petition for rehearing
was filed in season and entertained by the court, then the
. decree, although entered in form, did not discharge the parties
from their attendance in the cause, and they were bound to
follow the petition thus pending to the next term. The suit
was thereby prolonged until the application was disppsed of
in- the regular course of proceeding. This is expressly so ruled
in Goddardv. Ordway, sz pra.
In Giant Powdei, Co. v. Calfornia Yjiorit Powder Co.,
5 Fed. Rep. 197; . C. 6 Sawyer, 508, it was said by Mr.
Justice Field that equity -rule 88 applies only where no petition
is presented during the term, and the numerous cases in which
it has been held that the time limited for an appeal does not
begin to run until a petition for a rehearing properly presented
has been disposed of, sustain that view. The decree does not
in legal effect remain final while the petition is pending, and

ASPEN MINING & SIELTING CO. v. BILLINGS. 37
Opinion-of the Court.

the prescription of rule 88 must be construed to mean that a
rehearing cannot be granted after the lapse of the term unless
application is made therefor during the term, and being entertained, the decree is thereby prevented from passing beyond
the control of the court. The entertaining of the petition
keeps the jurisdiction alive, and th6 granting of the rehearing
may be made absolute, or denied thereafter, as the court may
determine.
But it is said this cannot be the result, under either statute
or rule, of the mere filing of a motion or petition for rehearing, and that it does not affirmatively appear in this case that
the motion or petition was entertained by the court. But we
should be inclined to hold, if a decision in that regard were
called for, that, since the application was passed upon as having boen duly made, the presumption must be indulged that'it
was entertained by the court in the first instance and during
the term at which the decree was pronounced.
3. Apart from these considerations, however, this is an
appeal from a decree entered by the Circuit Court in conformity with the mandate from the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit. That court took jurisdiction, passed
upon the case, and determined by its judgment that the appeal
had been properly taken. If error was committed in so doing,
it is not for the Circuit CoQurt to pass upon that question. The
Circuit Court could not do otherwise than carry out the mandate from the Court of Appeals, and could not refuse to do so
on the ground of want of jurisdiction in itself or in the appellate court. Skillern's Executors v. -May'sExecntors, 6 Cranch,
267; 1n re T]Fasldngton,& Georgetown 1ailroad, 140 U. 5. 91;
Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S. 228, 2411. And no rule is better settled: than that an appeal from a decree entered by the court
below in accordance with the mandate of the appellate court,
cannot be maintained. Stewart v. Salamon., 97 U. S. 361;
.thmphrey v. Baker, 103 U. S. 736 ; Texas & PacificRailway
v. Anderson, 149 U. S.237. If the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred, or if, for any reason, its judguent could be held void,
the appropriate rein-dy lay in a certiorarifrom this court to
that court. -American Construetion Co. v. Jacksonville &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

-Railway,148 U. S. 372. And we judicially know, from our
own records, Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 2,0, 243, that the
present appellants applied to this court for that writ, and that
the application was denied.
Appeal dismissed.

CORBIN

CABINET

LOOK

COMPANY

v.

EAGLE

LOOK COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE' UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 42. Argued October 18, 19, 1893.- Decided October 30, 1893.

The first claim under the reissued letters patent No. 10,361, issued to Henry
L. Spiegel, July 31, 1883, for improvements in cabinet locks, is void
because it broadens and expands the claims in the original patent, and it
does not appear that there was any accident, inadvertence, or mistake in
the specification and claim of the original, or that it was void or inoperative for any reason which would entitle the patentee to have a reissue.
When au applicant for letters patent makes a broad claim which is rejected,
and he acquiesces in the decision and substitutes a narrower claim therefor, he cannot insist upon a construction of the narrowed claim which
would cover what was so rejected.
To warrant new and broader claims in a reissue, they must not only be
suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings, or models,
but it must appear that they constitute part of the invention intended to
be covered by the original patent.
In applications for reissue the patentee cannot incorporate claims covering
what had been rejected on the original application.
Letters patent No. 316,411, granted April 21, 1885, to Henry L. Spiegel for
improvements in cabinet locks are void for want of patentable" invention.

IN .equity, to prevent the infringement of letters patent.
Decree below dismissing the bill, from which the complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
31r. John P. Bartlett (with whom was
.llitchell on the brief,) for appellant.

Jfr. C/harles E.

.ir. Wibnmarth ff. Tlasrtom and Mr. Benjamin Price for
appellee.
'AIR. JUSTICE

JACKSON de.'livered the opinion of the court.

