EMPIRE COAL CO. v. EM1'IRE MLINING CO.

159

Counsel for Appellant.

EMPIRE COAL AND TRANSPORTATION
PANY v. EMPIRE COAL AND MINING
PANY.

COMCOM-

AIPPFAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 60. Submitted October 25, 1893.-Decided November 6, 1893.
A bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States in Tennessee, by a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Kentucky, against
another company described as a corporation organized under the laws of
that State and having its principal office in the district in which the suit
was brought, and against five individuals, citizens of a county within
that district, prayed "that the parties named as defendants be made
such," and for a reconveyance and an account of property of the plaintiff, alleged to have been fraudulently caused by the individual defendants to be conveyed to the defendant corporation, and to haVe been
wasted and injured by all the defendants. The individual defendants
demurred for want of jurisdiction. The plaintiff thereupon, by leave of
court, filed an amended bill, which "refers to the original bill and its
prayer, and makes the same a part hereof, as if set out herein in haxc
verba;" and further alleged that the individual defendants, in pursuance
of their fraudulent scheme, pretended to procure from the State of
Kentucky a charter under the name of the company "which is the same
corporation mentioned in the original bill," and caused the plaintiff's
property to be conveyed "to said pretended corporation," but this company was never lawfully organized, and the individual defendants-controlled it and were doing business as a partnership under its namei and
prayed that the parties defendants to the original bill be made, defendants to this amended bill, and that the individual defendants be made
defendants as partners under the name.of the company, and be made to
account personally and individually. Held, that this company, as a corporation of Kentucky, was a party defendant to the amended bill of the
plaintiff, likewise a Kentucky corporation; and that the amended bill
must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr,. A. H. Garlandand Afr. I. J -ay for appellant.

No appearance for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE GnAy delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Tennessee, (within
which lie the city of Nashville and the county of Davidson,)
by which a bill in equity, after having been twice amended,
and the plaintiff having declined .to amend further, was dismissed on demurrer for want of jurisdiction, because it showed
that the plaintiff and one of the defendants were corporations
of the State of Kentucky, and alleged no ground of jurisdiction e.xcept the citizenship of the parties.
The sole plaintiff is the Empire Coal and Transportation
Company, a corporation incorporated and duly organized
under the laws of the State of Kentucky. The principal question in the case is whether the Empire Coal and Mining Company is a party defendant to the second amended bill.
The original bill, filed April 6, 1886, named as defendants
"the Empire Coal and Mining Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and whose
principal office is in Nashville, Tennessee," and five individuals,
"all citizens of Davidson County, Tennessee;" alleged that
those individuals, being' directors and stockholders in the
plaintiff corporation, by conspiracy and fraud, and through
various conveyances and transactions particularly set forth in
the bill and the exhibits thereto annexed, caused all its coal
lands and other property to be conveyed to one of them, and
"procured to be incorporated the defendant, the Empire Coal
and Mining Company, for the.purpose of mining, &c., With its
principal office located at Nashville, Tennessee, under and by
virtue of an act of the legislature of Kentucky," of which they
were and had since been the stockholders and directors, and,
upon its organization, caused him to convey to it, as such corporation, all the plaintiff's property, and that the defendant
corporation, as well as the other defendants, wasted and
greatly injured that property. The bill prayed "that the parties named as defendants be made such, and be required to
answer," and for a reconveyanee of the property, an account,
an injunction and further- relief, against, all the defendants.

EMPIRE COAL CO. v. EMPIRE MINING CO.

161

Opinion of the Court.

That the Empire Coal and Mining Company, as a corporation
of Kentucky, was a party defendant to the bill as originally
framed, cannot be doubted.
An amended bil, filed October 26, 1886, alleged that "the
Empire Coal and Mining Company is but the creature of" the
individual defendants, "who own all its pretended stock, rights,
and franchises," and "was brought into existence by them as
a part of the fraudulent scheme heretofore set -out," and "is
insolvent, and has nothing more than the nominal possession
of" the plaintiff's property, and that all the profits thereof bad
been appropriated by the individual defendants; and prayed
that they, "all citizens of Davidson County and within the
jurisdiction of this court, and the said so-called Empire Coal
and Mining Company, having its principal office and officers
in Davidson County, Tennessee, and within the jurisdiction of
this court, be made defendants, and be served with process,
and be required to answer," and that "the pretended conveyance" of the plaintiff's property from one of them "to the
so-called Empire Coal and Mining Company be declared held
in trust for complainant, and that said Empire Coal and Mining Company be declared to be invested with such title as it
may have in trust for the complainant," and for other specific
and general relief against all the defendants. The bill, as thus
amended, still treated the Empire Coal and Mining Company
as an existing corporation of Kentucky, and as a party defendant.
On November 24, 1887, a demurrer of the individual defendants was sustained, and the bill ordered to be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, unless the plaintiff should so amend
"as to dismiss as to all defendants who are citizens of the
same State with itself."
The second amended bill, filed by leave of court on January
5, 1888, repeats the allegations of the first amended bill as to
the EmpireCoal and Mining Company; and further states and
charges that the individual defendants, in further pursuance
of their fraudulent scheme, and for the purpose of better concealing their frauds and wrong doings, "pretended to procure
from the State of Kentucky a charter under the name and
VOL. cL-1l

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

style of the Empire Coal and Mining Company, which is the
same corporation mentioned and referred to in the original and
amended bills; and said defendants conveyed to said pretended
corporation all the properties belonging to complainant and
mentioned in said bills and converted by said defendants, as
stated, to their own use and benefit;" "' that no organization
was ever had or attempted to be had in the State of Kentucky,
which is required by the laws of that State ; but that all the
meetings of the so-called directors of said pretended corporation were held in the city of Nashville, Tennessee, and the
principal office located in said city;" and "therefore charges
that in no sense is said corporation legally and validly organized, but that said five defendants still hold and possess all
complainant's property, rights, and privileges, as set out in said
bills, and that said corporation is nothing more than a partnership owned and controlled by said five defendants, who are
all citizens of Tennessee, and are doing business under the
name and style of the Empire Coal and Mining Company."
In this last bill, the plaintiff prays "that the party defendants
to its original and amended bills, heretofore filed in this cause,
be made defendants to this amended bill," and that the five
individuals aforesaid "be made defendants as partners doing
business under the name and style of the Empire Coal and
Mining Company, and that proper and necessary process issue
to this end;" and that "they be made to account personally
and individually, as prayed in this and the original and amended
bills; and that the title to said properties be declared to be
held by said defendants, whether in their own name or under
the name of the Empire Coal and Mining Company, for the
use and benefit of complaiiant, and that the title to said property be divested, and vested in complainant;" "and for such
other and further relief as to equity may belong."
M oreover, which is significant and decisive, each of the
amended bills not only recites the substance of the original
bill, but expressly "refers to said original bill, its prayer and
exhibits thereto, and makes the same a part hereof, as if set
out herein in Awce erba." The original bill, as has been seen,
made the Empire Coal and Mining Company, as a corporation

EMPIRE COAL CO. v. EMPIRE MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

organized under the laws of Kentucky, a party defendant, in
the desceiption of the parties, in the body of the bill, and in
the prayer for relief.
The conclusion i-i-qistible, that the bill, as finally amended,
is so framed as to hold this company, and all the members
thereof, whether it is a corporation or only a partnership;
and, therefore, that this company, as a Kentucky corporation,
is a party defendant to the second.amended bill of the plaintiff
(likewise a Kentucky corporation) as well ac to each of its
former bills, and might have been held liable as such, -had the
suit proceeded to a decree for the plaintiff.
Such bein'g the case, as shown by the record, its decision is
not difficult, but it is governed by well-settled rules. By the
Constitution and laws of the United States, the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts, on the ground of the citizenship of the
parties, extends only to suits between citizens of different
States; and within the meaning of those laws,. as construed
by this court, a corporation is a citizen of that State only, by
which it is created. 'By the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 1,
(in force when the original bill and the first amended bill were
filed,) permitting, in "a controversy bet .reen citizens of different States," a person to be sued in any district in which he
either was an inhabitant or was found, a corporation might
indeed be sued in any State in which.it did business and had
an agent, provided, always, it was not a citizen of the. same
State with the plaintiff. Under the act of March 3, 1887, c.
373, ยง 1,,(in force-when the second amended bill was filed,)
providing that "where the jurisdiction is founded only on the
fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit
shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either
the plaintiff or the defendant," a corporation, incorporated in
one State only, cannot be compelled to answer in another
State in which it has a n~ual place of business, and of which
the plaintiff is not a citizen. But, under either statute, if the
parties are not citizens of dif,erent States, there is an entire
want of jurisdiction, which cannot be waived by the parties, but
will be noticed by the court of its own motion.. 18 Stat. 470;
24 Stat. 552; Shaw v. Quincy .XA[ining Co., 145 U. S.444, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

cases there collected; Sozhern Pacifc Co. v. Denton, 146
U. S. 202; Wolfe v. HartfordIn&. Co., 148 U. S. 389.
The two corporations on the opposite sides of this case being
corporations of the same State, neither of them could maintain an action against the other in a Circuit Court of the
United States, -whether held in that State or in any other
State, even if the defendant had a place of business in the
latter. The second, amended bill was therefore rightfully dismissed for want of jurisdiction, even if it should be treated as
controlled by the act of 1875; and it is unnecessary to consider whether that act or the act of 1887 defines the jurisdic-

tion over this bill, filed after the passage of the latter act.
Decree afflrmed.

HOWARD v. DETROIT STOVE WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
lTo. 4. ~Argued November 2, 3,1893.-Decided November 13, 1893.

The alleged invention patented in letters patent No. 123,142, issued January
30, 1872, to Philo D. Beckwith for " an improvement in stoves," was anticipated by prior patents and is void for want of invention in not describing how wide the flange should be in order to accomplish the desired
result.
Letters patent No. 135,621, issued February 11, 1873, to Phil6 D. Beckwith
for "novel improvements in a stove," are void because the bolting or
riveting together of sections of a stove was well known at the time of
the alleged invention, and the use of lugs with holes perforated through
them was anticipated in other stoves and furnaces manufactufed many
years prior to the date of the patent.
Letters patent No. 206,074, issued to Philo D. Beckwith, July 16, 1878, for
a "new and useful improvement in stove grates," is void because the
claims in it were clearly anticipated, and because it involved no invention
to cast in one piece an article which had formerly been cast in two pieces
and put together, nor to make the shape of the grate correspond with
that of the fire-pot.

