OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

INSLEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Io. 921. Argued and submitted November 21,1893. -Decided December 4,1893.
As a District Court of the United States has jurisdiction under Rev. Stat.
§ 563, of all suits to recover forfeitures incurred under any law of the
United States, including forfeitures of a; bail bond, the question whether
the forfeiture should be enforced by scire facias under Rev. Stat. § 716,
or by proceedings under a law of the State in which the court is held,
goes only to the remedy and not to the jurisdiction, and the action of the
District Court is binding in a collateral proceeding.
The rule that the death of a party to a suit, either pending the suit or after
judgment and before execution, abates the suit, does not apply to a case
where land has been sold upon execution, but no deed delivered.

TIs was a bill in equity brought by the United States to
redeem lot 1, block 10-4, Fort Scott, Kansas, the title to which
lot is now held by Elizabeth McElroy, the real defendant in

the case. A demurrer was originally filed to the bill upon the
ground of laches and was sustained -by the court below; but
the decree dismissing the bill was reversed by this court,
United States v. Isley, 130 U. S. 263, and the case remanded
with a direction for further proceedings.
The substantial facts were that on August 3, 1869, one Moses
McElroy became surety upon a bail bond for the appearance
of Joseph H. Roe and 0. A. Ruther, who had been arrested
upon a complaint charging them with a violation of the internal revenue laws. On October.12, 1869, the recognizance was
forfeited and a writ of scire facias ordered to issue from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Kansas
againcst the sureties, requiring them to appear and show cause
why the forfeiture should not be made absolute and execution
issue. This writ was served upon McElroy, who appeared and
moved to quash the writ. This motion was denied; the for-

I.NSLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

feiture made absolute; judgment for $2000 entered against
McElroy; and execution issued April 27, 1871, and levied upon
the lot in question. This lot, with another also levied upon,
had been bought by McElroy of one Bryant on August 5, 1869,
for $6000. At the time of thig purchase, and to pay for the
property, McElroy borrowed of one Palmer $3500, for which
he gave a mortgage upon the lots to secure the loan. On May
30, 1871, four weeks after the'levy was made, Palmer brought
suit to foreclose his mortgage, but did not make the United
States a party defendant. On June 6, 1871, the United States
bought lot one at the execution sale in satisfaction of its debt.
On October 4, Palmer obtained judgment of foreclosure in the
sum of $3764.16, with costs. On October 16, the sale to the
United States was.duly colifirmed and a deed ordered. The
deed, however, was not executed until October 30, 1S83. On
October 25, 1871, Palmer took out execution against McElroy,
and on December 4 the property was sold under this execution,
and bought in for the debt by Palmer. The sale was confirmed
January 4, 1872, and a sheriff's deed executed to Palmer.
On January 4, 1872, the title stood as follows:
1. The property had been sold to the United States by sale
confirmed October 16, 1871, on a second lien.
2. The property had been sold to Palmer by a sale confirmed
December 26, 1871, on a first lien, the United States not being
a party defendant.
3. The United States not having been made a party, had the
right to redeem and treat the sheriff's deed as a mortgage in
the hands of Palmer, and Palmer as a mortgagee in possession.
Nothing was done for over twelve years, when on November
28, 1884, the United States filed this bill, having never been in
possession of the property. McElroy and wife remained in
possession of this lot with consent of Palmer under an agreement to purchase, until the death of Palmer, in November,
1872, after which the agreement lapsed. Afterwards the
Palmer heirs, desi ng. to sell, made another agreement with
McElroy, who acted as agent for his wife, that they would sell
the land to Mrs. McElroy, defendant herein. Payments on the
proprty began and slowly progressed through a series of
VOL. CL-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

years. The property had an earning capacity, and the rents
arhd profits went to Moses McElroy. He died in August, 1881,
leaving the property partly unpaid for. In the agreed statement of facts it was admitted that the agreement with the
Palmer heirs vested the title and ownership in said land in
Mrs. McElroy, except as affected by the claim of the United
States in this action, if it should be determined that any such
claim or interest existed. After the agreement of purchase
had been made by defendant she improved the lands by erecting buildings at an expense of several thousands of dollars,
collected the rents, and enjoyed the use and benefit of the
property, the rents and profits exceeding by a small amount
the principal and interest which would be due under the mortgage of 1869, by way of redemption. The property was finally
deeded by the Palmer heirs to the defendant about five years
after her husband's death, and after the filing of the bill in
this suit.
Upon the hearing in the Cirbuit Court upon an agreed statement of facts, the bill was again dismissed, and the United
States. appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The court
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and a decree was
directed-in favor of the United States. From this decree an
appeal was taken by Insley to this court.
Mir. . D. 2XECleverty, for appellants, submitted on his brief.
-Yr. Soliitbr General, (with whom was .Afr. E. F. Ware on
the brief,) for appellees.
Mr.. JusmoTE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court..
The question in this case is whether the proceedings by
scire facias, taken by the United States to enforce the forfeiture of McElroy's recognizance, operated to divest his title
to the lands in dispute.
(1) The argument of the appellants in this connection is

INSLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that, under Rev. Stat. § 1014, authorizing commissioners, "to
take bail in any State where he" (the accused) " may be found,
and agreeably to the usual mode of process against offenders
in such State," proceedings for the enforcement of bail bonds
should conform to the practice in the State where the bond is
sued; and that, as the statutes of Kansas do not authorize
proceedings by scirefacias in such cases, but require a formal
action,.termed in the Code of Kansas a "civil action" against
the bail, this practice should also be pursued in the Federal
courts; and hence that the judgment of the District Court of
Kansas in thig case rendered upon a writ of scirefacias was
illegal and void.
But we do not find it necessary to determine whether. a scire
facias was a proper remedy or not. It is a sufficient answer.
to the appellants' contention that the court had jurisdiction
of the subject-matter under Rev. Stat. § 563, which confers
upon District Courts jurisdiction of all suits for penalties and
fo):feitures incurred under any law of the United States; and
§ 716, conferring upon District Courts power to issue writs of
sciref,:ias; and also that the court had jurisdiction of the
person of the defendant, who was not only served with the
writ, but appeared and moved to quash the same, apparently
for the same reasons which are now urged for holding the
proceedings to be a nullity. If McElroy had desired to contest his liability further he should have prosecuted his writ of
error from the Circuit Court, which he appears to have-sued
out, but subsequently dismissed. The error, if any were committed, did not go to the jurisdiction of the court, but only to
'the particular remedy pursued, and the action of that court in
respect thereto was binding in a collateral proceeding. -_endPick v. Whittemore, 105 Mass. 23.
Nice distinctions were formerly drawn between actions of
trespass and case, but it was never supposed that an error in
that particular affected the jurisdiction of the court, or could
be drawn in question collaterally. Even an objection that an
action should have been brought at law instead 6f in equity
may be Wai~ed by failure to take advantage of it at the proper
time. Wylie v. 0oxe, 15 How. 415, 420; Reynes. v. Dumont,

OCTOBER TERM: 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

130 U. S. 354, 395; Clark v. Flint, 22 Pick. 231; Ludlow v.
Simond, 2 Caines' Cas. 1, 40, 56.
(2) The objection that McElroy, the judgment debtor, died
in August, 1881, after the deed was ordered, but before itwas
actually executed by the sheriff, and that thereby the judgment
became dormant, is equally untenable. It assumes that the
general rule that the death of a party to a suit.either pending
the suit or after judgment and before execution abates the
suit, applies to a case where land has been sold upon execution
and no deed delivered.- It is true that this court held in the
case of Pansom v. lTilliams, 2 Wall. 313, that when a defexdant died after judgment, and execution was subsequently issued
without the notice required by the statute having been given
to the representatives of the defendant, or the judgment revived by scirefacias,the execution was a nullity, and all proceedings under it were void. But even in that case a doubt
was expressed whether the execution would not be good, if it
were tested before the death occurred. The law in such cases,
however, acts upon the theory that the defendant is interested
in the case, and, therefore, upon his death his personal representatives should be called in. In this case, however, the
suit was not only not pending, but the judgment had been
satisfied by the sale of the land, and there were no proceedings
existing in which McElroy's estate could be said to be interested. The sale was confirmed and deed ordered October
16, 1871, while the death of McElroy took place ten years
afterwards. After the property had been sold upon execution,
and the United States had bid it in, and the sale was confirmed
and the deed ordered, the defendant in the execution received
credit for the amount of the sale, which amount, $2467, cancelled the judgment, and left it fully satisfied. There was no
judgment to become dormant. In short, the whole proceedings 'between McElroy and the United States bad ceased to
exist. The United States stood only in the attitude of a purchaser of the land, with power to call upon the sheriff for a
deed. Had the land been bid in by a third party and a deed
ordered, it would scarcely be claimed that as to him the suit
would have been abated, and yet as a matter of law the posi-

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the United States was precisely the same as would have
been that-of a third person purchasing the property.
There was no error in the conclusion of the court below, and
its decree must, therefore, be

-Affirmed.

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 155. Argugd and submitted December 8, 1893.- Decided December 11, 1893.
The proceedings of a court-martial held upon a captain of infantry,in the
army of the United States, which resulted in a judgment of dismissal
from the service, having been transmitted to the Secretary of War "for
the action of the President of thq United States," the Seeretary endorsed
upon them that, "in conformity*with the sixty-fifth of the rules and
articles of war, thb proceedings of the general court-martial in the foregoing cause . . . have been forwarded to the Secretary of War for the
action of the President of the United States, and the proceedings, findings, and sentence are approved, and the sentence will be duly executed," and signed the endorsement officially as Secretary of War. Held,
on the authority of United States v. Fletcher, 148 U. S. 84, that this was a
sufficient authentication of the judgment of the President and that there
was no ground for treating the order as null and void for want of
the requisite approval.
THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of the appellant for a judgment against
the United States for unpaid salary as an officer in the army.
So much of the findings of that court as are necessary for
understanding the judgment of this court on the appeal were
as follows:
Findings of Fact and Conclusion of law. Filed .May 26,
1890.
This case having been heard before the Court of Claims, the
court, upon the evidence, finds the facts to be as follows:

I.
August 11, 1861, the claimant was appointed and commissioned first lieutenant in the Thirteenth regiment, United
States infantry, to rank as such from May 11, 1861.

