,OCTOBER TERIMf, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

CONNECTICUT AFTTTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. AKENS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED ST:ATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 100. Argued and submitted November 22, 23, 1893. -Decided December 4,1893.
A policy of life insurance, payable in "thirty days after due notice and satThe
isfactory evidence of death" and excepting this risk: "Suicide.self-destruction of the insured, in any form, except upon proof that the
same is the direct result of disease or of accident occurring without
th! voluntary act of the insured," covers the case of the insured's
death as the direct result of taking poison when his mind is so far deranged as to be unable to understand the moral character of his act, even
if he does understand its physical consequences; and it is sufficient to
prove this at the trial, without stating it in the preliminary proof of
death.

THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought January 14, 1888,
by the executor of Archibald 0. Smith, both citizens of Pennsylvania, against a life insurance company, a corporation of
Connecticut, upon a policy of insurance, dated January 14,
1887, on Smith's life in the sum of $10,000, payable in "thirty
days after due notice and satisfactory evidence" of his death,
and upon the express conditions that "the following risks are
not assumed by this company under this contract," and that
"in each and every of the foregoing cases this policy shall
become and be null and void." One of those risks and cases
was as follows :
Y'Suicide.-The self-destruction of the insured, in any form,
except upon proof that the same is the direct result of disease
or of, accident occurring without the voluntary act of the
inslirede'
The declaration, after setting out the policy, alleged that
Smith died on February 23, 1887, having paid all the premiums and complied with all the requirements of the policy;
and that on March 16, 1887, good and sufficient proof of his
death was made to the defendant.

CONNECTICUT LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. AKENS. 469
Statement of the Case.
The defendant pleaded non-assumpsit, with an affidavit of
defence that Smith's death was a self-destruction or suicide,
the direct result of laudanum poison administered by him to
himself for the purpose and with the effect of causing his
death, and contrary to the provision of the policy.
The plaintiff filed a replication, denying these allegations,
and alleging that, if Smith's death was a self-destruction, it
was the direct result of disease or of accident occurring without his voluntary act, and without any purpose or intention of
self-destruction or suicide, and his reasoning faculties at the
time of taking the poison were so far impaired that he was
not able to understand the moral character, or the nature, consequence, and effect of the act he was about to commit, and it
was not contrary to the provisions of the policy.
At the trial, the plaintiff gave in evidence the policy, and
formal proof of death, as alleged in the declaration, and rested
his case. The defendant then introduced evidence tending to
support the defence pleaded. The plaintiff then introduced evidence tending to show that Smith's reasoning faculties at the
time he took the poison were so far impaired that he was not
able to understand the moral character, and the nature, effect,
and consequence of the act he was about to commit; but, other
than this, offered no evidence tending to show that his death
was the direct result of-disease or of accident occurring without
his voluntary act.
Upon this evidence, the defendant requested the court to
instruct the jury as follows:
"First. If the jury believe from the evidence in the case
that Smith, the insured, destroyed his own life, and that at
the time of the self-destruction he had sufficient capacity to
understand the nature of the act which he was about to cornnit and the consequences which would result from it, then, and
in that case the plaintiff cannot recover on the policy sued on
in this case.
"Second. If the jury believe from the evidence that the
self-destruction -of the said Smith was intended by him, he
having sufficient capacity at the time to understand the nature
of the act which he was about to commit and the consequences

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which would result from it, then and in that case it is wholly
immaterial in the present case that he was impelled thereto by
insanity which impaired his sense 6f moral responsibility and
rendered him to a certain-extent irresponsible for his action.
"Third. It the jury believe from the evidence that Smith's
life was ended February 23, 1887, by means of laudanumn poison administered by himself to himself, the plaintiff cannot
recover on the policy sued upon in this case, unless the jury
believe also from the evidence that the self-destruction aforesaid of said Smith was the direct result 'of disease or of accident occurring without his voluntary action.
"Fourth. Under all the evidence in this case,'the verdict of
the jury should be for the defendant."
The court declined to, give the first, second, and fourth instructions requested, and upon the third request instructed the
jury as follows:
"The third point is. affirmed, with this exception : 'that if
the act of self-destruction was the result of insanity, and was
with suicidal intent, and the ufiind of the insured was so far
deranged as to have made him 'incapable of using a rational
judgment in regard to the act he was about to commit, the
defendant is liable; but if he was impelled to the act by an
insane impulse, which the reasoi that was left him did not
enable him to resist,, or if his reasoning powers were so far
overthrown by his mental condition that he could not exercise
his reasoning faculties on the act he was about to commit, the
defendant is liable. If from the evidence you believe that
the insured, though excited or angry or depressed in mind
from any cause, formed the determination to take his own
life, because in the exercise of his usual reasoning faculties he
preferred death to life, then the defendant is not liable."
To this qualification of the third instruction, as well as to
the refusal to give each of the other instructions requested, the
defendait excepted, and, after verdict and judgment for the
plaintiff for the amount of the policy, sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. George TV Guthvie for plaintiff- in error.

CONNECTICUT LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. AKENS.

471

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The phrase "self-destruction in any form," used in the
policy, is not merely the equivalent of suicide, but covers
every case of self-killing,.whether felonious or otherwise. If the
death of the insured was brought about in the manner alleged,
no recovery could be had, even fhough his mental condition
was 'such as described by the court, unless it was, the direct
result of disease (the opium having been self-administered with
the intention of destroying his life, it could not be accidental),
and unless proof thereof was furnished to the company before
suit brought, or at least produced at the trial of the case:
If by the expression " self-destruction in any form," the parties meant only suicide or felonious self-killing, then the words
which follow have no significance or effect. A suicide could
not be the result of disease or of accident occurring iithout
the voluntary act of the insured. Therefore, no proof that it
was such could be produced. Self-killing by an insane man,
or by accident, is not suicide, and to interpret this provision
so that it excludes suicide on proof that it is not suicide, is to
make it without sense.
It follows, therefore, that the context in which the phrase
is used clearly shows that by it the parties themselves intended
something more than suicide only. It is also clear that the
only other sense in which it could have been used was the
generic one, meaning thereby any case of self-killing, whether
felonious or otherwise. And therefore that it was used in
that sense, and as the word is not a technical one and has
never received a technical interpretation, the meaning whiclh
the parties themselves attached to it must prevail. Bigelow v.
Berkslhire Life Lis. Co., 93 U. S. 2S4.
The word "self-destruction" is a generic word, and ,as
never been held to have only a limited technical meaning, as
the word "suicide" has. It belongs to the same class as the
word "homicide," which includes every mode by which the.
life of one man is taken by the act of another, whether sane
or insane, by intention or by accident, feloniously or innocently. (See the definition in Worcester, Webster, The Century, and the Encyclopoedia.)
It is apparent, therefore, that when correctly used, the word

OCTOBER TEkMI; 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"self-destruction" does not of itself import any element of
intention or design: it simply designates the act of taking
one's own life, without regard to whether it is felonious or
non-felonious, intentional or otherwise.
It was used in this sense by this court in the cases of Life
-Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall. 5S0; Bigelow v. Berkshire Life
Ins. Co., 93 U. S. 28-1; Ins. Co. v. Podel, 95 U. S. 232;
.cnhattan 12s. Co. v. Broughton, 109 U. S. 121; Connecticut
Ins. Co. v. Lathrop, 111 U. S. 612.
In each one of these cases the word "suicide" and the
phrase "died by his own hand," are defined as meaning felonious self-destruction, a definition which has no meaning if
"suicide" and "self-destruction" are synonymous terms. It
wQuld amount to nothing more than a statement that "suicide" moant "felonious suicide."
"
is a
On the other hand, if the word "self-destruction
usage
common
In
is
cdrrect.
the
definition
then
gene.ric term
the word simply indicates that the man's life has been
destroyed through his own instrumentality. To give color
to the act some adjective qualifying phrase is necessary.
We therefore submit that, as the evidence showed that the
insured died from poison administered by himself with the
intention of taking his own life, the plaintiff cannot recover,
even though the insured was insane at the time, except by
showing, that the insanity resulted from disease, and that
the proof of it was given to the company.
The circumstances leading to the incorporation of these provisions in life insurance policies are too well known to require
more than the merest reference. It having been held that an
exception of suicide from the risks assumed would exclude
only felonious self-destruction, the insurance companies sought
some word or phrase which would have a wider meaning.
Some, as the plaintiff in error, adopted the words "elfdestruction in any form," while others retained the word
"suicide," qualifying it, however, with various phrases, as
"sane or insane," "felonious or otherwise," " voluntary or
involuntary."
The effect of this was to exclude marny risks which the

CONNECTICUT LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. AKENS _473
Opinion of the Court.

companies were willing to assume upon proper conditions, as,

for instance, they were willing to insure againstself-destruction by accident, or while suffering from insanity the direct
result of disease, provided they could be protected from imposition, and the well-known tendency of juries to find insanity
in every case of self-destruction.
The clause now before the court was designed for this purpose. The company agrees to pay in a certain time after
proof of death, self-destruction being excluded "except upon
proof that it was the direct result of disease or of accidents
occurring without the voluntary act of the insured."
Nothing can be clearer than that it was the intention of the
parties to exclude from the risks assumed some cases of selfdestruction, and in all cases of self-destruction to impose upon
the claimant the duty of furnishing proof that it was not one
of the excluded cases; and, further, that the cases assumed
are those in which the self-destruction was the direct result of
disease or accident, tmd that all others were excluded.
X2'. D. B. Zurtz and .Mr. . R'. Akens filed a brief for
defendant in error; but the court declined to hear them.
JusTieE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

This case is governed by a uniform series of decisions of this
court, establishing that if one whose life is insured intentionally
kills himself when his reasoning faculties are so far impaired
by insanity that he is unable to understand the moral character of his act, even if he does undcrstand its physical nature,
consequence, and effect, it is not a "suicide," or "self-destruction,!' or "dying by his own han 1," within the meaning of
those words in a clause excepting such rislis out of the policy,
and contaifiing no further words expressly extending the exemption to such a case. Life Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall. 5S0;
Bigelow v. Beiks/ire 14s. (o., 93 U. S. 284; Insurance Co. v.
1Rodel, 95 U. S: 232; fanhatlaw Is. Co. v. Brougdon, 109
U. S 121; Conizecticut i ns. Co. v. Eatop, 111 U. S. 612;
Accident Ins. Co. v. Crandal,120 U. S. 527.

OCTOBER TE=f, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case at bar, the first two instructions requested were
exactly like those held to have been rightly refused, and the
modified instruction given upon the third request was substantially like that held to have been rightly given, in Terry's case,
in which the words of the exemption Were "die by his own
hand." That decision was followed and approved in 1odel's
case and Lathrop's case, in each of which the words were the
same; and in Bi'ougkton's case, in which the words were "die
by suicide," and the court, treating the two phrases as equivalent, expressed the opinioi that "the rule so established is
sounder in principle, as well as simpler in application, than
that which makes the effect of the act of self-destruction, upon
the interests of those for whose benefit the policy was made,
to depend upon the very subtle-and difficult question how far
any exercise of-the will can be attributed to a man who is so
unsound of mifid that, while he foresees the physical consequences which will directly result from his act, he cannot
understand its moral natui;e and character, or in any just sense
be said to know what it is that he is doing." 109 U. S. 131.
In Crandal's case, it was accordingly held that a policy of
insurance against " b odily injuries, effected through external,
a.ccidental, and violent means," and occasioning death or com-plete disability to do business, but excepting "death or disability caused wholly or in part by bodily infirmities or disease,
or by suicide or self-inficted injuries," covered death by hanging one's self while'insane; the court saying, "If self-killing,
'suicide,' ' dying by his own hand,'..cannot be predicated of an
insane person, no more can 'self-inflicted injuries'; for in
either case it is not his act." 120 U. S. 532.
In the .policy in suit, thb clause of exemption is in these
words: "Suicide. - The.self-destruction of the assured, iii any
form, except upon probf that the same is the direct result of
disease or of accident occurring without the voluntary act of
the assured."
It was argued that the word "self-destruction," as here used,
was more comprehensive than "suicide," and included an
intentional, though insane, killing of one's self. But the two
words are treated as synonymous in the very clause in ques-

CONNECTICUT LIFE INSURANCF

CO. v. AKENS. 476

Opinion of the Court.

tion, as well as in theformer opinions of this court. The act,
whether described by words of Saxon or of Latin origin, or
partly of the one and partly of the other-" dying by his
own hand," "self-killing," "self-slaughter," "suicide," "selfdestruction"- without more, cannot be imputed to a man
who, by reason of insanity, (as is commonly said,) "is not
himself."
The added words "in any form" clearly relate only to the
manner of killing; the word "disease," unrestricted by anything in the context, includes disease of the mind, as well as
disease of the body; arid the concluding words "the voluntary
act of the assured" point to the act of a person mentally
capable of controlling his will. The clause contains 'no such
significant and decisive words as "die by suicide, sane or
insane," as in Bigelow v. Berksli'e -Is. Co., 93 U. S. 284; or
"by suicide, felonious or otherwise, sane or insane," as in'
T'avellers' Ins. Co. v. iJXcConkey, 127 U. S. 661.
Upon that part of the clause, which requires "proof that
the same is the direct result of disease or of accident occurring
without the voluntary act of the insured," it was argued that
such proof must be furnished to the company as part of the
preliminary proof of death; and also that evidence that the
mental condition of the insured, at the time of the self-destruction, was of the character which the court.below held to render
him irresponsible for his act, was not sufficient proof that the
self-destruction was the result of disease or accident. But the
word "proof" here clearly means, not the proof reqfired as a
preliminary to bringing suit on the policy, but the proof
necessary to establish the liability of the insurer. And'in
making out such proof, the plaintiff is entitled to the benefit
of the presumption that a sane man irould not commit suicide,
and of other rules of law established for the guidance of courts
and juries in the investigation and determination of facts.
Travellers' Ins. Co. v. [cConkey, 127 U. S. 661, 667.
Judgment afirmed.
_YR. JUSTICE IARLA.N and A[. JUSTICE SHIAs did. not sit in
this case, or take any part in its decision.

