OCTOBER TERNt, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of the government, and employed for work of like character
to that sued for. He was the one officer or employ6 to whom,
when this work had to be done, attention would naturally
have been directed. It would seem from his delay in bringing
suit that he recognized this work as within the scope of his
regular duties. At the most, it can only be regarded as extra
service, cast upon him as an officer of the government and by
reason of his official position, and, as such, there is no express
provision of law for its compensation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is right, and it must be
Affirmed.

FARLEY v. HILL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIMcUIT COURT OF THE U2MM~E

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MMIWIfESOTA.
No. 56. Argued October 30, 31, November 1, 1893. -Decided December 11, 1893.

Passing by the question whether a receiver appointed by a court pending
proceedings to foreclose a railroad mortgage is precluded from buying
bonds on the market or from agreeing to unite with others in bidding at
the sale, and the question whether the contract set'up in this case is
within the statute, of frauds of the State of Minnesota, and the question*
whether, even if the contract was illegal and not enforceable in a court
of equity, an account might not be compelled, the court holds that the
plaintiff has failed in proving his case.

IN EQITY. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed. The evidence was voluminous, but the
court seems to have stated in its opinion everything that is
necessary to be stated in order to understand it. The case was
before this court at October term, 1886, as staled in the
opinion, under the title P7arley v. Kittson, reported in 120
U. S. at p. 303. Since then Mr. Kittson has died, and the
St. Paul Trust Company, the executor of his will, was substituted as defendant in his place. The facts, as stated by the
court, with its opinion, 'were as follows:

FARLEY v. BILL.
Counsel for Appellees.

On December 15, 1881, Jesse P. Farley filed in the Circuit
Court bof the United States for the District of Minnesota a bill
of complaint against Norman W. Kittson, James J. Hill, and
the St. Paul, Minneapolis'and Manitoba Railway Company.
The object of the bill was to enforce the complainant's
alleged right to share with Kittson and Hill in the proceeds
of certain foreclosure proceedings against the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company and the first division of the St.
Paul and Pacific .Railroad Company, and wherein the St. Paul,
Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company, a corporation
organized by Kittson and Hill, in connection with other persons, had become the owners of the foreclosed properties.
To this bill the St. Paul, :Miinneapolis and Manitoba, Railway Company demurred for'want of equity, and Kittson and
Hill filed a plea denying some of the allegations of the bill,
and alleging that Farley, as receiver and manager, under appointment by a court, was precluded by.reason of public policy
from making, any valid agreement with Kittson and Hill of
the kind set .up in the bill.
To this plea a replication was filed, and proofs were taken.
The Circuit Court held that the agreement of the plaintiff
with Kittson and Hill was unlawful and void, and on that
ground sustained the plea and dismissed the bill. 4 McCrary,
13s.
On appeal to the Supreme Court the decree of the Circuit
Court was reversed, and the case was remanded with directions to overrule the plea and to order the defendants to
answer the bill. 120 U. S. 303, 318.
The case was proceeded in in the Circuit Court. The defendants answered, replication was filed, and evidence was taken,
and a final decree was rendered dismissing the bill. From
that decree this appeal was taken.
Xr. Benry . Bean and George F. -Edmundsfor appellant.
.Ar. Edward AD.Cooke. was with them on the brief.
Mr. George B. Young, (with whom was .Mr. _f.
Grover on the brief,) for appellees.

).

OCTOBER TER-Tf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.&r. John JMaynard Harlan for the St. Paul Trust Company, appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill sought to enforce an agreement whereby Farley,
the plaintiff, and Kittson and Hill were to purchase, for their
joint and equal benefit, bonds, secured by mortgages, of two
railroad companies, of one of which Farley was receiver by
appointment by the court, and of the other of which he was
the general manager, by appointment of the trustees named
in the mortgages.
The validity of. such an agreement was denied by the
defendants, and they sought to raise that question at the
threshold of the case by filing a plea, setting up the supposed
incompetency of Farley to enter into such a contract, and the
court below sustained the plea and dismissed the bill. In
order, however, to escape from the effect of certain allegations
in the bill, which averred knowledge on the part of the bondholders of Farley's connection ininterest with Kittson and
Hill, the defendants included in their plea a denial of such
allegations, and this court was of .opinion that the proper
office of a plea to a bill in equity was not to traverse its allegations, like an answer, nor yet, like a demurrer, while admitting those allegations, to deny the equity of the bill, but to
present some distinct fact, which of itself creates a bar to the
suit, and thus to avoid the delay and expense of going into
the evidence at large. This view resulted in a reversal of the
decree of the Circuit Court sustaining the plea, and the cause
was remanded with directions to overrule the plea, and to
order the defendants to answer. Farley v. Kittson, 120 U. S.
318.
The result of the new trial below was that the Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and, as we learn from the opinion of that
court, mainly upon two grounds, namely, that the plaintiff
had failed to sustain the allegations of his bill by sufficient
proof, and that the agreement relied on by the plaintiff, even
if proven, was, in view of his official position, invalid.

FARLEY v. HILL.

575

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the second appearance of the cause in this court the
proposition that was urged when it was here before is again
pressed upon us, with great force of argument and illustration:
That the position of Farley, as receiver and manager of the
qompanies whose roads were embraced in the foreclosure
proceedings, was such as to disable him from having an enforceable interest in a private agreement with parties intending
to buy up the bonds of the companies and become purchasers
of the railroads at the foreclosure sales.
Whether a receiver appointed by a court pending foreclosure
proceedings is precluded from buying bonds on the market or.
from agreeing to unite with others in bidding at the sale is
a question best decided on its own facts and when it shall be
necessary to decide it. His position, no doubt, is a'fiduciary
one. towards the creditors and stockholders of the company,
and, in a proper case, disclosing fraud or unfairness, they
could be-heard to impugn any rights or interests he might
acquire hostile to theirs. Nor do we wish to be understood as
saying that facts might not be made to appear, in a given
case, showing such dereliction of duty and such abuse of his
position by a receiver as to justify a court of equity in declining to afford him a remedy even against those who had
participated with him in unlawful schemes.
It has also been contended in this court that the contract
set up in the bill was ineffective, because within the statute of
frauds of the State of Minnesota,'which declares that every
contract for the sale of lands, or any interest therein, shall be
void, unless the contract, or some note or memorandum thereof
expressing the consideration, is in writing and subscribed by
the party by whom the sale is made, or by his authorized
agent; it appearing that the main object of the contract alleged was, through a purchase of the bonds of the railroad
companies, to finally become the purchasers of the railroads
on the foreclosure sale, such railroads and appurtenances being
claimed to be lands within the meaning of said statute.
When, however, we come to a consideration of the case, as it
appears in the pleadings and evidence, we find no difficulty in
concurring with the view of the learned judge below, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff failed in proving his case, and we are thus relieved
from determining whether the- defendants could escape from
responding to their contract by setting upr its invalidity on the
grounds of public policy; whether, even if the contract was illegal and not enforceable in a court of equity, an account might
not be compelled within the doctrine of the case of Brooks v.
iXiati, 2 Wall. 70, and whether such a contract would be
within the statute of frauds ofthe State of Minnesota.
The evidence upon which the court below acted'in finding
that the plaintiff had failed to maintain his allegation that a
'contract had been entered into with Kittson and Hill comprises
nearly two thousand pages, and it largely turns upon the
testimony of Farley and of Fisher, his clerk, on behalf of'the
plaintiff, and of Hill, one of the defendants, on the part of
the defence. Kittson, the other defendant, died before his
testimony could be taken, although he had employed counsel
.to defend the case.
It is argued that, as it thus appears that the question of fact
as to the existence of such a contract is in equilibr'ioas between
Farley and Hill, the testimony of Fisher, Farley's clerk, but
who is not a party, should turn the scale; and this might be
just reasoning if the question in issue had to be determined
upon the testimony of those three witnesses. But, as is pointed
out in the opinion of the court below, there is -an inherent
improbability in the plaintiff's story - not in the assertion thathe had become interested with others in the oWnership of bonds
and in the proposed purchase of the railroads, for such agreements are not unusual, but by reason of the absence of any
writing expressing the agreement. A man of affairs, as the
plaintiff was, would not be likely, in a matter, of such magnitude, to rely upon a merely verbal agreement, and, as the
transactions occupied a considerable time, we would expect, if
such a contract really existed, to find letters or memoranda
relating to it; but such are not produced. On the contrary,
the letters and conversations that we find in the record, though
trifling and inconsequential in themselves, do not point to or
imply any, subsisting agreement between Farley and Kittson
aid-Rill. "

FARLEY v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not necessary for us to say, or to think, that Farley and:
Fisher, in testifying as they did, perpetrated intentional false-

hood. It is altogether possible that, from desultory conversations with Kittson and Hill, and from.an exaggerated sense of
his own importance in the matters in hand, Farley was led to
believe that he was entitled to pairticipate in the venture.
But a court cannot act upon such uncertain conjectures. A
contract of the kind, asserted by the plaintiff must be established to the entire satisfaction of a court of equity before its
intervention can be demanded.
The utmost effect that can be given to-the plaintiff's evidence
is that he had reason to expect that he would be included as a
party in the project of buying bonds and bidding at the sale of
the railroads. But it is clear, from his own evidence, that he
was not included in the actual transaction. He furnished no
part of the moneys used, and is not shown to have contribute&,
any special or peculiar information important to the syndicate.
His bill, therefore, is filed for an account of a partnership or
enterprise in which he really did not participate. His remedy,
if he is entitled to any, would seem to be an action at law for
damages, though it is difficult to see that there was any consideration proceeding from him, eithei in money contributed
or in personal services of any kind, out of which a legal
obligatioil could arise, or which could furnish a measure of
damages.
Our conclusion is that the court below was right in dismissing the bill, and its decree is accordingly
Affi'rmed.
VOL. cL---3

