EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
Syllabus.

The question of negligence is one of law for the court only
where the facts are such that all reasonable men must draw
the same conclusion from them, or, in other words, a case
should not be withdrawn from the jury unless the conclusion
follows as matter of law that no recovery can be had upon
any view which can be properly taken of the facts the evidence tends to establish. Railway Company v. Ives, 144 U. S.
408, 417; Railway Company v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 606;
Railroad Corany v. .Miller, 25 Michigan, 274; Sadowski v.
car Company, 84 Mlichigan, 100.
Tested by this rule we are of opinion that the case should
have been left to the jury under proper instructions, inasmuch as an examination of the record discloses that there
was evidence tending to show that the crossing was in an
unsafe condition; that the ijbjury happened in consequence;
that the defect was occasioned under such circumstances, and
was such in itself, that its existence must have been known to
defendant; that sufficient time for repairs had elapsed; and
that the plaintiff was acting in obedience to orders in uncoupling at the place and time, and as he was; was ignorant of
the special peril; and was in the exercise of due care.
The judgment is reversed, and te cause remanded with a
direction to grant a new trial.
MR. JUsTIcE FIERL did not hear the argument and took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREA

JUDICIAL COURT OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 74. Argued November 9,10, 1893. -Decided

November 20, 1893.

The decision by the Supreme Judicial Court of fassa~husetts that a creditor of an insolvent debtor, who proves his debt in insolvency, and
accepts the benefit of proceedings under the state statute of May 13,
1884, entitled "Au act to provide for composition with creditors in

OCTOBER TERAM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

insolvency," Mass. Stats. 1884, c. 236, and the act amending the same,
thereby waives any right which he might otherwise have had to object
to the.validity of the composition statutes, as impairing the obligation
of contracts, presents no Federal question for review by this court.
To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court, it must
appear affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented for
decision by the state court, but that its decision was necessary -to the
determination of the cause, and. that it was decided adversely to the
party claiming a right under the Federal laws or Constitution, or that
Lhe judgment, as rondered, could not have been given without deciding
it.
Where the record discloses that, if a question has been raised and decided
adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, another question, not Federal, has
been also raised and decided against such party, and the decision of the
latter question is sufficient, notwithstanding the Federal question; to
sustain the judgment, this court will not review the judgment.
When this court, in a case brought here by writ of error to a state court,
finds it unnecessary to decide any Federal question, its logical course is
to dismiss the writ of error.

Ox Februar 14, 1887, Charles H. Bolles and George F. Wilde,
as surviving memberg of the firm of B. Collender & Company,
filed a petition in insolvency in the insolvency court within
and for the county of Suffolk, State of Massachusetts. On
February 16, 1887, they filed in the same insolvency court a
written proposal for composition with their copartnership
creditors, under the so-called "composition acts" of 1884 and
1885, and they therein proposed to pay fifty cents on the dollar of their debts in money. On February 24, 1887, the first
meetings of creditors were held in both the ordinary insolvency proceedings which were begun on February 14, and in
the composition proceedings which were begun on February
16, and William T. Eustis proved a claim on a promissory
note for $16,000, dated January 1, 1880, and due on demand,
and voted for assignees in the ordinary insolvency proceeding;
but the record does not show that he proved his claim in
the composition proceedings. On March 10, 1887, an adjourned hearing in the composition proceedings was held in
the insolvency court, to determine whether said proposal for
composition should be confirmed; and Eustis appeared by
counsel at said hearing and opposed the confirmation of said

EUSTIS v. BOIILES.
Statement of the Case.

proposal and the granting of a discharge to said Bolles and
Wilde, on the ground that the said composition acts were
unconstitutional and void. Eustis also filed written objections
to the discharge of the debtors, alleging that the composition
acts, having been pa~sed after the execution and delivery of
the note held by Eustis, were in violation of that part of the
Constitution of the United States which forbids any State to
pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Bolles and Wilde, having filed in the- insolvency court the
written assent of a majority in number and value of their
creditors who had proved their claims, and having deposited
in court one-half the aggregate amount of their debts, were
granted by the court, on March 31, 1887, certificates of discharge under and in pursuance of the composition acts. On
T-Mfay 14, 1887, Eustis received the sum of $8020, being onehalf the amount of his claim, and signed a receipt therefor,
reciting that it was "according to the composition confirmed
by the court in the case." All the other creditors of said
Bolles and Wilde accepted the offer, and signed similar
redeipts.
Subsequently, in July, 1887, Eustis brought an action in
the Supreme Judicial Court against Bolles and Wilde, wherein
he sought to recover the balance of his note remaining unpaid
after the receipt of the one-half received under the insolvency
proceedings. The defendants pleaded the proceedings in
insolvency, their offer of composition, its acceptance by the
majority in number and value of their creditors, their discharge, and the acceptance by Eustis of the amount coming to
him under the offer of composition, and to this answer the
plaintiff demurred. Subsequently the death of William T.
Eistis was suggested, and Isabel B. Eustis and Florence D.
Eustis were permitted to appear and prosecute said action as
executrices.
The trial court, which overruled the demurrer, made a finding of facts, and reported the case for the determination of
the full court. The Supreme Judicial Court was of opinion
that Eustis, by accepting the benefit of the composition, had
waived any right that he might otherwise have had to object

OCTOBER TERAT, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

to the validity of the composition statutes as impairing the
obligation of contracts. 146 Mass. 413. Final judgment. was
entered for the defendants on November 26, 1889, and on
January 29, 1890, a writ of error was allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court to this court.
2r. Conrad Reno, (with whom was .Mr. Wiliam A. MA~acZeod on the brief,) for plaintiffs in, error.
I. This court has jurisdiction. The question of Federal law
was specially set up or claimed by the original plaintiff in the
proper way and at the right time. When a state court of last
resort justifies its refusal, neglect or failure to decide in favor
of a- Federal right, title, privilege, or immunity which is
specially set up or claimed in the proper way and at the right
time, by the application of some general rule of law to the
facts of the case, such as waiver, estoppel, or acquiescence, its
judgment is reviewable by this court on writ of error. If, in
the opinion of this court, the justification assigned by the
state court is well grounded, the state judgment will be
affirmed. But if, in the opinion of this court, the justification
is not well grounded, the aggrieved party is entitled to the
benefit of the Federal law, and the state judgment will be
reversed if a correct decision of the Federal question requires
such reversal. Given. v. IFright, 117 U. S. 648, 655-656;
.-Untington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Des Mloines -Naviatio
Co. v. Iowa -omestead Co., 123 U. S. 552 ; Green v. 'Fan Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307, and 7 Wall. 139; Railroad Co. v: _Xdontz,
104: U. S. 5 ; Renaud v. Abbott, 116 U. S. 277 ; Chapman v.
Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540, 548.
II. A creditor whose demand is saved from the operation
of a state statute or of a state decree by the Constitution of the
United States does not waive the benefit of this constitutional
immunity by accepting the part of his demand which the state
statute or decree says shall constitute full satisfaction; and,
there being no other defence, he is entitled to recover the
unpaid balance of the debt. Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3;
0K2inerly v. Ely,: 6 Pick. 440; .Montague v. Massey, 76 Vir-

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ginia, 307; 1loodbridge v. Mright, 3 Connecticut, .523; -Douglass v. Craig, 13 S. C. 371. See also Insurance Co. v. fore,
20 Wall. 445 (reversing .Morse v. Home Is. Co., 30 Wisconsin',
496); Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Railrozd Company
v. M3aryland, 21 Wall. 456.
It appears that, during the entire pendency of the composition proceedings, the plaintiff's whole course of conduct was
one of opposition and protest. He declined to accept the offer
when first made, and he opposed the granting of the discharges. It was not until after the court bad granted certificates of discharge that the plaintiff accepted a dividend.
It is well settled that a creditor who accepts the amount of
a judgment or decree for less than he claims to be due is not
thereby estopped to show that the judgment or decree is erroneous or void; nor does he thereby waive any of his former
rights. Erwin v. Lowry, 7 How. 172, 183-184; 'Planters'
Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 497; 1?eynes v. .Dumont,
130 U. S. 354; Bowers v. Hlammond, 139 Mass. 360; Catlin
v. WMheeler, 49 Wisconsin, 507; .olorriss v. Garland, 78 Virginia, 215, 234; Chicago & Eastein Illinois Railway v. Hamman, 119 Illinois, 362.
II. The composition acts so affected the plaintiff's remedy
as it subsisted in the State when and where the contract was
made and where it was to be performed, as substantially to
impair and lessen the value of the contract; and, therefore,
they impair.the obligation of the contract in suit and are.void.
Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595; B2onson v. Kinzie, 1
How. 311, 317; Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How. 304, 309-310;
H7awthorne v. Calef, 2 Wall. 10; Von Hfoffman v. Quincy, 4
Wall. 535, 553; lfalker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314; Louisiana v. ew Orleans, 102 U. S. 203, 206; Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S.672; -Matterof lVendell, 19 Johns. 153.
The single defence to this action is the defendants' discharge
under and pursuant to the "composition acts" of Massachusetts, being.Acts of 1884, 195, c. 236, and'Acts of 1885, 811,
c. 353. The single reply of the plaintiffs is that the composition acts are unconstitutional and void, chiefly on the ground
that they impair the obligation of the contract in suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

A subsequent statute, giving greater facilities to the debtor
in obtaining his discharge in an insolvency court than were
given him by the law in force when and where the contract
was made, or which authorizes a discharge from a preexisting contract, in a case where such a discharge could not
previously have been granted, impairs the obligation of the
contract, and is unconstitutional and void; and a discharge
obtained under such a statute is no defence to an action on the
claim. -Matterof Wendell, 19 Johns.- 153; Salters v. Tobias,
3 Paige, 338, 344;. Wyman v. _Mitchell, 1 Cowen, 316; Bryar
v. JVillcocks, 3 Cowen, 159; Hundley v. Chaney, 65 California, 363.
.Xr. Edwin, B. Hale, (with whom was -Mr. James B. Richardson on the brief,) for defendants in error.
MnI. JUSTIOE SIRAs, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is settled law that, to give this court jurisdiction of a
writ of error to a state court, it must appear affirmatively,
not only that-a Federal question was presented for decision by
the state court, but' that its decision was necessary to the
determination of the cause, and that it was actually decided
adversely to the party claiming a right under the Federal laws
or Constitution, or that the judgment as rendered could not
have been given without deciding it. Jlrdock v. .2iem his,
20 Wall. 590; Cooke County v. Qalumet & Chticago Canal Co.,
138 U. S. 635.
It is likewise settled law that, where the record discloses
that if a question has been raised and decided adversely to a
party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution
or laws of the United States, another question, not Federal,
has been also raised and decided against such party, and the
decision of the latter question is sufficient, notwithstanding
the Federal question, to sustain the judgment, this court will
not review the judgment.
1h Klinger v. 1issouri, 13 Wall. 257, 263, this court,
through Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "TThe rules which govern

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
Opinion of the Court.

the action of this court in cases of this sort are well settled.
Where it appears by the record that the judgment of the
state court might have been based either upon a law which
would raise a question-of repugnancy to the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States, or upon some other independent ground, and it.appears that the court did, in fact, base its
judgment on such independent ground and not on the law
raising the Federal question, this court will not take jurisdiction of the case, even though it might think the position of
the state court an unsound one. But where it does not appear
on which of the two grounds the judgment was based, then,
if the independent ground on which it might have been based
was a good and valid one, sufficient of itself to sustain -the
judgment, this court will not assume jurisdiction of the case;
but if such independent ground was not a good and valid one,
it will be presumed that the state court based its judgment
on the law raising the Federal question, and this court will
then take jurisdiction."
In Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, the record showed that,
in the Supreme Court of Tennessee, two grounds of defence
had been urged, one of which involved the construction of the
provisions of the Federal bankrupt act of March 2, 1867, and
the other the bar of the statute of limitations of the State of
Tennessee; and this court held that "where, in an action
pending in a state court, two grounds of defence are interposed, each broad enough to defeat a recovery, and only one
of them involves a Federal question, and judgment passes for
the defendant, the. record must show, in order to justify a
writ of error from this court, that the judgment was rested
upon the disposition bf the Federal question; and if this does
not affirmatively appear, the writ of error will be dismissed,
unless the defence which does not involve a Federal question
is so palpably unfounded that it cannot be presumed to have
been entertained by the state court."
Different phases of the question were presented, and the
same conclusion was reached" in .Aurray v. Ch]arlston, 96
U. S.432, 44k; Jenkins -v. Loewenthal,110 U.S. 222; Rale
V. Akers, 132 U. &.554.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In this state of the laiv we are met, at the threshold in
the present case, with the question whether the record discloses that the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts

decided adversely to the plaintiffs in error any claim arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
whether the judgment of that court was placed on another
ground, not involving Federal law, and sufficient of itself
to sustain the judgment.
The defendants in the trial court depended on a discharge
obtained by them under regular proceedings, under the insolvency statutes of Massachusetts. This defence the plaintiffs
met by alleging that the statutes, under which the defendants had procured their discharge, had been enacted after
the promissory note sued on had been executed and delivered,
and- that, to give effect to a discharge obtained tinder such
subsequent laws, would impair the obligation of a contract,
within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
Upon such a state of facts, it is plain that a Federal question,
decisive of the case, was presented, and that if the judgment
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts adjudged
that question adversely to the plaintiffs, it would be the
duty of this court to consider the soundness of such a judgment.
Th6 record, however, further discloses that William T.
Eustis, represented in this court by his executors, had accepted
and receipted for the money which had been awarded him,
as his portion, under the insolvency proceedings, and that
the court below, conceding that his cause of action c6uld not
be taken away from him, without his consent, by proceedings
under -statutes of insolvency passed stibsequently to the vesting of his rights, held that the action of Eustis, in so accepting and receipting for his dividend in the insolvency proceedings, was a waiver of his right to object to the yalidity
of the insolvency statutes, and that, accordingly, the defendants were entitled to the judgment.
The view of the court was that, when the composition was
confirmed, Eustis was put to his election whether he would
avail himself of the composition offer, or would reject it and

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
Opinion of the Court.

rely upon his right to enforce his debt against his debtors
notwithstanding their discharge.
In its discussion of this question the court below cited and
claimed to follow the decision of this court in the case of
Clay v. Smith, 3 Pet. 411, where. it was held that the plaintiff, by proving his debt and taking a dividend under the
bankrupt laws of Louisiana, waived his right to object that
the lMw did not constitutionally apply to his debt, hebeing
a creditor residing in another State. But in deciding that
it was competent for Eustis to waive his legal rights, and
that
accepting his dividend under the insolvency proceedings
was such
a waiver, the court below did not decide a Federal
question. Whether that view of"the case was sound or not,
it is not for us to inquire. It was broad enough, in itself,
to support the. final judgment, without reference to the
Federal question.
The case of Beaijr v. NVoyes, 138 U. S. 397, 401, seems
to cover the present one. There the plaintiff in error complained that an assignment of property, not accompanied
by delivery and an actual change of possession, was, as to
him, fraudulent; and as his contention to that effect was
denied to him, he claiined he was denied a rightarisrng under
an authority exercised under the United States. But- this
court said: "Whether the'state court so interpreted the
territorial statute as t6 deny such right to the plaintiffs
in error, we need not inquire, for it proceeded, in part, upon
another and distinct ground, not involving any Federal question, and sufficient, in itself, to maintain the judgnent,
without reference to that question. That ground is that
there was evidence tending to show that the defendants
acquiesced in and assented to all that-was done, and waived
-any irregularity in the mode in which the assignee conducted
the business; and that the question, whether the defendants
so acquiesced and assented with knowledge of all the facts,
and thereby waived their right to treat the assignment as
fraudulent, was properly submitted to the jury. The state
court evidently intended to hold that, even if the assignment
was originally fraudulent, as against the creditors, by reason
voL. nx--24

OCTOBER TERAW, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of Young," the assignor; remaining in apparent possession,
"it was competent for the plaintiffs in error to waive the
fraud and treat the assigmuent as valid.

.

.

.

That view

does not involve a Federal question. Whether sound or
not, we do. not inquire. It is broad enough, in itself, to
support the final judgment, without reference to the Federal
question."
Having reached the conclusion that we are not called upon
to determine any Federal question, nor to consider whether
the state court was right or wrong in its decision of the other
question in the case, it only remains to inquire whether that
conclusion requires us to affirm the judgment of the court
below, or to dismiss the writ of error. An examination
of our re6ords will show that, in similar cases, this court has
sometimes affirmed the judgment of the court below, and
sometimes has dismissed thewrit of error. This 'discrepancy
may have originated in a difference of views as to the precise
scope'of the questions presented. However that may be,
we think that, when we find it unnecessary to decide any
Federal question, and when the state court has based its
decision on a local or state question, our logical course is
to dismiss the writ of error. This was the judgment pronounced in .Jingerv. .Xissotri, 13 Wall. 257; N. 0. 'Materworlks v. louisiaa Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18; .Y'eigher
v. Shelby Railroad, 125 U. S: 39; De Saussure v. Gaillard,
127 U. S. 216; -Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. -554; Hapkins v.
_ltcLure, 133 U. S. 380; ohnson v. isk, 137 U. S. 300, 307;
and in numerous other cases which it is unnecessary to
cite.
Accordingly, our judgpment is that, in the present case, the
.writ of error must be
Dismissed.

