OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

to be of such magnitude as to prevent Congress, in the act
of 1890, from providing particularly that "the value of each
component material-shall be determined by the ascertained
value of such material in its condition as found in the article,"
and thus putting the question at rest. We regard this as
merely declaratory of the law.
There is another point raised in this case, namely, that the
opera glasses should be regarded as falling within the description of paragraph 216, as a manufacture composed wholly
or in part of metal, and, therefore, dutiable at 45 per cent
ad valorem. As this question is not raised by the record, and
no instruction was asked of the court based upon this interpretation, we do not find it necessary to express an opinion

upon the subject.
The judgment of the court below in each case, is therefore,
Affirmed.

MoALEER v. UITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 108. Argued November 23, 1893.-Decided December 4, 1893.
An employ6 in the Treasury Department, having obtained letters patent for
an invention which proved to be of use in the department, executed an
indenture to the department in which he said: "For the sum of one
dollar and other valuable consideration to me paid by the said department, I do hereby grant and license the said United Stateg Treasury
Department and its bureaus the right to make and use machines containing the improvements claimed in said letters patent to the full end of
the term for which said letters patent are granted." Held, that this
instrument constituted a contract fully executed on both sides, which
gave the right to the Treasury Department, without liability for remuneration thereafter, to make and use the machines containing the patented
improvements to the end of the term f6r which the letters were granted;
which contract could not be defeated, contradicted, or varied, by proof
of a collateral parol agreement inconsistent with its terms.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
rendered March 31, 1890, dismissing the petition of one Philip

MtcALEER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

McAleer, whose administratrix was substituted in this court.
The petition was filed November 27, 1888, "to recover from
the United States compensation for the use by the United
States of certain inventions made by the i etitioner and protected by letters patent of the United States issued to him,
such use being under licenses to the United States executd
by petitioner." The several inventions and improvements for
which letters patent were issued to petitioner Were set out,
and it was averred that "knowing that the said inventions
and improvements so 4s aforesaid secured to the petitioner by
letters patent were mainly and almost exclusively useful to
the United States in the said Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the petitioner, at the request and- by the advice of George
B. AcOartee, Esq., then superintendent of said bureau, for.the
United States executed and 'delivered to. the said McOartee
a license to the United States to use the petitioner's inventions
aforesaid mentioned in letters patent No. 170,183, which was
accepted by said MlcOartee for the United States, and under
said license the United States contirnued thereafter to use said
inventions." The license was then set out, and similar licenses
were alleged to have been executed and delivered for the use
by the United States of other inventions and improvements.
The petition also averred that the United States advanced
aboutthe sum of two hundred dollars to be expended in procuring the issue of letters patent, "the officers of said bureau
having urged the petitioner to have his aforesaid inventions
and improvements protected by letters patent, with the view
of securing to the United States, in the said Bureau of
Engraving and Printing, by licenses as aforesaid, the exclusive
use of the said inventions and improvements;" that at the
time of the issue of the letters patent and of the execution of
the licenses it was agreed between petitioner and the superintendent of the bureau in behalf of the United States that
petitioner should be retained and employed in the bureau as
machinist as long as the bureau continued to use said inventions or improvements, or any of them under the licenses;
and that he was subsequently discharged. The petition further stated: "That under the aforesaid licenses there was an

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

implied agreement between the United States and the petitioner that the United States should pay to the petitioner for
the use of said improvements and inventions whatever the said
use was reasonably worth, and the petitioner upon information
and belief says that the said use was reasonably worth the
sum of thirty-one thousand dollars ($31,000)."
The defendant pleaded the statute of limitations, the assignment for valuable consideration of -the patented improvements,
and want of novelty.
The case having been heard, the Court of Claims, upon the
evidence, filed the following findings of fact and conclusion of
law:
"1. Plaintiff is a citizen of the United States, a resident of
the city of Washington, and a machinist by occupation.
"2. From the year 1864 until about the 16th day of February, 1876, plaintiff was employed as a mechanic in the
Bureau of Engraving 'and Printing, formerly designated the
currency division of the 'Treasury Department. His duties
were those of a skilled mechanic, and during, the greatest part
of the time particularly related to the charge and repair of
machines used in that bureau for cutting and trimming fractional currency, including machines of the character hereinafter mentioned.
"During eleven months, beginning in November, 1876, and
ending about September 10, 1877, he was employed in said
bureau and paid as a watchman. At the latter date he was
discharged.
"3. December 7, 1875, letters patent No. 170,873, were
issued to plaintiff for improvement in paper-perforating
machines.
"4. Of the perforating machines described in the specifications accompanying letters patent 170,873, thirteen have been
made for the use of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing,
and that number of machines are now in use there, as are some
pin machines.'
"5. The difference in operation between the plaintiff's invention for paper perforating and the machine known as the
'pin machine,' which it was designed to supersede, is in'many

]WALEER

v. U ITED STATES.

Statement of the Case.

respects in favor of the Tormer. The speed of the fdrmer is
greater than the latter; it will perforate more sheets per
diem ;. the cost of constructing the knives is less than that of
constructing the pins; the knife machine requires less repair
than the pin machine. The pin machine does not punch
entirely through the paper, but leaves a burr at the back,
while the knife machine makes a clean cut, leaving no burr.
This is the principal'advantage of the knife machine and
is a material one.
"6. Except as hereinafter found (see finding 9) plaintiff
has received no compensation from the government for the
use of his invention..
"7. January 10, 1876, plaintiff executed the instrument set
forth at the close of this finding, which was recorded in the
Patent Office, (Liber 0 20, p. 40,) January 17, 1876.
"This assignment was made at the suggestion of George
B. McCartee, then chief of the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing.
"It was contemporaneously.agreed by and between plaintiff
and said Mc0artee that the assignment should hold good only
during plaintiff's .employment in said Bureau of EngraVing
and Printing, and not longer. Plaihitiff was discharged from.
government service without fault on his part September, 1877,
and his efforts to be'restored have been fruitless.
"Plaintiff's request to have the machines in question stamped
with his name a§ patentee was refused by the chief of the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
"Whereas I, Philip McAleer, of Washington, D. 0, have
invented certain improvements in paper-perforating machines,
for which letters patent of the United States were granted to
me and bear date December 7, 1875;
"And whereas the United States Treasury Department
is
dusirous of acquiring the right to use said invention as fully
described in said letters patent:
"Now this indenture witnesseth, that for the sum of one
dollar and other valuable- consideration to me paid by the
said department, I do hereby grant and license the said United

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case. "

States Treasury Department and its bureaus the right to make
and use machines containing the improvements, claimed in
said letters patent to the full end of the term for which said
letters patent are granted.
"Witness my hand and seal this 10th day of December,
1875.
"[CL. s.]
PHimp TcALEE.
"Recorded Jan. 17, 1876.
"8- It was no part of plaintiff's official duty to mak6 the
said invention. In making it he used government material,
but this was -of trifling value; he made it partly out of office
hours in the office, partly out of office hours at his hqme, and
partly at such hours as he found leisure during dffice hours in
the office.
"The device was to be applied to machines then under his
charge as &machinist; it was made entirely with government
tools and machinery; he was aidea by government employ~s;
the device was not used until 1879, when plaintiff was not in
government employ; before it- would operate the device required mechanical changes; these were made, and the device
was perfected and applied by government machinists using
governmen tools and material.
"9. Plaintiff received from the government wages as a
machinist from sorhe time in 1864: to February, 1876, inclusive,
and as a watchman from November, 1876, to SeptembeP, 1877,
both inclusive. The government paid the Patent Office expenses -and fees incident to the issue of the patent.
"10. The following assignment was made by plaintiff :"
[Here followed an assignment by McAleer to one Schneider.]
" 11. Plaintiff's invention was applied as follows, to
machines in the Bureau of Printing and Engraving: The first
machine was completed in April, 1879; two in August, 1879;
one in October, 1879; six at divers times between December
10, 1880, and February 18, 1881; one in April, 1881; two in
the spring or summer of 1884. All of these machines are not
in use at the same time. Each machine can separate about
8000 sheets a day.

AMcALEER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"12. The following are the specifications, claims, and drawings upon which plaintiffs patents issued, and specifications
claims, and.drawings upon which patents were issued at -the
dates shown to the persons named therein."
[Here followed plaintiff's letters patent No. 170,873, dated
December 7, 1 876, application filed September 14, 1875, for.
"improvement in paper-perforating machines." Also letters
patent No. 161,920, dated June 29, 1815, application filed June
9, 1875, for "improvement in rotary paper-cutters," to Agur
Judson of Newark, N. J. Also letters patent to Mferriam and
Norton for "improved cutting, machine," No. 55,336, dated
June 5, 1866. Also letters patent to Alva Worden, of Michigan for "machine for cutting leather fly-nets," No. 41,459,
dated February 2, 186 .]
""Conwlusion of Aw. Upon the foregoing facts the court
find as conclusion of law that the petition be dismissed."
The opinion, by Davis, J., is reported in 25 C. Cl. 238.
.Mr. TalrnadgeA. Lambert for appellant.
"'.r. Assistant Attorney General Conrad for appellees.
M].

CHIEF

JUSrTICE

FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Court of Claims held that this case fell within the rulings.
made by that court in Solomons v. UTnited States, 22 C. C1. 335,
$42, and -Davisv. United States, 23 C. C1. 329. In the first. of
these cases, Clark, Solomons' assignor, chief of the Bureau. of
Engraving and Printing, was assigned the duty of devising a
stamp, and did so. There was no agreement or understanding
between the officers of the government and Clark concerning
the right of the government to use the invention, or the remuneration, if any, which should be paid for it, and no express
license to use the invention was given by him to the governnor any notice prohibiting its use by intimating that he
-ent,
would demand a royalty. The Court of Claims held "that
while the government did not obtain a specific interest in the
patent, nor a monopoly of the invention, nor a right to share

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in the profits thereof, nor to exclude other persons from the
use of it, nevertheless it acquired the right to manufacture.
and use the stamp in its revenue service without liability to
the inventor."
In the second case, Davis was foreman of the machine and
foundry division- of the Ordnance Department of the Washington Navy Yard, and itivented and received a patent for a ventclosing firing attachment. The cost of experiments was paid
by 'the United States, and the patents were taken out under
the advice of the chief of the Ordnance Bureau, and after
they were issued the Navy Department paid him a sum of
money to reimburse him for the expernse incurred in securing
them as a royalty for the right to their use. The Court of
Claims held that he could not recover, and reiterated, as the
principle announced in Solomons' case, "that every public
officer being in some measure or degree a guardian of the
public welfare, no transaction growing out of his official services or position can be allowed to enure to his personal benefiLt,. and,that from such transactions, as in the cases of guardian
and ward, or trustee and cestui que trust, the law will not
imply a contract."
It is argued that the devising of the stamp by Clark came
within the scope of his official employment, and, similarly,
that Davis was employed for the specific purpose of doing
what in fact he accomplished in making his invention, while
McAleer was not employed to invent and did not accept
a royalty in satisfaction of his claims.
The case of Solomons subsequently came before this court,
&olomons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342, 346, and the judgment of the Court of Claims was affirmed. Mr. Justice
Brewer, delivering the opinion of -the court, said: "If one
is employed to devise or perfect an -instrument, or a meang
for accomplishing a prescribed result, he cannot, after successfully accomplishing the work for which he was employed,
plehtd title thereto as against hlis employer. That W;hich he
lEas been employed and paid to accomplish becomes, wheti
accomplished, 'the property of his employer. Whatever
rights as an individual he m'ay have had in and to hig

McALEER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

inventive powers, and that which they are able to accomplish,
he has sold in advance to his employer. So, also, when one
is in the employ of' another in a certain lino of work, and
devises an improved method or instrument for doing that
work, and uses the property 9f his employer and the services
of other employFs to develop and 'put in practicable form
his invention, and explicitly assents to the use by his
employer of such invention, a jury, or a court trying the
facts is warranted in finding that he has so 'far recognized
the obligations of service flowing from his employment and
the benefits resulting from his use of the property, and the
assistance of the co-employ~s of his employer, as to have
given to such employer an irrevocable license to use such
invention." And .l'Clurg v. Jingsland, 1 How. 202, was
cited as decisive.
In the case at bar, as clearly summarized by the Court of
Claims, the invention was made while petitioner was in the
employment of the government as a skilled mechanic, whose
duty it was to secure the most efficient service from the
machines in his care, to keep them in repair, and to apply
such improvements as experience might suggest. While
so employed he devised the improvements in question, to be
applied to the machines then under his charge as a machinist;
doing the work largely in office hours and entirely with
government tools and machinery; and: he took out the patent
at the solicitation of the bureau officers, and at the expense
of the government. This.was in 1875; he was discharged' in
i87,7; the device was not used until 1879, and- before it
worked efficiently required certain mechanical changes, which
were perfected and applied by government machinists, usin&
government tools and material. Three days after the issue
of the patent he executed the assignment set forth in the
findings, whereby he covenanted, "for the sum-of one dollar
and other valuable consideration to me (him) paid" by the
United States Treasury Department, that that department
and its bureaus should have "the right to make and use
machines containing the in~provements claimed in said letters
patent to the full end of the term for which said letters

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

patent are granted." But it is said that there is a distinction
between the right to use and the use of an invention, and
that in this instance, while the right to use was absolute, the
actual use was to be compensated for by. the continuous
employment of McAleer in accordance with a contemporaneoas agreement to that effect between him and the
superintendent of the bureau. We do not regard this
position as tenable. The instrument constituted a contract
fully executed on both sides, which-gave the right to the
Treasury Department, without liability for remuneration
thereafter, to make and use the machines containing the
patented improvement to the end of the term for which
the letters were granted. It was a complete legal obligation
in itself, with no uncertainty as to .the object or extent of the
engagement, and could not be defeated, contradicted, or
varieOd by proof of any collateral parol agreement inconsistent
Ivith its terms. Seitz v. Brewers' Rejfigerating.Machine Co.,
141 U. S. 510.
The .agreement that M[cAleer's "assignment should hold
good only during plaintiff's employment in said Bureau of
Engraving and Priting and not longer," was thus inconsistent and must be regarded as in defeasance and not as
imposing a condition precedent to the use the right to which
had been completely granted for good and valuable consideration.
.Moredver the petition does not seek recovery for breach
of
*any such collateral agreement, but proceeds upon an implied
agreement under the licenses. We think the Court of Claims
properly held that the case came within their previous rulings,
which, as we have seen, w6re in accordance with the decisions
of this court, and that the instrument executed by McAleer
secured by covenant the right to use the device in the Trea$-'
ury Department, which right would, under the circumstances;
have otherwise been implied.
Judgment affirmed.

