IDE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the United States was precisely the same as would have
been that-of a third person purchasing the property.
There was no error in the conclusion of the court below, and
its decree must, therefore, be

-Affirmed.

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 155. Argugd and submitted December 8, 1893.- Decided December 11, 1893.
The proceedings of a court-martial held upon a captain of infantry,in the
army of the United States, which resulted in a judgment of dismissal
from the service, having been transmitted to the Secretary of War "for
the action of the President of thq United States," the Seeretary endorsed
upon them that, "in conformity*with the sixty-fifth of the rules and
articles of war, thb proceedings of the general court-martial in the foregoing cause . . . have been forwarded to the Secretary of War for the
action of the President of the United States, and the proceedings, findings, and sentence are approved, and the sentence will be duly executed," and signed the endorsement officially as Secretary of War. Held,
on the authority of United States v. Fletcher, 148 U. S. 84, that this was a
sufficient authentication of the judgment of the President and that there
was no ground for treating the order as null and void for want of
the requisite approval.
THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition of the appellant for a judgment against
the United States for unpaid salary as an officer in the army.
So much of the findings of that court as are necessary for
understanding the judgment of this court on the appeal were
as follows:
Findings of Fact and Conclusion of law. Filed .May 26,
1890.
This case having been heard before the Court of Claims, the
court, upon the evidence, finds the facts to be as follows:

I.
August 11, 1861, the claimant was appointed and commissioned first lieutenant in the Thirteenth regiment, United
States infantry, to rank as such from May 11, 1861.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893
Statement of the Case.

July 2, 1862, lie was appointed captain in said regiment, to
rank from lay 11, 1S62, and was assigned to the command of
Company C, in said regiment, in the service of the United
States.
II.
In Marcb, 1869, claimant was tried by a general court-martial upon charges of "absence without leave" and "disobedience of orders," found guilty, and by said court-martial
sentenced "to be dismissed the service of the United States."
Alfred I. Terry, the general commanding the department
in which said court-martial was held, approved its proceedings, findings, and sentence, and on April 1, 1869, fo.rwarded
the record to the Secretary of War for the action of the
President of the United States.
Mliay 12; 1869, John A. Rawlins,,then Secretary of War,
made an order or endorsement on the proceedings and sentence
of said general court-martial as follows, to wit:
WAR DEPARTMENT,

WASlHINGTON"

CITy, 3!ay12, 1869.

In conformity with the.sixty-fifth of the rules and articles
of war, the*proceedings of the general court-martial in the
foregoing case of Bvt. Maj. William C. Ide, captain Thirteenth infantry, have been forwarded to the Secretary of War
for the action of the President of the United States, and the
proceedings, findings, and sentence are approved, and the sentence will be duly executed.
JNo. A. RAwLiNs,
Secretary of War.
Thereupon, by\ command of General Sherman, the Adjutant General issued an order that Bvt. Maj. William C. Ide, captain Thirteenth United States
infantry, accordingly ceases to be an officer of the army froin
the date of this order.
The President never confirmed nor disapproved-the proceedings or sentence of said court-martial, nor took any
action thereon, nor made any orders in the case, unless he did
so by some of the facts herein stated.

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

III.
was
paid
his
salary
as captain of the Thirteenth
Claimant
infantry to include May 31, 1869. He has never been paid
since that date as an officer of the army.
November 20, 1888, he demanded pay as a captain of infantry in the United States Army from May 31, 1869, and
received the following reply:
WAR DEPARTMENT, PA.YMASTER GENER-L'S OFFICE,
"WAsHInGTON, .Ncavendier 22, 1888.

WILLIAx 0. IDE, EsQ., late

CaptainTlirteenth nfantry, Buf-

falo, New York.
SI: Your letter of November 20, 1888, demanding pay as
an officer of the army from the date of your dismissal under
general orders, No. 26, of 1869, to the present date, is received,
and in reply you are informed that this office has no authority to recognize any one as an officer of the army, unless his
name is borne upon the official register, or notice of his
appointment is communicated by the military authorities.
In the absence of any recognition of you as an officer of the
army,.your claim for payment be and is refused.
Respectfully your obedient servant,
'WY. B.

ROCHEsTER,

Paymaster General, U. S. Army.
.r.George Wadsworth for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and jMr. George If
Gorman filed a brief for appellees, but the court declined to
hear them.

THE CHIEF JUSTIcE: The judgment is, upon the authority
of United States v. .Fletcher, 148 U. S. 84,
Ajfbmed.

