OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

BELDEN
ERROR

TO

THE

COURT

OF

CH.
EASE.
APPEALS

OF

THE

STATE

OF

NEW YORK.
No. 66. Argued November 3, 1893.-Decided December 18, 1893.

This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the highest court of
a state in an action at common law to recover damages caused by the
collision of two steamers navigating inland waters over which the United
States have admiralty jurisdiction, when that judgment denies rights
claimed by the plaintiff in error under rules established by statutes of
the United States for preventing collisions, or rights regarding the application of such rules.
The appellate jurisdiction of this court over questions national and international in their nature, arising in an action for a maritime tort committed
upon navigable waters and within admiralty jurisdiction, cannot be restrained by the mere fact that the party plaintiff has elected to pursue
his common law remedy in a state court.
In an action at common law for a maritime tort, the admiralty rule of an
equal division of damages in the case of a collision between two vessels,
when both are guilty of faults contributing to it, does not prevail; but
the general rule there is that if both vessels are culpable in respect of
faults operating directly and immediately to produce the collision, neither
can recover damages for injuries so caused.
A steam pleasure-yacht is an " ocean-going steamer," and is not a " coasting
vessel."
A steam pleasure-yacht, on the inland waters of the United States, is bound,
when under way, to carry at the foremast head a bright white light, on
the starboard side a green light, and on the port side a red light, as prescribed by rule 3 in Rev. Stat. ยง 4233; and is not required to carry "in
addition thereto a centrdl range of two white lights," as prescribed by
rule 7 of that section for "coasting steam-vessels . . . navigating
the bays, lakes, rivers or other inland waters of the United States," that
rule not being applicable to a steam pleasure-yacht.
Regulations established by a board of supervising inspectors, under Rev.
Stat. ยง 4412, " to be observed by all steam-vessels in passing each other,"
have the force of statutory enactment; are obligatory from the time when
the necessity for precaution begins; and continue so while the means and
.opportunity to avoid the danger remains.
Where a vessel, meeting or passing another vessel, departs from the rules
laid down by the supervising inspectors and a collision results, thp burden of proof is on it to show that the departure Was made necessary by
immediate, impending. and alarming danger.

BELDEN- v. CHASF.

675

Statement of the Case.
Where a vessel has committed a positive breach of statute, she must not only show that her fault did not probably contribute to a disaster which
followed, but that it could not have done so.
Two.steamers on the Hudson River at night were approaching each other
head and head. One gave a short blast from its whistle to indicate an
intention to pass on the port side. The other answered by a similar
blast, and then gave two whistles and changed its course so as to cross.
the bow of the first vessel. This resulted in a collision, whereby the .
second vessel was sunk. An action at law was brought in a state court
-by the owners of the sunken vessel against the owners of the first
vessel. On the trial the court was asked to instruct the jury that the
pilot who first blew the sharp whistle had the right to determine the
course which each was to adopt; that the answer by a single whistle
was an acceptance of his determination; that it then became the duty of
the second vessel to pass the other according to -that determination;
and that the second vessel was guilty of negligence in giving the two
whistles and in changing its .course. The court refused these instructions, and instructed the jury, in substance, that they were to determine,
whether those in management of the vessels were guilty of negligence
or not, and whether they did or omitted to do that which persons of
ordinary- care and prudence ought to have done. .Held,
(1) That in refusing to give the instructions asked for and in charging
in this general way, the obligatory force of the rules of navigation
was substantially ignored;
(2) That the instruction did not put to the jury the question whether the
second vessel was justified in departing from the rules, which was
errorj
(3) That th jury should have been told that two vessels approaching
head tp head and exchanging the signal of a single whistle, were
bound to pursue the course prescribed by the rules;
(4) And that they should have been fhrther instructed that if the first
vessel assented to the signal of the two whistles, and there was an
error in the course, ie was at the risk of the second vessel, or, at
the most, both were in fault and there could be no recovery.

Tins was an action at law brought by William Donahue,
,owner of the steamboat Charlotte. Va'nderbilt, in the Supreme
Court of tbh-.State of New York, against William Belden,
owner of the yacht Yosemite, for so negligently, navigating
the yacht as to-run down and sink the steamboat in the Hadson River a little north of Esopus Meadow light-house, and
some ninety mfles nor th of New York City, at or about halfpast nine on the evening of July 14, 1882. Donahue died
leaving .a will, which was admitted to probate, and letters

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

testaientary duly issued thereon to Emory A. Chase and
William J. Hughes, who qualified as executors, and the action
was thereupon revived and continued in their names. There
have been three trials. Upon the first, a verdict was rendered
in favor of the plaintiffs and judgment entered thereon, which
on appeal to the general term of the Supreme Court was reversed and a new trial granted. Mkase v. Belden, 34 Hun,
571. The case having been again tried, the trial court, proceeding in accordance with the rulings of the general term,
nonsuited the plaintiffs. Thig judgment was affirmed by the
general term, and upon appeal to the Court of Appeals the
judgment was reversed and the cause remanded. -Chase v. Belden, 104 I. Y. 86. The case was then tried a third time and
a verdict rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, and judgment
entered thereon for $27,668.28 damages, (the value of the
Vanderbilt, with interest,) and costs, which was affirmed at
the general term. Ch~ase v. Belden, 16 N. Y. St. Rep. 528. An
appeal was thereupon taken to the Court of Appeals and the
judgment affirmed, the. record being: "Judgment affirmed
with costs. No opinion. All concur except Gray, J., who
reads for reversal, and judgment affirmed." 117 IN.Y. 637.
The record here also shows this memorandum: !INo prevailing opinion written. See mandate at close of this opinion."
The dissenting opinion by Gray,.5., is given in the record and
is reported in 27 N. Y. St. Rep. 638. To review the judgment
of the Court of Appeals this writ of error was brought.
The map on the opposite page shows the part of the river
where the collision occurred.
The Yosemite was going up and the Vanderbilt down
stream. While the latter was passing between the upper icehouse at Big Rock Point and the lower ice-h6use at Knickerbocker wharf, she was headed for a point between Esopus
light and the shore, and the Yosemite at the same time was
headed for a point west of Rhinebeck Bluff. When opposite
the lower ice-house the Vanderbilt changed her course to the
eastward and headed for Dinsmore's house. About the same
time the Yosemite gave the signal of oie whistle to the Vanderbilt, and she answered with one whistle.

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Statement of the Case.

-

ens

%,oeroor

-

p ,,E ,,

c

iI.-

di

,cnPc,

_____

taWca

,.sow. Wcn,
LOW,,, ,',, H,

Ccc,-

flwsPn~

F,

OCT013ER TERMA, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

After the signals had been thus exchanged, the Vanderbilt
blew two whistles and followed up this signal by such a
.change in her course as brought her head rapidly to the eastward until she was in a position almost directly across the
stream, and was struck by the Yosemite at her forward gangway on a line nearly at right angles to her course with such
force as to cut off her bow and sink her immediately.
Plaintiff alleged that the Yosemite was negligent in not
having range lights; in that her red and green lights were
dim; in not going to the left or the westward when the Vanderbilt gave two whistles, announcing her own Intention of
going to the left or to tlhe eastward. The Yosemite claimed
negligence on the part of the Vanderbilt in that when the latter
was below the upper ice-house at Big Rock Point and both
vessels were showing their red lights to each other, the Vanderbilt changed her course to the eastward and headed for
Dinsmore's house, thus throwing herself across the path of the
Yosemite; in that, when the two-vessels exchanged signals of
a single whistle, the Vanderbilt did not comply with the signal thus given, and go to the right, but continued her course
to-the left; in that the Vanderbilt, having the Yosemite on
her starboard side, failed to keep out of the latter's way; in
that, if the Vanderbilt was in doubt, she did not comply with
the applicable rule by giving alarm whistles and slacking up
her speed; in that the Vanderbilt, after complying with the
signal whistle, changed her mind, blew two whistles, and took
a sudden sheer to the left or eastward. It was admitted that
the Yosemite did not have range lights, and in this piarticular
the Court of Appeals held that she failed to comply with the
law. It was insisted on behalf of the Yosemite that her sidelights were not dim, and that she coul& not go to the left
when the two whistles .of the Vanderbilt were heard because
it was impossible for her to change her course at that moment
In time to avoid the collision, and that the Vanderbilt had no
right to blow the two whistles and go to the left after the
interchange of signal whistles ithich determined that each
should go to the right. There was evidence on behalf of the
Vanderbilt tending to show that after she gave two whistles

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Statement. of the Case.

the Yosemite replied with two whistles; but on behalf of the
Yosemite the evidence tended to show that she did not reply
with two whistles, but began to give three whistles, and the
collision occurred before she could do so.
The enrolment of the Vanderbilt was issued at the port of
Albany, September 25, 1880, in conformity to Title Fifty of
the Revised Statutes, entitled "Regulations of Vessels in Domestic Commerce," and stated, among other things, that she
was built in 1857, was two hundred and seven feet long, and
measured five hundred and eighty-five and seventy-four hundredths tons. Her license was issued October 3, 1881, to be
employed in the coasting trade for one year from the date
thereof and no longer. Her certificate of inspection was., to
the effect that she was inspected in the district of Albany,
July 20, 1881, and that she was permitted to navigate for one
year the waters of the Hudson River between Albany and
New York, touching at intermediate points, a distance, of
about one hundred miles, and return, or any inland route.
Among the particulars of inspection were enumerated that
she had one watchman and had signal lights.
The Yosemite had a license under Title Forty-eight of the
Revised Statutes, entitled "Regulation of Commerce and Navigation," dated May 27, 1882, describing her as of the burden
of four hundred and eighty-one and fifty one-hundredths tons,
used and employed exclusively as a pleasure vessel, and designed as a model of naval architecture. She was licensed to
proceed from. port to port of the United States and by sea to
foreign ports, without ehtering or clearing at the custom house,
but not allowed to trapsport merchandise or carry passengers
for pay. This license was to continue and be in force for one
year from the date thereof, or until the return of the yacht
from a foreign port, and no longer. Her enrolment was
under Section 4319, Title Fifty; and bore date January 20,
1881, and certified that .she had two decks and two masts, that
her length was one hundred and eighty-two feet, her breadth
twenty-three and eight-tenths feet, her depth eighteen and
seven-tenths feet, and that she measured as above given. Her
certificate of inspection described her tonnage and accommo-

OCTOBER TERM, 18ยง3.
Statement of the Case.

dations and stated: "The said vessel is permitted to navigate
for one year the waters of any ocean route between and
touching at intermediate ports, a distance of miles and
return." Among the particulars it appeared that she had one
watchman, and signal lights.
The yacht was so constructed that she could be propelled
by either the power of ste6im or sails, or by both, and at the
time of the collision her sails were furled and she was propelled
wholly by the power of steam. She .had left City Island,
eighteen miles from New York, about ten o'clock that forenoon, laid at New York until about three or four in the after-'
noon, and then left for Catskill.
The following are extracts from the Revised Statutes and
the rules of the supervising inspectors:
"NAVIGATION.

"SEc. 4233. The following rules for preventing collisions on
the water, shall be followed in the navigation of vessels of thb
Navy and of the mercantile marine of the United States:
" STEAM- AI

SAIL-VESSELS.

"Rule one. Every steam-vessel which is under sail and .not
under steam, shall be considered a sail-vessel; and every steam
vessel which is under steam, whether under sail or not, shall
be considered a steam-vessel.
"LIGHTS.

"Rule two. The lights mentioned in the followiig rules,
and no others, shall be carried- in all weathers, between sunset
and sunrise.
"Rule three. All ocean-going steamers, and steamers, carrying sail, shall, when under way, carry "(A.) At the foremast head, a bright white light, of such a
character as to be visible on a dark night; with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of at least five miles, and so constructed
as to show a uniform and unbroken light over an arc of the
horizon of twenty' points of the compass, and so fixed as to
throw the light ten points on each side of the vessel, namely,

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Statement of the Case.

from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on either
side.
"(B.) On the starboard side, a green light, of such a character as to be visible on a dark night, with a clear atmosphere,
at a distance of at least two miles, and so constructed as to
show, a uniforin and unbroken light over an arc of the horizon
of ten points of the compass, and so fixed a' to throw the light
from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on the starboard side.
"(C.) On the port side, a red light, of such a character as
to be visible on a dark night, with a clear atmosphere, at a
distance of at least two miles, and so constructed as to show
a uniform and unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of
ten points of the compass, and so fixed as to thrQw the light
from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on the port
side.
"The green and red lights shall be fitted with inboard
screens, projecting at least three feet forward from the lights,
so as to prevent them from being seen across the bow.
"Rule Four. Steam-vessels, when towing other vessels,
shall carry two bright white mast-head lights vertically, in
addition to their side lights, so as to distinguish them from
other steam-vessels. Each of these mast-head lights shall be
of the same character and construction as the mast-head lights
prescribed by Rule three.
"Rule Five. All steam-vessels, other than ocean-going
steamers and steamers carrying sail, shall, when under way,
carry on the starboard and port sides lights of the-same character and construction and in the same position as are prescribed
for side lights by Rule three, except in the case provided in
Rule six.
"Rule six. River steamers navigating waters flowing into
the Gulf of Mexico, and their tributaries, shall carry the
following lights, namely: One red light on the outboard side
of the port smoke-pipe, and one green light on the outboard
side of the starboard smoke-pipe. Such lights shall show both
forward and abeam on their respective sides.
"Rule seven. All coasting steam-vessels, and steam-vessels

OCTO3ER TERM, .1893.
Statement of the Case.

other than ferry-boats and vessels otherwise expressly provided
for, navigating the bays, lakes, rivers, or other inland waters
of the United States, except those mentioned in Rule six,
shall carry the red and green lights, as prescribed for oceangoing steamers; and, in addition thereto, a central range of
two white lights; the after light being carried at an elevation
of at least fifteen feet above the light at the head of the
vessel. The headlight shall be so constructed as to show
a good light through twenty points of the compass, namely:
from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on either side
of the vessel; and the after light so as- to show all around the
horizon. The lights for ferry-boats shall be regulated by such
rules as the board of supervising inspectors of steam-vessels
shall prescribe:
"Rule eight. Sail-vessels, when under way or being towed,
shall carry the same lights as steam-vessels under way, with
the exceptioh of the white masthead lights, which they shall
never carry.
"Rule nine. Whenever, as in case of small vessels during
bad weather, the green and red lights cannot be fixed, these
lights shall be kept on deck, on their respective sides of the
Tessel, ready for instant exhibition," etc.
"STEERING

AIM SAILING RULES.

"Rule eighteen. If. two vessels under steam are meeting
end on, or nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the
helms of both shall be put to port, so that each may pass on
the port side of the other.
"Rule nineteen. If two vessels under steam are crossing
so as to involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the
other on her own starboard side, shall keep out of the way of
the other."
"Rule twenty-one. Every steam-vessel, 'When approaching
another vessel, so as to involve risk of collision, shall slacken
her speed, or, if necessary, gtop and reverse; and every steamvessel shall, when in a fog, go at a moderate speed."
"Rule twenty-three. Where, by Rules seventeen, nineteen,
twenty, and twenty-two, one of two vessels shall keep out

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Statement of the Case.

of the way, the 6ther shall keep her course, subject to the
qualifications of Rule twenty-four.
"iRule twenty-four. In construing and obeying these rules,
due regard must be had to all dangers of navigation, and to
any special circumstances which may exist in any particiular
case rendering a departure from them necessary in ordei to
avoid immediate danger."
Section 4214, in Title Forty-eight, reads:
"The-Secretary of the Treasury may cause yachts used and
employed exclusively as pleasure vessels, and designed as
models of naval architecture, if entitled to be enrolled as
American vessels, to be licensed on terms which will authorize
them to proceed from port to port of the United States, and
by sea to foreign ports, without entering or clearing at the
custom house. Such license shall be in such form as the
Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. The owner of any
such vessel, before taking out such license, shall give a bond,
in such form and for such amount as the Secretary of, th6
Treasury shall prescribe, conditioned that the vessel shall not
engage in any unlawful trade, nor in any way violate the
revenue laws of the United States, and shall, comply with the
laws in all other respects. Such vessels so enrolled and
licensed shall not be allowed to transport merchaudize or
carry passengers for pay. Such vessels shall, in all respects,
except as above, be subject to the laws of the United States,
and shall be liable to seizure and forfeiture for any violation
of the provisions of this Title."
By section 412 it was provided that 'the board of supervising inspectors shall establish such r~gulations to be observed
by all steam-vessels in passing each other as they shall from.,
time to time deem necessary for safety."
Inspectors'. "Rules and regulations for the government of
pilots navigating seas, gulfs, lakes, bays, sounds, or rivers,
except rivers flowing into the Gulf of Mexico, and their
tributaries.'?'
"Rule 1.-When steamers are approaching each other

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
. Statement of the Case.

'head and head,' or nearly so, it shall be the duty of each
steamer to pass to the right, or port side of the other; and
the pilot of either steamer may be first in determining to pursue this course, and thereupon shall give, as a signal of his
intention, one short and distinct blast of his steam whistle,
which the pilot of the other steamer. shall answer promptly by
a similar blast of his steam whistle, and thereupon such steamers shall pass to the right, or port side of each other. But if
the course of such steamers is so far on the starboard of each
other as not to be considered by pilots as meeting 'head and
head,' or nearly so, the pilot so first deciding-shall immediately
give two short and distinct blasts of his steam whistle, which
the pilot of the other steamer shall answer promptly by two
similar blasts of his steam whistle, and they shall pass to the
left, or on the starboard side, of each other.
the night, steamers will be considered as meet"Note. -In
ing ' head and head' so long as both the colored lights of each
are in view of the other.
"Rule 2. -When steamers are approaching each other in
an obliqtie direction (as shown in diagram of the fourth situation), they shall pass to the right of each other, as if meeting
'head and head,' or nearly so, and the signals by whistle shall
be given and answered promptly as in that case specified.
"Rule 3. - If, when steamers are approaching each other,
the pilot of either vessel fails to understand the course or intention of the other, whether from signals being given or
answered erroneously, or from other causes, the pilot so in
doubt shall immediately signify the same by giving several
short and rapid blasts of the steam whistle; and if the vessels
shall have approached within half a mile of each other, both
shall be immediately slowed to a speed barely sufficient for
steerage-way until the proper signals are given, answered,
and understood, or until the vessels shall have passed each
other."
"Rule 6. - The signals, by the blowing of the steam
whistle, shall be given and answered by pilots, in compliance
with these rules, not only when meeting 'head and head,' or
nearly so, but at all times when passing or meeting at a dis-

BELDEN v. CHASE.

_

685

Argument for Defendants in Error.

tance within half a mile of each other, and whether passing
to the starboard or port."
The first seven rules of section 4233 are given, followed by
diagrams illustrating the working of the system of colored lights
in seven situations of meetihg steamers, with observations.
Jfr'. Everett P. Wheeler, (with whom was .M'. Lawrence
Godkin on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-M'. Peter .Cantine, (with whom was .br'.
Emory A. Chae
on the brief,) for defendants in error.
I. This court has no jurisdiction. The plaintiff in error
has not shown he has any right under a United States statute,
which has been decided against him.
(a) The yacht having no colored lights that would show
ahead, was not complying with the United States statutes.
It was running with but bne light, - the :high foremast head
white light, - without colored lights, that could be seen on the
steamboat as the yacht was. approaching her. This court cannot assume that the jury did not find that the want of these
colored lights was not the cause of the collision. A general
verdict will be upheld where there is evidence to sustain any
finding of fact necessary to support the verdict. In the light
of the issues, evidence, and verdict, the decision of the state
court was not against the right, privilege, or immunity claimed
under the laws of the United States, and the proceedings under
the writ of error should be dismissed for want of the right to
bring the case into this court, and the first assignment of
error should be overruled.
(b) The yacht sailing on inland waters was controlled by
local laws, and thprefore no Federal statute was involved.
The yacht did not have the right to run on the Hudson
River with a foremast head white light. The statute of New
York, passed in 1826, and still contained in the itevised Statutes of that State, Title 10, Chapter 20, provides that, "whenevei: dnv steamer shall be navigating in the night time, the

OCTOBER T1ERI, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

master of such boat shall cause her to carry and show two
good and sufficient lights, one of which shall be exposed near
her bows, and the other near her stern, and the last shall be
at least twenty feet above the deck." This act is still in force.
No navigation law of the United States has undertaken to
supersede it.
The act "fixing certain rules and regulations for preventing
collisions on the water," approved April 29, 18641, 13 Stat. 68,
c. 69, is the act passed by the Congress of the United States
adopting the international code. It is from this act that
section 4233 of the Revised Statutes is codified, embracing
such acts as have been passed since then and now appearing
in section 4233.
There is nothing contained in the act of 1869 requiring
whistles to be given. It is made up of articles instead of rules
as in section 4233, and always uses the words "steamship" or
"sailing ship." The body. of the act carries out what was
declared as the intention of Congress as gathered from the
debates on this chapter, to relate to and regulate ocean navigration, and not inland navigation.
The act of March 8, 1885, 23 Stat. 438, c. 354, entitled "An
act to adopt the Revised International Regulations for Preventing Collision's at Sea," enacts "That the following revised
international rules and regulations for preventing collisions at
sea shall be followed in the navigation of all public and private
vessels of the United States upon the high seas and in all coast
waters of- the- United States, except such as are otherwise,
provided for."
* The second article in the rules provides what lights shall be
carried in articles 3 to 11, both inclusive; changes the phraseology of all of them; and omits rules 5, 6, and 7 of section
4233.
Thearticles which correspond to certain of the rules in section 4233 are much mor~e specific'and fully stated. Article 15,
which covers Rule 18, is particularly so. Article 16 is the same
as Rule 19, and Article 18 is substantially the same as Rule 21.
Articles 22 and 23 are in substance the same as Rules 23 and
2T4: This act provides for giving of whistles by Article 19,

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Argument for Defendant

in Error.

which is the first that provides for whistles in the International Code.
Local laws are reserved and excepted from the provisions of
this act. Article 25 : "1Nothingin these rules shall interfere
with the operation of a special rule duly made by local author.
ity relative to the. navigation of any harbor, river, or inland
navigation."
Section 2 provides: "That all laws and parts of laws inconsistent with the foregoing Revised International Rules and Regulations for the navigation of all public and private vessels of
the United States upon the high seas and in all coast waters of
the United States are hereby repealed, except as to the navigation of such vessels within the harbors, lakes, and inland
waters of the United States, and this act shall take effect and
be in force from and after the first day of September, anno
Domini 1884."
The provision contained in rule 7 of section 4233, has been
continued to be used in navigation, and was not repealed by
this act of 1885.
The act of August 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 320 c. 802, entitled
"An act to adopt regulations for preventing collisions at
sea," enacts that "the following regulations for preventing
collisions at sea shall be followed by all public and private
vessels of the United States upon the high seas, and in all
waters connected therewith navigable by sea-going vessels."
This act is divided into Articles, and is more comprehensive
and specific than the act of 1885. It provides for a foremasthead white.light, and also that an additional white light may
be carried forward of the foremast-head white light and lower
down. That will make a central range light.
This act also reserves and excepts from its operation local
laws. Article 30: "Nothing in these rules shall interfere
with the operation of a special rule duly made by local authority relative to the navigation of any harbor, riveer, or
inland water."
Section 2. "That all laws or parts of law inconsistent
with the foregoing regulations for preventing collisions at
sea, foi the navigation of all public and private vessels of the

OCTOBER TERM , 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

United States upon the high seas and in all waters connected therewith navigable by sea-going vessels are hereby
repealed."
Section 3. "This act shall take effect at a time to be fixed
by the President by proclamation issued for that purpose."
Rules 5, 6, and 7 of section 4233 are omitted from this act
of 1890.
The British rules, adopted in 1884, are identical
with the act of 1885, and have been adopted by nearly every
maritime power.
Why were these acts of 1885 and 1890 passed, leaving out
rules 5, 6, and 7 from section 4233 of the Revised Statutes, and
declaring in express terms, by the act of 1885, if it is only to
apply to navigation upon the high seas and in all coast waters
of the United- States, except such as are otherwise provided
for? For an answer to this question the court is, referred to,
section 4235 of the Revised Statutes that "until further provision is made by Congress, all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers,
harbors, and ports of the United States shall continue to be
regulated in conformity with the existing laws of the States
respectively wherein such pilots may be, or with such laws as
the States may respectively enact for the purpose."
Thus we see that this judgment rests on the construction of
the state statute of New York, and consequently this court
has no jurisdiction to review it.
II. It was gross negligence in the yacht when in the second
situation - running on a parallel line with the steamboat - to
have given one whistle. She should have given two whistles:
that would have required each vessel to have continued on
her course. If the yacht wanted to cross the bow of the
steamboat, she should have given a single whistle and procured
the assent of the steamboat, in time to have enabled the
vessels to pass in safety on a crossing course -which she did
not do.
In all cases the signals by whistle first given, must be given
in time to allow the other vessel to comply with and. to pass
as desired. If not so given in time, the vessel to which it is
given is not bound by it although it may have accepted by an
answering whistle. Tho T-oorwvarts v. Kiedive, 5 App. Cas.

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

876, 905; The T nona, 19 Wall. 41, 42; The Dexter, 23 Wall.
69; The Xi'lwaukee, Brown's Adm. 313; The Auranid and
The Republic, 29 Fed. Rep. 98; The Benares, 9 P. D. 16;
The Beryl, 9 P. D. 137, 140; The America, 92 U. S. 432,.
43t; The .Maggie J.Smith, 123 LT. S. 349, 355; The City of
l7ew Y-ork, 147 U. S. 72.
The yacht immediately on giving her single whistle changed
h6r course to a crossing course in front of the bow of the
steamer, without waiting for and obtaining an answer; this
she had no right to do. Chesapeake& Ohio 'Railway v.
The Panama,46 Fed. Rep. 496; The Hudson, 14 Fed.'Rep.
489; The Britannia,34 Fed. Rep. 546.
If the single whistle which was answered as well as the two
whistles which were answered were all given too late, then
the yacht is in fault for having given the first whistle too late
to initiate the manceuvre. The proposition made by the single
whistle was a guarantee to the vessel to which it was given
that it could be complied with in time. The answer to the
first whistle was only an assent to be taken at the risk of the
yacht, and if it could not be complied with, the responsibility
remained with the yacht.
The steamboat is also free from blame under another rule
that where one party suddenly puts another in jeopardy, in extremis, if the party so put in jeopardy uses his best judgment
to avoid the collision, it is free from blame. The Bywell
Castle, 4. 1. D. 219; The Beryl, 9 P. D. 137; .McLaren v.
Conqpagnie F'rangaise,dec., 9 App. Cas. 640; The Blue Jacket,
i44 U. S. 371; The 'Tacoochee, 137 -9. S. 330.
In any evefit, after the single whistle was given and answered it was competent for the parties to agree upon passing
theother way by giving two whistles, these being answered.
Cooler v. Eastern Transportation Co., 75 N. Y. 116; (dismissed for want of jurisdiction, 99 U. S. 78); Blanchard v.
New tesey Steamboat Co., 59 N. Y. 292.
It was also gross negligence, for the yacht not to slow, stop,
and back.
Rule 21 of Rev. Stat. ยง 4233, and Inspectors" Rule 3, each
require, when the vessels have approached so near that danger
VOL. cr.-44

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of a collision is apprehended, that each vessel shall slow, stop,
and back if necessary to avoid a collision; and Inspectors' rule
3 has it, that if the vessels shall have approached within a half
a mile of each other, without having come to an agreement by
whistles, or have failed to understand the intention of each
other, they must slow, stop, back, etc. The City of Vew York,
'ulN supra.
III. The steamboat was not guilty of contributory negligence. The yacht gave a single whistle which was heard on
th6 steamboat; and at that instant of time changed her course
to cross the bow of the steamboat; and from that time to the
time of the collision, was not more than probably one-half a
minute. Therefore the assumption that they were approaching each other on oblique courses must be limited to the time
subseqhent to the time the yacht gave the single whistle
which was heard on the steamboat.
The rnspectors rules provide for signals to be given in each
of the seven situations: When the signal is given which initiates the intended movement, that this movement shall be continued until it has been finally agreed upon and shall all be
completed before either vessel undertakes to make the change.
If the vessels were approaching on oblique courses, to make
this rule apply they must have been running on these courses
before the initial movement was made; if not, then the
moment the initial movement was made produced another
situation and required other signals to be given in that situation, and so you will go all around the circle of the seven
situations without arriving at a completion of signals required
by the rules to be given under such circumstances.
A[i.

CHIFF Jus'ricE Fmrin , after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the writ of error was providently
allowed, and that the jurisdiction of this court is clearly
maintainable.
Plaintiff in error expressly claimed the right under the
statutes of the United States to navigate the Yosemite on the
Iludson with a masthead light and side lights in accordance

BELDEN 'v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

with the statutory rides on that subject, and also the right in
such navigation to the cpplication of those rules in certain
other particulars; and if theoe rights were denied, or either of
them, .the jurisdiction attached for the determination of the
questions thus raised. It is of vital importance that these
rules should be interpreted and enforced by the state courts in
the samesense that they are in the courts of the United States.
This action was for a maritime tort committed upon navigable
waters and within the admiralty jurisdiction, and the appellate
jurisdiction of this court over questions national and international in their nature cannot be restrained by the mere fact
that the party plaintiff has elected to pursue" his common law
remedy in a state court.
The doctrine in admiralty of an equal division of damages
in the case of a collision between two vessels when both are
in fault contributing to the collision, has long prevailed in
England and this country. The -WTax ATorris, 137 U. S. 1.
But at common law the general rule is that if both vessels are
culpable in respect of faults operating direct.ly and immediately
to produce the collision, neither can recover damages. for injuries so caused. Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389.
In order to maintain his action, the plaintiff was obliged
to establish the negligence of the defendant, and that such
negligence was the sole cause of the injury, or, in other words,
he could not recover, though defendant were negligent, if it
appeared that his own negligence directly contributed to the
result complained of.
(1) The particular fault imputed to the Yosemite was that
she did not carry the range lights prescribed by Rule seven of
the Rules of Xavigation enacted by section 4233 of the Revised
Statutes, and, this fact being admitted, it was ruled, as matter
of law, that she was therefore guilty of negligence. The
correctness of this ruling depends on whether, upon the.true
constru6tin and application of those rules, the Yosemite came
within Rule seven.
Under Rule two, the lights prescribed by the rules, and no
others, are required to be carried in all weathers, between
sunset and sunrise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

By Rule three, "all ocean-going steamers, and steamers
carrying sail, shall, when under way, carry," at the foremast
head, a bright white light; on the starboard side, a green
light; on the port side, a red light; all as described.
By Rule four "steam-vessels, when towing other vessels,
shall carry two bright white masthead lights vertically, in
addition to their side lights," of the same character and construction as the masthead lights prescribed by Rule three.
Rule five provided: "All steam-vessels, other than oceangoing steamers and steamers carrying sail, shall, when under
way, carry on the starboard and port sides lights of the same
character and construction, and in the same position as are
prescribed for side lights by Rule three, except in the case
provided in Rule six."
Rule six related to "river steamers navigating waters flowing into the Gulf of Mexico and their tributaries," and provided that they should carry the red and green lights on their
starboard and port smoke pipes instead of on their sides.
By Rule eight, sail-vessels, when under way, or being towed,
must carry the same lights as steam-vessels under way, but
not the whit6 masthead lights.
By Rule nine, vessels too small to have the green and red
lights fixed upon their starboard and port sides shall have
them ready "for instant exhibition."
Rule seven read: "All coasting steam-vessels, and steamvessels other than ferry-boats, and vessels otherwise expressly
provided for, navigating the bays, lakes, rivers, or other inland
waters of the United States, except those mentioned in Rule
six, shall carry the red and green lights as prescribed for oceangoing steamers; and in addition thereto a central range of two
white lights ; the after light being carried at an elevation of
at least fifteen feet above the light at the head of the vessel.
The headlight shall be so constructed as to show a good light
through twenty points of the compass, namely: from right
ahead to two points abaft the beam on either side of the vessel;
and the after light so as to show all around the horizon. The
lights for ferry-boats shall be regulated by such rules as the
board of supervising inspectors of steam-vessels shall prescribe."

BELDEIN v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

The manifest object of this rule was the requisition of the
range lights; but, out of abundant caution, and notwithstanding the provisions of-Rule five, the mandate as to the red and
green lights is repeated, and the range lights declared to be
"in addition."
The importance attributed to the red and green lights is
apparent throughout these rules and in the rules and regulations of the board of supervising inspectors. After diagrams
are given in illustration of the working of the system of such
lights, it is there said that by reference to them "it will appear
evident that in any situation in which two vessels may approach each other in the dark, the colored lights will instantly
indicate to both the relative course of each; that is, each will
know whether the other is approaching directly or crossing.
the bows, either to starboard or port. This intimation, with
the signals by whistle, as provided, is all that is required to
enable vessels to pass each other in the darkest night with
almost equal safety as in broad day."
Rule seven applied to coasting steam-vessels, and steamvessels, other than ferry-boats and other than vessels otherwise expressly provided for, navigating inland waters, and
excepting the river steamers mentioned in Rule six.
Steam-vessels not otherwise expressly provided for were
those not expressly provided for in the matter of lights other
than the red and green lights. Ocean-going steamers and
steamers carrying sail and steam-vessels when towing other
vessels were thus otherwise expressly provided for in Rules
three and four. Rule five related wholly to the red and green
lights, and did not expressly provide for other lights. Mississippi steamers were expressly excepted from the operation of
Rule five, because, although they also carried red and green
lights, these lights occupied a different position than in theinstance of other steam-vessels; and Mississippi steamers were
also expressly excepted from the operation of Rule seven,
because under these rules they were to carry only red and
green lights, and were, therefore, not otherwise expressly
provided for -in respect of lights other than the red and green
lights.

The rules were accurately- drawn, and should not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.deprived of their obvious application by refined construction.
To repeat: Ferry-boat lights were to be regulated by the
board of supervising inspectors; all steam-vessels were to
carry red and green lights, but differently placed on river
steamers navigating the waters flowing into the Gulf of
Mexico; coasting steam-vessels and steam-vessels engaged in
inland navigation were governed by Rule seven; and vessels
otherwise expressly provided for by the provisions thus made.
And it was expressly provided that, in addition to the green and
red lights, steam-vessels when towing other vessels should carry
two bright white masthead lights vertically,-and ocean-going
steamers and steamers carrying sail should carry, when under
way, at the foremast head, a bright white light, and no others.
It may be added that range lights were originally required
by the statute of New York of 1826. Laws N. Y. 1826, c.
922, p. 253. Side-lights were not then provided for, and there
were practically no ocean-going steamers.. When colored
lights were introduced -and changed conditions obtained, new
rulei became necessary and were adopted.'
As to ocean-g6ing steamers and steamers carrying sail, the
bright white light required. af the foremast head was to be
"so constructed as to show a uniform and unbroken light over
an arc of the horizon of twenty points of the compass," while
as to coasting steamers, of the central range of two white
lights prescribed, the after light was to be "at least fifteen
feet above the light at the head of the vessel," and "to show
all around the horizon."
The argument that by reason of the difference between the
two classes, the lights required as to one class would be im.practicable in respect of the 'other, is not without force, and
indeed, on April 9,1887, the Secretary of the Treasury approved
the conclusion of the Supervising Inspector-General, that
"the central range ligbts .provided in Rule seven, Section
4233, Revised Statutes, are never to be used on ocean steamers,
as thewhite light aft required by*that rule would be obscured
by. the masts, yards, and rigging of such a steamer, and therefore useless." *Treas. Dec. 1887, p. 200, No. 8168.

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

The Yosemite was an "ocean-going steamer." She was
constructed for and adapted to bcean navigation, had been
upon the ocean, and had just been authorized "to navigate for
one year the waters of any ocean ioute." She was also a
"steamer carrying sail." She "was none the less "oceangoing" because not at the time on the ocean, and none t06
less "carrying sail" because she was not at the time under
sail These terms were merely descriptive of her characteristics, and not of her situation. She was "under way," which
words, in Rule three, would be superfluous if she must be
traversing the ocean in order to be "ocean-going,." and have
her sails set in order to be "carrying sail;" and she was
"under steam" and therefore not governed by the rules
applicable to a steamer solely "under sail," by Rule one, a
rule demonstrating that "under sail" and."carrying sail"
were not used as synonymous terms.
In our judgment, the lights she was required to carry were
expressly provided for in Rule three, and these lights she
had.
The decision of the Court of Appeals that the Yosemite
was bound to carry "a central range of two white lights," as
prescribed in Rule seven, was based upon the ground that she
was "in legal character and by nomenclature 'a coasting
steam-vessel ; '." and that, even if this might "not be absolutely
true of the Yosemite in all situations, it was nevertheless truQ
of her when navigating inland waters."
By the first section of the act of Congress of August 7, 1848,
9 Stat. 274, c. 141, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to cause yachts 'used and employed exclusively as vessels
of pleasure, to be enrQlled and licensed as vessels wlhich were
not required to qualify at the custom house; and this act vas
amended by that of June 29, 1S70, 16 Stat. 170, c. 170, by inserting after the words "port to port of the United States"
the words "and by sea to foreign ports," and as thus amended
was carried forward into section 4214 of the Revised Statutes.
The Court of Appeals was of opinion that yachts licensed
under the statute of 1848 were exclusively coasting vessels,
and that, as by the act of 1870, they might be permitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

proceed by sea to foreign ports, they thus might have a double
character, that is, of coasting vessels and vessels entitled to go
upon the seas to foreign ports. Reference was made to the
fact that the Yosemite was enrolled at the port of New York
in conformity to Title Fifty of the Revised Statutes, entitled
"Regulation of Vessels in Domestic Commerce," and was also
licensed in pursuance of chapter two, Title Forty-eight, entitled
"Regulations of Commerce and Navigation." And it was
said that Title Fifty related exclusively to coasting and fishing
vessels, while Title Forty-nine was entitled "Regulations of
Vessels in Foreign Commerce." The conclusion was then
announced that the Yosemite, being enrolled under the statute
relating to coasting vessels, and her license being a coasting
license, with the added privilege of being allowed to proceed
to foreign ports, it did not seem to allow of reasonable doubt
.that the Yosemite while navigating the Hudson River was
navigating under -her license in the character of a coasting
vessel.
We are unable to accept this conclusion. While Title Fifty
is entitled by way of convenience "Regulation of Vessels in
Domestic Commerce," there are many provisions contained
under that title relating to vessels engaged in foreign commerce, and among them sections 4322 and 4323, which enable
the owner of a coasting vessel to surrender his enrolment and
register his vessel, or to surrender his register and take oat an
enrolment.
The register declares the nationality of a vessel engaged in
foreign trade, the enrolment, the national character of a vessel engaged in the home traffic and enables her to procure a
coasting license. By section 4318, under the same title, vessels
navigating the waters of the northern, northeastern, and northwestern frontiers, otherwise than by sea, may be enrolled and
licensed in such form as other vessels, and need not take out a
certificate of registry. The .Mohawk, 3 Wall. 566.
Ordinarily the terms "coaster" and "coasting vessel" are
applied to vessels plying exclusively between domestic ports,
and usually to those engaged in domestic trade as distinguished
from vessels engaged in the foreign trade or plying between a

BELDEN ;,. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

port of the United States and a port of a foreign country.
Gibbonsv. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The mere fact that an ocean-going steamer may touch at
some other port of the United States, after leaving her port of
departure, would not make her a coaster, and this is recognized by section 4337, which is another of the sections included
in Title Fifty worthy of notice.
Pleasure-yachts, designed as mode. of naval architecture,
are not coasters in any statutory se ise, for they are not allowed to transport merchandise or carry -passengers for pay,
and we. do not think it reasonable to construe the words of
the statute applicable to coasters as applicable to them in
view of their character and the .legislation upon the subject
taken together.
As we have remarked, vessels engaged in domestic commerce may be transferred to the class of vessels authorized to
sail to foreign ports by a change from an enrolment to a register; but, in the ease of yachts, the statute pro'mides that
when entitled to be enrolled as American vessels, they may be
authorized to proceed from port to port of the United States,
and also by sea to foreign ports, so that, by a simple license,
being mere pleasure-boats, not authorized to transact business,
they may sail to either, but their essential character as oceangoing steamers, if they are such, remains the same, whether
they are actually navigating from port to port of this country
or to ports abroad.
The Yosemite was enrolled in 1881, and in May, 1882, took
out the license which authorized her to proceed by sea to for
eign ports and also from port to port in the United States.
The privilege of doing both was granted, and her license no
more authorized her to proceed to domestic ports, with the
added privilege of going to foreign ports, than to proceed
to foreign ports with the added privilege of navigating
between domestic ports. She could do both, and to enable
yachts to do so was the design and express language of the
statute.
We have not deemed it necessary to discuss the supposed
bearing of the act of February 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 440, 454, c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

100, referred to by defendant in error, or the acts of 1864,
13 Stat. 58, c. 69, and of 1866, 14 Stat. 227, c. 234, as substantially the same question would arise under those acts, and
the obscurity, if any, is not in the revised law.
:Nor have we felt called upoil to refer to the acts of March
3, 1885, 23 Stat. 438, c. 3541, or that of August 19, 1890, 26
Stat. 320, c. 802, as this collision occurred in 1882.
We hold that Rule seven was not applicable to the Yosemite, and that therefore the Court of Appeals eriked in affirming
the judgment of the Supreme Court, which approved the
instruction of the learned trial judge, (to which exception was
duly saved,) that "the Yosemite, upon that occasion, was
bound to have those. lights which I have described to you as
central range lights, and the absence of those statutory signals
was, upon her part, negligence."
(2) In addition to the rules for preventing collisions, prescribed by section-4233, it "Was provided by section 4412 that
"the board of supervising inspectors shall establish 'such
regulations to be observed by all steam-vessels, in passing
each other, as they shall from time to time deem necessary
for safety." The rules laid down by the latter as thus
authorized have the force of statutory enactment, and their
construction, (when put in evidence as they were in this case,)
as well as that of the rules under section 4233, is for the court,
whose duty it is to apply them as matter of law upon the"
facts of a given case. They are not mere prudential regulations, but binding enactments, obligatory from the time that
the necessity for precaution begins, and continuing so long as
the means and opportunity to avoid the danger remains.
The Dexeter, 23 Wall. 69. Obviously they must be rigorously
enforced in order to attain the object for which they were
framed, which could not be secured if the masters of vessels
were permitted to indulge their discretion in respect of obeying or departing from them. Nevertheless it is true that
there may be extreme cases where departure from their requirements is rendered necessary to avoid impending peril, but
only to the extent that such danger demands. The John .
I azrouck, 99 U. S. 405; T] Sunnyside, 91 U. S. 208; The

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

Johnson, 9 Wall. 146; Tie City of IVashington, -92 U. S. 31;
The Voorwarts & K-hedive, 5 App. Cas. 816; The Byfoged
CJhristensen, 4 App. Cas. 669.
And while under Rule twenty-four, in construing and obeying the rules, due regard must be had to all dangers of navigation and to any special circumstances which may exist in
any particular case, rendering a departure from them necessary in order to avoid immediate danger, the burden of proof
lies on the party alleging that he was justified in such departure. The Agra, L. R. 1 P. 0. 501; The General Lee, Irish L.
R. 3 Eq. 155. Indeed, in The Agra, it was ruled that not
only must it be shown that the departure at the time it took
place was necessary in order to avoid immediate danger,
but also that the course adopted was reasonably calculated to
avoid that danger. And it is the settled rule in this court
that when a vessel has committed a positive breach of statute,
she must show not only that probably her fault did not
contribute to the disaster, but that it could not have done so.
lte Pennsylvania,19 Wall. 125, 136 ; Richelieu Navigatiorn
Co. v. Boston Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 408, 422.
Obedience to the rules is not a fault even if a different
course would ha0ve prevented the collision, and the necessity
must be clear and the emergency sudden and alarming before
the act of disobedience can be excused. Masters are bound
to obey the rules and'entitled to rely on the assumption that
they will be obeyed, and should not be encouraged to treat
the exceptions as subjects of solicitude rather than the rules.
The Oregon, 18 How. 570.
By Rule nineteen, "if two vessels under steam are crossing
so as to involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other
on her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the
other."
By the eighteenth, if two vessels under steam are meeting
end on or nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the
helms of both must be put to port so that each may pass on
the port side of the other.
This is repeated in Rule 1 of the inspectors' rules, and it is
provided not only that when steamers are thus approaching

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

each other, it shall be the duty of each to pass to the right, or
port side of the other, but that the pilot of either may be first
in determining to pursue this course, and thereupon shall give
as a signal of his intention one short and distinct blast of his
whistle, which the pilot of the other vessel shal- answer by
a similar blast, and thereupon said steamers shall pass to the
,port side of each other.
โข By Rule 2, when steamers are approaching each other in
an oblique direction, (as shown in fourth situation,) they shall
pass to the right of each other as if meeting "head and head,"
or nearly so, and the signals by whistles shall be given and
answered. promptly as in that case specified.
By Rule 3, if, when steamers are approaching each other,
the pilot of either vessel fails to understand the course or
intention of the othler, whether from signals being given or
answered erroneously, or from other causes, the pilot, if in
doubt, shall immed iately signify the same by giving several short
and rapid blasts of the steam whistle, -and if the vessels shall
-have approached within half a mile of each other, both shall be
immediately slowed until the proper signals are given, answered,
or understood, and until the vessels shall have passed.
It seems to us that these rules were strictly applicable, and
were disregarded by the Vanderbilt. When the plaintiff
rested, the defendant moved to 'dismiss, which was overruled,
and it is contended here that on the plaintiff's own showing
the Vanderbilt was palpably guilty of negligence which contributed directly to produce the collision, and hence that that
motion should have been sustained; but we do not care to
pass upon that question, and content ourselves with indicating
certain errors in the rulipgs of the trial court, which appear to
us to so essentially deprive the rules of the force which should
have been given them as to amount to a decision against rights
claimed under the statute of the United States. The speed of
the Yosemite was about sixteen miles, and that of the Vanderbilt nine miles, an hour, and they were approaching each other,
therefore, atan aggregate speed of twenty-five miles an hour.
The pilot of the Vanderbilt testified that he saw the white
light of the Yosemite when he was between the ice-houses,

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

apparently a mile distant. The steamers were then on parallel
courses. He did not see her green light at a-dy time, but saw
her red light just before or just 'after she blew two whistles.
When he was abreast of the lower ice-house, he thought about
a quarter of a mile from the place of collision, he headed her
for Dinsmore's house, "way off to the eastward," and, believing that the Yosemite was a tow, laid his course more to the
eastward. He was thus crossing the course of the Yosemite,
which was brought on the starboard. At this point the pilot
of the Yosemite gave a short and distinct blast from his whistle
as required by la'w, as a signal of his intention to pass to the
port side of the Vanderbilt, and this the pilot of the Vanderbilt answered by a similar blast; whereupon under the rules it
became imperative for the steamers to pass to the port side
of each other. The Vanderbilt was bound to go to the right
after the bargain was made by the exchange of single whistles;
but instead of doing this, and immediately after, the Vanderbilt's pilot gave two-whistles, which it is claimed on behalf of
the plaintiff were answered by two whistles from the yacht.
This is denied by the latter; and even if true, an assent to the
Vanderbilt's change was at the latter's risk. The Vanderbilt's
pilot on the instant sheered his boat to port, then slowed, and
the collision occurred, the Vanderbilt being struck nearly at
right angles.
Among other instructions the court was requested by the
defendant below to give, were these:
"S. As the proof is undisputed that the steamboat Vanderbilt and the yacht Yosemite were approaching each other head
and head, or nearly so, the law prescribes their duties respect.ively in regard to blowing their whistles.
"9. If the yacht Yosemite, as the'vessels were approaching
each other, blew a single whistle and the steamboat Vanderbilt answered it by a single whistle, the course which she was
thereupon bound to pursue was thereupon determined and each
vessel was bound to pass to its own right, that is, to the port
side of each other, which would have *been the Vanderbilt to
the west and the yacht Yosemite to the east.
"10. The pilot who first bl6w the first whistle thereby had

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to and did determine the course which each was then
to adopt.
"11. The blowing of the single whistle by the steamboat
Vanderbilt after the first single whistle' from. the yacht Yosemite was an acceptance by the steamboat Vanderbilt of the
'election of the course so adopted by the yacht Yosemite, and
it then became the duty of the steamboat Vanderbilt to pass
to the port or western side of the Yosemite."
"14. Even if the Vanderbilt, after having by one whistle
accepted the one whistle of the yacht, had a right to change
the conditions and course by a blast of two whistles, yet unless
these two whistles were given in time to enable the yacht to
go in safety to the west of the Vanderbilt, they would tend
to complicate the situation, and the Vanderbilt was in that
event guilty of negligence in giving the signal of two whistles."
These instructions were refused and the defendant excepted.
The court instructed the jury on this branch of the case
that it was claimed on the part of the defendant that it was
negligence for the Vanderbilt to blow the two whistles and to
take the rank sheer and cross the bow of the Yosemite, and on
the part of the plaintiff that at the time of the two signals
being given it was impracticable to carry out the agreement
which had been made by the signal which had been given
and accepted of the one whistle; that he was compelled to
give the two signals, and believed the Yosemite accepted his
proposition that each should go to the left, while on the part
of the defendant it was contended that two whistles were not
blown in response, but that the pilot of the Yosemite started
to blow three as a signal of danger and of repudiation of the
*offer made by the Vanderbilt, but before he could get them
out the collision occurred ; and the court left it to the jury to
say whether the pilot of the Vanderbilt in attempting to
change his course and to cross the bows of the Yosemite was
guilty of negligence which contributed to the accident. Rule
3 was treated by the court in a similat way.
In short, the learned judge instructed the jury that it was
for them to determin6 whether those who were in the management 5f the respective boats were guilty of negligence or

BELDEN v. CHASE.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, 3.

not, and whether or not they did or omitted to do that which
p6rsons of ordinary care and prudence ought to have done;
but in charging in this general way, and refusing to give the
instructions above named, the obligatory force of the rules of
navigation was substantially ignored.
The question whether, upon the proofs, the departure by the
Vanderbilt from the rules was justified was not put to the
jury, but whether upon the whole there was negligence in
what was done or left undone. In this there was such error
as the defendant may avail himself of in this court, so far as
saved by his requests to charge.
If these two steamers were approaching each other head and
head, or nearly so, or obliquely,, as- mentioned in Rule two, the
law-prescribed their duties respectively, and the jury should
have been told so; and as there was no doubt that upon the
exchange of single whistles the course each was bound to pursue was determined, the instructions to that effect should have
been given. And so, if the Yosemite assented to the two
whistles and the Vanderbilt's course, this, if an error, was one
at the risk of the Vanderbilt, and at most would be an error
in which both concarred, and if both were in fault, there could
be no recovery. Of course, the test as to whether the departure from the rules was excusable, if there were clear and satisfactory evidence to that effect, might have been applied
through proper instructions or qualifications on that subject,
but as the case stood, we think those above quoted should have
been given, and that the refusal to do so, taken with the actual
instructions, erroneously disposed of a Federal right.
Te judgnent of the Oourt of Apl)eals i r'eversed and the
cause is emandedforfartherproceedingsnot inconsis'tent
with thi, opinion.
AiR. JusTICE BROWN concurring.
While I fully concur in the opinion of the court that this
case should be reversed upon the ground o[ the contributory
negligence of the Vanderbilt, I think the Yosemite was guilty
of a breach of the regulations in failing to carry the range

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

lights provided by Rule seven, although it may be open to
doubt w;hether such failure contributed to the collision, in .view
of the gross fault on the part of the Vanderbilt.
Rule seven, upon the construction of which the question
turns, requires "all coasting steam-vessels and steam-vessels
other than ferry-boats and vessels otherwise expressly provided
inland waters of, the United
for, navigating the . .
States," to carry range lights. Were the Yosemite an ordinary coasting vessel, there could be no doubt of her obligation
to be provided with these lights when navigating inland waters.
She was, however, licensed under Rev. Stat. sec. 4214 as a
yacht "used and employed exclusively as a pleasure-vessel,
and designed as a model of naval architecture," on terms
which authorized her "to proceed from port to port of the
United States, and by sea to foreign ports, without entering
or clearing at the custom house." She was enrolled under Rev.
Stat. Title 50, which relates exclusively to coasting and fishing vessels. To put upon this statute (see. 4214) the construction most favorable to her, it seems to me that she was
invested with a double character: first, as an ocean-going
steamer; and second, as a coasting vessel; and that, when
navigating the inland waters of the country, she was bound
to conform to the usages of those waters, and to carry the
lights provided by law for "steam-vessels other, than ferryboats and vessels otherwise expressly provided for." Even
admitting that ocean vessels when navigating inland waters
are not, bound to carry these range lights, because it. is not
contemplated that they shall navigate these waters, I am
clearly of the opinion that yachts, which ply chiefly between
ports and places within the United States and upon the
inland waters of the country, should carry them. It seems
to me an exceedingly dangerous practice, .and one which,
according to the theory of the Vanderbilt, had much to do
with the collision in this case, to permit vessels not carrying
the lights appropriate to inland navigation to navigate the
narrow waters of the country. Vessels navigating those
waters are entitled to expect that other vessels which they
4ieet are required to carry the same lights which they carry,

BELDEN. v. CHASE.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

and any distinction in that particular in favor of yachts is
liable to create uncertainty and confusion with regard to the
character of the approaching vessel. While upon the ocean,
I have no doubt her obligations would be discharged by carry-.
ing the white and colored lights provided by Rule three for
ocean-going steamers, but while plying upon th6 Hudson
River, I think she was navigating under her license as a coasting vessel, and should have carried the range lights required in
inland navigation.
If the case required it, I would even go further and say, as
did the dissenting judge when this case was heard before the
general term, (34: Hun, 571, 57T,) that ocean-going steamers
twhen- navigating the inland waters of the country, and not
under sail, should carry the range lights provided by Rule
seven. If this be not obligatory, I find it difficult to understand
to what the words "steam-vessels other than ferry-boats and
vessels otherwise expressly provided for" apply. There is an
exception of ferry-boats which is easy to understand. There
is, also, an exception of "vessels otherwise expressly provided
.for," which, in the opinion of the court, applies to ocean-going
steamers, which are provided for by Rule three; but in my
opinion these words should be construed as if reading "steamvessels other than ferry-boats and vessels otherwise expressly
provided for in 'respetto inl,znd navigation." After expressly
excepting ferry-boats, which are of a limited class, it seems to
me a violation of the iule of ejusdem generis that, under the
words "vessels otherwise expressly provided for" should be
exempted the very large class of ocean-going steamers, and,
as observed by the dissenting judge of the general term, these
words are perhaps used as words of caution, either as to present or future possible provisions. I have no doubt that
ocean-going steamers are not obliged to carry range lights
when ascending the waters of a river as far as their customary
wharvyes near the mouth of such river; -but if such steamers
were in the habit of ascending the Hudson River as far as
Albany, or the Mississippi as far as St. Louis, it would be
exceedingly dangerous to permit them to navigate without
the customary range lights provided for those waters. But,
VOL. cL-45

'706

OCTOBER TERM. 1893.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

as before observed, it is unnecessary to place the liability of
the Yosemite upon this broad ground.
M . JusriCE FIELD and Mr. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the
argument, and took no part in the consideration and decision
of this case:

