THROIPSON v. SIOUX FALLS NATIONAL BANK. 231
Statement of the Case;

THOMPSON v. SIOUX FALLS NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME- COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
No. 53. Argued October 24, 25, 1893. -Decided November 20, 1893.
In an action at law against a bank to recover on a cheque drawn and issued
by its cashier, if it be admitted that the cheque was obtained without
consideration, and was invalid in the hands of the immediate payee, the
plaintiff must prove either that he was a bonafide holder, or that the person from whom he received the paper had taken it for value without
notice of defect in its inception.
A bank, knowing that the county treasurer of the county had not sufficient
county funds in his hands to balance his official accounts, consented to
givd him a fictitious credit in order to enable him to impose upon the
county commissioners, who were about to examine his accounts. They
accordingly gave him a "cashier's check" for $16,571.61, which he
endorsed and took to the commissioners. They received it, but refused to discharge him or his bondsmen, and placed the cheque and
such funds s he had in cash in a box and delivered them to his bonds-'
men. The latter deposited the money and the cheque in another bank in
the same place, which bank brought suit against the bank which issued
the cheque to recover upon it. Held,
(1) That the circumstances under which the cheque was issued were a
plain fraud upon the law, and also upon the county commissioners;
(2) That their receipt of it and turning it over to the sureties was a
single act, intended to assist the sureties in protecting themselves,
and was inconsistent with the idea of releasing them from their
obligation;
(3) That the question whether the evidence did or did not establish the
fact that the county was an innocent holder should have been submitted to the jury.

Tnis was an action brought by the Sioux Falls National
Bank, defendant in error, against the First National Bank, to
recover the amount of the following cashier's cheque, issued
by an officer of the defendant bank:
N'o. 91.

Sioux Falls, Dak., Jan. 12, 1886.

"THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF Sioux FALts.

"Pay to the order of 0. K. Howard, Co. Treas., sixteen
thousand five hundred and seventy-one and 61-100 (lollars.
"$16,571.61.
(Signed) W. F. FuR'CK, Cash."

OCTOBER TERM', 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Across the face of this was printed "cashier's check."

It

was endorsed "C. K. Howard, County Treasurer."
The complaint alleged in substance that the cheque was
issied for value received, delivered to Howard, endorsed by
him, and that "it came lawfully into the possession of the
plaintiff, in the usual course of business," on January 13, 1886,
and that the "plaintiff is now the legal owner and holder of
the same."
The bank answered, admitting the drawing of the cheque,
and alleged in substance that the cheque did not come lawfully into the possession of the bank in the usual course of
business, and that its acquisition by the bank was ultra vires.
The action was begun January 14, 1886, two days after the
cheque was drawn, against the then sole defendant, the First
National Bank; and about six weeks thereafter, namely,
March 1, an attachment was issued upon the ground that the
defendant had or was about to assign and dispose of its property with intent to defraud its creditors, and levied upon the
moneys, notes, drafts, stock, and other assets of the bank, in
the aggregate estimated value of over $120,000. Of this
property, the sheriff returned or tendered to the defendant on
March 5 all except assets of the estimated value of $27,541.21,
consisting of coin, notes, &c.
The issue of this attachment was followed by the failure of
*the bank, and the Comptroller of the Currency appointed
Thompson, plaintiff in error, receiver on March 11. On
March 31, 1886, the sheriff delivered to Thompson, as receiver,
the assets remaining in his hands, in the above an'iount of
$27,541.21. Acting under advice of the Comptroller, on
December 28, 1886, the receiver applied to the court for an
order substituting him as party defendant in the place of the
bank, and the court thereupon made him an additionalparty.
The receiver excepted to the order, claiming the absolute right
of substitution.
Upon the trial, evidence was introduced tending to show the
* following facts: On January 12, 1886, the date of the cheque,
Charles K. Howard was county treasurer of the county of
Minnehaha, an office which he had held for several years, and

THOMPSON v. SIOUX FAYLLS NATIONAL BANK. 233
Statement of the Case.

was having his semi-annual settlement as such county treasurer
with the board of county commissioners. From the time of
its organization to the date of this settlement, Howard had
kept his official deposit as treasurer with the First National
Bank of Sioux Falls, of which J. B. Young and H. L. Iollister, down to a short time before the issue of this cheque, had
been president and cashier respectively; and at the time of
this settlement Young and Hollister, together with C. G.
Coats and W. IH. Corson, were the sureties of Howard upon
his official bond.
Howard was confessedly a defaulter, that is, he had not
funds of the ceo.nty sufficient to meet his liabilities, and to
enable him to make his settlement with the commissioners he
had applied to the defendant bank for assistance. After he
had checked over his accounts with the commissioners, he went
to the defendant bank for $16,571.61, the amount needed. He
had about $12,000 on hand in a box in the treasurer's vault,
which, with the $16,571.61, would balance his accounts. He
had nothing deposited to his credit at the bank. To make up
the required amount he gave the bank three drafts upon
Chicago, aggregating $15,000, telling the cashier, however,
that he had no credit there which would obtain the payment
of them. . The bank thereupon gave him a deposit book showing a deposit to his credit of $15,625.01, which he exhibited to
the commissioners, wh6 said that no doubt that was all proper,
but they would like to have some little further assurance that
he had the money. He then went to the bank, procured -and
exhibited to the commissioners a letter, of which the following
is a copy:
"First National Bank, Sioux Falls, flak.
"Ja
cvary 12, 1886.
"The books of the bank showa credit in favor of the county
of $15,625.01. If you wish you have the privilege of examining the books.
'R. J. WELLS, P't.
"W. F. FuInBEcK, Cas."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The board would not make a settlement without the money
or a certified cheque. Howard returned to the bank, and asked
the cashier for a certified cheque, but was refused. Tile cashier
thereupon gave hin the cheque in suit, with the condition that
he would retain possession of it, deliver itto no one, and return
it in twenty minutes, and would also place to the credit of the
-county in the bank what money he had in his possession, as
county treasurer, some twelve or fourteen thousand dollars.
This was after the closing of the bank for the day's business.
Howard gave nothing for this cheque, nor was it charged
to any one on the books of the baik. He did not return
the cheque nor make any depbsit whatever, but took it to the
board of commissioners then in session, and endorsed it at the
request of the board. That, with the county money he then
had in his possession, was sufficient to balance his account and
discharge his obligation to the county. Thereupon Hollister,
Coats, and Corson, three of the four sureties upon his bond,
through one Bailey, their attorney, demanded that they be
released from further liability upon Howard's official bond.
On the following morning, namely, January 13, the board
of county commissioners deeming Howard's sureties insufficient for the protection of the county, because one of the sureties, Young, had removed from the State, adopted a resolution
requiring the treasurer to furnish Additional freehold sureties
in the penal sum of $50,000, and at the same time, at the
request of the.three remaining sureties, resolved that the funds
presented to the board of county commissioners by.the treasurer, in settlement of his accounts, be turned over to his bondsmen and the bondsmen put in charge of the office of county
treasurer until the additional bond was furnished, the funds to
be deposited and remain the funds of Minnehaha C ounty.
The funds of the treasurer, including this cheque, were then
placed in a tin box, and delivered. into the hands of the bondsmen, who took them in the box to the Dakota National Bank
in the city of Sioux Falls, and offered the same for deposit. •In
going to the Dakota National Bank they passed the First
National Bank, which was located on the opposite side of the
street. The Dakota National Bank refused to receive, give

THOMJPSON v. SIOUX _FALLS NATIONAL BANK. 285
Statement of the Case.

credit, or purchase the cheque without the endorsement of the
bondsmen or indemnity from them. The cheque was, at the
request of the bondsmen, presented to the First National Bank
for payment, which -was refused. The box containing the
funds was left at the Dakota National Bank by. the bondsmeL
during the noon hour. While the bondsmen and officers of the
Dakota National were at-dinner, or soon after this, Bailey, on
behalf of the bondsmen, called at the plaintiff bank and had
an interview with McKinney, its president, in which Bailey
said he had been engaged on behalf of the bondsmen of Mr.
Howard, that Young had left and they wished to be released,
and that the office had been turned over to the bondsmen with
the money. In this conversation MoKinney expressed the wish
to obtain the deposit for his own bank. Prior to this conversation he had made some inquiries of different parties about
the county treasurer's deposit, and about the settlement aid
the cheque, and had asked if it was a straight cashier's cheque.
Receiving a reply in the affirmative, he said: "I would like
to have it; they would either pay it or close their doors."
About 2 o'clock, the bondsmen, Hollister, Coats, and Corson,
went back to the Dakota National Bank, took the box and
money, including this cheque, went out of the back door of the
bank, (which was in the same block and on the same side of
the street as the plaintiff bank,) and; following along the river
bank behind the buildings which border the river,, entered the
plaintiff bank through the back door, and passing through a
sort of store-room to the directors' room or private office back
of the main office, and in the presence of MVcKinney, emptied
on the table the contents of the box, saying: 1 I have brought
you the deposit," or "Here it is." McKinney and Hollister
began counting the deposit of $2T,236.63, and after the money
was counted, the cashier, at the suggestion of Bailey, made out
a deposit book in the name of " H . L. iollister, 0. G. Coats,
and W. H. Corson, bondsmen," and credited them with the
amount of the funds. McKinney knew at this time that these
were the county funds, and that the-depositors were the treasurer's sureties, in charge of his office and funds while he was
getting an additional bond.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The cheque was not endorsed by the bondsmen, and they
had no account at that bank. Iollister endorsed several other
cheques making up the deposit, but was not asked to endorse
this one. Bailey then said to McKinney, "That is a pretty
good size cheque; you had better go and get your money on
it." McKinney said that he would collect it or see that their
doors did not open the next morning. Twice that afternoon
plaintiff presented the cheque to the First National Bank for
payment, which was refus'A upon the ground that plaintiff had
no right to thq cheque, and that it was given without consideration. In the evening a conference was held at the plaintiff
bank between its officers and attorney, and those of the First
National Bank, at which the plaintiff was again notified that
the cheque was without consideration, and had been fraudulently
diverted from the purpose for which it was issued, and was
urged to charge the same back to the bondsmen. This the
plaintiff bank refused to do, the plaintiff's cashier remarking
that if the bank did not pay it they knew a way to make it.
The next morning, January 14, the plaintiff commenced this
action. On January 18, the board of county commissioners,
having found the treasurer's account correct, by resolution
approved the same, and thereupon Howard tendered, his resignation as treasurer, and 0. L. Norton, cashier of the plaintiff
bank, was appointed his successor. On the next day, January
19, by further resolution of said board, the bondsmen were
required to turn over to the county commissioners all the evidences of deposit and all funds belonging to the county and
thereupon the cheque of the bondsmen in the sum of $2'7,236.63,
certified by McKinney, president of the plaintiff bank, was
a.ccepted by the county commissioners in full discharge of the
bondsmen for the funds received of the county January 13,
and Norton as county treasurer receipted to the commissioners
for that sum of money in currency. Prior to taking possession
of Howard's funds and the cheque in suit by the county commissioners, there was evidence tending to show that the board
was notified by one Wilkes not to take the cheque under consideration; that the payment of the cheque would be resisted.
This testimony was disputed.

THOMiPSON v. SIOUX FALS NATIONAL BANK.

237

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The case was removed for trial to Moody County, and the
court, upon motion of the plaintiff at the close of the defendants' testimony, directed a verdict for the amount of the
cheque, upon which judgment was rendered by the District
Court for $18,417.24. The case was appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, where the judgment below was affirmed,
and the defendant sued out a writ of error from this court'
A tr. [Thomas B. _cfarti for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. William A. Wilkes, Xlfr. F. L. Boyce, and Mr. 1. J..Wells
filed a brief for the First National Bank of Sioux Falls, plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. .Aadill and Mr. Cushman defendant in error.

.Davis for

The District Court did not err in directing a verdict and in
entering judgment for the plaintiff.
The instrument issued on January i2, 1886, by the First
.National Bank (plaintiff in error), payable "to the order of
C. K. Howard, Co. treasurer," for the sum of $16,571.61, was
a cashier's cheque. It is idle to discuss what other instrument
known to the law merchant is similar to it or has some element in common with it. The fact is that it is a form of
instrument in general use in the -business of the country. It
is issued by banks because of its convenience, and has been
assigned and occupies a prominent and permanent place in
commercial transactions because of its negotiability, after
endorsement in blank by the payee, by mere delivery and
because the confidence in it is coextensive with the character
and responsibility of the bank issuing it. This cheque was made
by the bank to Howard for the express and understood purpose of enabling him to make his settlement with the Board
of County Commissioners. The plaintiffs in error are estopped
from setting up any secret understanding as to it, had between
Howard and the officers of the bank, contrary to the legal
effect of the cheque itself and to the admitted purpose for
which it was given.

OCTOBER TER.Af, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The cheque was regular upon its face. It was presented by
Howard to the board as it was by the bank intended to be in
-settlement of his accounts. Howard endorsed it and the board
took it in satisfaction. This exonerated the sureties from all
liability up to and including that settlement.
The power of a national bank to issue such a cheque to its
customer is as clear as its power to certify the cheque of such
customer, and the power to do the latter has long been recog-.
nized and sanctioned by the courts.. Eszp!y v. Bank of Oineinnati, 18 Wall. 604, 620; MJ.erchants' Bank v. State Bank,
10 Wall. 604; ]irst National Bank of TlVahington v. WVhitman, 94: U. S. 343 ; Bull v. Bank of JtYasion, 123 U. S. 105.
:Nor can the authority of the cashier of a national bank to
issue a cashier's cheque be questioned by the bank in a suit
against it upon such cheque.
Nor can the bank be permitted in such suit to urge, as a
defence, that the amount for which the cheque was issued
exceeded a tenth part of the amount of the capital stock of
Wyman v.
.the bank actually paid in by the stockholders.
Citizen8' .National Bank of Faribault, 29 Fed. Rep. 734;
Gold lining Co. v. N.Yational Bank, 96 U. S. 640; lVational
Bank v. .3fatthews, 98 U. S. 621; National Bank v. Thkitney,
103 U. S. 99; Vational Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699.
MR. JUSTxcn BRowN, after stating the case, deliver.ed the

opinion of the court.
As the cheque in this case is addmitted to have been obtained
without consideration, and to have been invalid in the hands
,of the immediate payee, the plaintiff, to sustain its own title;
must prove either that it was itself - bona fide holder without
miotice, or that the county commissioners, of whom it received
the paper, had taken the same for value without notice of any
defect in its inception. Lytle v. Lansing, 147 U. S. 59.
The circumstances under which the cheque was issued were
a plain fraud upon the law and also upon the county commiisqioners. It seems that Howard kept his dep'osit as county
trea'urer wvith the defendant bank, and had been personally

THOMPSON v. SIOUX FALLS NATIONAL BANK. 239
Opinion of the Court.

interested with it in different enterprises. He says that, a few
days before his semi-annual settlement, he had a talk with
Mr.i: Wells, president of the bank, in which the latter agreed
to assist him in this settlement. He told them that it would
take about $15,000 to make the settlement. He proposed to
the cashier to give-hima note for the amount, but the cashier
told him it would be better to make some drafts to cover that
amount of credit. He thereupon made three drafts, aggregating $15,000, upon M. D. Steevers & Co. of Chicago, who
had before this honored his drafts, at the same tine telling
the cashier that he had not the proper credit to obtain payinent of them. The bank thereupon gave him a deposit book
showing a balance of $15,625.01 on deposit. This the board
refused to accept, and demanded a certified cheque, which the
bank refused to give, but gave the cashier's cheque in suit.
At the time this cheque was issued, the bank had a capital
stock of $50,000, and if this cheque be regarded as a loan, as
it must be, it was in express violation of Revised Statutes,
§ 5200, which provides that "the total liabilities to any association, of any person, or of any company, corporation, or
firm, for money borrowed, including, in the liabilities of a
company or firm, the liabilities of the several nembers
thereof, shall at no time exceed one-tenth part of the amount
of capital stock of such association actually paid in."
The substance of the transaction ws, that the bank, with
knowledge that Howard had not funds of the county sufficient
.to balance his accounts as treasurer, -in
short, that he was a
defaulter, -consented to give him a fictitious credit, in order
to enable him to impose upon thb county commissioners.
But the vital question is, whether the commissioners received
this cheque in the ordinary course of business, believing it to
represent an actual debt of the bank to Howard as county
treasurer to the amount of the cheque. - To recover upon
paper which has been diverted from. its origindl destination
and fraudulently put in circulation, the holder must show that
lie received it in good faith, in the ordinary course of business,
and paid for it a valuable consideration.
JMardell v. lowell, 9
Wend. 170; Fi'mers' & Citizens' Bank v. llroxoim, 45 N. Y. 762.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

By the Compiled Laws of Dakota, § 44ST, "an indorsee in
due course" is defined as "one who in good faith, in the ordi-

nary course of 'business, and for value, before its apparent
maturity or presumptive dishonor, and without knowledge of
its actual dishonor, acquires a negotiable instrument duly
-indorsed to him, or indorsed generally, or payable to the
bearer." And by § 4739, "good faith consists in an honest
intention to abstain from taking any unconscientious advantage of another, even through the forms or technicalities of
law, together with an absence of all information or belief of
facts which would render the transaction unconscientious."
Applying the law thui stated to the facts of this case, it appeared that before the cheque was presented, the county commissioners had refused to receive a deposit book, as well as a
written statement of the bank that Howard had a credit to
the amount of $15,625.0i upon the books of the bank as apart of his official assets, and demanded either the money or a
certified cheque, as they doubtless had a right to do. Indeed,
it is doubtful whether the commissioners had a right to recognize anything but current money in the settlement of the
treasurer's accounts. By the Compiled Laws of Dakota, §
1598, territorial warrants are receivable for general territorial
taxes, county warrants for county taxes, city warrants for
city taxes, school warrants for school taxes, "but United
States Treasury notes or their equivalent only are receivable
for such taxes as are or may be required by law to be paid in
cash." And by § 1656 : "If any county treasurer shall fail to
make return, fail -to make settlement, or fail to pay over all
money with which he may stand charged, at the time and in
the manner prescribed by law,. it shall be the duty of the
county clerk, on receiving instructions for that purpose from
the territorial auditor, or from the county commissioners of
his county, to cause suit to be instituted against such treasurer
and his sureties," etc.
Now, if the county treasurer had no authority to receive
anything but coin, Treasury notes, national bank notes, or
other current money, it is difficult to see what authority the
county commissioners had to accept anything less in the set-

THOMPSON v. SIOUX FALLS NATIONAL BANK.

211

Opinion of the Court.

tlement of his accounts. If they have the auth6rity to accept
cheques and other evidences of debt, where does that authority
cease? May they not also receive notes, drafts, bonds, or
other obligations which in their opinion may thei or thereafter be good? As was said in Cawley v. People, 95 Illinois,
249, 256, speaking of the duty of auditing boards: "They are
limited and controlled in their official acts, and they are not,
unless authorized, empowered to do or not to do official acts.
In this class of cases they are empowered, and it is enjoined
on the board, to require sufficient bond from the treasurer and
to approve it. They have no power to dispense with the duty,
nor can they, without a proper consideration, release sureties
from their obligations under the bond. If they were to do
so, in fraud of the rights of the people, the act would have no
binding effect and would be void.
There can be no
question'that the treasurer could 'only discharge himself for
county funds in his hands by paying .to the county, in money,
county orders or jury warrants. The statute requires him
to pay in such funds. It is not intended that he 'may
pay in promissory notes, cheques, drafts, and other paper."
Indeed, it is douabtful whether the county commissioners .who,
under the laws of Dakota, are7 simply an auditing body, had any
authority to receive moneys of the county from The treasurer,
for which they gave no bonds, and whether their act in taking
possession of his assets, including -this cheque, was not beyond
the scope of their authority. They did, however, receive the
money and the cheque, and at the sa'me time, and as a part of
the same transaction, turned them over to the sureties upon
his bond, although they did i'ot at that time, or until six days
thereafter, pass his accounts or release his sureties. What
warrant they had for turning over. these securities to the
bondsmen does not appear, but there was evidently -no intention on their part of releasing the sureties, nor was the
county placed in any worse position by that act. If the coinmissioners had received this cheque believing it to have been
issued in good faith ,and retained it, .it is possible the county
might have 'stood in the position of an innocent purchaser.
But their receipt, of it and their turning it over to the sureties
VOL. CL-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

,as evidently a single act, and intended to assist the sureties
if protecting themselves. It was wholly inconsistent with the
i dea of releasing them from their obligation.
Aside from the somewhat suspicious circumstances attending the sudden production of a cheque of this large amount,
which could scarcely be said to be in the ordinary course of
business, there was evidence tending to show that about the
'time of the receipt of the cheque, on January 12, Mr. Wright,
the county attorney, was informed by the counsel of the bank
that the board should not take the cheque into consideration;
that the bank would defend against it, as in the hands of
lHoward, and refuse payment; and that the next day, when
the board was in session, a similar notice was given to them.
It is true that' some of this testimony, with regard to the
notice, is disputed; but in determining whether the case
should have been left to the jury, or not, we are to consider
only the uncontradicted facts. Beyond this, however, there
is some testimony tending to show that the cheque was not
-delivered by Howard voluntarily, as such delivery involved
a plain violation of the condition upon which he had received
it; but was extorted by the bondsmen and commissioners
under a show of fo~rce. If this be true, it was clearly not
a receipt of the cheque in the ordinary course of business. Be
this as it may, t does not appear that the county commissioners took any action prejudicial to their rights against the
.county treasurer and his sureties until the 18th, when his
settlement was approved, and on the 19th the cheque of. the
bondsmen, certified by the president of the plaintiff bank, was
received in full discharge of such. bondsmen.
Without expressing an opinion of our own whether the evidence did or did not establish the fact that the county was -an
innocent holder for value of this cheque, we are clear that the
testimony upon this point should have been submitted to the
jury.

There was certainly evidence enough to go to the jury that
the plaintiff bank as well as the .sureties upon the bond received the paper with notice that .its collection would be
resisted. The sureties received the paper simply as bailee for

THOMPSON v. SIOUX FALLS NATIONAL BANK. 213
Opinion of the Court.

the county. They paid no consideration for-it. It simply
passed through their hands to'the plaintiff bank, which consented to receive it oa deposit and to credit them with the
amount.
With regard to the possession of the plaintiff bank, the
evident anxiety of iM:cKinftey, its president, to obtain for !'it
the treasurer's deposit; his inquiry whether it was a straight
cashier's cheque; his threat that the bank should pay it or
close its doors; the substitution of Norton, the cashier, of this
bank, for H6ward as county treasurer; the suspicious manner
in which the money was brought to the bank; the prompt
commencement of the action against the defendant on the
morning after the cheque was refused; the conversation on
the following morning, the 15th, between the assistant cashier
,of the plaintiff bank and the editor of a local paper, in which
the former said: "The Sioux Falls National Bank had done
a great deal for me, and now was the time for me to stand by
them; it was a matter of vital importance to them;" were
all suspicious circumstances tending to throw grave doubt
upon the claim of the plaintiff bank to be a bona fde holder
of the paper. Add to this the fact that twice during the afternoon of the 13th the plaintiff bank presented the cheque for
payment, which was refused upon the ground that it was
given without consideration, and had been fraudulently
diverted from. the purpose for which it was issued; that this
notice was repeated at a conference between the officers of
the two banks the same evening, and the plaintiff bank
requested to charge it back to the bondsmen, and it is too
clear for argument that the plaintiff did not itself stand in the
position of an innocent holder. Bad as the conduct of thedefendant bank was in issuing the cheque, the testimony is
calculated to engender a strong suspicion that the motive of
the plaintiff bank in receiving it was to secure to itself the
deposit of the county moneys, and perhaps also 'to crush out
a rival institution.
-While it is true the plaintiff bank credited the bondsmen
with the ambunt of. the cheque on its receipt, it parted with
nothing upon the faith of it until nearly a, week thereafter.

OCTOBER' TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

If it had cancelled the cheque on the evening of the 13th, as
it was requested to do, it would have done no more than the
law required of it. The mere credit of a cheque upon the
books of a bank, which may be cancelled at any time, does
not make the bank a bona fide purchaser for value. If after
such credit and before payment for value upon the faith
thereof, the holder receives notice of the invalidity of the
cheque, he cannot become a bona fde holder by subsequent
payment. -Dresser v. JMissouri &c. Construction Co., 93'
U. S. 92; liann v. Second Nat. Bank, 30 Kansas, 412; central Nat. Bank v. Valentine, 18 Hun, 417 ; -Jamf.Nat. Bank
v. Newell, 71 Wisconsin, 309; Buller v. Harrison, Cowp.
565.
The claim that defendant was estopped by its cheque to
deny that the bank was indebted to the county in the amount
of such cheque, depends practically upon the same considerations as the question of innocent purchaser. If, upon the faith
of such representations, the county commissioners did any act
prejudicial to the interests of the county, an estoppel might
arise; but if, before such act was done, the commissioners
were informed that the cheque was fictitious, they could not
be said to have acted upon the faith of its representation, and
there could be no estoppel. Even if such estoppel had arisen
in favor of the county, it is, at least, doubtful whether the
plaintiff bank could avail itself of it. Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall.
795; -Mayenborgv. Haynes; 50 N. Y. 675.
We have not deemed it necessary to consider whether this
cheque falls within the class upon which we have held that no
action will lie in favor of the holder against the drawee before
acceptance. Bank' of Republic v. Xillard, 10 -Wall. 152;
First Nat. Bank of Washington. v. Whitman, 94; U. S. 3413;
Bull v. Bank of Kasson, 123 N. Y. 105.
In any view we have been able to take of this" case, we
think the question of plaintiff's title to this cheque and its
right to recover upon the same should have been left to the
jury under proper instructions.
The.judgment of the court below is, therefore, reversed, and
the case 'emanded to the Supreme Co rt of the State of

*ELLIOTT -v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY. 2-45
Statement of the Case.

South Dakota qith instructions to remand the case to the
.proper court of Moody County, and to direct the verdict
and judgment to be set aside and a new trialgranted.
AIR. JUSTICE

BREWER dissented.

ELLIOTT v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST.
PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
No.71. Argued November 6, 7,1893.-

THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Decided November 20,1893.

Though questions of negligence and contributory negligence are, ordinarily, questions of fact to be passed upon by a jury, yet, when the undisputed evidence is so conclusive that the court would be compelled to set
aside a verdict returned in opposition to it, it may withdraw the case
from the consideration of the jury, and direct a verdict.

THIs case was commenced in the District Court of Clay
County, Dakota Territory, on August 31, 1886, by the plaintiff in error, Biddena Elliott, widow of John Elliott, deceased,
against the railway company to recover damages on account
of the death of John Elliott, alleged to have been caused by
the negligence of the defendant and its employ~s.
The defendant answered, a trial was had at the September
term, 1886, and the plaintiff recovered a verdict for seven
thousand dollars. Judgment having been entered thereon,
the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which reversed the judgment and remanded the case for a
new trial. 5 Dakota, 523.
The case was again tried, though apparently in the District
Court of Minnehaha County, at the April term, 1889, upon
the same evidence that was presented on the first trial., A
verdict was directed in favor of the defendant, and judgment
entered thereon. YPlaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court,
which, on
ay 31, 1889, affirmed the judgment. Thereupon
a writ of error was sued out from this court.

