HAMMOND v. CO NECTIOUT LIFE IXS. CO.

638

Statement of the Case.

pressure of the braid upon the core than to the use of an adhesive material.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill.

HAMMOND v. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
HAMMOND v. GORDON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Xos. 937, 938. Submitted December 11, 1893.-

Decided December 18, 1893.

The court follows Ifammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73, on a substantially
similar state of facts, and holds that the ruling of the state court was
broad enough to maintain the judgment, without considering the Federal
question.
MOTiON to dismiss. By stipulation of counsel in No. 938,
both cases were heard on the printed record in No. 937, it being

"agreed

that for all purposes of trial

.

.

.

the records

in both cases are identical."
The Supreme Court of Missouri in its opinion in that case
said: "The facts of the case, so far as they are material to the
questions raised in this court, are these:
"1Joseph Ilunot claimed a head-right, under a concession
dated in 1802, for 800 arpens of land in what is now New
Madrid County. In 1810 he conveyed the land to Joseph
Yandenbenden. The claim was presented to the first board of
commissioners for confirmation, but the board rejected and
disallowed it on the 31st January, 1811. It was presented
again to Frederick Bates, recorder of land titles, and by him
approved and recommended for confirmation on the 1st November, 1815. The claim Was then confirmed by the act
of Congress of April 29, 1816. Prior to the confirmation

. 684

OCTOBtR TRtR,' 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Yandenbenden conveyed the land to Rufus Easton by a deed
dated the 4th Novembei, 1815. It is conceded that the effect
of this confirmation by Congress was to vest the legal title to
the land in Easton.
"The land havin g been injured by earthquakes, Easton sought
to exchange it for other lands under the provisions of the act
of Congress of February 17, 1815, entitled ' Am act for the
relief of the inhabitants of the county of New Madrid, in the
State of Missouri, who suffered by earthquakes.' On the 12th
August, 1816, the r~corder of land titles issued a certificate
statifig that Joseph Hunot or his legal representatives were
entitled to locate 480 acres under the provisions of said act.
This certificate is known as New Madrid certificate No. 161.
"On the 16th June, 1818, Rufus Easton, as the legal representative of Hunot, made application to locate the certificate
on 480 acres of land ,giving a general description of the land in
the application. The deputy surveyor surveyed the land, and
on the 23d June, 1819, certified this survey to the surveyor
general. This survey was designated and is known as survey
No. .2500. The surveyor general transmitted this -survey and the plat made a part of it-to the recorder on the 8th
January, 1833. The latter recorded the samie on the 2d February, 1833, and ot that day issued a patent certificate.to Joseph
Hunot or his legal representatives for the 480 acres. This
patent certifioate was delivered to Peter Lindell, and it was
forwarded to the General Land Office. Conflicting claims
Were interposed, so that the patent was not issued until the
13th August, 1859.
"As has been stated, Easton signified his desire to. locate his
certificate on the land on the 16th June, 1818, and the survey
and plat were made on the 23d June, 1819, but the plat and
survey were not filed with the recorder until early in Jar uary,
1833. -Rufus Easton, by his warranty deed, dated the 29th
September, 1823, acknowledged by him and his wife oi the
-9th October, 1823, and recorded on the 9th February, 1824,
conveyed 240 of the 480 acres to Samuel Hammond. This deed
contains a recital that it was made" in consideration of $1583
to him in land paid by said Samuel Hammond and pursuant

HA MOND

. CONECTiCGUT

LIF9 2NS. C0.

635,

Statement of the Case.

to the conditions of a certain bond executed by the said Rufus
Easton to said Samuel Hammond and James I. Wilkerson,
dated September 3d, 1818.' On July 10, 1819, Easton conveyed the residue of the 480 acres to William Stokes. There
is evidence that Hammond went into possess.ion under his title
bond and remained in possession for several years. On the
8th October, 1823, the sheriff sold- the 240 acres to :Richarck
Ielf and Beverly Chew by virtue of an execution issued upon
a judgment against Samuel Hammond,, and executed to them
a deed dated the 4th November, 1823. Relf and Chew conveyed the land to Peter Lindell in M,arch, 1840. Lindell also
held a deed to. the land from Hunot, dated in 1834, and it
appears that Lindell took possession at that date and continued his possession until his death, jn 1861. The lot in question is part of the 240 acres, and was set off to one of ihe heirs
of Lindell in the partition of that estpte. The plaintiffs have
acquired all the title of such heir by deeds in'due form.
"The defendants claim title by deeds from the heirs of Samuel Hammond, obtained since 1870. They got possession of
the land in 1879 by virtue of an execution on a judgment in
an ejectment suit against the tenant of the heir of Lindell, to
whom the lot had been assigned in the partition suit. The
bank brought this suit to regain possession in 1882.
"1. From the foregoing statement it will be seen that all
parties to this suit claim under Samuel Hammond, the defendants through the heirs of Hammond, and the plaintiffs under
the sheriff's deed. The title is with the defendants, unless the
sheriff's deed divested Samuel Hammond of his interest in
We hold that the bond recited in the deed
the land. .
vested in Hammond an interest in the land which was subject
to sale under an execution.
"2. The defendants insist, in the next place, that there was
not a particle of title, legal or equitable, out of the United
States and in Hammond at the date of the execution sale, and
that he had nothing which could be sold, because the surveyor
general did not file the survey with the recorder until early in
1833, which was about ten years after the land was sold under
the execution.

.

.

.

The claim that the doctrine of rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion can have no application to. a New Madrid location prior
to .the return of the survey to the recorder is, in our opinion,
not well founded and not supported by any of the authorities
cited to prove that proposition. Right and justice calls for
the application of the rule in this case, and no reason is seen
Nyhy it.should not be applied.
"The foregoing objections to the sheriff's deed were considered in the case of Hammond v. Jo/nston, 99 Mo. 198, but
we have travelled over the ground again in view of the great
value of the property involved and the earnest arguments
made on the hearing of this case.
"3. There is another objection to the sheriff's deed not made
or considered in the Hammond-Johnston case, and that is this,
that it is void because the execution issued out of the Supreme
Court instead of out of the circuit court.

.

.

.

We hold

that the sale was and is valid in this collateral proceeding, and
in saying this we assume that it appears from the sheriff's
return that thb first piece of property- sold brought more than
enough to pay the costs, and that it appears from that eturn
that the property in question was the second piece sold.
"With the foregoing conclusions it follows that the judgment should be, and it is, affirmed."
The. judgment thus affirmed was in accordance with the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri which
was before this court in H1anmond v. Johnstoiz, 142 U. S. 73.
_21&. J. B. Renderson, for the defendants in error, moved to
,dismiss both actions upon the ground that "the whole question
of title, in the judgment of the Missouri court, turned on the
.validity of the sheriff's sale," which was '"a question purely
of state law and not reviewable in this court:"
.b'. D. T.

ewett and -r. Leverett Bell opposing.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The writs of error are dismissed upon
the authority of Hammond v. Joknston, 142 U. S. 73.

