OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

MAGONE v. HELLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 47. Argued October 19, 20, 1893.-Decided October 30, 1893.

Under the tariff act of 1883, a kind of sulphate of potash, the only common
use of which, either by itself or in combination with other materials, is
as manure or in the manufacture of manure; is within the clause of the
free list which exempts from duty "all substances expressly used for
manure;" and is not within the clause of " Schedule A. - Chemical
Products," which imposes a duty on "potash, sulphate of, twenty per
centum ad valorem."

THis was an action brought, after due protest and other proceedings, by the mambers of a firm of importers against the
collector 'of the port of New York, to recover back duties
assessed and levied by the collector under the tariff act of
March 3, 1883, c. 121, upon three importations in 1887 of an
article invoiced as "manure salts," which the collector held
to come within the clause "Potash, sulphate of, twenty per
centum ad valorem," in "Schedule A. - Chemical Products,"
and which the plaintiffs claimed to be exempt from dufy under
the free list as a substance .' expressly used for manure." 22
Stat. 493, 515.
At the trial, one of the plaintiffs testified that the article
(of which he produced samples) was a manure salt, made in
Saxony, from a substance there mined and kno'vn as "kainit,"
by crushing and washing or leaching so as to extract the parts
of no use as fertilizers, leaving sulphate of potash, and then
burning, and grinding it in a mill, but not calcining it; that
the -plaintiffs sold all the importations to manufacturers of
fertilizers, and had imported the article since 1882; that, "so
far as his knowledge went, similar articles were used expressly
for fertilizers and manures; that his, firm sold them to fertilizer manufacturers expressly;" that "he did not say that
these articles Were, directly applied to the ground for crops;
that they were so applied; but they were generally used in
other ways;" that they contained 90 to 95 per cent of sul-

JMAG ONE v. HELLER.
Statement of the Case.

phate of potash, and more than 40 per cent of pure potash;
that the price was estimated according to the amount of sulplhate of potash, as shown by foreign analysis ; and that his
firm dealt in manure salts, and not in sulphate of potash.
On cross examination, he persisted in the last statement,
after being shown a business card of his firm (afterwards
proved to have been obtained at their place of business a few
days before the trial) which stated that they dealt in "sulphate
of potash, muriates of potash, kainit, kiserit, mineral phosphates, acid phosphate, and all other fertilizing materials."
Several wholesale dealers in drugs and chemicals, called by
the plaintiffs, testified that they knew and dealt in chemically
pure sulphate of potash, (of which they produced samples,) but
did not recognize or deal in the substance of which samples
had been produced by the plaintiffs.
Some manufacturers of fertilizers and dealers in fertilizing
materials, called by the plaintiffs, testified that this substance
was bought and sold as "sulphate of potash," and as "1
manure
salts;" that it was generally used in the manufacture of fertilizers, mixing it with other materials; that itwas sometimes
sold to farmers for fertilizing purposes; and that they did not
know of its being used for any other purpose.
An analytic and consulting chemist, called by the plaintiffs,
testified that the article "was known in commerce as high
grade manure salt or high grade sulphate of potash;" "that
he *did not know the predominating name under which they
were sold; that they were called sulphate of potash and high
grade manure salt; that the term manure salt was applied
to perhaps only three articles, kainit, sulphate of potash (so
called) or the double sulphate of potash and magnesia, and
muriate of potash and kiescrit; that the articles in suit, as far
as he knew, were generally used in the manufacture of fertilizers;" and that any of the chemicals used in.fertilizers would
not injure vegetation, if mixed with something else, or lightly
sprinkled on the soil, but would if applied in large quantities.
The same witness testified that the article was. also used in
the manufacture of alum; and of nitrate of potash for making

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

gunpowder; and witnesses called by the defendant testified
that it was used for making alum, refined potash, and bichromate of potash.
An analytical chemist, called by the defendant, testified
that he had made analyses of the samples produced by the
plaintiff, showing that they contained from 49.19 per cent of
potash and 91.05 per cent of sulphate of potash to 51.62 per
cent of potash and 95.67 of sulphate of potash ; that the chemical difference between these samples and those produced by
the other witnesses for the plaintiffs was only in the degree of
purity, the former containing a small amount of muriates;
and that the two articles were two kinds of the same substance
-sulphate of potash.
The defendant moved the court to direct the jury to return
a verdict for the defendant, on these grounds: 1st. That the
article in suit is provided for in the tariff act of 1883 eo nornine
as "sulphate of potash." 2d. That the clause ".
all substances
expressly used for manure" means only substances used for or
as manure, and not substances used in the manufacture of
manure or fertilizers. 3d. That this article is "sulphate of
potash," and is provided for in said tariff act eo 'nowine as
"sulphate of potash," a specific expression; and therefore,
even if otherwise covered by the general expression "all substances expressly used for manure," is not provided for under
such general expression. 4th. That the plaintiffs had not
proved facts sufficient to enable them to recover. The court
denied the motion, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then moved the court to allow the case to go
to the jury upon the question whether the article in suit was
a "substance expressly used for manure." The court denied
this motion also, and the defendant again excepted.
The Jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs by direction
of the court. 38 Fed. -Rep. 908. Judgment was rendered on
the verdict, and the defendant, on October 16, 1886, sued out
this writ of error.
7 itney for plaintiff
3Th. Assistant Attorney General TW
in
error.

MAGONE v. HELLER.
Opinion of the Court.

2M'. Edwib B. Smith for defendants in error.
MiR. JusTicE GAY, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The tariff act of 1883, in "Schedule A. - Chemical Products," imposes duties on various compounds of "Potash,"
includifig "Nitrate of, or saltpetre, crude, one cent per pound.
Nitrate of, or refined saltpetre, one and one-half cents per
pound. Sulphate of, twenty per centum. ad valorem."
"Bichromate of potash, three cents per pound." 22 Stat.
493.
Among the articles exempt from duty by the free list of the
same act are the following: "Bone dust and bone ash for
manufacture of phosphate and fertilizers. Carbon, animal,
fit for fertilizing only. Guano, manures, and all substances
expressly used for manure." 22 Stat. 515.
Congress, for the promotion of agriculture, evidently
intended that if a substance, which might be described by
the name of an article subject to duty under Schedule A,
was within the description, in the free list, of use for' fertilizing.
the ground, it should be exempt from duty.
This is manifest from the clause in the free list, immediately
preceding that now ih question, "Carbon, animal, fit for fertilizing only," as well as from the clause further on in the
same list, "Phosphates, crude or native, for fertilizing purposes." 22 Stat. 517. Animal carbon and crude or native
phosphates are both chemical products; yet if the carbon is
"fit for fertilizing only," or the phosphate is "for fertilizing
purposes," it is clearly intended to come in free, notwithstanding Schedule A imposes a duty on "all chemical compounds
and salts, by whatever name known, and not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, twenty-five per centurn
ad valorem." 22 Stat. 494; .Xason v. Robertson, 139 U. S.
624.
So, by force of the very clause in question, "all substances
expressly used for manure," must be exempt from duty, even
if they are chemical products, and are scientifically classed as

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

one kind of an article the name of which appears in Schedule
A, or are spoken of in commerce by that name. The agricultural use must prevail over the scientific or commercial nomenclature.
The real question, therefore, is what is the true meaning, in this clause, of the words "expressly used for manure?"
While the adverb "expressly," in its primary meaning,
denotes precision of statement, as opposed to ambiguity, implication, or inference, and is equivalent to "in an express
manner," or "in direct terms," it is also commonly used to
designate purpose, and as equivalent to "especially," or
"particularly," or " for a distinct purpose or object."
In Webster's Dictionary, for instance, the definition of
"expressly" is: "In an express manner; in direct terms;
with distinct purpose; particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young." And the further illustration is added
from Shakespeare: "I am sent expressly to your lordship."
The phrase "substances expressly used for manure," was in
the enumeration, of articles specified as exempt from duty
in earlier tariff acts, and may have been retained in the act of
1883 for that reason. See Acts of March 3, 1857, c. 98, ยง 3,
11 Stat. 194; k[arch 9, 1861, c. 68, ยง 23, 12 Stat. 196; Rev.
Stat. ยง 2505.
The qualifying words are not "expressly intended for use
as manure," or- expressly imported for use as manure," or
"in fact to be used as manure," and cannot therefore be tested
by the intention of the importer, or by the use to which the
goods are afterwards actually put. But the words are
"expressly used for manure," and the question whether the
imported articles come within the description is to be determined at the time of importation.
"Manures" having been -already specified in the same
clause, the words in question cannot be limited to substances
used as manure in the very condition in which they are
imported; but must, according to a natural meaning of t]i
word "for," include not only all substances expressly nsod

MAGONE v. ItELLER.
Opinion of the Court.

as manure, but also substances expressly used, either by themselves or in combination with other materials, in making
manure.
The result of these considerations is that, in this act, the
phrase "expressly used for manure" is equivalent to "used
expressly," or "particularly," or "especially" for manure;
and denotes those substances, the only common use of which,
either by themselves, or in combination with other materials,
isfor the purpose of fertilizing the soil.
If the only common use of a substance is to be made into
manure, or to be itself spread upon the land as manure, the
fact that occasionally, or by way of experiment, it is used for
a different purpose, will not take it out of the exemption.
But if it is commonly, practically and profitably used for
a different purpose, it cannot be considered as "expressly
used for manure," even if in the majority of instances it is so
used. To hold -otherwise would be to extend to other industries an exemption intended for the benefit of agriculture
only.
In the present case, the article imported was, chemically
considered, "sulphate of potash," though not quite pure.
There was testimony tending to show that it was bought and
sold.by that name, and as "manure salts," by manufacturers
of fertilizers and dealers in fertilizing materials; that it was
used expressly for fertilizers and manures; that it was generally used, mixed with other materials, for the manufacture of
fertilizers; and that 'it was sometimes sold to farmers to be
used as manure. But there was other testimony to the effect
that it was alio used in the- manufacture of alum, as well
as of refined potash,. nitrate of potash, and bichromate of
potash.
Such being the state of the case, it was a question of fact.,
to be determined by the jury, upon consideration of all the
evidence and of the comparative credibility-pf the witnesses,
whether the article was "expressly used for manure," in the
sense above defined.
It follows that the judge rightly refused to direct a verdict
for the defendant; but that*he erred in denying the defend-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ant's request to submit the case to the jury, and in directing
a verdict for the plaintiffs. For this error
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded, with
directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
AI. JUSTICE

BREWER

dissented.

1Mr. JUSTICE BRoW-N was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

HALL *v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 822. Stubmitted October ), 1893. -Decided October 30, 1S93.

Upon a trial for murder in Arkansas, on cross examination of witnesses to
the .defendant's character, and by his own testimony to meet evidence
that he had since fled to Mississippi, it appeared that ]ic had killed a negro
in Mississippi two years before, and had since been tried and acquitted
there. The district attorney, in his closing argtment to the jury, said:
"We know, from reading the newspapers and magazines, that trials in
the State of Mississippi of a white man for killing a negro are farces.
Tle defendant came from Mississippi with his hands stained with the
blood of a negro." And he added other like expressions and dcclarations
that the killing of a negro in Mississippi, for which the defendant had
been tried and acquitted there, was murder. To all these declarations,
expressions, and arguments of the district attorney, the defendant at the
time objected, and, his objections being overruled by the court, alleged
exceptions. field, that lie was entitled to a new trial.

THIs was an indictment, found at August term, 1891, of the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Arkansas, against
Robert M1. Hall, for the murder of James Yates, by shooting
him vith a gun, at Choctaw Nation in the Indian country in
that district, on August 4, 1S91.
At the trial, at August term, 1892, before the District Judge,

