OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

renting the premises and paying the taxes, but Long's marriage
into the Western family, his taking a deed from the heirs
through M r. Mk~eriwether, the husband of one of' the heirs,
who acted as attorney both for Long and for the heirs, and
the giving of a promissory note unsecured by mortgage upon
the land- a note which the heirs apparently never sawindicate very clearly that he could not have been ignorant of
the true situation.

The decree of the court below was clearly right, and must be

Affir ned.

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA..
No. 97. Argud .November 21, 22, 1893.-

Decided December fl, 1893

A decree in chancery, which determines that a partnership existed between
the parties, that one Partner is entitled to recover of the other a share
in the profits of the partnership business, that the defendant partner
account to the plaintiff partner, and that the case be referred to a master
to state such account upon proofs, is not a final decree.
The plaintiff set uli in his bill a verbal contract of partnership between the
defendant and himself in the buying and selling of real estate, and called
for an answer under oath. The defendant answered under oath, denying
positively and in direct terms the existence of the alleged contract of
partnership. Held, that, under well settled rules of equity pleading and
practice, this ,nswer could be overcome only by the testimony of at least
two witnesses, or of one witness with corroborating circumstances, and
that the proofs in this case fail to break down the defendant's denial.
The violation by one partner of his undertaking to give to the firm or his
associate an opportunity or option to enga1ge in any particular transaction, not within the scope of the firm's business, does not entitle is copartners to convert him into a constructive trustee in respect to the
profits realized therefrom.
An agreement by partners that no one of them should engage in the buying
and selling of real estate on his own account does not entitle the other
partners to share in profits made by one of them in real estate speculations, entered into by him without first securing the assent of his
copartners.

tATTA v. KILBOURNI.
Statement of the Case.
Dean v. 3cDowell, 8 Ch: D. 345,,approved and followed.
If a member of a partnership uses information obtained by him in the
course of the transaction of the partnership business, or by reason of
his connection with the firm, for purposes wholly without the scope'of
the partnership business, and not competing with it, the firm is not
entitled to an account of any benefit derived therefrom.

THF. appellees, as members of .a dissolved copartnership,
brought this suit against the appellant, another member
thereof, for'an account of profits made by the latter in certain
transactions alleged to have been within the scope of the pattnership business, and which, as claimed, it was his duty to
have conducted for the.benefit of the firm instead of for his
individual advantage..
The material facts*of the case, as disclosed by the'pledinWs
and proofs, are as follows. In 1865 there existed in the city
of Washington a copartnership composed of R. At. Hall, 0. H.
Kirkendall, tnd Hallet Kilbourn, under the name of Hall, Kilbourn & Company, which was formed for the purpose of carrying on the business of "reaf estate brokers and auctioneers."
The'scope of this partnership, as indicated by the nature of
its business, was one of agency, and consisted in negotiating
and making sales and purchases of real property for the account
of others;
In the latter part of 1865, Kirkendall withdrew from the
firm, and the appellant Latta acquired and succeeded to Hall's
interest therein, and thereafter the business of copartnership
was conducted under the the name of Kilbourn & Latta.
These changes in the 'Membership of the. firm were attended
with no change in the nature and scope of the partnership
business, which continued the same after Latta came into the
firm as before, except that the business of auctioneers was
discontinued.
The partnership agreement of the former firm, as well as that
ef'Kilbourn & Latta, was in parol, and the business of each, as
proclaimed to the world by their advertising cards in the newspapers, by the sign at the firm's place of business, by letter
heads, and as published in the city ditectory, was that of "real
estate and note brokers," and consisted in buying and selling

OCTOBER TE

IM,1893.

Statement of the Case.

real estate on commission, renting houses, and negotiating
loans. Kilbourn & Latta, as a firm, had no capital and owned
no property except a few articles of office furniture of little
value; nor was there any agreement, arrangement, or provision made by which capital was to be supplied for the use of
the firm, if any should be needed or required in the conduct of
its business. The personal services of the partners constituted
the only mdans of carrying on the business of the firm, and
each member was to share equally in the profits and losses of
the business. Kilbourn was without means, while Latta was
possessed of considerable property.
During the existence of this partnership, which continued
from 1866"to January 1, 1871, each member of the firm; with
the knowledge of his copartner, purchased real estate and other
property on his private or individual account, and no question
was ever mafe by either partner of the right so to do, nor did
either partner ever claim that the profits realized on such pur.chases should be treated as belonging to the firm, or were subject to- division among its members. Dy special agreement,
and as a special venture, the partners purchased on firm or joint
account two parcels of land on speculation - the money to
make the purchases being advanced by Latta, in whose name
the title was taken. In the same way, by special agreement,
they purchased bonds and other securities, and special accounts
of such transactions were kept upon the firm's books. In
several instances the partners, by special and mutual agreement,
in lieu of commissions took a share of the profits in property
purchased and sold for the account of others, without assum
ing-or incurring any responsibility for losses.
The two purchases of real estate on joint account, as well
as those in which the partners of, the firm took a share of
profits in lieu of commissions, were special ventures in eacl
case, entered into after special agreement between the partners, and were in no sense within the terms or objects, expressed or implied, of their regular partnership business. The
scope and character of the firm's business did not extend to
the buying and selling of real estate on 'account of the firm.
It had no capital for that purpose, and no arrangements were

IATTA v. KILBOtRI..
Statement of the Case.

provided by which it was to be supplied.

The Profits of the

business were drawn and distributed as fast as earned.
On January 1, 1871, John F. Olmstead, who had been f6f
many years a clerk for Kilbourn & Latta at an annual salary
of twelve or fifteen hundred dollars, was admitted as a part-,
ner into the firm.- The new partnership' carried on its business under the same firm name of Kilbourni & Latta-the
respective interests of the partners being three-eighths of the
profits of the business each to Kilbourn and Latta, and twoeighths to Olmstead. This new firm, like the former, had n6
written articles of copartnership. The scope and character of
its business, as well as the respective interests of the partners
therein, rested in parol. Olnstead brought no means into
the concern, and neither the firm nor any member thereof,
except Latta, possessed any property or capital. There was
not only no provision or agreement for the accumulation of
firm capital, but the course of business was directly the reverse, the habit of the partners being to draw against their
respective shares of the profits, and on December 31 of each
.year the accounts were adjusted, and. whatever balance each
member of the firm had to his credit was drawn out of the
firm and placed to his individual credit. The profits of the
business in which alone the partners were to share were thus
annually divided and distributed according to their respective
interests.
Under this new firm, as under the old, the scope and
character of its ,business, as 'indicated and ihade known to
the public through the sign over its place of business, in the
cards which it advertised, in the city directory, and its letter
heads and envelopes, was that of "ireal estate and iote
brokers." Aside from the scope and chaiacter of the firm's
business as thus described and brought to the notice of the
public, each of the three partners testified that the new, partnership was a continuation of the business of the former firm
of Kilbourn & Latta.
Latta states that "there was no change whatever made at
the time he (OlmsteAd) came in As to the terms of the partnership or the scope.of the partnership business."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Kilbourn states that he does "not remember'now of any
change late in the year 1870 in the firm of Kilbourn & Latta,
except the agreement to take in Mr. Olmstead and the change
in the division of the profits. In all other respects the firm
continued afterwards just as it was before."
Olmstead testifies: "After I became a member of the firm
it was agreed that we should do a brokerage business and a
commission business, that we should buy and sell property
when opportunity offered, and we had the facilities for doing
it, and we should buy and sell securities, and do a general
brokerage business, and a general commission business; a general speculative business. I have stated all the stipulations
substantially as well as I can.recollect them. These stipulations
were enfered into in one of the last days of December, 1870.
I -don't know that there was any discussion as to whethel the
business of the firm was to be different after I entered it
from what it was before. I don't know that there was any
new arrangement touching the business in which the firm was
to embark. The partnership business of the firm was, as I
understood, to-be just what it had been. They were to go on.
and to do what they had been doing for a year or two, with
the same scope and breadth."
It was further testified by Kilbourn and Olmstead that
when.the latter came into the firm in January, 1871, an arrangement or stipulation was made that all real estate which
was considered a bargain was to b6 first offered to the firm,
or the members thereof, for purchase; that if the-firm or any
member thereof declined to make the purchase, the others
could take it if they so elected,, and if two declined onG could
take it, but that thQ firm was to have the first Opp6rteunty,
and that it was left optional with the firm, and with. each
member thereof, to join in such purchase. Olmstead in his
testimony states this alleged stipulation or arrangement as
follows:
"There was an agreement that knowledge of any property
that was offered for sale or any property that any of the
members of the firm knew about should be communicated to
the firm, and if they saw fit and were in condition they could

LATTA o. KILBOUII.
Statement-of the Case,

buy it; and if either memler declined the other. tw could;
or, two declining, one could; but everything pertaining to real
estate was to be for the benefit of the firm and to be communicated to the firm. That was a verbal agreement. The first
time I remembei of its being fully talked about was a month
or six weeks before we moved uptown, somewhere in-the latter
part of March or 1st April, 1871. After we went uptown it
was talked abou t several times; it was an express injunction
or stipulation of Mr. Latta's.
" .There was one stipulation (I call it a stipulation) which
was agreed on, a proposition made by Mr. Latta in the office
on Seventh street and F, that I remember..
"Q. Was that.after you entered the firm?
"A. Some little time before we made the-purchase of part
of lot 5, in square 157, and that was (what I have stated in
the bill as nearly as I can state it now) that the knowledge or
information or anything touching real estate should be communicated to the members of the firm;. that any purchases oT
real estate should be for the benefit of the ffio'le rm; that if
any member did not wish to come in or was nbt conditioned
to come in, the other two might, or, if two declined, then bne
might; the first and foremost was that everything pertaining
to real estate operation aid speculations was.to be-for the
benefit of the firm. That was one of the conversations with
Mr. Latta.
He wanted it very emphatically under.
stood that what was done by the members of the firm was. for
the benefit of the firm in the -way of" real estate'business oper-.!
ations.
"Q. No matter what form it took on?
"" A. He stated what form - that if he heard of any piece
ofpyoperty beingfor sale and saw an opportunity to make a
speculation, or going into any 'interestin any o6piration, that it
shoul be communicated.to the other members."
Kilbourn states the arrangement as follows:
"Well, the agreement was to continue the business as we
had been carrying it on, as it was laid down by Mr. Latta and
acquiesced iftand specially announced by Mr. Latta that in
governing our business in the future in regard to the. real
voL. cL-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

estate transactions, all information with reference to the ourchase and sale or negotiation of real estate acquired should be
submitted with a view that if the firm desired they could take
advantage of such information and operate in behalf of the
firm or any members of the firm, if the firm did not wish to
take hold as a firm. There were several talks and conversations with regard to the business at various times.
" Q. Was there any agreement as to either member of the
firm buying and selling real estate on his own account?
"A. The only agreement was, as I stated before, that all
knowledge or information with reference to the property
whatever developed was in the minds of any one of the members a good investment it must be submitted to the firm, and
if the firm did not want it or did not like it, then any member
of the firm had the privilege of buying. The firsi condition
precedent was that the firm should be advised of everything
in relation to real estate transactions coming within the knowl.edge of the firm. It was laid down by Mr. Latta himself very
emphatically, and after we moved up to Fifteenth and G
streets he referred to it once or twice."
HEe further testified ,The arrangement in 1871, after Mr. Olmstead came in,
-wasthat all property which was considered a bargain was to
be first offered to the firm for purchase, and if they wanted to
go ir, well and good.. If either one declined the others could
take it if they wanted to, and if -two declined the third one
could take it; but the first consideration was to give the firm
the opportunity.
"It was a positive and emphatic agreement that all matters
connected with real estate, or operations in real estate that
suggested themselves as good things to either one of the partners, should. be presented to the firm; that all information in
.connection with real estate should be stated to the farm, and
that in the matter of purchasing real estate the firm was to
,have the first opportunity. If either member declined to go
in, then the other two-could; and if two members declined,
then the other member had .the'privilege. That was a positive
agreement suggested and laid down byMr. Latta himself. It

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
Statement of the Case.

was stated when we were considering the -question of taking
-Mr.Olmstead into the partnership, and it was agreed upon
when we entered into the partnership, and reference was made
to it two or three times subsequently It was simply a parol
agreement."
. Latta, both in his answer and testimony, positively
denied
this stipulation.
This firm contifiued in existence from January 1, 1871, to
January 1, 1877, when it was dissolved. During this period
one or more parcels of land were purchased as a speculation
on jcint account, by the members of the firm, after special
agreement so to do had been entered into between them.
These transactions, like those of the former firm, were special
ventures entered into after a special agreement between the
partners, to make the particular purchases. Bonds and other
securities were also purchased from time to time under and in
pursuance of special agreements between the partners.
These bond transactions were entered upon the books of
the firm under what is called the "bond account," while. the
joint real estate transactions were kept under an account
styled or headed "Kilbourn, Latta & Olmstead." 'This hew
firm did not, however, in any case make any speculative purchases of real estate on joint account with others, or upon any
agreement or arrangement to take a share of the profits in
lieu of commissions. All the transactions on either firm or
joint account, other than the brokerage business of the copartnfership, were discussed and specially agreed upon before they
were entered into.
Purchases on his individual accofint were made by Latta,
the appellant, during the existence of the firm with the knowledge of one or both of the other partners, and without objection being made thereto. Among other purchases made by
him, in his individual name and for his individual account,
were lots 34, i5, and 36 -in square No. 445, in the city of
Washington, designated as the Thyson lots, on the sale of
which profits were made by him; Olmstead knew of the'purchase of the~e lots as early as 1873,'and neither made objection thereto, nor set up any claimon behalf of the firm or of

532

OCTOBER, TERM, 1893.
Statement Qf the Case:

the-partners thereof, to a share of the profits made by Latta
from the-sale of the same.
In December, 1871, Latta entered into an agreement with
Dr. Stearns by'which they undertQok to pngage in the buying
and selling of real' estate in the District of Columbia on joint
speculation, upon the terms that the capital to be invested
should be furnished by Stearns, which, with interest, was to
be first paid out of the proceeds of the sales of the property
to be bought, and after the payment of all expenses the net
,profits of the speculation should be equally divided between
the parties. Each party was to be equally responsible for any
losses that might be sustained.
Under this arrangemnent
between them a number of lots, and parcels of land were
puqrchased in 1872, the titles to which were taken generally
in the name of Stearns, but in one or more instances the title
to property purchased was taken in the name of Latta. The
purchases and sales of the lots a:nd parcels of ground made
by Stearns' and Latta on joint account were conducted through
ihe firm of Kilbourn & Latta, and -were entered upon their'
books, and the firm received the regular commissions thereon,
which amounted to about $.5000.
Before these purchases on joint account were closed out,
and the profits thereoa were.realized, and distributed, Stearns,
under date of July 30, '1872, executed and delivered to Latta
a certificate, which reited that the real estate purchased under
their arrangement was held by him on joint account, and that
the terms of the joint aceount were as follows:
"The cash payments have been made by me; the future or
.deferred payments, principal and interest and taxes, are' to be
.paid by Me. I am to 'determine when, at what price, and on
what terms any portion of it may be sold; and when any
proportion of it is sold, I am to be repaid all the money I
have paid out on account of that portion with sii .per centumn
,interest on the amount. Then after all costs and expenses of.
the sale shall have been paid the net profits are to be divided
equally between the said Latta and myself.
"Jox. SrEA .N
"NMr. Latta has a 'copy of this,"

-LATTA v. - ILBOURA.
Statement of the Case.

While this certificate of Stearns does not mention losses, it
is satisfactorily shown that Latta was to divide the losses in
the event the property, when.sold, did not realize c o ts and
expenses, and in one instance he did divide-with Dr. Stearns

the loss upon a parcel of ground purchased on joint account.
For some of the purchases made on joint account with Stearns,
Latta executed his individual notes, and in the course of 'the

business drew from and deposited with the firm of Kilbourn' &
Latta funds for the account of Stearns growing -out f their
joint enterprises.
While Latta did not consult his copartners, or obtain their
assent to his engaging with Stearns in the joint purchases of,
real estate, he took no means of concealing it, and we are
satisfied from the testimony in the case that Olmstead.knew"
of. these transactions of Latta with Stearns as early as 1873.
He admits that he had a suspicion of it in 187-4. The bookkeeper of the concern states that he cannot understand how
the other members could fail to know of it, and a disinteresfed
witness, William H. Philip, testified that about May, 1873,
when he inquired for Latta at the office of the firm, Mr.
Olmstead stated that Mr. Latta had gone to Europe, and, in
reply to the question whether for business or pleasure, further
stated that "Mr. Latta bad just closed out some real estate,
or perhaps a large amount of .real estate, that he and Dr.Stearns were interested in," and that a part of his bufsiness
in going to Europe was to see Dr. Stearns and settle up their
matters.
This direct testimony, in ponirirction with the facts and
circumstances surrounding the transaction of the business,
leaves little or no i'oon to doubt that Olmstead :knew
of the joint enterprises of Stearns and Latta as early as
18-73.
This second firmn of Kilbourn & Latta was dissolved ini January, 1877, and, thereafter, in November, 1877, the appellees
filed their bill against the appellant, in which, after reciting
many of the facts already stated, they'claimed that the purchases of the Thyson lots and. the joint purchases made with
Stearns were properly partnership transactions; and that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

(Latta) was accountable to them for the profits realized out of
the same. The bill alleged that the profits realized from the
purchases made with Stearns amounted to about the sum of
$45,000, which was equally divided between Stearns and Latta;
and that no part thereof was turned over to ihe firm of Kilbourn & Latta, but.that it was wrongfully appropriated byLatta to his own use. The complai nants further averred that.
they had no knowledge of these.transactions of Latta & Stearns
:.ntil after the dissolution of. the partnership, and that Latta
had conducted the same secretly and thereby had defrauded.
the complainants.
By the third paragraph of the bill it was averred that the
copartnership was entered into for the purpose of carrying on
the business of real estate -agents and brokers, and the purhase
and sale of 'eal estate in the District of Columbia; and also

averred that it was "further stipulated by said partnership
agreement, by and between the plaintiffs and defendant, that
real estate by said firm
all .profits resulting from operations ifi
of Kilbourn & Latta, or by any member thereof during the
existence of said partnership, should belong to said firm,and
be entered upon the books of the firm, and paid into the partnership account; and it was further stipulated in said agree-ment. that any infohnation obtained by any member of said
firm during the existence of said copartnership touching real
estatte ivith reference to its sale or purchase, or the consent of
the owner of said real estate to sell the same, or the desire of
any person to purchase real estate in said District, was to be
comnunicated to said firm of Kilbourn & Latta, for the consideration of the several members, and the action of the firm
thereon, and it was expressly agreed in said copartnership
agreement that no member of said firm should, 'during the
existence of said copartnership, engage in the business of buying and selling real estate in said District, on his own account,
or with any other person or persons, except in cases where the
.proposed transaction had been exllained to the firm, and said
firm hid declined to take apy part therein. That pursuant to
said agreement the said copartnership firm of Kilbourn & Latta
entered upon the business for which it was formed, and con-

LATTA v. KILBOURN.

35"

Statement of the Case.

tinued said business for six years, to wit, from January 1, 1871,
to January 7, 1877, on which last named date the said copartnership was dissolved."
After considerable proof had been taken the bill wa.
amended by adding to the first paragraph of section four the
averment "th a t by said agreement, after the payment of all
expenses, and returning to said Stearns the amount-invested
by him, with interest thereon, the profit on sales of such real
estate purchased for said Stearns were to be equally divided
between him and said Latta. That said Latta, under said
agreement, in fact, was to act as the broker of and fog
said Stearns, and to receive as compensation for conducting
said business and furnishing and using therein the experience,
information, and facilities which he possessed and enjoyed as
aforesaid, one-half the net profits on all sales of real estate so
purchased for said Stearns."
The prayer of the bill was as follows:
"1st. That the said defendant be ordered and adjudged to
pay to the plaintiffs their full share of the profits arising from
the said sales of real estate by the said John Stearns and James
]K. Latta, under and by virtue of their said secret agreement,
together with the interest thereon, amounting in all, as .plaintiffs are advised and believe, to the sum of sixty-five thousand
dollars.
"2d. That said defendant be ordered to pay to the plaintiffs
their just share of the proceeds of the sale of said lots 35 and
36, square 445, together with the interest thereon.
"3d. That said defendant be ordered to convey to the plaintiffs their just share in and to said lot (3-4), square 445.
"4tth. That he be required to answer this bill under oath as
fully and faithfully as if specially interrogated thereto.
"5th. That the plaintiffs. may have, such other and further
relief in the premises as the nature of the case may require,
and to your honors may seem meet and proper."
The defendant answered the bill under oath, and after
admitting its formal allegations in reference to the existence
and dissolution ofthe partnership of Kilbourn & Latta, denied
that it was ever agreed, either in writing or by parol, that said

OCTOBER

TERM, 1893..

Statement of the Case.

firms or either of them was to carry'on the business of buying
and selling real estate on partnership account, and that at no
time, in fact, did either of said firms undertake to carry on
such business; that by the terms of the copartnership agreenrient the scope and character of the business of each of said
firms -was that of "real estate and note brokers ;" that this
-business continued the same after Olfistead canie into the firm
as before, and that it was so advertised to the world.
He further denied the allegations of the bill that there was
any agreement, either written or in parol, that all profits
*resulting from operations in real estate by such firm, or any
member thereof, should belong to the firm and be entered upon
the books thereof, and be paid into the partnership account;
or that there was any .written or verbal stipulation that informatioii obtained by any member af the firm during the copartnership, and toubching real estate with reference to its sale or
purchase, or the consent of the owner to sell the same, or
desire of any person or persons to purbhase real estate in the
'District of Columbia:, should be communicated to the firm for
the consideration of the several members, and the action of
the firni thereon; -or that it was agreed that no member of
said firm should, during the existence of the copartnership,
engage in the business of buying and selling real estate in the
District of Columbia on his o-n account, or with any other
person or persons, except in eases where the proposed transaction had been explained to the firm and it had declined to take
part therein.
The answer also denied that either partner was under any
disability to engage in the business of. buying and selling real
estate on his own account, or with any person or persons, with-.
out consulting the firm or the member thereof, and obtaining
their consent so to do.
In his answer to the amended bill the respondent denied that
he was to act as the broker of Stearns in their joint transactions; that he was to receive one-half of the profits on.the sale
of the real estate purchased by them as compensation for con.ducting the business and using therein the' experience, information, and facilities he possessed as a mefiber of the firm of

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
Statement of the Case.

Kilbourn & Latta; and averred that by the terms of his contract with Stearns the purchases and sales made in pursuance
thereof were to be on joint account, each party being entitled
to share equally- in the profits, and be equally responsible for
one-half of the losses that might result. The answer furthermore set up the statute of fratnds as a bar to the enforcement
of the alleged riew stipulations entered into when Olrnstead
came into the firm to the effect that the copartnership or the
members thereof should be first given the option to take bargains in real estate before the individual members should make
purchases thereof.
The defendant averred that all the real estate transactions
entered into by either the first or the second firm of Kilbourn
& Latta were the subjects of special agreements beyond the
regular business of the copartnership, and that there never
was a time during the continuance of either firm when, by
virtue of the nature or scope of the copartnership business,
and irrespective of 'special authority, either partner had the
right to bind the firm or his copartners in respect to the purchase and sale of real estate; and, further, alleged the general
facts already mentioned, in reference to the copartnership and
its business.
After voluminous proofs had been taken the cause came on
to be heard in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
October 27, iS86, when the complainants abandoned all claims
against the defendant on account of the matters set forth in
the sixth paragraph of their bill, relating to the Thyson purchases, and covered by the second and third prayers for relief,'
and thereupon the following decretal order was entered:
"That the complainants are entitled to recover from said,
defendant their full share, viz., five-eighths of all profits
realized by said defendant from said. sales of real estate, referred to in the pleadings and proof in this cause, made by said
John Stearns and said defendant, with interest thereon from
the time when the same were so realized, it is, this 27th day
of October, A.D. 1886, ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
said defendant do account to the complainants for their said
share of the profits aforesaid; that this cause be, and the same

dOTOttk TtRM. 189.
Argument for Appellees.

hereby is, remanded to the court in special term, with instructions to refer the same to the auditor of the court to state said
account'upon the proofs in the cause, and such further proofs
as the parties may offer, and for such further proceeding as
may bb lawful and proper under this decree; and that said
-'defendant pay all costs -of the cause." 5 Mackey, 3041.
.In accordance with that decree the cause was referred to
the auditor of the court, who, after taking further proof, made
his report showing that there was, on January 1, 1888, due
the complainants from the defendant, on account of the latter's
real estate transactions with Stearns, the sum of 821,562.59,
with interest on $12,030.50 thereof from that date until paid.
This repQrt was excepted to, but the exceptions were overruled, and the report was confirmed November 30, 1888, and
a decree entered in favor of the complainants against the
defendant for the amount reported and costs of the suit. From
that decree the present appeal was prosecuted.
X,1r. "Walter . .Davidge for appellant.
_.r. EnocA Totten and 1r. William F. lattingly for appellees, to the question of jurisdiction, said:
The decree of October 27, 1S801 was a final decree. It disposed of every matter in dispute, in the pleadings. It practically established and declared the following, to wit: (1) That
the agreement of copartnership is valid notvithstanding the
fact that it was not in writing; (2) That the -copartnership
agreement did prohibit the defendant from engaging in buying
and selling real estate in the manner. pursued by him in connection with'Stearrs; (3) That the plaintiffs were entitled to
five-eighths of all profits realized by the defendant out of the
transactions vith Stearns mentioned in the plemffdings and
proofs; (4) That the defendant should account to the plaintiffs for their share of the profits received by him ; (5) That
the cause should be remanded to the special-term, thence to
be referred to the auditor to state an account between the
parties, and for such further proceedings as might be "lazvful

LATTA v. XILBOURN.
Opinion of the Court.

andpro-per under the decree;" (6) That the defendant should
pay all costs.
Such a decree ended the litigation and settled the whole
controversy between the parties, so far as the pleadings and
evidence disdlosed them at that stage of the cause. When it
was passed, nothing remained but a mere matter of computation, so far as the cause was then developed, and the reference
to the special term was for the purpose of executing the decree
Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342;
according to its terms.
Lewisburg Bank v.- Shefey, 140 U. S. 445; .lcGourkey v.
Toleclo & Ohio Central Railway, 146 U. S. 536; Forgay v.
Conrad, 6 How. 201 ; lFinthrop -ron. Co. v. Rfeeker, 109 U. S.
1,4); St. L6mis &c. Railroad v. Southern -Express Co., 108
U. S. 2-1; .Missouri, -ansas &c. Railway v. Dinsmore, 108
U. S.30; Whiting v. Bank qf the United States, 13 Pet. 6;
Bronson.v. Railroad Co., 2 Black, 524.
It is respectfully submitted that the appeal should be
dismissed for want *of jurisdiction.
IR. JUSTIcE JA KsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It is first contended on behalf of the appellees that this
appeal cannot be entertained by this court for the reason that
the decree of October 27, 1886, was the final decree in the
cause from which an appeal should have been taken. We are
clearly of opinion that this proposition cannot be sustained.
It is well settled by the decisions of this court that where the
purpose of the suit is to obtain an account, such as that prayed
for by the bill in this case and directed by the order of October
27, 1886, the decree is of such an interlocutory character that
no appeal will lie therefrom. Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283,
285; Green v. Fisk, 103 U. S. 518; Keystone .Manganese Co.
v. -3fartin, 132 U. S. 91; Lodge v. Twell, 135 U. S. 232 ;
.McGourkey v. Tohedo & Odoi Central Railway, 140 U. S.
544, 550. In this last case the authorities are thoroughly
reviewed as to what constitutes a final decree, and it was laid
down -as the general rule that if the court made the decree

OOTOBER TERh,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

Akin g the rights and liabilities of the parties, and thereupon
eferred the case to a master for a ministerial purpose only,
4ndt no further proceedings in court are contemplated, the
decree is final; but if it referred the case to him for a judicial
purpose, .ag to state an account between the parties upon
which a' further decree is to be entered, the decree is not final.
In decretal orders, like that of October 27, i886, the whole
case isopen for revision; and the court may change its rulings
relating to the merits when the cause comes on for final hearing upon the account. Fourniguetv. Perkins, 16 How. 82,.81.
The claim ma'de by the amended bill that Latta in the transactions with *tearns acted only as a broker, and, that his
share of the profits realized. therefrom was only by way of
compensation for conducting such business and using therein
the experience, information, and facilities he acquired from
his connection with the firm, (which was, denied under oath,)
has not been insisted upon, and was clearly based upon a mistaken idea as to the true character of the purchases made QU
joint account by Stearns and Latta. It is not material to
determine whether those purchases constituted 4 partnership between Stearns and Latta, or created the relation of
tenants in common between them. The right of control
retained by Stearns -would indicate that their relation, in
respect to these. purchases, was that of tenants in common.
Clark v. Sidway, 142 U. .S. 682, 690.
The court below based its opinion upon two grounds: First,
that the scope of the copartnership business and agreement,
as alleged in the third paragraph of the bill, (quoted above,)
Was established, and that the appellant could .not engage in
,purchases.of real estate on his own account or in connection
with othe:s, except by the consent of his copartners, without
violating the duty and obligation which he owed to his firm;
and, secondly, that even if the copartnership did not include
the business of buying and selling real estate on partnership
account, still the appellant could not employ the knowledge
and information acquired in the course of "the partnership
business in respebt to.the real estate market, in making purchases or transactions for his own benefit.

LATTA, v. KILBOURN.
Opinion of the Court.

The general principles on which the court proceeded admit
of 'no question, it being well settled that one partner cannot,.
directly or indirectly, use partnership assets for his own.
benefit; that he cannot, in c onducting the business of a partnership, take any profit clandestinely for himself; that he cannot carry on the business of the partnership for his private
advantage; that he cannot carry on another business in competition or rivalry with that of the firm, thereby depriving it
of the benefit of his time, skill, and fidelity without being
accountable to his copartners for any profit that may accrue to
him therefrom; that he cannot be permitted to secure for
himself that which it is his duty to obtain, if at all, for the
firm of which he is a member; nor can he avail himself of
knowledge or information; which may be properly regarded
as the property of the. partnership, in the sense that it is
available or useful to the firm for any purpose within the
scope of the partnership business.'
It therefore becomes necessary, _in testing the liability of
the appellant to account for -the profits realized' from the
transactions with .Stearns, to consider and ascertain what was
the scope of the partnership agreement in reference, to the
purchase and sale of real estate. This is the underlying and
ess~ntial fact on which rests the proper determination of the
question whether the appellant, in engaging in the joint enterprises with Stearns, violated any duty or obligation which he
owed to the firm of Kilbourn & Latta. In other words, the
question on this branch' of the case depends entirely upon this :
Were or we're not those transactions within the scope- of the
firm business, in respect to which Latta owed a duty to his
firm, or in respect to which he could properly be said to. be
the agent of the .firm?
In his answer, which was called for under oath, Latta positively and in direct -terms denied the allegation of the bill that
it was ever agreed that the firm should carry on the business
of buying and selling real estate, and that at no time was such
transaction within the scope of the partnership business.
Under the well-settled rules of equity pleading and practice,
his answer must be overcome by the testimony of at least two

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

witnesses, or of one witness with corroborating circumstances.
The proofs in the present case not only fail to break down his
denial on this point, but on the contrary affirmatively establish that neither under the first nor the second firm of Kilbourn & Latta did the partnership agreement extend to the
business of buying and selling real estate either for investment
or for speculation on firm account. Neither of the appellees
testified to the cQntrary. The appellee Kilbourn, when pressed
upon the question, evaded a reply thereto, and Olmstead, in
his sworn testimony, failed to support the allegation of the
bill as made on that particular subject. On the other hand,
the testimony of the appellant *fullysupported the denial of
his answer, and he is corroborated by all the facts and circumstances in the case, such as the character of the business as
advertised and as actually condubted. The well-known characteristics of "real estate and note brokers," indicating, as the
words imply, those engaged in negotiating the sale and purchase of real property for the account of others, afford a presumptive limitation upon the scope of the business, such as
the appellant asserted and testified to in this case. Hf is sworn
answer and testimony on this point has not been overcome by
the vague 'nd equivocal testimony of the appellees. The
court below was in error in finding as a matter of fact that
the partnership extended to the buying and selling of real
estate for the account of the firm. There is, therefore, no
right on the part of the complainants to relief in this cause,
based upofi the consideration that the scope and character of
the partnership business embraced the purchase and -sale of
real estate, either for the firm alone, or jointly with others.
The further allegation of the bill, "that all profits resulting
from operations in real estate by any member of the firm of
Kilbourn & Latta during the existence of said partnership
should belong to said firm and be entered upon the books of
the firm and be paid into the partnership account, and that no
member of said firm should engage in the business of buying
and selling real estate in the said District on his own account,
or with any other person or persons, except in cases where the
proposed transaction -had been explained to the said firm, and

LATTA

'v. KILBOURIN.

Opinion of the Court.

the firm had declined to take any part therein," was also posi- :
tively denied by the answer of the-appellant under oath.
There is no testimony in the cause to overcome that denial
On the contrary, the" evidence establishes that there was no
such restriction or limitation imposed upon the individual
members. So that. the complainants were entitled to no relief
on that ground.
But aside from the foregoing questions of fact, how stands
the case on the assumption that there was a new stipulation
or agreement when Olmstead was taken into the firm, (as
claimed by Kilbourn and Olnstead, and as set out above,) that
knowledge and information obtained by any member of the
firm as to bargaing in real estate should be first communicated
to the firm, with the view of giving the firm, or the members
thereof, the first opportunity of purchasing, before any individual member thereof could act upon such knowledge or
information for his own benefit ? Can the agreement to. furnish information as to bargains in real estate and give copartners the option of taking benefit of such bargains, be considered
as so enlarging the scope of the partnership business as to inelude therein the purchase and sale of real estate on joint
account? It would be a perversion of language and a confusion
of ideas to treat such a stipulation, if it were clearly established,
as creating a partnership in future options to buy what did
not already, by the terms of the copartnership, come within
the scope and character of the partnership business. That
alleged stipulation, instead of enlarging the partnership business, was manifestly a restriction and limitation upon the
power and authority of the copartners to bind the firm, or the
members thereof, in any real estate transaction, until each'
member had expressly consented or agreed to join in the particular purchase,.specially submitted for consideration.
By the well-settled law of partnership each member of the
firm is both a principal and an agent to represent and bind the
firm and' his associate partners in dealings and transactions
within the scope of the copartnership. No. express authority
is necessary to confer this agency or fiduciary relatibn in respect to the business of the firm. If the buying and selling

OCTOBER TERMI,

1893.

Opiniorl of the Court.

of real estate was a part of the business of Kilbourn & Latta,
the alleged stipulation about giving an option to the firm and
the, members thereof to accept special bargains would have
been an idle arrangement. But under the alleged stipulation
each and every purchase of real estate was a special and
individual transaction or enterprise, requiring the special
assent and agreement of each partner theret6) before it became
a subject of partnership, or was brought within the scope of
the partnership business. Under the operation of the agreewent, a partner who purchased real estate, either on joint or
partnership account, did so not under or by virtue of the partnership articles, or under authority derived from the partnership
business and his implied agency to represent the firm therein,
but solely and exclusively from the special assent or agreement
of his associates to engage in that particular purchase. So
that each parcel of real estate to be acquired, as well as the
agreement to purchase the same, was first made the subject of
a special arrangement. It is difficult to understand how,
under such circumstances and conditions, a copartnership could
properly be said to include or extend to the business of purchasing and selling real estate.
The special subject of each purchase, as admitted by IKilbourn,
-like the purchase of bonds and other securities, - did not
and could not come within the operation of the copartnership,
or become a part of the partnership agreement, until each
particular piece of property had been selected and agreed
upon. It is undoubtedly true that, under this alleged agreement, if a partner bad submitted to the firm or his associates
the question of buying a particular parcel of land, and they
had agreed to'make that purchase, he would thereafter have
occupied an agency or fiduciary relation in respect to that
particular piece of property. But the question here is whether
his failure to give the firm, or his copartners, the opportunity
of making an election. to buy certain real estate, and his
making the purchase thereof for his own account, or jointly
with another, is such a violation of his fiduciary relations to
the firm and his associates in respect to copartnership business
as to entitle the latter to call him to account for profits real-

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
-

Opinion of the Court.

ized in such transactions. In other words, will the violation of his undertaking to give to the firm, or his. associates, the
opportunity or option to engage in any particular transaction,
not within the scope of the firm's business, entitle the copartners to convert him into a constructive trustee in respect to
the profits realized therefrom.?
That the members of the firm, prior to 1871, or after that
date, by special agreement, made purchases of particular parcels of real estate on speculation or for investment, did not
make such speculative transactions a part of the partnership
business so as to invest eithei partner with the implied
authority to engage therein on account of the firm. The
name of the firm was never, in fact, used in such special ventures, which no partner had authority to enter into except, and
until, the consent of the others had been specifically' obtained
so to do-each instance of buying on firm or joint account
being the-subject of a separate, special, and distinct agreement.
It may be said of any and every partnership, irrespective of'
its regular business, that by consent of all the members, other
matters beyond the scope of the partnership may become the
subjeSf of investment or speculation on joint account, but such
special transactions cannot properly be said to come within the
scdpe of the partnership. The very fact that the express consent of each partner was required in order to engage in such
special ventures goes clearly to show that the transactions were
not within the scope of the partnership, for, if -they were,
special couseilt could not be required as a condition precedent
for engaging the.ein.
M[atters within the scope of the partnership are regulated
and controlled by a majority of the partners, but by the alleged
stipulation under consideration a single member of the firm
could control the firm's action in respect to purchases of real
estate. This is inconsistent with the idea that the business of
the firm extended to such purchases.
Again, the alleged agreement does not provide how such
future acquisitions as might be specially Selected or agreed
upon for speculation or for investment were to be paid for, or
in what proportion the several partners should be interested.
VOL. cr.-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

therein. Neither does it distinctly appear from the-allegations
of the bill, nor from the testimony of the appellees, whether,
in acting upon information given, the special purchases were
to be made for the account of the partnership or for the
account of the several members of the firm. The methods of
keeping the accounts of such transactions in the name of the
individual members rather than in the name of the firm would
indicate that such purchases were for the benefit of the separate
partners rather than for the firm.
There is no allegation in the bill, nor any direct statement
in the testimony of the appellees, that if the information had
been given as to the Stearns' transactions, either the firm or
themselves would have exercised the option of engaging
therein upon the conditions of allowing Stearns to determine
"when, at what price, and on what terms any portion of the
real estate might be sold." Neither is it alleged in the bill,
nor shown by the proofs, that the appellant in any way neglocted the partnership business, nor that the firm and his copartners sustained any damage whatever from the transactions.
On the contrary, it is shown that from the purchases and sales
of the property bought on joint account with Stearns the firm
derived its regular commissions.
This alleged new stipulation amounts, if it .has any legal
force and operation, simply to an agreement for a future partnership, or the joint acquisition of such special properties as
might by mutual and unanimous consent be considered as holding out a prospect of profitable speculation; and at most could
only be regarded as an agreement for a future partnership in
respect to -such properties as might be specially selected for
speculation. It is well settled in such cases that no partnership
takes place until the contemplated event actually occurs. It
stands upon the same principle as an option to become a partner, which creates no partnership until the option is actually
exercised.
If the- stipulation in question could be construed into an
agreement that no partner should engage in the buying and
selling of real estate on his own account, would that entitle
the other members of the firm to share in the profits thaL

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
Opinion of the Court.

Latta made in real estate speculations without having first
secured the consent of his coparbners to his engaging therein?
o such proposition can be sustained.
In Xurrell v. furrell, 33 La. Ann. 1233, it was held that
a partner Who, in violation of the abt of partnership, enters
into another firm, does not thereby give the right to his-,
original copartner to claim a share in the profits of the'new
firm. The violation of the agreement may give rise to an
action for damages, but inasmuch as the original copartner
could iot be held, without his consent, for the debts of the
new firm, he cannot claim to be made a partner therein.
In Dean v. ]XcDowell, 8 Oh. D. 345, one of the stipulations
in the articles of copartnership was that "1said C. A. McDowell
should diligently and faithfully employ himself in and about
the business of the partnership, and carry on and conduct the'
same to the greatest advantage of the partnership," and by
another article it was stipulated that neither partner should
"either alone or with another person, either directly or indirectly, engage in any trade or business' except upon the
account anid for the benefit of the partnership." The business of the firm was to deal as merchants and brokers in
selling the produce of salt works on commission, and during
its -xistence McDowell clandestinely purchased a share in a
fii'm of salt manufacturers. A bill was filed by the other
partner for an account of the profits realized in the new
business, and it was held by the master of the rolls that the
bill could not be sustained. On appeal this judgment was
affirmed. Lord Justice James, after stating the general principles of' partnership law, said: "The business which the
defendant has entered into was that of manufacturing salt,
which was to be the subject-matter of the trade of the first
firm. If in that he had in any way deprived the firm of any
profits 1hey otherwise would have made-if by his joining in
the partnership for the manufacture he had diverted the goods
from the firm in which he was a partner to some other firm,
I can see that that would be a breach of his duty; but itis
not pretended or alleged that any alteration took pflace in the
business of the firm by reason of his having become a share-

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

holder in the other business. It is not pretended that there
was any alteration in the commission or anything else. Everything remained exactly as iWwas, so that it cannot be suggested
that there was a farthing's worth of actual damage done to
the original firm by reason of his having become a shareholder
Ain the Works which produced the thing in which the firm
traded. Under these circumstances it seems to me that we
-cannot say his profit from the new business was a; benefit
arising out of. his partnership with the plaintiffs. It was not
a benefit derived from his connection with the partnership, or
a benefit. in respect of which he was in a fiduciary relation to
the partnership. His relation to the partnership in this respect
was the same as an *ordinary covenantor to a covenantee in
respect of aty other covenant which is broken. It was a
covenant by a partner with a copartner, a covenant that he
would riot do something which might result in damage. But
it wasi not a covenant, in my view, which was in any way
connected. with the fiduciary relations betweeh the parties.
That being so, it. seems to me that the Master of the Rolls
was'right in saying that you cannot extend the cases with
regard to a'sha e in the profits to a case in which, as between
,the parties, there really was nothing but a breach of covenant,
.which in truth did not result, and could not haye resulted, in
the slightest loss to the partnership, unless it could have beeh
shown that it led to the covenantor ueglectin the business of
the partnership, and devoting himself to; other business, and
diverting his time and attention from the business to. which
it was his. dty to attend:" These views, which were concurred
in by the other members of the court, are directly in point in
the present case, which, in principle, cannot-be distinguished
from the case there under consideration.
We are clearly of -opinion that the allegbd new stipulation
that each coparther should furfiish to the firm, or to the mem,bers thereof,. information. as to bargains in real estate, and
give it or them the option to engage if the. acquisition thereof
befbre acting upon such information for his own benefit,
neither enlarged the scope of the partnership so as to make
it include the purchases and sales df real estate, nor precluded

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
Opinion of the Court.

any member of the firm from making purchases on his own
account or jointly with others; and that the act of the appellant in purchasing property with Stearns was not such a violation of his duty and obligation to the firm of Kilbourn &
Latta, or to the members thereof, as to entitle the appellees
to share in the profits which he realized therefrom.
In respect to the second ground, on which the court below
rested its judgment, that the appellant could not take advantage of the skill, knowledge, and information as to the real
estate market acquired in the course of his connection with
the partnership of Kilbourn & Latta so as to gain any profit
individually therefrom, but was bound to share with his co-partners all the beneficial results which could be .derived from
his knowledge or information on. that subject, we need not do
more than to say that this proposition is wholly unsupported
either by the authorities or by any legal Principle applicable
to partnership law.
It is well settled that a partner may traffic outside of the scope
of the firm's business for his own benefit and advantage, and
without going into the authorities it is sufficient to cite the thoroughly considered case of Aan v. Benham, 2 Ch. D. 1891, 244,
255, in which it was sought to make one partner accountable
for profits realized from another business, on the ground that
he availed himself of -information obtained by him in the
course of his partnership business, or by reason of his c6nnection with the firm, to secure individual advantage in the new
enterprise. It Was there laid down by Lord JSustice Lindley
that if a member of a partnership firm avails himself of information obtained by him in the course of the transaction of
the partnership business, or by.reason of his connection with
the firm,for any purpose within the scope of thepartnership
business, or for any purpose which would' compete with the
partnershipbusiness, he is liable to account to the firm for any
beneftt he may have obtained from the use of such. iformation ; but if he uses the information for puroses which are
wholly without the scope of the partnership business, and not
competing with it, the frm is not entitled to an account of such
beneftts.

OCTOBtE TtRM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

It was further laid down in that case, in explanation of
what was said by Lord Justice Cotton in Dean v. MtcDowell,"
ubi supra, that "it is not the source of the- information, but
the use to which it is applied, which is important in such
matters. To hold that a partner can never derive any personal benefits from information which he obtains as a partner
would be manifestly absurd;" and it was said by Lord Justice
Bowen that the -character of information acquired from the
partnership transaction, or from connection with the firm,
which the partner might not use -for his private advantage, is
such information as belongs to the partfiership in the sense of
property which is valuable to.the partnership, and in which it
has a vested right.
Tested by these principles, it canhot be properly said that
Latta used any information which was partnership property
so as to'render him chargeable with the profits made therefrom. His knowledge of the real estate market, or in respect
to profitable investments therein, ws not used in competition
with the business of the firm, nor in, any manner so as to come
within the scope of the firm's business.
The points already considered being sufficient to dispose of
the case, we do not deem it necessary to go into the other
question discussed as to whether a parol partnership, in
respect to purchasing and selling real estate, or an agreement
between copartners to give each other the option of engaging
in such purchases, would come within the operation of the
statute of frauds.
We are clearly of opinion, upon the whole case, that the
decree should be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below with
directions to dismiss the bill at the cost of the ap2pellees.
:MP.. JusTcE IU-hr.A did not hear the argument and took
no-part in the consideration or decision of this case.

