OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

In

Pe

PARSONS, Petitioner.

In 'e NININGER, Petitioner.
ORIGIIAL.
No number. Submitted October 23, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.

This court cannot, by writ of mandamus, compel a court below to decide a
matter before it in a particular way.
This court cannot, through the instrumentality of a writ of mandamus,
review the judicial action of a court below, had in the exercise, of its
legitimate jurisdiction.

THESE were applications for leave to file petitions for writs
of mandamus against the judge of the District Court of the
United States for the Middle and Northern Districts of Alabama, commanding him to vacate certain orders made and
entered by him June 20, 1893, while holding the Circuit Court
for the Southern Division of the Northern District of Alabama,-as to each of said petitioners, and hereinafter set forth,
and to reinstate petitioners in the offices of United States attorney and United States marshal for the Northern District of
Alabama, respectively. As the petitions, proceedings, and
orders complained of are the same, mutatis mnutandis, the
particulars of but one application need be stated.
It appears from the petition of Lewis E. Parsons, Jr., and
the accompanying record, that on June 20, 1893, at a regular
term of the Circuit Court for the Southern Division of the
Northern District of Alabama, Emmet O'Neal presented an-d
filed his application or motion as..attorney of the United States
for the Northern District of Alabama, stating that he had
theretofore been recognized by the court as such attorney,
duly commissioned and qualified, and representing that he
had, as United States attorney, demanded of Parsons "the
former inoumbent of said office, the possession and custody of
the books papers, and property belonging to the said office,
and that the said Lewis E. Parsons, Jr., had refused and de-

IN RE PARSONS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

dined to surrender or deliver up the same, but, by his counsel,
had in open court announced he would decline and refuse to
surrender the same without being ordered so to do by the
court." Wherefore he moved the court for an order requiring
the said Parsons forth.wi h to turn over and deliver to him,
as the attorney for the United States, the books, papers, and
property pertaining to or belonging to that office, taking his
receipt as such attorney therefor.
Notice of this application was given and accepted on the
same day, and thereupon Parsons demurred to the motion
upon the grounds that the Constitution or laws of the Unifed
States did not confer on the President the authority to remove
Parsons from the office of United States district attorney and
to appoint O'Neal; that the Constitution did not confer the
power of appointment or removal during a recess of the
Senate; that the court had no jurisdiction to make the order
prayed for; that "there are no pleadifigs, or papers, or suit,
or due process of law to authorize the order prayed for in the
motion;" "that the said court bad no jurisdiction or authority
to recognize the said Emmet O'Neal as stated in said motion,
and that there were no pleadings, suit, or due process of law
to authorize the said court to recognize the said Emmet
O'Neal as United States attorney in said motion." The demurrer was overruled and Parsons excepted, and thereupon
filed his answer to the motion, averring that he was duly
appointed and commissioned by the -President of the United
States on the 4th of February, 1890, United States attorney
for the Northern District of Alabama, his commission authorizing and empowering him to perform the duties of that office
for the term of four years from its date, which term was fixed
by law; that shortly after he qualified and entered. upon the
discharge of the duties of the office and bad performed them
up to the present time; that he had never resigned said office;
that he now resided, and had continued to reside since the
date of his commission, within the Northern District of Alabama, and had given his personal attention to the duties of
the office, and no cause of vacancy now existed, or had existed,
since his appointment; that he had faithfully performed the

OCTOBER TERMI; 1893.
Statement of the Case.

duties of the office in strict accordance with kw; that on May
29, 1893, he received a communication from the President of
the United States, dated May 26, purporting to remove him
from office, which communication .is set out; that he had had
no notice of any charge whatever having been preferred
against him prior to May 29, 1893, and had not yet had notice
of any charge; that he replied June 5, 1893, to the President,
(which reply is set out,) stating that he was advis.ed by counsel, and that it was his own opinion, that the President had
no power to remove him, and that he respectfully declined to
surrender the office; and that he had notified the Attorney
General of the United States, and Emmet O'Neal, who was
named by the President as his successor, and whose appointment bore date -May 26, 1893, that he declined to surrender
the office.
.Respondent further answered that he had continued in the
possession of the office from the time he had entered on the
duties thereof, and now here in open court he claimed the right
to, and that his duty required of him that he should, represent
the United States in all civil and criminal cases pending, and
perform all other duties required of him by law as United
States attorney, and requested the court so to permit him to
represent the United States and discharge the duties of the
office; "that the said O'Neal was never recognized as United
States attorney by this court until yesterday, and such recog
nition was without any suit for such purpose, and in view of
the facts herein set out, the said respondent appearing at the
time, asking to be allowed to perform his duties as such U. S.
attorney; that this court has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the
right to said office in any proceeding in court, and the mere
fact that this court has heretofore recognized the said Emmet
O'Neal as the United States attorney does not constitute him
such attorney."
The respondent also assigned as causes of objection and
demurrer that the court had no jurisdiction to make the order;
that the respondent claimed to have a vested right to the
office for the full term covered by his commission, and thecourt had no jurisdiction to deprive him thereof "in the man-

I

RE PARSONS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

ner wherein it is claimed he recognized- the said O'Neal as
United States attoiney," etc. In support of this answer the
respondent introduced his commission as attorney of the
United States bearing date February 4, 1890, in the usual
form, the letter from the President of May 26, 1893, and his
reply thereto. He was then examined in his own behalf, and
testified that on the opening of the court, June 19, 1893, he
was present in court and objected and protested against the
recognition of O'Neal as United States attorney, and also on
that day offered himself to perform the duties of that office;
that he was appointed United States attorney in June, 1889,
and soon thereafter entered upon the discharge of his duties,
and on the 4th of February, 1890, was confirmed by the Senate, and since then had given his personal attention to the
duties of the office, residing then and since in Birmingham, in
the Northern District of Alabama, and that he was ready, and
offered, to continue in the discharge of the duties of the office,
and had declined to surrender the office to O'Neal on his
demand for the same, O'Neal claiming to have been appointed
May 26, 1893, and the demand and refusal having been since
that date.
The court considered, in connection with the evidence introduced by the respondent, the commission of O'Neal under
which he had duly qualified, which was exhibited to the-court
on the 19th of June, 1893, when he was recognized as United
States attorney. This commission bore date May 26, 1893,
and appointed O'Neal the attorney of the United States for
the Northern District of Alabama in due form. This being
all the evidence, the court entered the following order:
"1'Wow comes Emmet O'Neal, district attorney of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama, and represents
and shows to the court that he has demanded of Lewis E. Parsons, Jr., the former United States district attorney for said
district, the possession and custody of the books, papers, and
property belonging to the said office, and that the said Lewis
E. Parsons, Jr., has refused to surrender the same; and the
said Emmet O'Neil now moves the court for an order to require the said Lewis E. Parsons, Jr., to surrender and turn

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for the A[otion.

over to him the possession and custody of said books, papers,
and property, and. counsel for the respective parties being
heard: It is considered by the court that the said Lewis E.
Parsons, Jr., the former United States district attorney for
the Northern District of Alabama, do forthwith, or as soon as
practicable, turn over and deliver to the said Emmet O'Neal,
as district attorney of the United States for the Northern District of Alabama, all the books, papers, and property pertaining
or belonging to the said office of district attorney of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, taking
the receipt of the said Emmet O'Neal, district attorney for the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama."
To which action of the court respondent duly excepted.
On the following day petitioner again appeared in the Circuit Court and filed a petition praying'that the court enter an
order or judgment declaring the commission issued to O'Neal
to be invalid; that .petitionex be put in possession of the books,
papers, etc., appertaining to the office of United States attorney, and that the order of June 20 be set aside; and thereafter, July 15, moved the court to set the matter down for
hearing, which the court declined to do, and refused to entertain the same, to which petitioner excepted, and the petition
and motion were then withdrawn.
In the case of Nininger, the order required the transfer of
the custody of prisoners to Musgrove, the new appointee, as
well as that of the books, papers, and property pertaining to
the office of United States marshal. The remarks of the
court, June 19, 1893, will be found reported, 57 Fed. Rep.
293.
.21. J. .A.TE
motion.

Smith

and Afr. David D. Shelley for the

Parsons and Nininger were in the possession of the offices
under color ad claim of title, and had the right to perform
the duties thereof until the question of title could be adjudicated in some proper proceedin.g instituted for that purpose.
The only proceeding by which the title to a Federal office can

IN RE PARSONS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the,Court.

be tried is by quo warranto in the name of the United States
as plaintiff. 11rallace v. Anderson, 5 Wheat. 291; Territory
of Nebraska v. -Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236; .Miners' Bank v.
Unlited States, 5 How. 213.
Petitioners having been wrongfully deprived of their offices
by the court without due process of law, and in which they
have vested rights, .farbury v. .Madison, 1 Craunch, 137, 're
entitled to a mandamus requiring the lower court to vacate
the orders made and to reinstate them in office. Ex parte
Bradley, 7 Wall. 364:; EB parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; In
,e Hlennen, 13 Pet. 230.
Especially is this true in view of the fact that they are powerless to use the name of the United States to institute a quo
warranto by which to have the question adjudicated.
.r. Solicitor General opposing.
Mi. CMEF JUSTIcM FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dealt by its orders with the possession of
certain books, papers, and property, and the custody of certain
prisoners, and while in so doing O'Neal and Musgrove were
recognized as United States attorney and marshal, respectively, the court did not thereby undertake to determine the
title to those offices. If the orders be regarded merely as
directions in the administration of judicial affairs in respect of
the immediate possession of property or custody of prisoners,
we cannot be properly called on, by reason of anything
appearing on these records, in'the exercise of appellate jurisdiction in this manner, to direct them to be set aside. And if
the proceedings should be treated as involving a final determination as on issue joined of the right to such possession
and custody, there was no complaint of want of notice or of
hearing, and the summary mode adopted did not in itself affect
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court upon the ground that it
had exceeded its powers. Without intending to intimate that
the orders would have any effect, and if so, what, on appropri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ate proceedings to try title to these offices, it is enough that in
our judgment the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to enter them.
We cannot by .writ of mandamus compel the court below to
decide a matter before it in a particular way, nor can we,
through the instrumentality of that writ, review its judicial
action had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction. Exparte
Tlipjpin, 94 U. S.,34:8; Exeparte Burtis, 103 U. S. 238; In re
7forrison, 147 U. S. 14, 26; In 'e .fawkins,Petitioner,147
U. S. 486, 490; American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville,
Tampa &c. Railway Co., 148 U. S. 372, 379, 386; In re
Humes, Petitioner,149 IT. S. 192.
These settled principles control the applications before us,
Denied.
and it follows that they must. be

MORSE v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 63.

Submitted November 2,1893. -Decided

November 6,1893.

The verdict in this case was returned December 16, 1887, and judgment
entered thereon on the same day. On the next day ten days were granted
for filing a bill of exceptions, which time was extended from time to
time but expired before April 1, 1889, when they were signed. Hfeld,
that the allowance of this bill of exceptions was not seasonable.

THE record contains, in addition to the record of the trial,
the entry of judgment, and the offers of exceptions, the followino certificate from the presiding judge:

"At the request of the counsel of plaintiffs in the case
of 1Y. C. Morse, J'r., and others v. John Jay Anderson and
others, I make this statement:
"I presided .at.the trial of the case at the December term,
1887, of the court, held at Covington. The trial was concluded December 17, 1887, when the counsel of plaintiffs asked

