LANE & BODLEY CO. v." LOCKE.

103

Counsel for Appellant.

LANE & BODLEY COMPANY. v. LOCKE.
APPEAL FROM tHE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 52.

Argued October 25, 1893.- Decided November 13, 1893.

In 1871 L. & B., being partners, commenced the manufacture of hydraulic
elevators in Cincinnati.
S, was employed by them as engineer and
draughtsman at a fixed salary oP-$1200 per annum. While in their employ, and while using their tools and patterns, he invented a stop-valve in
1872, which was patented in February, 1876. In 1876 the partnership was
dissolved, and a corporation was formed, called the L. & B. Company, in
which the same business was instantly vlested in the same interests, and
remained there. Meanwhile S. ceased in 1874 to serve L. & B. as engineer and draughtsman, and went into their employ as consulfing engineer,
at a salary of .$2000 per annum. The duties of the latter office did not
require him to reside in Cincinnati. He served the partnership in this
capacity up to its dissolution, and from that time served the cprporation
in the same capacity up to 1884. The partnership with his" knowledge
used his valve in the elevators constructed by them until its dissolution,
and after that the corporation used it in the same way and with the like
knowledge. In 1884 S. severed his connection with the corporation.
During all this time he made no claim for remuneration for the use of
his patent, and when asked why he had not, replied that he did not desire
to disturb his friendly relations with the L. & B. Company. In 1884 he
filed this bill in equity, with the usual prayers for an accounting and for'
an injunction. Held,
(1) That, on authority of fcClurg v. Kingsland, 1 how. 202, it might
be presumed that S. had licensed 2L. & B. and the L. & B. Company
to use his invention;
(2) That, on the authority of Solornons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342, it
might be presumed that S. had recognized an obligation, flowing
from his employment by the partnership and by the corporation,
to permit them to use his invention;
(3) That he was guilty of lachesin allowing so long a period to elapse,
before asserting his rights;
(4) That the excuse he gave for not asserting them was entitled to a less
favorable consideration by a court of equity than if his conduct
had been that of a mere inaction.

IN

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

. L. XCloea for appellant.
VOL. CL-13

OCTOBERt TERM, 1893.
Oph lon of the Court.

.2fb. Thomas A. Log'an.for appellee.
MR[n. JUSTICE SsIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

On November 26, 1884, Joseph M. Locke, this defendant in
error, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Ohio, alleging infringement by
the Lane & Bodley Company, a corporation of the State of
Ohio, of letters patent No. 173,653, dated February 15, 1876,
for an improvement in stop valves, issued to said Locke as
inventor. The bill contained the usual allegations, and prayed
for an injunction and other relief.
The answer, filed on January 24, 1885,. denied that Loclke
was the original inventor, because the same devices were
shown in certain specified earlier, patents and publications;
denied that said invention was not, for more than two years
prior to the application for .letters patent therefor, in public
use or on sale, but averred, on the contrary, that said apparatus was well known and in public use in the United States for
more than two years prior to said application. The answer
also contained a history of the original development of the
alleged invention by Locke, while in the employment of the
firm of Lane & Bodley, and averred a continuous use and
sale, by defendant, of the alleged devices, with the knowledge
and consent of said Locke, in suah circumstances as to show
the acquisition by Lane & Bodley of an indefeasible license to
use the patented devices. By an amendment to the answer,
filed on February 12, 1886, there was set up, as an additional
defence, an equitable right in the patent, based upon a written
agreenient signed by said Locke. The answer also averred
that said license and right had become vested in the corporation defendant. The case, having been put at issue, yas proceeded in so that the Circuit Court found in favor of the
complainant, and, after reference to and report by a master,
rendered a final decree against the defendant for the sum of
.$3667.37, with interest and- costs.
The record shows us that the court below held that the
patent to Locke had not been anticipated, but was valid in all

LANE & BODLEY CO. v. LOCKE.
Opinion of the Court.

its claims; that the defendant's- answer, in respect to its allegations as to Lane & Bodley's right to a license or to an interest in the patent, was not sustained by the evidence; and that,
even if Lane & Bodley had such a right, it had not passed to
the defendant corporation, under the doctrine of the case of
Ilpgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226.
Although the defendant has assigned error to the holdings
of the court below in these several particulars, we are relieved
from considering the contentions as to the validity of the
patent or its anticipation by other patents, by the election of
the counsel for the plaintiff in error to confine his case to the
effect of the pleadings and evidence as establishing an equitable
right or license in the defendant company to use the patented
invention.
If the court below were right in thinking that- the case of
Hacpgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226, was applicable, under the
facts of the present dase, any farther inquiry on our part would
.be unnecessary.
In that case a corporation employed Hewitt as superintendent, who, while in such employ, invented a plough upon which
a patent was granted to him. Hnving acquired a license
growing out of the circumstances of the employment, the corporation was afterwards dissolved, and all its assets passed,
into the hands of a receiver in liquidation. Subsequently, and
under the laws of another State, a new corporation was
formed, to which the receiver of the old corporation assigned
certain assets, among which, as was claimed, was the aforesaid
license. This dourt held that whatever right the employer
had to the invention by the terms of Hewitt's contract of
employment was a naked license to mak6 and sell the patented
improvement as a part of its business, which right, if it existed,
was a merely personal one, and not transferable, and was extinguished with the dissolution of'the corporation. This ruling
was based on two previous decisions: Troy 'on dnd NAail
Factory v. Corning, 14 How. 193, and Oliver v. Rumford
chemica TIVorks 109 U. S. 75. In both these cases there were
fbrmal assignments, without having words or clauses in them
showing that they were meant to be assignable, and the hold-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of the court was that the contracts themselves were merely
personal licenses, and did not import an intent to extend the
right to an executor, administrator, or assignee, voluntary or
involuntary.
We see no reason to disturb those cases; yet ;'e do not feel
compelled to extend their ruling to cover the present case.
It may well be that an express license, set forth in terms,
is not assignable unless it is so provided in the instrument
And so there would seem to be no' privity, .in law or equity,
between a defunct corporation of Missouri and a corporation
of the State of Illinois. In none of those cases was there evidence showing a recognition, implied or express, by the patentee of any right in the assignee.
In Hammond v. -Mason & Hamlii Co., 92 U. S. 721, it was
held that the non-assignability of a license may be waived if
the patentee ratifies the transfer of the license, by otherwise
treating the assignee as the licensee was entitled to be treated.
In Lightner v. Boston. & Albany Railroad, 1 Lowell, 338,
it was held that a license, though not usually transferable, is
transmissible by succession to a corporation formed by the
union of two licensees succeeding to the obligations of both,
for the reason that the consolidated company is the successor
rather than the assignee of the original companies.
In the-present case it clearly appears that
the company was
organized upon the same basis as, the firm; that the business
of the company was to be the same as that carried on by Lane
& Bodley, and to be carried on in the same premises; that the
entire property and assets of the firm and its liabilities and
obligations were devolved upon the company.. Locke himself,
in his evidence, repeatedly speaks of the Lane & Bodley Company as the successor to the firm.
And if the defendant's version of the facts is accepted, the
acts and circumstances constituting the license and its consideration were begun by the firm of Lane & Bodley, and continued by the corporation, participated in and ratified by Locke
.himself, to the date of the'suit.
Of course, in testing the position of the court below, that,
even if the alleged agreement that the firm of Lane & Bodley

LANE & BODLEY CO. v. LOCKE.
Opinion of the Court.

should have an interest in the patent, or the facts out of which
a license to use would arise, were proven, the plaintiff would
nevertheless have a right to recover against the Lane &
Bodley Company, we pronoufice a legal conclusion on the
facts asserted and put in evidence by the defendant.
If, then, the allegations of the defendant in this case are
accepted as true, we do not regard the case of HJ-apgood v.Hewitt as an obstacle to the defence asserted.
We do not consider it necessary to enter minutely into the
history of the case, nor does our view compel us to ascribe to
either of the parties or their witness any intentional departure
from the truth. We prefer to put our decision upon facts
which, if not conceded, appear to have been clearly established.
The firm of Lane & Bodley were manufacturers of engines
and machinery at Cincinnati in 1871. In that year they
began to manufacture hydraulic elevators, and on November
21 they employed Joseph M. Locke, as designing engineer and
draughtsman, to assist them in the development and construction of elevators and other machinery, at a salary of $1200
per year. He continued in the employment of the firm atCincinnati until some time in 1874, when he went to, Salt Lake
City, where he remained, with frequent visits to Cincinnati,
until the latter part of 1884. During this period he was more
or less continuously in the employ of Lane & Bodley, and of
the Lane & Bodley Company, a corporation formed in 1876 to
carry on the same business and in the .same interests, as consulting engineer, on a salary of $2000 per annum, with a contribution of $20 per month for office rent.
While in the employ of Lane & Bodley, at Cincinnati,
Locke made many efforts to devise a stop-valve to be used in
the elevators. That he was experimenting in this direction
was well known to his employers.
The testimony of Lane and of Locke, while contradictory
as to the extent in which Lane contributed to the perfection of
the invention, clearly shows that many futile attempts were
made in the workshop of Lane & Bodley, involving the use of
their tools and patterns, before finally- some time in 1872the valve that was subsequently patented was produced, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

it went immediately into use by Lane & Bodley, and was used
by them and the Lane & Bodley Company continuously, with
the knowledge of Locke, from that time till the bill was filed
in November, 1S84.
In February, 1874, Locke left the works of Lane & Bodley,
and on ay 27, 1874, he made application for the patent. It
does not appear that Lane & Bodley knew of this application
till the letters patent were granted, February 15, 1876. While
Locke was living in Salt Lake City, and in the receipt of a
salary from the Lane & Bodley Company - as he himself
admits, at least from 1880 to 1884: -he placed an order for
the company from the Horn Silver Smelting Company for a
hydraulic hoister, containing the stop-valve according to the
Locke patent, and he was aware of several instances of elevators sent to that part of the country by the defendant, in
which was used the patented valve. On August 30, 1884,
Locke wrote a letter to the Lane & Bodley Company, severing
his connection with them, and on November 26, 1884, filed his
bill.
There was evidence on behalf of the defendant tending to
show that au actual agreement had been entered into between
Locke and Lane & Bodley, whereby' the latter were to have
an interest in any and all improvements in the line of their
manufacture which might be made by Locke during the period
of his employment by the firm, and a right on certain terms
to have the exclusive ownership of such patents as should be
issued for inventions so made; and the defendant set up such
an agreement in an amendment to the answer.
But we agree with the court below in thinking that such
agreement was not made out by the evidence; and, indeed,
that view of the case has not been pressed in this court. The
defence really relied upon is that of a license arising upon
implied contract based upon the relation of the parties and
the nature of the transactions.
In the case of lifcClurg v. Kingsland et al., 1 How. 202,
the facts were very similar to those of 'the present case.
Harley was employed by the defendants at their foundry,
receiving wages from them by the week; while so employed,

LANE & BODLEY CO. o. LOCKE.
Opinion of the Court.

he claimed to have invented the improvement patented; after
several unsuccessful experiments, he made a successful one in
October, 1834; the experiments were made in the defendants'
foundry, and at their expense. Harley continued in their
employment on wages until February, 1835, during all which*
time he made rollers for the defendants, using his method; he
often spoke of obtaining a patent, and finally, on the 3d of
March, obtained a patent. While Harley continued in the
defendants' employment, he proposed that they should purchase his right, which they declined; he made no demand
onthem, and gave them no notice not to use his improvement,
till, on some, misunderstanding on another subject, he gave
them such notice, left their employment, and assigned his
patent to the plaintiffs, who brought an action for infringement against the defendants.
The trial judge instructed the jury that if the foregoing
facts were found to be true, they would fully justify the
presumption of a license, a special privilege, or. grant to the
defendants to use the invention; that such facts amounted to
"a cofisent and allowance of such use';" and show such a consideration as would support an express license or grant, or call
for the presumption of one, to meet the justice of the case,
by exempting them from liability; having equal effect with
a license, and giving the defendants a right to the continued
use of the invention.
These instructions received the approval of this court, and
the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
In ,Solomons v. United States," 137 U., S. 342, this subject

again came before this court for its consideration, and it was
held that "when a person in the employ of another, in a certain line of work, devises an improved method or instrument
for doing that work, and uses the property of his employer
and the service of other employ,6s to develop and put in practicable form his invention, and explicitly assents to the use by
the employer of such invention, a jury, or a court, trying the
facts, is warranted in finding that he has so far recognized
the obligations of service flowing from his employment and
the benefits resulting from his use of the property, as to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

given to such. employer an irrevocable license to use such
invention;"

anid the case of MicClurg v. Kingsland was

affirmed and applied.
The facts of the present case fairly bring it within the
doctrine of these cases. There is, however, another feature
in this case, not present in the cited cases, which is of great
significance, and that is, the long period that the plaintiff
permitted to elapse before he resorted to his legal remedy.
The invention, as we have seen, was perfected in 1872, and
was immediately and from that time continuously used by
Lane & Bodley and by the Lane & Bodley Company. The
suit was brought on November 26, 1884, a period of twelve
years. In the interim the plaintiff continued, for most of the
time, in the defendants' employment, and admits that he knew
that Lane & Bodley and the Lane & Bodley Company were
using the. patented valve. iHe does, indeed, claim that in
1875 and 1876 he had conversations with Lane, in which he
demanded an arrangement or settlement for the use of his
invention, but he admits that, in 1876, Lane repelled him and
refused to talk upon the subject. According to Locke's own
account, he*dropped the matter, and continued- to acquiesce
in defendants' use of his patent, and to receive a salary from
them for a period of several years.
.When asked to account for his conduct in this respect, his
explanation was that he felt convinced that any demand he
might make would have been rejected, and thus his friendly
relations with the defendants be disturbed.
On cross-examination the following question wai put to
him: "Did you in. any of your letters to Lane & Bodley refer
tp the matter of the valve, and ask for any recognition or
adjustment of your claim ? ". To this-his answer was: "I did&
not, for the reason that I had the impression in my mind,
from the interview with Colonel Lane at P.hiladelphia, that
Lane & Bodley were not inclined to fulfil promptly the verbal
understanding of the preceding year, or, at least, would attempt to open negotiations for more favorable terms, and I
did'not deem it prudent to open up the matter until I was in
a position as for time and means to carry forward claims to

LANE & BODLVEY CO. v. LOCKE.
Opinion of the Court.

my right; which conditions I was in hope would occur from
time to time, but such conditions, in my judgment, were not.
realized at an earlier date than 1884."
Again, the following question was put to him by his own
counsel.: "You have been asked, substantially, why you continued your amicable relations with the company from the
West after this evasion of Col. Lane in Philadelphia in 1876.
It was also pointed out that you had not mentioned the matter
to them from there. Please explain, why this was so." His
answer was: "I did not regard it as either right or prudent-to
have other than amicable relations with them so long as they
had not actually refused to comply with the agreement of
April, 1875. I did not write to them so as to bring up the
issue, as I had 'neither the time nor the means at my command
to enforce my rights in case of the refusal to comply with
their agreement at that time-"
The existence of any agreement in 1875 was strenuously
denied by Col. Lane; but, conceding the plaintiff's version of
the dispuied facts to be true, he yet, permitted eight years
more'to elapse before he made a hostile move. The "amicable
relations" he desired to have continued were evidently those
out of.which he was receiving a salary of $2000 per annuma sum larger than he would have been entitled to if he had
been in receipt of a royalty.
Coutts of equity, it has often been said, will not assist one
who has slept, upon his rights, and shows no excuse for his
liches- in- asserting them. The plaintiff's excuse, in this in-,
stance, that he preferred for prudential reasons, to receive a
salary from the defendant rather than to demand a royalty, is
entitled to a less favorable consideration by a court of equity
than if his conduct had been that of mere inaction.
We are, therefore; of opinion that the decree of the court
below should be
Reversed, and the record remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the bill of conylaint, and it. is
so ordered.

