OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

RADER'S ADMINISTRATOR v. MADDOX.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TER
RITORY OF MONTANA..
lNo. 54. Argued October 25, 26, 1893.--Decided November 6, 1893.

A number of horses, mortgaged to secure the payment of a promissory
note of their owner given to the mortgagee, were, under the provisions
of a statute of Montana relating to chattel mortgages, sold by a sheriff
on the maturity of the note without payment. With the assent of the
-attorney of the mortgagee, who was present at the sale, the purchaser
paid a part of the purchase price in cash, and left the horses with the
sheriff as security for payment of the remainder in five days. On the
expiration of that time he failed to pay the balance. The attorney
refused to receive the sum paid in cash and the horses as security for
the yemainder; but the principal received the amount paid in cash,
and sued the sheriff aud his bondsmej to recover the remainder. Held,
that he could not repudiate the transaction in part and ratify it in part;
and that having ratified it in part by the receipt of the sum paid in cash,
he could not maintain this action.

THIS case came from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Montana, and presented the following facts: William Rader,
one of the defendants in the case as commenced in the District Court of that Territory, was sheriff of Meagher County,
Montana, and the other defendants were his bondsmen. Maddox and Gaddis were the owners respectively of two notes,
given by P. D. Kinyon, and secured by a chattel mortgage
on some four hundred horses. At that time there was in
force in Montana the following statutory provision:
"It shall be lawful for the mortgagor of goods, chattels, or
personal property to insert in his mortgage a clause authorizing the sheriff of the county in which such property or any
part thereof may be, to execute the power of sale therein
granted to the mortgagee, his legal representative and assigns,
in which case the sheriff of such county, at the time of such
sale, may advertise and sell the mortgaged property in the
manner prescribed in such mortgage." Compiled Statutes of
Montana, ยง 1550.

RADER'S ADMINISTRATOR i).. MADDOX.
Statement of the Case.

This mortgage contained the clause referred to in the statute. On the maturity of these notes, and on the 9th day of
August, 1887, one N. B. Smith, an attorney at law, as attoriiey for-Maddox, placed in the hands of sheriff Rader this
mortgage, endorsed as follows:
"You are hereby authorized to execute the power of sale
contained in a certain chattel mortgage, of which the within is
a true copy.
"1FLw-EOHER MADDOX

&- WmI~iAmI GADDis,

"'By N. B. SmTH, Thei' Agent and Attorney."
Rader collected the horses, and advertised them for sale.
At the day of the sale a party by the name of A. B. Kier was
a bidder, and after some horses had been knocked down to
him, Rader -

no money having been paid

-'refused

to receive

any further bids. Thereupon Kier represented that he had in
the bank $1752; a greed to turn that money over to the sheriff,
and leave with him all horses that should be knocked down to
him; and further, that ,if, in five days, he should not complete
the payment, both money and horses should be forfeited.
Neither Maddox nor Gaddis were present, but Smith their
attorney was. The matter was referred to Smith, and he
directed the sheriff to continue the sale and receive the bids
of Kier. Horses to the amount of $8096.50 were struck off to
Kier. The 81752 was deposited with the sheriff, and the horses
were left with him. Kier failed to complete his purchase by
the payment of the balance of the money. After the five
days had expired, the sheriff tendered the $1752 and horses to
Smith, for Maddox and Gaddis, but Smith declined to receive
either. Thereafter, Maddox and Gaddis took the money,
but declined to receive the horseg. The sheriff received no
other instructions, and after holding the horses for about a
month turned them over to his bondsmen, and Maddox and
Gaddis, one as plaintiff and the other as intervenor, brought
this suit to recover the difference between $1752 and $8096.50.
They obtained judgment in the District Court, which judgment
was affirmed by the Suprenjo Court. Maddox v, Rader, 9
VOL. CL-9

.OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mfontana, 126. From that judgment the sheriff and his sureties brought the case here by both writ of error and appeal.
EI. T. M2lay, (with whom was .Mr. A. H. Garland on
.'.
the brief,) for plaintiffs in error and appellants.
XMi'. Fletcher Maddox in person for defendants in error and
appellees. Mr. M11. F. .forris filed a brief for same.
.1r..James Hoban filed a brief for Gaddis, intervenor.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

On the trial of this case, all the testimony offered by the
defendants to show the circumstances of the sale was on
motion 6f the plaintiffs stricken out by the court. For the
purpose of this hearing, therefore, it must be assumed that the
facts were as this testimony tended to show that they were.
The owners of these notes and mortgage were not present at
the sale, but were represented by their agent and attorney,
and by his direction the sheriff received the bids of Kier up
to eight thousand dollars and upwards, and, as security for the
completion of those purchases, retained all the property bid
for, and in addition received $1752. The contention of the
mortgagees is, that an attorney has, in the allsence of special
authority, nopower to make a sale on credit, or to receive
anything other than money on a claim placed in his hands for
collection. Without questioning the truth of that proposition,
it seems to us that it is inapplicable. No completed sale was
made, no title passed; and. while these horses were struck off
to Kier, the transaction was evidently merely a conditional
sale, to be perfected if, and only if, within five days the balance of the purchase money was paid.
But it is unnecessary to pursue any inquiry in this direction,
for upon a very clear rule of law the mortgagees are estopped
from maintainino this actioh. The arrangement, whether within
or without the power of the attorney, was made and carried into
effect by his directions, and it was an arrangement by which

RADER'S ADININISTRATOR v. MAD)DOX.
Opinion of the Court.

the proposed buyer deposited $1752 with the sheriff, as well as
left with him the horses which he had attempted to purchase.
If that transaction was beyond the power of the attorney, and
the mortgagees were intending to repudiate it, they were
bound to repudiate it in toto. They could not accept that
which was beneficial, and avoid that which was burdensome.
1 Parsons on Contracts, (7th ed.,) 49 to 52, and cases cited in
notes. It is urged, however, that it was the sheriff's duty to
pay over the entire amount of the notes, and that the mere
receiving from him of a part of that which it was his duty to
pay did not work a ratification of any unauthorized proceedings by which he obtained that sum. This argument rests
upon the assumption that a different rule obtains where the
deposit by the proposed buyer is money, from that which
would obtain if it were some other personal property. But
can the question of ratification depend on the character of the
deposits?. If Kier had deposited a g6ld watch as security
for the completion of his purchase, and the plaintiffs had
received that from the sheriff, there would be no doubt that
they had ratified the act of their attorney. Suppose that
the deposit was a package whose contents were unknown,
and that deposit was accepted by the plaintiffs; would it
when .opened, the contents turned out
prove a ratification if,
to be watches, and not a ratification if only money? It may
be that this case turns somewhat on whether the sheriff and
plaintiffs understood and intended that the payment of this
money was in fact a transfer by him to them of the deposit,
or merely a payment on account; but even if this be so, the
question was one of fact to be settled by the jury, and should
not have been disposed of by striking out all the testimony,
and withdrawing the case from the jury. Kier parted with
his property on the faith of this agreement between Smith
and himself; and if it was unauthorized, and gave him no
rights, he was entitled to a return of his deposit, whether that
was a watch or money; and if the plaintiffs have taken from
the sheriff this deposit, they have deprived him of the power
t6 return it. It is unnecessary to hold that the horses became
the property of plaintiffs. It is enough that they, by receiv-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ing this -deposit, have ratified the arrangement made by their
attorney as to the sale which the sheriff was making, and if
they desired a resale of the property they should have directed
it.' They cannot repudiate the action of their agent and att6rney and treat the sheriff as having made a complete sale,
when in fact he had not. When the money and horses were
tendered to their attorney, 1 e declined both. But they took
the money, while declining to receive the horses, and failed to
give any instructions to the sheriff as to further sale or otherwise: They assume to.treat this as a completed sale to Kier,
when in fact it was not, and when they have ratified what the
sheriff did in respect thereto in obedience to the instructions
of their agent and attorney by taking the deposit made by
Kier.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded for
a new trial. As since it was brought to this court the Territory of Montana has been admitted as a State, and as no question of a Federal nature is presented, the case will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the State.
Revered.
The CHIEF JUsTICE did not hear the argument -or take part
in the decision of this case.

MILLER'S EXECUTORS v. SWANN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAM[A.
No. 362.

Submitted October 23, 1893. -Decided

Npvember 6, 1893.

In this case the writ of error was dismissed because the judgment below
rested upon a construction by the state court of a statute of the State,
which was sufficiently broad to sustain the judgment.

Tnis case came to this court on error from the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama. On the 3d of June, 1856,
Congress made a grant of public lands to the State of Ala-

