DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

209

Warner et al. v. Martin.

JOHN A. WARNEL, A
A. WARNER AND

CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA; JOHN
COMPANY, CITIZENS OF THE SAIE STATE; AND,
WVILLIAI I HEAT D, JACOB HEALD, RESIDING OUT OF THE JURISDICTION
OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA, SAMIUEL WOODWARD,
AND A. J. BUCKNER, CITIZENS OF THE SADIE STATE, TRADING UNDER
THE FIRim OF HEALD, WOODWARD, AND COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V.
THOIAS P. MARTIN, A CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF VIRGINIA, WHO
SURVIVED SPENCER FRANKLIN, ALSO A CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA, LATELY TRADING UNDER THE FIRm OF MARTIN AND
FRANKLIN.

Where a merchant, in order to secure himself from loss, took merchandise from a
factor, with a knowledge that the factor was about to fail, the principal who consigned that merchandise to the factor may avoid the sale, and reclaim his goods, or
hold the merchant accountable for them.
And where the purchase was made from the factor's clerk, who had been left by the
factor in charge of the busindss, this was an additional reason for avoiding the
sale - because a factor cannot delegate his authority without the assent of the principat.
A factor or agent, who has power to sell the produce of his principal, has no power
to affect the property by tortiously pledging it as a security or satisfaction for a
debt of his own, and it is of no cqnsequence that the pledgee is ignorant of the
factor's not being the owner. But if the factor has a lien upon the goods he may
pledge them to the amount of his lien.
Under any of these irregular transfers, a court of equity will compel the holder to
give an account of the property which he holds.
Nor can a factor sell the merchandise of his principal to a creditor of the factor in
payment of an antecedent debt. Such a transfer is not a sale in the legal acceptation of that term.
The power ofa factor explained.
These principles of the common law are sustained by a statute of the State of New
York passed in April, 1830 (3 Revised Laws, Appendix, p. 111).

Tais was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
In the early part of the year 1841, there was a commercial

firm in the city of Richmond, Virginia, trading under the
name of Martin & Franklin, wno "vere dealers in tobacco

and manufacturers of the article. There was at the same time
a firm in Philadelphia, composed of the persons named in the
caption of this statement, trading under the name of Heald,
Woodward, and Company. There was also a firm in New
York, trading under the name of Charles Esenwein and Company, although consisting of Charles Esenwein alone; and in
Philadelphia there was also a commercial house, known'by the
name of John A. Warner and Company, although consisting
of John A. Warner alone.
To the house of Charles Esenwein and Company in New
York, Martin & Franklin were in the habit, of consigning
manufactured tobacco for sale, as their agents and factors.
184

210

SUPREME-COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

In April, 1841, Martin & Franklin opened a correspondence with Heald, Woodward, & Cq., which resulted in the
latter house becoming the agents of the former, for the purpose
of selling their manufactured tobacco, in Philadelphia, as
agents and factors.
In April, 1841, Martin & Franklin made the first shipment
upon a new account to Charles Esenwein & Co.,. in New
York, and continued, at intervals during the summer, to make
more consignments. Their practice was, at pach shipment, to
draw a draft upon Esenwein & Co., payable in four months,
for an estimated portion of the proceeds of sale. Amongst
other drafts were the following, viz.: 1841, May 27, at four months, due September 30, for
"
June 12,
"
"
" October 15,
"
C July 3,
"'
"
" November 6, "
c July 29,
"
" December 2,
"

$ 800.
700.
300.
850.

These drafts were not paid by Esenwein & Co. at maturity.
The tobacco shipped during the period when these drafts
were drawn was the following, viz.: o.
Statement of Tobacco received by Charles Esenwein C.from
Messrs. Martin 4. Franklin,of Richmond, Va., to sellfor their
account.
1841.
May12. Received ex schooner Manchester:
36 whole boxes T. P. Martin's 8's lump,
16's d
do.
34 do.
do.
do.
32's ".. ..... 90
do.
20 do.
June 7. Received ex schooner Lynchburg:
20 whole boxes T. P. Martin's long 12's lumps,
16's "
16 do.
do. H. Wit & Son,
62
16's "
do. T. P. Martin's
26 do.
June29. Received ex schooner Manchester: ,
8 whole boxes'T. P. Martin's 16's lump,
32's " ........ 8 56
do.
do.
56half
July 8. Received ex schooner Leontine:
28
28 half-boxes T. P. Martin's 32's lumps ........
Aug. 15. Received ex schooner Weymouth:
2 whole and 76 half boxes T. P. Martin's 32's, 2 76
Received in all, boxes ..... 162 160
In August; 1841, Esenwein was 'in embarrassed circumstanqes, and sailed for Europe, leaving his business under the
management of his clerk, Engelbert Caprano.
On the 3d of September, 1841, the house of Charles Esen-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

211

Warner et al. v. Martin.

wein & Co. failed. On the day before the failure, Esenwein
& Co. were indebted, amongst other persons, to the firm of
John A. Warner & Co. of Philadelphia, and Charles Conolly
of New York. At some short time before the failure, Warner
went to New York and got tobacco out of the store of Esenwein & Co., and in his account with that house the following
entries appeared as credits to Esenwein & Co. :1841.
$11,977.69
.
.
.
Sept. 2. By sundry notes, .
27,010.46
.
.
.
.
sundries,
" 2.
.2,654.98
sundries, .
" 2.
S. Austin's note due Dec.3i -3 Jan. 1842, 435.47
" 2.
120.59
transfers of Loomis & Hale's account,
" 2.
203.00
Brineler's account,
J. 1IM.
do.
" 2.
796.85
D. W. Warning's account,
do.
2.
1,208.99
S. Mayer's account,
o.
" 2.
494.15
J. Barber & Co.'s account,
do.
" 2.
A. Snowhill & Son's account, 1,089.75
do.
" 2.
125.5.3
A. Snowhill's account,
do.
" 2.
Amount carried over,

$ 97,444.20 $ 95,871.77

$97,444.20 $ 95,871.77
Amounts brought forward,
160.00
Sept. 2. By cash received Aug. 14,
1,198.00
" 2. To net proceeds of tobacco,
45.70
do. of cigars,
do.
" 2.
" 2. To difference in bill tobacco,
161.69
.
.
Sept. 2, 1841,.
2,817.82
.
.
" 2. By balance,
98,849.59 $ 98,849.59
1841.
. $2,817.82
.
.
Sept. 2. To balance, .
When the failure took place, Caprano made an assignment
to Charles Conolly, and among other things assigned seventeen
whole boxes and twelve half-boxes of the tobacco which had
been consigned by Martin & Franklin, that being the whole
amount of their tobacco then on hand.
On the 6th of September, 1841, the following transaction
occurred between John A. Warner & Co. and Heald, Woodward, & Co.
In the account between these two firms, Warner & Co.
have a credit entered under date of September 6, as follows: -" Sept. 6. Sundries, $ 22,441.52."
This transaction is in part explained in the answer of Heald,
Woodward, & Co.

212

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et-al. v. Martin.

" The defendants, now and at all times, saving all exceptions for further answer to said bill of complainants, say:
" That in the month of September, A. D. 1841, they purchased of John A, Warner, as before they have answered, a
large quantity of goods, and, among other things, two hundred
and fifty-eight boxes of tobacco, known by the name of Martin's tobacco, and no more; this being the whole number of
boxes or half-boxes of tobacco either sold or delivered by said
Warner to defendants about that time, branded with the
names or initials of complainant, or at all answering the dscription in complainant's bill, or inquired about therein; that
of said tobacco there was redelivered to said Warner before
the filing of complainant's bill, or he failed to deliver, one hundred and thirty-four boxes, (as to which 134 boxes of tobacco,
the said contract of- sale between said Warner and these defendants was by mutual consent annulled and rescinded,)
leaving in the hands of, or under the control of, these defendants, at the time of filing of said bill, only one hundred and
twenty-four boxes or half-boxes of qaid tobacco, or the proceeds thereof, and which said one hundrfd and twenty-four
boxes were branded with the name or initials of complainant,
as defendants believe, though of this they have no certain
knowledge. And these defendants purchased the said tobacco
of said Warner about September 6th, 1841, at the following
prices, to wit, one hundred and six, boxes thereof of lumps 8's,
12's, 16's, being 13,676 pounds, at 12 cents per pound, viz.
$i,640.12; and eighteen boxes lumps 32's, at 16 cents per
pound, viz. $ 230A0 ; making together $ 1,870.52.
" And they further aver and repeat, that they purchased the
same fairly and bond fide of said Warner, and for full -;alue,
and that they had no knowledge whatever at the time, that
said tobacco or any part thereof belonged to complainant, nor
had they any reason to believe or know it. And further, the
defendants say that the price paid by them for said tobacco is
truly set forth and alleged as above, and the same was received
by them and sold by said Warner to be placed by them to the
credit of his account, and in part payment of, and not as security for, a debt due these defendants by said Warner, and
which debt is not yet fully paid."
On the return of Charles Esenwein from Europe, he obtained a reassignment from Conolly of the seventeen whole
and twelve half boxes of tobacco which belonged to Martin &
Franklin, sold them, and remitted the proceeds to that house in
Richmond.
On the 13th of September, 1841, Martin & Franklin wrote
to Heald, Woodward, & Co. the following letter: -

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

213

Warner et al. ,v. Martin.

"Richvwnd, Sept. 13h 1841.
"MEsSRs. HEALD, WOODWARD, & Co., Philadelphia.

"Gentlemen, - I am just from New York, looking after our
tobaccos that we bad shipped on consignment to Charles Esenwein. Mr. E. Caprano, their clerk, that holds a power of
attorney from Esenwein & Co., handed me a memorandum of
tobacco sold; amongst those is.John Warner & Co., of Philadelphia, ' sold them on the 2d of September, 250 boxes of our
tobacco, 234 boxes branded Thomas P. Martin. and 16 boxes
branded H. Wit & Son.'
"We have inclosed the memorandum; it is not signed; but
Mr. Spear, of New York, will testify to the writing. His attomey informed one of us (Martin) that it was sold for cash,
which is not likely, as the house failed on the next day; and
we also observed in the assignment made in Philadelphia that
Messrs. Warner & Co. are further secured in the first class
made soon after. We wish to beg the favor of you to get the
opinion for us of some able counsel, whether we can claim this
tobacco, fraudulently taken from us under the cover of a cash
sale, evidently to secure'themselves at our loss. We had made
drafts on them, of which about $ 2,000 has been paid, and
they have sold about half that amount to other persons, for
which they had heretofore charged a guaranty commission.
Any expenses you may have to pay will be cheerfully allowed,
by your obedient servants,
MARTIN & FRANKLIN.
"N. B. We have omitted mentioning, in the event the attorney thinks as we do, you will set him about it at once, on our
account, for which you will please be responsible for us.
" MARTIN & FRANKLIN."
To which letter they received the following answer :-

,, Philadelphia,Sept.

th,
1 1841.

'MMEssns. MARTIN & FRANKLIN.

" Gentlemen,- Your favor of the I 5'th inst. came duly to
hand, and in reply thereto we proceed to give you information
in relation to the tobacco sold by C. Esenwein & Co., of New
York, to Messrs. Warner & Co. of this city.
"The latter house, we are told, loaned to Esenwein their
notes and cash to the amount of $ 50,000, and something
over; they were induced to make this loan in consequence of
representations by Esenwein, that this amount would be sufficient to enable his house to meet all their liabilities until he
could have time to get to Europe and remit home sufficient
funds to return the loan. After Esenwein had left the. United
States, Mr. Warner was satisfied in his own mind that he had

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin

been deceived by him, and in order to secure himself from ruin
he proceeded'to purchase a sufficient amount of property from
the attoiney left by Esenwein in charge of his business. We
were pained" to learn that you were among the sufferers, and
that you will not in all probability be able to recover any portion of,the tobacco which you state was sold to Mr. Warner,
as we believe the whole matter was arranged under the advice
of eminent counsel engaged by Mr. Warner both in New York
and this city.
"We 'tink,therefore, that any attempt made to recover the
tobacco would be attended witlh great expense, and in the end
prove fruitless.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
"HEALD, WOODVwARD, & CO."

In April4 1842, Martin & Franklin filed theif bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania ajainst Heald, Woodward, & Co. aid Warner.
They alleged the shiprhent of the tobacco to Esenwein & Co.;
the drawing of the bills; that, with full knowledge of the insolvency of Esenwein & Co., Warner had obtained possession of
the tobacco, knowing it to be the property of Martin & Franklin; that shortly afterwards he transferred the said tobacco to
-Heald, Woodward, & Co., who also knew that it belonged to
-'the. complinants; that at the time of this transfer, Heald,
Wo6dward,: & Co. were the agents and correspondents of
Martin & Franklin, and, as such, bound to protect their interests: and that when the letter of the 16th of September was
written, He~ld, Woodward, & Co. had in their possession thq
tobacco which they knew to be the property of the complainants. The bill then prayed for an account, &c.
The answers first filed by the respondents were objected to
as insufficient, and the exceptions sustained.
On the 1st of March, 1843, Warner filed a further answer.
He alleged that his purchase of the tobacco from Esenwein &
Co. was bond fide, and according to the usual course of dealings between them; that the departure of Esenwein was publicly known, and was for the purpose of obtaining a loan from
his relatives in order to carry on his business; that he had
never applied for the benefit of the insolvept law, b .it was
then carrying on his business in New York; that he sold the
tobacco to Heald, Woodward, & Co. in the usual course of
the dealings which had long existed between them, and not for
the payment of any preexisting debt; and that all accounts
beheen them were regularly balanced and settled from time
to time.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

215

Warner et aL v. Martin.

Heald, Woodward: & Co., in their answer, denied all agency,
except for the tobacco which had been specially consigned to
their house.
On the 11th of April, 1843, the cause was referred to a master to take depositions, and a commission to take testimony
was issued to New York. It is only necessary to give an extract from the deposition of Charles Conolly, a creditor of the
firm of Esenwein & Co., and to whom the assignment was
made which has been already spoken of.
He deposed as follows: '1After Mr. Esenwein left New York, Mr. Warner made purchases of that house in that store; he got tobacco out of the
store of Esenwein after Esenwein left, but I could not swear
that that tobacco was there when Esenwein left New York
for Europe. I do not recollect the marks or numbers of any
parts or quantities of them; they were in boxes, in kegs, and
in bales; it had, I presume, been shipped from Virginia to Mr.
Esenwein. I have, since that occurred, heard him say whose,
brands they were; he mentioned various manufacturers, among
the rest were Martin & Franklin; I don't recollect that he
mentioned how much of it was Martin & Franklin's brand.
Tobias Beehler was in New York at the time Warner got
these goods. I did not see Mr. Warner getting them out; I
saw Mr. Beehler getting them out. I can't say with certainty
whose brands or marks were on the tobacco Beehler was assisting in getting out. On the day I saw Mr. Beehler helping
to get out those goods, I did not see Mr. Warner in New
York, and understood he had left that morning or the day beLore; they were not to my knowledge working night as well
as day in getting out this tobacco; I presume I made a great
many particular remarks on the subject of taking away that
tobacco. I recollect making the remark that the proceedings
were wrong; it was in the forenoon that I saw Beehiler taking
away the goods; I saw considerable quantities going out of
the store; the whole appearance of the store was wrong, it
was upside down, it was done in an unbusiness-like manner;
in other words, things were taken out harum-scarum on the
day succeeding the failure, or- the next day after, and that I
suppose occasioned the remark."
On the 25th of September, 1848, the Circuit Court pronounced the following decree: "This cause having been heard and debated before the
judges, by counsel on both sides, on the 25th, 26tb, 27th, and
28th of April last, upon the bill, answers, and pr6ofs taken in
the cause, the court do order and decree, that the defendants
do pay to the complainant the sum of $ 2,869.14, with inter

216

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

est from the 25th of September, 1848, this being the amount
of such of the bills of exchange accepted by Esenwein & Co.
upon the tobacco shipped to the said Esenwein & Co., as
were paid by the complainant, together with the charges of protest and redxchange by them incurred and borne by reason
of the non-payment of such acceptances by said Esenwein &
Co.; deducting therefrom the balance which would have been
payable to Esenwein & Co. by the complainant, if the said
acceptances had been paid by said Esenwein & Co.; interest
being charged for and against the parties according to la*.
"Per cur.
R. C. GRIER,

J. K KANE."

From this decree, an appeal brought the case up to tnas
court.
It was argued by Mir. Fallon,for the appellants, and 31r.
Wharton, for the appellee.,
Much of the argument consisted in an examination of the
-facts in the case.
The following points of law were then
made.
The counsel for the appellants made the following points.
1st. That complainant had, on his own showing, a complete
remedy at law, and that he is not entitled to the relief prayed
for by him, in equity. Earl of -Derbyv. Duke of Atho1, 1 Vesey, 205. Discovery may be granted, and yet relief refused.
1 Sim. & Stu. 519.
2d. That Charles Esenwein or his firm was a necessary party
to the bill, and th'at the failure to make him such party is a fa.
tal defect. Plunket v. Penson, 2 Atk. 51; 1 Paige, 215; Story's Eq. § 1526.
3d. That it was not too late to take advantage of these
matters on the hearing. Story v. Livingston, 13 Peters, 375;
Innes v. Jackson, 16 Vesey, 356; 1 Dan. Chancery Pr. 389,390;
Welford's Eq. Pleading, 414. At least so far as the bill prays
for relief. 1 Maddock's Chan. 160, 174; 2 Vesey, 519. Russell v. Clark, 7 Cranch, 69; 1 Vesey, 205; Mitford's Chan. 225,
286; Mitchell v. Lenox, 2 Paige, 280.
4th. That the bill, answer, and proof fail to make out a case
entitling the complainant to the relief prayed for.
5th. That the sale by Esenwein & Co. to Warner was
perfectly valid as against complainant. Wright v. Canmpbell, 4 Burr. 2046; George v. Clagett, 7 Term Rep. 359; 2
Smith's Leading Cases, 77, and cases there cited; Urquhart v.
McIver, 4 Johns. 108; De Lisle v. Priestman,.1 Browne's Rep.
176; Story on Bailments, 215 -217.,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

217

Warner et al. v. Martin.

6th. That the sale to Hdald, Woodward, & Co. was perfectly valid as against complainant. Same cases .as to fifth
point are cited.
7th. That there is no evidence that Warner at the time of
his purchase knew of the alleged ownership of complainant
in the tobacco, and that the facts relied on by the court below
as sufficient to put him on inquiry, are insufficient for that purpose.
8th. That the court were equally in error with regard to
Heald, Woodward, & Co., as well as in saying that they had
full knowledge of the true nature of the transaction by which
Warner obtained possession of the goods, and thiat they had
paid nothing for them till after notice of complainant's claim.
9th. That the court erred in assuming the four drafts on
Esenwein & Co. as paid by complainant, as also in assuming
that the tobacco consigned to Esenwein, and mentioned in the
.bill, corresponded with or formed part of that sold to Warner.
1 Smith's Chancery Pr., in notes.
10th. That in any event the acceptance of the drafts by
Esenwein & Co. to an amount greater than the value of the
tobacco, those drafts being outstanding, makes the sale by
Esenwein perfectly valid as against complainant, and at least
complainant' cannot recover in this bill without showing that
before filing it he had offered to do equity by tendering the
drafts, having previously paid them. Daubigny v. Duval, 5
T. R. 604; Urquhart v. McIver, 4 Johns. 103 ; 6 Paige, 121,122.
AIr. Wharton, for the appellee.
I. That a court of equity has jurisdiction. (The numerous
authorities on this point are omitted.)
II. In reply to the objection that Esenwein ought to have
been a party to the bill, Mr. Wharton contended,
1. That Esenwein was not a necessary party.
The cases upon this subject are very numerous. It is'probably sufficient to refer to the general rules laid down by elementary writers.
It is not an interest in the subject-matter of the suit, but in
the object, that makes a party a necessary party. Calvert on
Parties, 5, 6, 10, &c.; Story's Equity Pleading, § 72.
1. Discovery; 2. Account;
The objects of thig suit were,
3. Relief, in the restoration of the value of the property to
the complainants. Now Esenwein was not a necessary party
for either of these purposes.
Again, he was out- of the jurisdiction of the court, and no
decree was sought against him. Story, §§ 79, 80, 81, &c.; Joy
v. Wirtz, L Wash. C. C. 517.
19
vOL. X1.

218

SUPREME COURT
Warner et al. v. Miartin.

If a decree can be made without affecting the rights of a
person not made a party, or without his having any thing to
perform necessary to the perfection of the decree, the court will
proceed without him, if he is not amenable to their process, or
no beneficial purpose is to be effected by making him a party.
Bailey v. Inglee, 2 Paige, 278; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheaton,
193; Russell v. Clark, 7 Cranch, 96; Cameron v. MIRoberts,
3 Wheaton, 591.
Esenwein was, on his return to this country, examined as a
witness by the complainant, and cross-examined by the defendants, who, it is submitted, thereby waived any exception, on
the score of his not being a party.
2. The objection was at all events too late. Story v.
Livingston, 13 Peters, 375; Robinson v. Smith, 3 Paige, 222;
Watertown v. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510; Alderson v. Harvey, 12
Alabama, 580.
The 47th, 51st, 52d, and 53d Rules of Practice for the Courts
of Equity of the United States were also referred to.
III. It is submitted that, upon the merits, the defendants
have no case for the favorable consideration of a court of
equity.
It was not denied that the complainant was the owner of
two hundred and fifty-six boxes of tobacco, and that Warner
got possession of them and delivered them to Heald, Woodward, & Co.
The points presented by the defendant's answer, and argued
for them on the hearing, in reply to this primd facie case,
were, That Warner purchased this tobacco for a valuable consideration of a person who appeared to be-'the owner, and
therefore had a right to retain it, and to transfer the property to
Heald, Woodward, & Co.
In reply to this, it is contended, 1st. That this was not a purchase for a valuable consideration, by a stranger, on the faith of ownership in the vendor.
2d. That before the factor's acts, such a transaction would
not have conferred a title to-the property on the defendants.
3d. That the factor's acts do not protect the defendants.
4th. That Heald, Woodward, & Co., being the agents c,.he
complainant, could not acquire title to the property of their
prhlcipal, to the prejudice of the latter.
1st. This point was established by an examination of the
answers, exhibits, and evidence.
2d. The authorities cited upon this point were the following.
Russell on Factors, &c. b6, 139 ; 2 Kent's Comm. 622, 623 ;
Guerrero v. Peile, 3 Barn. & Aid. 616; Shipley v. Kymer, 1

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Warne'

219

et al. v. Martin.

Maule & Selw. 484; Howard v. Chapman, 4 C. & P. 608;
Hudson v. Granger, 5 Barn. & Aid. 27, 33; Sims v. Bond,
5 Barn. & Adolph. 389, 393; Moore v. Clenaentson, 2 Campb.
22; Russell on Factors, p. 116, Part IIL; Fielding v. Kymer,
2 Brod. & Bingh. 639; Story on Agency, § 113 and note, §§ 225,
486 ; Paley on Agency, by Lloyd, 340, 341, 342; De Bouchout
v. Goldsmith, 5 Ves. 211, 213; Van Amringe v. Peabody, 1
Mason, 440; Petrie v. Clark, 11 Serg. & Rawle, 388; Paley on
Agency, 330; Escot v. Milward, 7 Term Rep. 361 (b) ; Warner
v. M'Coy, 1 Meeson & Welsby, 591; Baring i. Corrie, 2 Barn.
& Aid. 137; Newson v. Thornton, 6 East, 17, 43; Parker v.
Donaldson, 2 Watts & Serg. 21; 2 Smith's Leading Cases,
79, note; Graham v. Dyster, 6 Maule & Selw. 1, 4; Story on
Agency, § 407 et seq.
3d. The causes and objects of the British statutes, dnd of the
acts of our own legislatures, in respect to factors, will be found
.fully set forth and explained in the following-named works.
Paley on Agency, by Lloyd, p. 222, &c., and Appendix, No. 1.
&c.; Russell on Factors, &c., p. 122, &c.;- Story on Agency,
§ 113, and note (5) thereto; in which note, however, the provision of the statute 6 Geo. 4, ch. 94, respecting pledges for
preexisting debts, is not stated with sufficient precision.
The act of New York upon this point was passed in 1830,
and is contained in the third volume of Revised Laws, Appendix, p. 111.
The act of Pennsylvania upon, this point was passed in
1834, and will be found in Purdon's"Digest, p. 486 (ed. 1847).
Upon the construction of these acts, the following cases were
cited. Russell on Factors, 132, &c.; Taylor v. Truman, 1
Mood. & Malk. 453; Taylor v. Kymer, 3 Barn. & Ad. 320;
Fletcher v. Heath, 7 Barn. & Cres. 517, 524; Blandy v. Allen,
3 Car. & Payne, 447; Russell on Factors, 139, 145, 147;
Evans v. Truman, 1 Mood. & Rob. 10; Stevens v. Wilson,
6 Hill, 512; Stevens v. Wilson, 3 Denio, 472; Pringle v. Phillips, 1 Sandf. Sup. Ct. 292; Hadwin v. Fisk, 1 La. Ann.
Rep. 74.
Then as to Heald, Woodward, & Co. It was contended
that they stand in no 'better situation than'Warner, but in
some respects are in a worse position.
1st. If Warner did not acquire a title to the tobacco of the
complainant, he could not transfer a title to Heald, Woodward, & Co.
2d. Even if a purchaser boiztfide, for a valuable consideration paid, would be protected, -yet Heald, Woodward, & Co.
were not such purchasers.
3d. Being at the time agents of the complainant, they 'were

SUPREME COURT.

220

Warner et al. v. Martin.

disabled from purchasing, or in any way holding the property
of their principal by an adverse title.
In reference to which points, the following authorities were
cited. Story on Agency, p. 207, § 217, and the cases there
stated; Bartholomew v. Leech, 7 Watts, 472, 474; Veil v.
Mitchell, 4 Wash. C. C. 105, 106; Story on Agency, § 478.
Plea of purchase for a valuable consideration must aver
actual payment before notice. It is not enough that the
money was secured to be paid. Mitford's Pleadings, 338;
Beames's Pleadings, 245, 246, 247; Story's Eq. Pleading, 464,
623, § 649, 810, &c.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We state such circumstances in this case as may be necessary for the application of our opinion to other cases of a like
kind.
Martin & Franklin were manufacturer of tobacco in Richmond, Virginia. They were in the habit of shipping the
article to Charles Esenwein in New York, as their agent and
factor. In April, 1841, they made the first shipment upon a
new account to Esenwein, and at intervals during the summer made other consignments to him. It was their practice
to draw upon Esenwein, payable in four months, for an estimated portion of the proceeds of sale; among other drafts were
the following: 1841, May 27, at four months, due Sept. 30, for $ 800.
"
c

C

June 12,
July 3,
July 29,

"1

"

"

"
"

"
"

"
"

Oct. 15
Nov. 6,
Dec. 2,

"
"
"

700.
300.

850.

These drafts were not paid by Esenwein. The consign.
ments during the period when the drafts were drawn were
one hundred and sixty-two half, and one hundred and sixty
whole boxes of tobacco. Esenwein's entry of the consignment is, "Statement of tobacco received by Charles Esenwein
& Co. from Messrs. Martin & Franklin of Richmond, Virginia,
to sell for their account."
The business relation between them in this transaction was
that of principal and factor, unaffected by any particular instructions from the principals, or by any right or power acquired by the factor, beyond his general coigmission to sell the
tobacco, according to the usages of trade in The place to which
it had been sent for sale.
In August, 1841, Eaenwein became embarrassed and sailed
for Europe.' He left his business under the management of
his clerk, Engelbert Caprano. On the 3d of September Esen-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

221

Warner et aL v. Martin.

wein failed. Among his creditors was .John A. Warner of
Philadelphia. A short time before the failure, Mr. Warner,
between whom and Esenwein there had been much previous
dealing, went to New York. He then obtained from Caprano,
the clerk, from the store of Esenwein, a quantity of tobacco,
cigars, and other merchandise. The proof in the case is, that
the tobacco was a part of the consignments which had been
made within the dates before mentioned by Martin & Franklin to Esenwein. Warner says in his answer to the bill of
the complainant, that the same was purchased by him for a
full consideration and price, in like manner as he had frequently purchased from Esenwein; and that he did not know
that the tobacco belonged to Martin & Franklin. But he
admits, "the insolvency of Esenwein was believed." In his
amended answer he says, he purchased the tobacco bondi fide,
in manner as had been before stated by him. That it was
.paid for after the purchase, by his paying and adjusting thirty
*thou.sand dollars of his own notes, which he had loaned to
Esenwein, by his' paying' and redeeming them. Subsequently, in three days after Esenwein's failure, Heald, Woodward,
& Co. of Philadelphia bought from Warner two hundied and
fifty-eight boxes of tobacco, known as Martin's tobacco. The
proof in the case is, that it was a part of that which Warner
had obtained from Esenwein's clerk, which had been consigned to Esenwein by Martin & Franklin, as already stated.
They aver, and there is no reason qr cause to doubt it, that
they purchased from Warner fairly,- and for full 'value; that
they had no knowledge whatever at the time, that the tobacco
or any part of it belonged to the complainants; nor had they
any reason to believe or know it. Their contract, however,
with Warner, was rescinded in part. They received from him
only one hundred and twenty-four boxes, instead of the two
hundred and fifty-eight which had been sold to them.
From some other dealing between Heald, Woodward, & Co.
and Martin & Franklin, the'latter have drawn an inference
of an agency of the former foi them in this transaction. We
think there was no such agency. At the same time we will
say, that there was an unbecoming and apprehensive reserve in
their reply to the letter of Martin & Franklin, making inquiries concerniig their tobacco, which Warner had received
from the clerk of Esenwein, a part of which Heald, Woodward, & Co. had bought from Warner dnd was then in their
possession. It was, however, not a concealment, from which it
can be inferred that Heald, "Woodward, & Co. meant to comrait eithcr a legal or moral fraud upon their correspondent. it
appears that they had nothing to do with the transfer of the
19"

222

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

tobacco to Warner, nor any other than a fair connection with
him in the sale of it by Warner to them.
From this statement, we have no doubt of the law of the
case. It may be applied, too, without any imputation upon the
integrity of either of the parties concerned. The defendants
have misapprehended the principles which govern the rights of
themselves and the plaintiff; but there is nothing in their proceedings which impairs mercantile character. They have been
much mistaken, without meaning premeditated unfairness. If
some temper had not been thrown into the case at first, there
probably would not have been any charge of fraudulent intention. No one will be surprised from the proceedings in the
cause, and the argument made upon it in this court, that its
merits were lost sight of, -in the effort made on the one side to
establish fraud, and on the other to resist it.
The-exact questions raised by therecord are, whether or :iot
the transfer of the tobacco *to Warner divested the plainti."s
ownership of it; and whether or not Warner's sale -of a part
of it to Heald,, Woodward, & Co., for a full consideration,
without any knowledge upon their part of the plaintiff's interest when they bought from Warner, gave -to them a property in it.
Warner's account of dealings with Esenwein we believe
to be true. In his answer, however, he puts his right to retain
the tobacco upon a footing not applicable to it. He says he
bought without knowing that Martin & Franklin had any
interest in the tobacco, and that he believed Esenwein was
the owner. His inferefice pra6tically was, that he might therefore set off against the price his liability for the notes which
he had lent to Esenwein as a debt due by Esenwein to him.
This can only be lone upon the principle that, where two persons equally innocent are prejudiced by the deceit of a third,
the person who has put trust and confidence in the deceiver
should be the loser. He discloses in his answer his knowledge
of a fact which takes him outof any such relation to the plaintiff. It is his knowledge, at the time of the delivery of the
tobacco to him, of the failure of Esenweir,
In all of those cases in which it has been ruled that the buyer who, at the time of the sale, knows nothing of the relation
between the factor with whom he deals and the principal
by whom that factor has been employed, is protected by the
law, in case of a misadventure occurring by the default of the
factor, it is admitted that the risk which a principal runs,
through the inadvertence or misconduct of his agent, may be
avoided, by the purchaser having notice, at any time before
the completion of the purchase or delivery of the goods, of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

223

Warner et al. v. Martin.

agent's commission, Peake, 177. Among the instances which
the law terms notice enough for such a purpose is the insolvency of the factor known to the buyer. Eastcott v. 1Milwardo
7 Term Rep. 061; Ibid. 366. Warner says in his answer, that,
at the time he made his purchase, "the insolvency of Esenwvein
was believed." Those are his words, and according to all that
class of cases asserting the principle under which his answer
puts him, such knowledge was sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to avoid the sale.
Again, a transfer to him, by way of sale, by the clerk of
Esenwein, of property trusted to the latter as a factor, could
not pass the title or right in it from the real owner.
It made no difference, that Caprano had been left to transact
Esenwein's business whilst he was in Europe. A factor cannot delegate his trust to his clerk. The law upon this point is
well settled. It has been repeatedly ruled. The first example
in the first paragraph of Paley on Agency, upon the "execution
of authority," is, if an agent be appointed to sell, he cannot
depute the power to a clerk or under agent, notwithstanding
any usage of trade,-unleis by express assent of the principal.
The utmost relaxation of the rule, Potestas delegata non.
votest delegare, in respect to mercantilepersons, is, that a consignee or agent for the sale, of merchandise may employ a
broker for the purpose, when such is the usual course of business. Trueman v. Loder, 11 Adolph. & Ell.589. Or wher6 the
usual course of the management of the principal's concerns in
the employment of a sub-agent has' been pursued for a length
of time, and been recognized by the owners of property, they
will be taken to have adopted the acts of the sub-agent as the
acts of the agent himself. Blore v. Sutton, 3 Meriv. 237;
Cornbes's case, 9 Co. 75-77; Roll. Abr. 330; Palliser v. Ord,
Bunb. 166. Lord Eldon, in Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. jr. 236,
reprobates the notion, that, if an auctioneer is authorized to
sell, all his clerks are, during his absence, in consequence of
any such usage in that business. It was ruled by the Master
of the Rolls in Blore v. Sutton, 3 Meriv. 237, that an agreement for a lease, evidenced only by a memorandum in writing,
entered in the book of an authorized agent, signed by his clerk
and not by the agent himself, was not a sufficient agreement
in writing, it not being signed by an agent properly authorized,
notwithstanding the entry was shown in evidence to have been
approved by, and that it was made under the immediate direction of, the authorized agent, and in the usual course of the business of his office. A factor cannot delegate his employment
to another, so as to raise a privity between that other and his
principal. Solly v. Rathbone, 2 Maule & Selw. 299; Cock-

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

ran v. Irlam, Ibid. 301. The reason of the rule in all these mercantile agencies is, that it is a trust and confidence reposed in
the ability and integrity of the person authorized. An agent
ordinarily, and without express authority, or a fair presumption
of one, growing out of the particular transaction or the usage
of trade, has not the power to employ a sub-agent to do the
business, without the knowledge or consent of his principal.
The agency is a personal trust for a ministerial purpose, and
cannot be delegated; for the principal employs the agent from
the opinion he has of his personal skill and integrity, and the
latter has no right to turn his principal' over to another, of
whom he knows nothing. 2 Kent's Comm. 633. No usage of
trade anywhere permits a factor to delegate to his clerk the
commission trusted to himself. In this case, there was a
transfer of the plaintiffs' property to Warner, by a clerk of their
factor. He knew when it was done that he was giving their
property to a creditor of his employer in payment of his debt;
and both himself and the purchaser knew that Esenwein was
in failing circumstances, or, as Warner expresses it, "1that his
insolvency was believed." It must be admitted that such a
transfer passed no prolierty in the thing transferred, and that
it may be reclaimed by the owner, as well from any person to
,whom it has been sold by the first buyer as from himself. It
is the case of property tortiously taken from the owner or his
agent, without any fault.of the owner, and as such cannot take
avay his right to it.
On eithef offthe grounds already mentioned, the plaintiff
-would be entitled to recover from the defendants in this case.
But there is a third,which shall be stated in connection with
other points respecting principals and factors, which it-will not
be out of place to notice. A factor or agent who has power
to sell the produce of his principal has no power to affect the
property by tortiously pledging it as a security or satisfaction
for a debt 6f his ovn,.and it is of no consequence that the
pledgee is ignorant of the factor's not. being the owner. Paterson v. Tash, Str. 1178; Maans v. Henderson, 1 East, 337;
Newson v. Thornton, 6 East, 17; 2 Smith, 207; McCombie v.
Davies, 6 East, 538; 7 East, 5; Daubigny v. Duval, 5 T. R.
604; 1 Maule & Selw. 140, 147; 2 Stark. 539; Guichard v.
Morgan, 4'Moore, 36; 2 Brod. & Bingh. 639; 2 Ves. jr. 213.
When goods are so pledged or disposed of, the principal may
recover them back by an action of trover against the pawnee,
withQut tendering to the factor what may be due to him, and
without any tender to the pawnee of the sum for which the
goods were pledged (Daubigney v. Duval, 5 T. R. 604); or
'without any demand of such goods (6 East, 538; 12 Mod.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

225

Warner et al. v. Martin.

514) ; and it is no excuse that the pawnee was wholly ignorant
that he who held the goods held them as a mere agent or
factor (Martini v. Coles, 1 Maule & Selw. 140), unless, indeed, where the principal has held forth the agent as the principal (6 Maule & Selw. 147). But a factor who has a lien
on the goods of his principal may deliver them over to a
third person, as a security to the- extent of his lien, and may
appoint such person to keep possession of the goods for him.
In that case, the principal must tender the amount of the lien
due to the factor, before he can be entitled to recover back the
goods so pledged. Hartop v. Hoare, Str. 1187; Daubigny v.
Duval, 5 T. R. 604; 6 East, 538; 7 East, 5; 3 Chitty's Com.
Law, 193. So a sale upon credit, instead of being for ready
money, under a general authority to sell, and in a trade where
the usage is to sell for ready money only, creates no contract
between the owner and the buyer, and the thing sold may be
recovered in an action of trover. Paley, Principal and Agent,
109; 12 Mod. 514. Under any of these irregular transfers,
courts of equity (as is now being done in this case) will compel the holder to give an account of the property he holds.
But it was said, though a factor may not pledge the merchandise of his principal as a security for his debt, he may sell to his
creditor in payment of an anteceden-t debt. No case can be
found affirming such a doctrine. It is a misconception, arising
from the misapplication of correct principles to a case not belonging to any one of them. The power of the factor to make
such a sale, and the right of the creditor to retain the property,
has been erroneously put upon its being the usual course of
business between factors to make, a set-off of balances as they
may exist in favor of one or the other of them against the price
of subsequent purchases in their dealings. The difference between such a practice and a sale for an antecedent debt must
be obvious to every one when it is stated. In the one, the mutual dealing between mercantile person* who buy and sell on
their own account, and who also sell upon commission for
others, is according to the well-known usage of trade. Its
convenience requires that such a practice shall be permitted.
But it must be remembered it is an allowance for the convenience of trade, and for a readier settlement of accounts between
factors for their pdrchases from each other in that character.
It does not, however, in any instance, bind a principal in the
transfer of merchandise, if there has been a departure from the
usages of trade, or a violation of any principle regulating the
obligations and rights of principal and factor.
Again, it has been supposed that the right of a factor to sell
the merchandise of his principal to his own creditor, in payment

226

SUPREME COURT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

of an antecedent debt, finds its sanction in the fact of the crecb tot's belief that his debtor is the owner of the merchandise, and
his ignorance that it belongs to another; and if in the last lie
has been deceived, that the person by whom the delinquent factor has been trusted shall be the loser. The principle does not
cover the case. When a contract is proposed between factors,
or between a factor and any other creditor, to pass property for
an antecedent debt, it is not a sale in the legal sense of that
word or in any sense in which it is used in reference to the
commission which a factor has to sell. See Berry v. Williamson,
8 Howard, 495. It is not according to the usage of trade. It is
a naked transfer of property in payment of a debt. Money, it
is true, is the consideration of such a transfer, but no money
passes between the contracting parties. The creditor pays
none, and when the debtor has given to him the property of
another in release of his obligation, their relation has only been
changed by his violation of an agency which society in its
business relations cannot do without, which every man has a
right to use, and which every person undertaking it promises
to discharge with unbroken fidelity. When such a transfer of
property is made by a factor for his debt, it is a departure from
the usage of trade, known as well by the creditor as it is by the
factor. It is mores it is the violation of all that a factor contracts to do with the property of his principal. It has been
given to him to sell. He may sell for cash, or he may do so
upon credit, as may bie the usage of trade. A transfer for an
antecedent, debt is not doing one thing or the other. Both
creditor and debtor know it to be neither. That their dealing
for such a purpose will be a transaction out of the usage of the
business of a factor. It does not matter that the creditor may
not know, when he takes the property, that the factor's principal
owns it; that he believed it to be the factor's in good faith.
His dealing with his debtor is an attempt between them to have
the latter's debt paid by the accord and satisfaction of the common law. That is, when, instead of a sale for a price, a thing
is given by the debtor to the creditor in payment, in which
we all know that, if the thing given is the property of another,
there will be no satisfaction. It is the dation en payernent of the
civil law as it prevails in Louisiana, which is, when a debtor
gives, and the creditor receives, instead of money, a movable
or ramovable thing in satisfaction of the debt.
Courts of law and courts of equity, in a proper case before
either, will look at such a transaction as one in which both
principal and creditor have been deceived by the factor, so far
as the deceit is concerned; but it will also be remembered in
favor of the principal, that the creditor has acquired the prin-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

227

Warner et al. v. Martin.

cipal's property from his factor, with the creditor's knowledge,
out of the usual course of trade, and will reinstate him in his
former relation to his debtor, rather than that the creditor should
:be permitted to keep the property of another, who is altogeiher
without fault, in payment of his debt. 'As to a factor's power
to bind his principal by a disposition of his goods, the common
law rule is, "that, to acquire a good title to the employer's
property by purchasing it from his agent, such purchase must
have been, either in market overt and without knowledge of
the seller's representative capacity, or from an agent acting according to his instructions, oi from ofie acting irr the usual
course of his employment, and whom the buyer did not know
to be transgressing his instructions," or that he had not such
notice as the law deems equivalent to raise that presumption.
"The reason of this is clear, for unless the transaction took
place bond fide in a market overt, (in which case a peculiar rule
of law in England steps in for its protection,) an agent selling
without express authority must, that his acts may be supported, have sold under an implied one. But an implied bne
thereby always empowers the person authorized to act in the
usual course of his employment; consequently, if he sells inan
unusual mode, he could have no implied authority to support
his act, and, as he had no express one, his sale of course falls to
the ground." Smith's Mercantile Law, 111, 112.
The defendants are not within the compendious summary
just stated. There has been a transfer of property, which was
consigned to a factor for sale, by his clerk, to a creditor of his
employer, who knew his debtor to be in failing circumstances,
iu~t as well as the clerk himself did; and of property, too,
which the clerk knew to be the property of the plaintiff, and
which the creditor bargained for knowingly out of the usual
course of trade. Nor should we omit, to say, that Esenwein's
opinion and disapproval of what had been done by his clerk
with his principal's tobacco are significantly disclosed by the
fact, that, upon his return from Europe, he redeemed so much
of it as had been assigned to M\r. Conolly by his clerk in payment of a debt, and sold and remitted the proceeds to his principals.
By the common law, the transfer of the plaintiff's tobacco
to Warner cannot be maintained. He is responsible to them
for the value of so much of it as was not transferred by him to
Heald, Woodward, & Co. Heald, Woodward, & Co. are responsible for so much of it as Warner transferred to them, because Warner, having no property in it, could not convey any
to them. But Warner is answerable to them for that amount,
and he is replaced for the whole as a creditor of Esenwein, just
as he was before the transaction occurred.

228

SUPREME CO'URT.
Warner et al. v. Martin.

The application of these principles of the common law to
these parties, if it needed confirmation, would receive it from
the statute of New York of April, 1830, for the amendment of
the law relative to principals and factors or agents. The transfer to Warner was a New York transaction. The third section of that act very distinctly provides for those cases when
the ownership, by the factor, of goods which he contracts to
sell, shall be said to exist, to give protection to purchasers
against any claim of the factor's principal. It is when he contracts for any money advanced, or for any negotiable instrun.ent or other obligation in writing given for merchandise, upon
the faith that the factor is the owner of it. The concluding
words of the section are, "given by such other person upon the
faith thereof." Three misconstructions cf that act have been
prevalent, but they have been corrected by the courts of New
York. We concur with them fully. One was,.that the"statute
altered the common law, so as to give validity to a sale made
by the factor for an antecedent debt due by him to the person
with whom he contracts; another, that the statute gave to a
purchaser protection, whether he knew or not that the goods
which the factor contracted to sell him were not th6 factor's,
and belonged to his principal; and the other, that the concluding words,.," upon the faith thereof," related to the advance
made upon the goods, and not to the property which the factor
had in them. Similar misconceptions were prevalent, and perhaps still prevail, concerning the corresponding section in the
English factor's act, Geo.4, ch. 94, 1825. The alterations of the
common law, in this particular, by the English and the New
York statutes, were suggested by practical and experienced
merchants in both countries, to meet the exigencies of internal
trade and its extension between nations. They are believed
by their operation tq be improvements in the law merchant.
It may be owing to a misapprehension of those acts, that the
defendants denied to the plaintiffs their rights. Fortunately
the law secures them, and the case settled now as it is may
prevent other controversies like it.
We shall direct the decree of the Circuit Court to be affirmed ; and also order a decree to be entered against the defendants, that each of them shall pay to the plaintiffs the value
of the tobacco which the defendants respectively retained, with
interest upon the same as from the dates of the transfers of it
to them.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

229

Cotton v. The United States.

District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that there
is no error in the decree of the said Circuit Court, "that the
defendants do pay to the complainants the sum of $ 2,869.14,
with interest from the 25th of September, 1848," and that the
same should be affirmed, with costs; and that the complainants are entitled to recover from Warner & Co. $1,376.924
(part of'the aforesaid sum of $ 2,869.14) with interest thereon
from the 25th of September, 1848, together with $
on
account of the costs of the complainants in this court, and to
have execution against them for the said several sums, amounting to $
; and also that the said complainants are
entitled to recover from the said Heald, Woodward, & Co.
$ 1,492.21- (the residue of the said sum of $ 2,869.14) with
interest thereon from the 25th of September, 1848, together
with $
in full of the balance of the costs of the complainants in this court, and to have execution against them for
the said several sums, amounting to $
Whereupon
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of this court, and to proceed therein
accordingly.

LOFTIN COTTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.

TnE UNITED STATES.

The United States have a right to bring an action of trespass guare cdausumfregil
against a person for cutting and carrying away trees from the public lands.

Tnis case was brought Up, by writ of'error, from the District Court of the United States for th6 Northern District of
Florida.
It was an action of trespass quare clausumrfregit,brought
by the United States, for cutting trees upon the public lands,
commenced in the Supenor Court of West-Florida in-1844, to
which the defendant pleaded not guilty on the 26th of March,
.1845. The cause remained pending in said court untn the
15th of January. 1848, when, in pursuance of the act of the
22d of February, 1847, ch. 17, § 8, it was transferred to the
United States District Court for the Northern, District of
Florida, and was ordered to stand for trial at the ensuing
March term.
At that term the defendant appeared, and on leave filed a,
VOL. XI.
20

