DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

529

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

The motion filed by Mr. Walker, the 18th instant, for the
hearing of this cause, was argued by 3Messrs. Stanton and
IFallw,, in support of, and by .lIessrs. Stuart and Johnson, in
opposition to, the same.
The report of the commissioner appointed at the last term
having been returned on Thursday, the 13th instant, it is thereupon ordered by the court, that the case be continued to the
next term, with leave to each party to file exceptions to the
commissioner's report on or before the first Monday of July, the exceptions to stand for argument on the second Monday
in December next. If no exceptions shall be filed by either
party, then the case to stand for final hearing on the day last
mentioned.

GEORGE M. GILL, TRUSTEE, &C.,
OF LYDE GOODWIN, V. ROBERT
OLIVER'S EXECUTORS, AND GLENN AND PERRINE, TRUSTEES.

In 1839 a treatr was made between the United States and Mexico, providing for the
"adjustment'of claims of citizens of the United States on the Mexican republic."
Under this treaty a sum of money Was awarded to be paid to the members of the
Baltimore Mexican Company, who had subscribed money to fit out an expedition
against Mexico under General Mina, in 1816.
The proc'edi of one of the shares of this c6mpany were claimed by two parties, one
as being the permanent trustee of the insolvent owner of the share, and the other
as b.ing the assignee of the.provisional trustee and afterwards the assignee of the
insolvent himself
The judgment of the Court bf Appeals of "Maryland,that the latter claimant is entitled to the money, is not reviewable by this court under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.

THIs case came up by writ of error to the Court of Appeals
for the Western Shore of Maryland, being the highest court of
law and equity in that State; which writ was issued under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued at last term, on a motion to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction:, But the court reserved the point till final hearing. On the hearing at this term, the question of jurisdiction
continued to be the most important question in the case,and that on which it was decided by the court.
A brief history of the facts connected with the case, and of
the pleadings, will be sufficient to exhibit the questions involved.
In the year 1816, General Xavier Mina, who was at that
time connected with the revolutionary party in Mexico in opposition to the authority of. Spain, came to the city of BaltiVOL. XI.

45-

530

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

more, and there entered inte a contract with certain geht]emen
of that place, who associated themselves under the name of
the "Baltimore Mexican Company," for the purchase of a
quantity of arms, ammunition, &c., to fit out an expedition
against the then government of Mexico. On account of the
risk attending their delivery and the uncertainty of the payment, it was agreed that Mina should pay one hundred per
cent. on the cost of the articles, and interest. The goods were
shipped for Mexico, and delivered according to contract, but
were not paid for by General Mina, as he was soon after taken
prisoner and shot.
From this time till 1825, the recovery of the claim was considered hopeless.
In 1825, Mexico had achieved her independence, and after
much solicitation the government was persuaded to acknowledge the justice of this claim, and assume the payment of it
by an act of Congress passed to pay the debts of Mina. But
notwithstanding the recognition of this claim as a debt, its
payment was delayed for many years, and seemed almost
hopeless.
Many and larger claims were held by citizens of the United
States against Mexico, of which the government had been
urging the payment, and finally, on the 11th of April, 1839, a
convention was concluded between the Secretary of State of
the United States and the Mexican Minister, "for the adjustment of claims of citizens of the United States of America,
upon the government of the Mexican republic." By this treaty
all claims by citizens of the United States upon the Mexican
government, &c., were referred to four commissioners, "who
were authorized to decide upon the justice of said claims, and
the amount of compensation due from the Mexican government in each case."
As the claim of the "Baltimore Mexican Company" had
been recognized as a debt of the Mexican government by a
solemn act of their Congress, its justice could not well be denied. It was accordingly allowed by the commissioners, on
proof of its correctness and exhibition of the original contract
with Mina.
David M. Perrine and John Glenn, who claimed to be assignees in trust of eight of the nine shares into which the stock
of the company had been divided, received the amount of the
award, and according to agreement with their ceitui que trusts,
deposited the money in the Mechanics' Bank of Baltimore, to
be distributed according to the respective rights of the prarties
claiming it.
Soon after this was done, Philip E. Thomas and John

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

531

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

White filed their bill in chancery against said Perrine and Glenn,
Smith, and praying the intervention
claiming the share of and assistance of a court of equity, in order to the just distribution of the proQeeds of the award in the hands of the trustees.
The defendants, Perrine and Glenn, came into court, and submitted "that they are willing and desirous that the proceeds
of the award may be distributed among the parties under the
direction of the court, &c., and join in praying an early reference to an auditor for that purpose."
The money being thus in court for distribution, all persons
who laid any claim to it intervened by bill or petition against
the trustees and opposing claimants. Among others, the
plaintiff in error, George i. Gill, filed his bill, claiming the
share and interest of Lyde Goodwin, who was one of the
original nine or ten persons who were partners or members of
the "Baltimore Mexican Company."
The bill alleges, that this company was formed in 1816; that
Lyde Goodwin owned one ninth part of the property; that in
February, 1817, Lyde Goodwin applied to the ceart for the
benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland, which he duly received; that the complainant was appointed permanent trustee, and gave the proper bond for faithful performance of the
trust. The bill goes on to state the convention with Mexico
in 1839, the award of the commissioners, the receipt of the
share of Lyde Goodwin by Glenn and Perrine, under a power
of attorney from Oliver's executors, who claimed title to the
same under a pretended assignment from George J. Brown, the
provisional trustee of said Goodwin, and finally prayg that the
executors of Oliver, the claimant of the share, and said trustees, may answer, account, and bring the certificates (in which
payment was made) into court, that they may be delivered
over to complainant.
The complainant filed also another bill against the trustees
and all other claimants, for the sum of five per cent. on the
whole amount, as due to Lyde Goodwin for services rendered
to the company, by contract with them.
The complainant founded his claim to the money in both
cases on the allegation "that all Lyde Goodwin's interest in
said property and claims had become vested in the petitioner
by virtue of his application and the laws of the State."
The answers of the defendants admit the application of
Lyde 'Goodwin for the benefit of the insolvent laws and his
discharge; but state that the' complainant, Gill, was not appointed permanent trustee till March,'1837; that on the 26th
of February, 1817, George J. Brown was duly appointed by
the court provisional trustee, and gave bond and security, and

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

that the debtor, Lyde Goodwin, on the same day executed to
said trustee a deed of assignment of all his property. That in
1825 said Brown conveyed t9 Robert Oliver, and afterwards,
on the 30th of May, 1829, Lyde Goodwiul assigned and conveyed to said Oliver all his title and interest in the claim of the
company on Mexico, The defendants allege and plead, that
by these assignments the title to the share of Lyde Goodwin
vested in Robert Oliver in his lifetime, who is now represented
by his executors.
There was no dispute on the facts of this case, and the only
questions of law involved in it are, whether, by the insolvent
laws of Maryland, the title of Gill, as permanent trustee, to the
money in court, was better- than the previous assignment by
the provisional trustee and Lyde Goodwin himself: On the
one side it was contended that, by the insolvent act of Maryland passed in 1805, all the property and estate of the insolvent
which he held at the time of his. discharge vested in his permanent trustee whensoever he should thereafter be appointed,
and that the deed from the provisional 'trustee, George J.
Brown, conveyed no title to Oliver, under ,the insolvent laws.
Nor did the deed of Goodwin himself convey any title, because
by his insolvent proceedings all his right, title, and interest in
this claim became divested.
On the contrary, the executors of Oliver contended that, until-the recognition of this claim by Mexico, in 1825, it did not
constitute such property as would pass by the insolvent assignment. That after, by the labors of Goodwin and other
agents of the company, this claim was assumed 15y Mexico,
and acknowledged as a debt, it vested in Goodwin as a new
acquisition, which he might convey. And of this opinion was
the Court of Appeals of Maryland.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland wag as
follows :" The appeal in this case coming on for hearing, and having
been fully argued by the solicitors of the respective parties, has
been since fully considered by the court; and it appearing to
the court that that part of the decree appealed from of the
court below, which directed any portion of the fund. in contro.
versy to be transferred or paid to the appellee, George M. Gill,
as permanent trustee of Lyde Goodwin, was erroneous, and
should be reversed; and it also appearing to the court that said
portion of said fund should be paid over and transferred to
the appellants, Charles Oliver, Robert M. Gibbs, and Thomas
Oliver, as executors of Robert Oliver, in the proceedings mentioned, together with all accumulations of interest or dividends
since accruing upon the same:

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

533

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et &L

"It is thereupon, by this court, and the authority thereof, on
this 23d day of June, in the year 1849, adjudged, ordered, and decreed, that the said decree of the court below, so far as the same
adjudged and decreed any portion of the fund in controversy to
be transferred or paid to the said George M. Gill, as permanent trustee'of Lyde Goodwin, be, and the same is, reversed
and annulled; and this court, proceeding to pass such decree
in the premises as theylire of opinion should have been passed
by the court below, do further adjudge and decree, that all and
every part of such portion of said fund, so by the court below
decreed to be transferred- or paid to said George M. Gill, as
trusteeaforesaid, be, by the trustees in the proceedings mentioned, David M. Perrine and John Glenn, transferred or paid
over to the appellants, Charles Oliver, Robert M. Gibbs, and
Thomas Oliver, as executors of Robert Oliver; together with
all and every accumulation of interest or dividends, or ,investrents of the same, made or accruing in and upon such part or
portion of said fund; and it is further, by this court, and its
authority, adjudged and decreed, that all other portions of the
decree of the court below, except such as is hereby reversed,
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed; it is further adjudged
and decreed, that the reversal of the decree of the court below
be without costs."
The opinion of the said Court of Appeals was as follows "The majority of this court, who sat in the trial of this cause,
(and by which was decreed the reversal of the decree of the
County Court,) at the instance of the solicitors of the appellees,
briefly state the following as their reasons for such reversal.
They are of opinion that the entire contract, upon which the
claim of the appellees is founded, is so fraught with illegality
and turpitude, as to be utterly null and void, and conferring no
rights or obligations upon any of the contracting parties which
can be sustained or countenanced by any court of law or
equity in this State, or of the United States; that it has no
legal or moral obligation to support it, and that therefore,
under the insolvent laws -of Maryland, such a claim does not
pass to-or vest. in the trustee of an insolvent petitioner. It
forms no part of his property or estate, within the meaning of
the legislative enactments constituting our insolvent system.
It bears no analogy to the cases, decided in Maryland and
elsewhere, of claims not recoverable in a coiurt of justice, which
nevertheless have been held to vest in the trustees of an insolvent or the assignees of a bankrupt. In the case referred to,
the claims, as concerned those asserting them, were, on their
part, tainted by no principle of illegality or immorality; on the
45"

534

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Olivet's Executors et al.

contrary, were sustained by every principle of national law and
natural justice, and nothing was wanting to render them recuperable, but a judicial trilunal competent to take cognizance
thereof. Wholly dissimilar is the claim before us. Such is' ts
character, that it cannot be presented to a court of justice but
by a disclosure of its impurities; and if any thing is conclusively settled, or ought to be so regarded, it is that a claim,
thus imbued with illegality and corruption, will never be sanctioned or enforced by a court either of law or equity.
Entertaining this view of the case, it is unnecessary to examine the various minor points which were raised in the argument before us."
To review the judgment of the Court of Appeals, Gill sued
out a writ of error, and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by lfr. Nelson and Mir. Dulany, for the p]aintiff in error, and Mr. Johnson and 1r. Campbell, for the defendants in error.
The point of jurisdiction was thus stated in the brief of the
counsel for the plaintiff in error.
5th. That the decision of the commissioners, and their
award, conclusively established the amount and validity of the
claim of the Mexican Company, which under the act of Congress it was their duty to decide "according to the provisions
of said convention, and the principles of justice, equity, and
the law of nations." That the Court of Appeals, in deciding
that the contract upon which the claim of said company was
founded was so fraught with turpitude and illegality as to be
utterly null and void, comes in direct conflict with the decision
and award of the commissioners. Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Peters,
212; Frevall v. Bache, 14 Peters, 95; Sheppard v. Taylor,
5 Peters, 710.
6th. Wherefore the plaintiff in error will further contend, that
by the decision against his claim, set up in the pleadings on
the record in this case, under the said treaty, act of Congress,
and award in pursuance thereof, by the Court of Appeals, the
construction, operation, and effect of the said treaty, act of
Congress, and the award in pursuance thereof, were-necessarily
drawn in question and directly decided. And therefore this
court has jurisdiction to eAtertain the present appeal. 5 Crancb,
344; 6 Cranch, 281; 1 Wheat. 305, 315, 335; 2 Peters, 245,
250, 380,410; 3 Peters, 290, 352; 4 Peters, 410; 6 Peters, 41,
48; 10 Peters, 363, 398; 16 Peters, 281; Judiciary Act of 1789,
S2-5; Osborn v. Bank of U. States, 9 Wheat. 748.
The following notes of the argument of Mr. -bulangshow

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

535

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

the reasons why he maintained this point. After giving a
narrative of the case he proceeded as follows.
From the foregoing extracts I think it clearly appears, that
it was the design of the treaty to give compensation to claims
which antecedently had been preferr.& against the Mexican
government, if upon examination they should turn out to
be just.
That upon the determination of such claims, and an award
given for the amount, the claims themselves became extinguished and merged in the awards, which follows not more
from the operation of general principles of law, than the express provisions of the treaty, which in its twelfth article declares that the United States agree for ever to exonerate the
Mexican government from any further accountability for claims
which should either be rejected by the board, &c., or which,
being allowed, &c., should be provided for by the government
in the manner before mentioned.
"Whoe-er, then, claims a right to the certificates issued on the
award in favor of the Mexican Company must claim it under
the treaty by which, and the act of Congress to carry it into
effect, they were created. It is to the treaty they owe their existence, their obligation, and theii value.
The right and title which the plaintiff in error claims"in his
petition under the treaty to the certificates in question have
never been perfected in him by a delivery of the certificates
themselves; nor indeed in any other person. For although
they came to the possession of Glenn and Perrine from the
Secretary of the Treasury, yet the delivery to them was not as
owners, but it was qualified by the terms of the award under
which they were issued. The award assigned to " Glenn and
Perrine" eight shares of the Mexican Company, including that
of Lyde Goodwin, "as trustees for Robert Oliver's legal representatiyes, and whomsoever else it might concern, in the ratio
of their respective interests." Thus the certificates were delivered to Glenn and Perrine as trustees and depositaries for
the true owners, whomsoever they might be; and Glenn and
Perrine in point of fact, when the pl intiff in error filed his petition, had delivered them to no one, but, on the contrary, had
submitted the question of their distribution to the jurisdiction
of Baltimore County Court sitting in equity.
Hence it follows, that a perfected title to the certific.ates in
controversy in this case has as yet never vested in either party
thereto, but that the right and title.demanded on the one side
and the other, growing, as the plaintiff in error claims, immediately out of the treaty, remain to be ultimately determined
by the true construction thereof by this court, the Court of

536

SUPREME

COURT.

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

Appeals in Maryland having decided against the right thus
claimed.
Now, if nothing more appeared in the record than the right
claimed by the plaintiff, in error in his pleadings, by and under
the treaty, and the decision of the court below against the
right thus claimed, that brings this cause within the appellate
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, under the twenty-fifth article
of the Judiciary Act. 7 Howard, 743 -772.
But it is said that, because the plaintiff in error has set forth the
title which he derived under the insolvent laws of Maryland
to Gobdwin's share in, the Mexican Company, no such right,
title, or privilege, under the convention with Mexico, is set up
by the plaintiff in error in his petition, and no decision against
any such right, title, &c. made by the court below as would
give jurisdiction to review it to this court, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, but that the whole case turns
upon the construction of the laws of Maryland.
In this position I apprehend there is great error, and ample
authority in the former decisions of this court for its condemnation.
It is perfectly true that the plaintiff in error has alleged
that, by the laws of Maryland, the share which was of Goodwin ini the Mexican Company, on the 25th of February, 1817,
became vested in him, being the permanent trustee of Goodwin, as of that day. And I insist that it is in reference to this
very title, thus acquired, under" the laws of the State, that the
treaty is to be interpreted, in order that the rights and benefits
which it designed to bestow should be awarded to the proper
person. In this view of the case, the State laws, or general principles of law, are to be construed and interpreted as incidental
to, and absolutely essential in, the mere exercise of the power and
duty of construing the treaty itself. In determining whether
the plaintiff is entitled to the certificates which he claims under
the treaty, it is necessary to inquire into the validity of the title
under which he claims; and how can this be accomplished
without the consideration of all legal questions which might
affect that validity, and so influence the decision upon the
rights claimed under the treaty? If the plaintiff in error is entitled, by the law of Maryland, to the share in the Mexican
Company which was of Lyde Goodwin, in order to receive
the benefits and protection of the convention with Mexico,
then it becomes necessary in dispensing those benefits, and applying*to his case the protection of the treaty, to determine his
title upon that law. This, has heretofore been the well-established practice of this court.
In Owings v. Norwood, 5 Cranch, 344, C. J. Marshall said:

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

"Each treaty stipulates something respecting the citizen' of
the two nations, and gives them rights. Whenever a right
grows out of, or is protected by a treaty, it .is sanctioned
against all the laws and judicial decisions of the States; and
whoever may have this right, it is to be protected."
In Smith v. The' State of Maryland, use of Carroll et al. (6
Cranch, 286; 2 Cond. R. 377), the principle here contended for
is fully asserted, and clearly explafied and applied. 'The whole
dispute there turned upon the construction of a State statute;
and the benefit and protection claimed by the plaintiff in error
as arising out of the treaty, it was admitted on both sides, depended upon the interpretation of the Maryland law.
In the opinion of the court they say: " It is contended by the
defendants in error, that the questibn involved in the cause
turns exclusively upon the construction of the confiscation
laws of the State of Maryland, passed prior to the treaty of
peace, and that no question relative to the construction of that
treaty did or could occur. That the only point in dispute was,
whet'her the confiscation of the lands in controversy was complete or not, by the mere operatioi of those laws, without any
further act to be done."
" This argument," said the court, "proves nothing more than
that the whole difficulty in this case depend- on that part of it
which involves the construction of certain State laws, and that
the operation and effect of the treaiy, which constitutes the
residue of the case, is obvious so soon as that construction is
settled."
The court then asserting its appellate jurisdiction, which
had been denied, proceeded to a rekxamination of the State
laws, and affirmed the interpretation of them given by the
State court to which the writ of error had issued.
In an elaborate opinion of this court, delivered by Justice.
Story, upon the point now in controversy, in Martin v. Hunter's Lessee (3 Cond. R. 571, 572; 1 Wheat. 304), he confirms
the principle decided, and approves the case above cited from 6
Cranch.
In page 571 of the Cond. Rep., Justice Story says: "The
objection urged at the bar is, that this court cannot inquire
into the title, but simply into the correctness of the construction put upon the treaty by the Court of Appeals; and that
their judgment is notre&xaminable here, unless it appear on the
face of the record that some construction was put upon the
treaty. If, therefore, that court might have decided upon the
invalidity of the title (and vn constat that they did not) independent of the treaty, there is an end of the appellate jurisdiction of *his court," &c.

N8

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

"If this be the true construction of the section," he continues, "it will be wholly inadequate for the purposes which it
professes to have in view, and may be evaded at pleasure."
After rejecting the construction of the section contended for,
he asks: "WWhat is the case for which the body of the section
provides a remedy by writ of error? The answer must be in
the words of the section. A suit where is drawn in question
the construction of a treaty, and the decision is against the title
set up by the party. It is, therefore, the decision with referqnce
to the treaty, and not the mere abstract, construction of the
treaty itself, upon 'which the statute pretends to found its appellate jurisdiction. How, indeed, can it be possible to decide
whether a title be within the protection of a treaty, until it is
ascertained what that title is, and whether it have a legal
validity? From the very necessity of the case, there must be
a preliminary inquiry into the existence and structure of the
title, before the court can construe the treaty in reference to
that title. If the court below decide that the title was bad,
and therefore not protected by the treaty, must not this court
have a power to decide the title to be good, and therefore protected by the treaty ?"
The above cases are- reviewed and confirmed in Crowell v.
Randell, 10 Peters, 3096.
If, therefore, there was nothing more in the record than that
to which reference has been made in these remarks, I think the
above cases fully sustain the appellate jurisdiction of the court
in this case.
1st. Because, the right of the plaintiff in error, claimed in
his petition, as therein set forth, necessarily arises out of, or is
protected by, the convention between Mexico and the United
States.
2d. Because the decree of the Court of Appeals in denying
this right, upon whatever grounds the denial proceeded, decided
against the right itself.
But, in the second place, it is manifest by the record, and
from the opinion and grounds of decision of a majority of the
court, that the tteaty itself was considered, and that, with reference to the claims of the Mexican Company, its validity was
virtually impeached, and its effect and operation altogether
denied.
The court say: "That the entire contract, upon which the
claim of the appellie," now plaintiff in error,"' is founded, is so
fraught with illegality and turpitude, as to be utterly null and
void, and conferring no rights or obligations upon any of the
contracting parties which can be sustained or countenanced by
any court of law or equity in this State, 'or of the United

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

539

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et a1.

States; that it has no legal or moral obligation to support it,
and that therefore, under the insolvent laws of Maryland, such
a claim does not pass to or vest in the trustee of an insolvent
petitioner," &c., &c.
The words, "the entire contract," used by the court in its
opinion, refer to the agreement made with General Mina by
the different members of the Mexican Company.
This agreement will be found referred to in the plaintiff's
printed statement, filed in this cause.
in the deposition of Lyde Goodwin, he states that the book
showing the contract with Mina had been carried to Mexico,
was before the commissioners at Washington, and "that this
was the book on which the claim of the Mexican Company
was founded and allowed by the commissioners.'
The record in this cause will show that the same book was
before the Court of Appeals, and constitutes the whole evidence
going to show the character of Mina', entire contract with the
members of the Mexican Company. It was upon this evidence
that the company foanded their claims against the Meiican
government, and induced a recognition of their validity by the
passage of an act of Congress by that gcvernment. It was
upon the same evidence that the United States were prevailed
upon to enter into negotiations with Mexico on behalf of the
company, which finally terminated in. a treaty in their favor,
by the authority and under the provisions of which a board of
commissioners was appointed, who on the same evidence pronounced an award in favor of the company, for the amount of
their claim against the Mexican government.
Now the question is, whether the decree of the Court of
Appeals against the claim of the plaintiff ilierror, on the
ground of the turpitude of the contract out of which it arose,
does not necessarily draw into question the validity, effect, and
operation of the treaty and act of Congress under which the
board of commissioners made their decision and award, directly contrary to that of the Court of Appeals.
The answer to this question will depend,*first, on the power of
the commissioners, and secondly, upon what they did decide.
By the first article of the treaty the commissioners had power "to examine and decide upon the said claims," that of the
Mexican Company being undoubtedly one of them, " according
to such evidence as shall be laid before them on the part of the
United States and the Mexican republic respectively." •
The fourth article declares that the Mexican government
shall furnish such documents, &c., as may be in their possession, for the adjustment of said claims "according to the principles of justice, the law of nations, and the stipulations of

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

the treaty," &c. of amity and commerce between the United
States and Mexico.
The fifth article imperatively requires the commissioners to
"decide. upon the justice of the said claims, and the amount of
compensation, if any, due from the Mexican government in
each case."
By the first section of the act of Congress passed 12th June,
1840, after directing in what manner the board of commissioners shall be constituted, it declares that the duty of the
said. board "shall be to receive and examine all claims which
are provided for by the" said "convention," &c., &c., "and
which may be presented to said commissioners under the same,
and to decide thereon according to the provisions of the said
convention, and the prindiples of justice, equity, and the law
of nations."
It is perfectly clearx, from the above extracts from the treaty
and act of Congress, that the commissioners had ample power
and authority, 1st. To decide as to what claims came within the provisions
of the convention;
2d. To decide upon the existence of such claims on the evidence produced before them, and their conformity to the principles of equity, justice, and the law of nations; and
3d. To ascertain and fix the amount due on said claims from
the Mexican government.
In the exercise of the powers thus conferred, and in fulfilment of the duties imposed upon them, the board of commissioners assembled at Washington, and, with reference to the
claims of the Mexican Company, they received the evidence of
their contract with General Mina, out of which the claim arose,
and ascertained its amount, for which they gave an award in
fivor-of -thelcompany against the government of Mexico.
This award refers to the claim of the Mexican Company,
and states that it was for arms, vessels, munitions of war,
goods, and money furnished to General Mina, for the service
of Mexic6, in the years 1816 and 1817.
Now the position which I assume is, that the award, made as
it was in pursuance of the stipulations of the treaty and its requirements, and those of the act of Congress, and consequently
upon the principles of jilstic i equity, and the law of nations,
is perfectly conclusive in all courts of justice as to the innocency of the contract with Mina in 1816, anal the validity and
amount of the claim growing out of it.
In the case of Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Peters, 212, the court
use language in regard to the treaty then under discussion
which is strictly applicable to the present case: -

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

641

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et Al.

"The object of the treaty was to invest the commissioners
with_ full power and authority to receive, examine, and decide
upon the amount and validity of the asserted claims against
Spain, &c.; their decision within the scope of this authority
is conclusive and final. If they pronounce the claim valid or
invalid, if they ascertain the amount, their award in the premises is not re~xaminable. The parties must abide by it as the
decree of a competent tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction."
If such be the effect of an award under a treaty, does not
the decision of the Court of Appeals in this cause, pronouncing
the contract of the company with Mina so infected with turpitudq and corruption as that no legal or moral obligation could
arise out of it, draw into question, and necessarily decide upon,
the effect and operation of the convention, act of Congress, and
award made in pursuance thereof, in a case where the plaintiff
in error had claimed the funds in dispute in his petition, on the
foundation of such convention, act of Congress, and award?
I am aware that it has been suggested that the Court of
Appeals decided against the claim of the plaintiff in error,
upon the construction of the insolvent laws of Maryland. But
upon an examination of the opinion, it is perfectly obvious that
they did not do so; on the contrary, it is strongly, if not necessarily, implied, that, if Goodwin's claim had been unaffected
by turpitude, it would have passed to and become vested in his
trustee, upon Goodwin's insblvency.
The Court of Appeals say that such a claim, that is, a claim
originating in turpitude, does not pass under the insolvent
laws of Maryland. The last proposition is not 4n independent
one, but is the mere consequence of the first. The Mexican
Company's contract with Mina was corrupt, and for that reason "bears no analogy to the class of cases, decided in Maryland and elsewhere, of claims not recoverable in a court ;f
justice, which nevertheless have been held to vest in the trustees of an insolvent or the assignees of a bankrupt." Upon
such an impure contract, devoid of any legal or moral obligation, Lyde Goodwin, previous to his application for thebenefit
of the insolvent laws, had in 1816 no claim whose validity the
law would recognize in the shares of the Mexican Company,
and as he had no legal right, none could pass to or become
veste'! in the plaintiff in error, as his trustee. Thus was the
plaintiff defeated in his suit, upon the very point where he
might most surely have trusted to the protection of the treaty
and the award under it.
The convention was not made to sanction corrupt and illegal agreements; on the contrary, -no contracts, by its express
terms, could fall within its provisions, but such as were in convoL. xT.
46

542

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors ot al.

formity with "justice, equity, and the law oi nations." Upon
these principles the commissioners were commanded to decide
upon all the claims presented to them. When, then, they
received and examined evidence in regard to the contract with
Mina, they determined necessarily, in regard to that contract,
that it was in its origin innocent and valid, otherwise they
could not have allowed, as they did, the claims growing out
of it. The decision, therefore, of the Court of Appeals, that
their contract was corrupt, that no claim could have arisen out
of it, and that the plaintiff in error could not recover, i8 in direct opposition to the treaty, act of Congress, and award, and
in defiance of that protection which they afford to the right of
the plaintiff in error, as set up in his petition.
I do not mean to say-whether the decision of the court below 'isright or wrong, but merely that it draws in question
necessarily the effect, operation, and validity of the convention
with Mexico, and of the award of the commissioners, and
therefore falls within the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
The following extract from the brief of the counsel for the
defendants in error will show the manner in which they stated
the point of jurisdiction.
The power of Brown, as Goodwin's provisional trustee, to
afsign Goodwin's interest to Oliver, the efficacy of Goodwin's
own assignment to Oliver, the construction of the trusts of the
deed of the 8th of May, 1841, from Oliver's Executors et al. to
Glenn and Perrine, though part of the merits in the State court,
are supposed to be no'proper subjects of discussion here.
1st. The petitions of the plaintiff in error do not specially
set up or claim any right or title under the convention with
Mexico, or the act of Congress, or the award made in pursuance of them, nor does the court below decide against any
such right or title. The petitions deny the title of Oliver's executors as assignees, and rest their demands on the ollicial
character of the plaintiff in error, as giving him title under the
insolvent laws of Maryland, and on the trusts of the deed of
the 8th of May, 1841, as constituting them trustees for him,
being so entitled, and the decision of the State court turns altogether on its construction of those insolvent laws, which confer, in its judgmet, no title on the plaintiff in error. Udell v.
Davidson, 7 How. 771; Smith v. Hunter, 7 How. 743; Maney
v. Porter, 4 How. 55; MeDonogh v. Millaudon, 3 How. 705;
Downes v. Scott, 4 How. 502; Kennedy v. Hunt, 7 How. 593;
Fulton r. MoAffee, 16 Pet. 149; Coons v. Gallagher, 15 Pet.
18; MoKenney v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 66; Crowell v. Randell, 10
Pet. 392; Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 19; Williams

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

543

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.
v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117; Hickie v. Starke, 1 Pet. 98;
Mathews.v. Zane, 7 Wheat. 206; Owings v. Norwood, 5
Cranch, 344; Smith v. The State of Maryland, 6 Cranch, 286;
Plater v. Scott, 6 Gill & Johns. 116; Hall v. Gill, 10 Gill &
Johns. 325; 1 Stat. at Large, 384.
2d. The decision of the State court, that Goodwin's claim
did not pass to his permanent trustee on account of its illegality and turpitude, does not conflict with the award, or the treaty
or act of Congress under which the award was passed, because
the commissioners were empowered to decide nothing but.the
liability of Mexico for the claims set up against that republic,
which were admitted by Mexico prior to the treaty, but long
after Goodwin's application; and because the said convention
or treaty of 1839, and the proceedings under it cannot affect
the question, whether the insolvent laws of 'Maryland did or
did not operate in 1817 to transfer the claim to the trustee of
oodwin, the force and effect of these laws at the time when
Goodwin applied being the question before the court below.
Comegys v. Vasse, I Pet. 212; Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 'Pet
713; Frevall v. Bache, 14 Pet. 97; Maryland Acts of 1805, ch.
110, and 1816, ch. 221 ; Hall v. Gill, 10 Gill & Johns. 325.
3d. By the well-settled law of Maryland, as applicable to Goodwin's arid all other applications for the benefit of the insolvent
laws at that period (1817), the plaintiff in error, as trustee of
Goodwin under his application, took title to no property, rights,
or claims of Goodwin the insolvent,.but such as he had at the
date of his application. At that period; Goodwin had no pos.
sible right or claim against the government of Mexico, which
did not come into existence for several years afterwards, nor
against the then existing government of Spain in Mexico,
which Mina's expedition was designed to overthrow; and the
only alleged or possible claim he, Goodwin, then had, was
against Mina, under Mina's contract with the Mexican Com
pany; and this contract with Mina, as the State court has declared by its decision, was illegal, and created no right or claim
in Goodwin which could or did pass to his trustee, undet his
said application in 1817. The decision of the State court,
therefore, involved bui two questions, the first of which was,
whether said contract with Mina vested any rights in Goodwin,
at the date of his application in 1817, which passed to his trustee; and the second, whether the treaty and. award, allowing
as against Mexico the claim of the Mexican Company, under
its said contract with Mina, had any such operation or retrospect, as to that contract, as tq validate it in Maryland as betweeii th6 original parties, and to validate- it ab ii.itio, so as to
vest"in the trustee by retroactive rights and claims under that

SUPREME CO-URT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

contract, which bad no legal existence at the period of Goodwin's application. The first question, the defendants in error
will maintain, is conclusively established by the decision of the
State court, and is not open to inquiry here, as it involves
nothing but the decision of the Maryland court upon a Maryland contract, as to the rights created by it, and the transfer of
those rights in 1817 to the trustee of the insolvent. The
second, and, as the defendants will maintain, the only possible
question open here, will be as to the operation of the treaty
and award. And as the State court has not expressed any
specific opinion as to the treaty, or any right or title set up or
claimed under it, the jurisdiction can only be maintained, if at
all, by establishing that such a right .or title was involved in
the decision of the question, and that the treaty did so retroact
as to validate said contract ab initio, and vest in the trustee of
1817 the rights given by that contract, which rights so vested
in, the trustee the decision of the State court denied him.
And the defendants in error will maintain, that even if there
be any such right, title, or privilege specially set up or claimed
under the treaty as to give jurisdiction, which they deny, yet
the treaty could not have, and was not intended to have, any
such operation or retrospect. They will insist that the treaty
and award under it had, and could have, no other effect, than
to establish the liability of Mexico to pay that claim under the
treaty, and settled nothing but the validity of that claim against
Mexico; and that by the award made under it to Glenn and
Perrine, the trustees of the defendants, the defendants have the
only right or title*set up, claimed,. or obtained under the treaty,
which the plaintiff in error can controvert.only by showing that
they were entitled to the clajm thus allowed to the defendants,
and that the treaty and award settled no rights as between the
claimants, but merely the obligation of Mexico to pay the
claim. They will further insist, that the question, whether the
original contract between Mina and the Mexican Company
gave Goodwin any rights which passed to his trustee in 1817,
was a, question of Maryland law upon a Maryland contract,
upon which Mexico's subsequent recognition or agreement to
pay that claim, as due by herself, could have no influence;
that Mexico's subsequent agreement to pay the claim herself
had no bearing upon the question as to what were the rights
of Goodwin in Maryland, under the original contract between
Mina and the Mexican Company; and that the express waiver
by Mexico, or even by the Spanish government which she
overthrew, or the objection of illegality as far as she was concerned, could not affect the question of the validity of the original contract iP Maryland, and under the laws of Maryland, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

545

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

above all, could not retrospect so as to repeal the laws of
Maryland by validating that original contract ab initio, and
passing the rights under it to the trustee of 1817. And as the
result of the whole, therefore, the defendants in error will maintain, that the decision of the State court has conclusively established the original invalidity of the contract, and that the
trustee took no rights under it; and that the treaty, if thefe be
any question raised under it, gave the plaintiff in error no right,
title, or privilege which can affect that decision, or was denied
by the State court. Milne v. Haber, 3 McLean, 212; and
authorities under the first and second points.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
If this court can take jurisdiction of this case under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, it must be under either
the first or third clause, as the second is admitted to be wholly
inapplicable to it.
1. The first is, "where is drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
States, and the decision is against their validity."
2. The third is, "where is drawn in qtlestion the construction
of any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or
commission held under the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up
or claimed by either party under such clause," &c.
1. We have sought in vain through the record of this case
to find any question raised directly by the pleadings, or "by
clear and necessary intendment therefrom," touching the validity of any treaty, statute, or authority exercised under the
United States.
Both parties claim certain moneys in court as assignees of
Lyde Goodwin, who was a member of the "Baltimore Mexican "Company," and entitled to a certain proportion of the
money awarded to said company as a just claim on the Mexican government. The validity oi the award, or the treaty under which it was made, is not called in question by either party,
as both claim under them. In order to ascertain the effect of
certain previous assignments made by Lyde Goodwin, the history of the-origin of his claim necessarily makes a part of the case.
The treaty and award are introduced as a part of this history, as facts not disputed by either party. The money being
in court, both the treaty and the award were funcli officio,
and no decision of the rights of the claimants inter se can,
in the nature of the case, involve tfhe validity of either.
The decision of the Court of Appeals, that the original contract with Mina in 1816 did not create such a debt as would
46 *

546

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's.Executors et td.

pass by the insolvent laws of Maryland, neither directly nor
by implication questions the validity of any treaty, statute, or
authority under the United States.
That the Baltimore Mexican Company set on foot and pre.
pared the means of a military expedition against the territories
and dominions of the king 6f Spain, a foreign prince with
whom the United States were at peace, is a fact in the history
of the case not disputed, and which if wrongly found by thb
court would not give us jurisdiction of the ease. That such
conduct of the company in making their contract with General
Mina was a high misdemeanor, punishable with fine and imprisonmert by the fifth section of the act of the 5th of June,
1794, chap. 51, cannot be disputed by any one who will read
the statute; and the conclusion drawn therefrom by the court
below, that the contract of the company with Mina in 1816,
being founded on an illegal transaction, was void by the law
of Maryland, where it was made, and passed no equity, right,
or title whatsoever to an insolvent assignee in 1817, involved
no question of "the validity of any treaty or statute of, or an
aithority exercised under the United States."
The validity or binding effect of the original contract with
Mina is neither directly nor indirectly affirmed, either in the
convention with Mexico or in the award of the commissioners
under it.
The fact that the "Baltimore Mexican Company" exposed
not only their property to capture by the Spanish vessels of
war, but their own persons to fine and imprisonment by the
authorities of the United States, only enhanced the justice and
equity of their claims against the new government of Mexico.
The original contract with General Mina was a Maryland
contract, and its validity and construction are questions of
Maryland law, which this court is not authorized to decide in
the present action.
2. We are equally at a loss to discover in this record where or
how "the construction of any clause of the Constitution, or of
a treaty or statute of, or commission held under the United
States," is drawn in question in this case.
As we have already said, both parties claim money in court;
and, in order to test the value of their respective a.ssignments
from Lyde Goodwin, introduce the history of the claim from
its-origin.
The treaty and award are facts in that history. They were
before the court but as facts, and not for construction. If A
hold land under a patent from the United States or a Spanish
grant ratified by treaty, and his heirs, devisees, or assignees
dispute as to which has the best title under him; this does not

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

547

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

make a case for the jurisdiction of this court under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act. If neither the validity nor
construction of the patent or title under the treaty is 'contested,
if both parties claim under it, and the contest arises from some
question without or dehors the patent or the treaty, it is plainly
no case for our interference under this section.
That the title originated in such a patent or treaty is a fact
in the history of the case incidental to it, but the essential controversy between the parties is without and beyond it So
in this case, both claim the money in court. It is a fact that
the money has been paid by the republic of Mexico, on a claim
which has been pronounced just and equitable by commissioners under the convention of 1839. It is a fact, also, that the
origin of this claim was for arms and ammunition furnished
for an expedition under General Mina, for the purpose of insurrection against the Spanish government. It is'a fact, that the
Baltimore Mexican Company, or the individuals composing it,
exposed themselves to punishment under the neutrality act. It
is a fact, also, that afterwards, when Mexico bad succeeded in
establishing her independence; when her rebellion had become
a successful revolution; that she very justly and honorably
made herself debtor to those who perilled their property and
persons in her service at the commencement of her struggle.
It is a fact that, though this claim was acknowledged as a
just debt by Mexico as-early as 182, payment was never obtained till after the award of the commissioners under the convention with Mexico in 1839, "for the adjustment of claims of
citizens of the United States on the Mexican republic." It is
a fact, that this claim thus recognized by the Mexican Congress was pronounced a just debt in favor of citizens of the
United States against the republic of Mexico.
But whether this debt of the Mexican government, first
acknowledged and made tangible as such in 1825, did previously exist as an equity, a right, or a chose in action capable
of passing by assignment under the insolvent laws of Maryland
in 1817, is a question not settled in the treaty or award, nor involving any question as to the construction of either, but arising wholly from without, and entirely independent of either the
one or the other. The treaty was, that " all claims of citizens
of the United States found t6 be just and equitable should be
paid." The award was, that this claim of the " Baltimore
Mexican Company," which had been acknowledged in -1825 as
a valid claim by Mexico, was a just debt, not a false or feigned
one, and ought to be paid. The money is awarded to be paid
to Glenn and Perrine "in trust for whom it may concern,"
The award does not undertake to settle the. equities or rights of

548

SUPREME COURT.
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et a].

the different persons claiming to be legal'or equitable assignees
or transferees of the interests of the several members of the
company. That is left to the tribunals of the State where the
members of the company resided and the assignments were
made. In deciding this question, the courts of Maryland have
put no construction on the treaty or award, asserted by one
party to be the true one and denied by the other. It was before them as a fact only, and not for the purpose of construction. Whether this money paid into court, under the award
and first acknowledged by Mexico as a debt in 1825, existed as
a debt transferable by the Maryland insolvent laws in 1817,
or whether it, for the first time, assumed the nature of a chose
in action transferable by assignment after 1825, when acknowledged of record by Mexico, and passed by the assignment of
Lyde Goodwin to Robert Oliver, was a question wholly dehors
the treaty and award, and involving the construction of the
laws of Maryland only, and not of any treaty or statute or
commission under the United States.
It is ,a conclusive test of the question of jurisdiction of this
court in the present case, that, if we assume jurisdiction, and
proceed to consider the merits of the case, we find it to involve
no question either of validity or construction of treaties or statutes of the United States.
But the only questions in the case will be found to be, what
was the effect of the appointment of George M. Gill in 1837 as
permanent trustee, under the insolvent laws of Maryland of
1805? Was the void and illegal contract with Mina, made in
1816, such a chose in action as would pass by such insolvent
law in 1817 ? Or did it first become an assignable claim after it
was acknowledged by Mexico in 1825, and, as a new acquisi'tion of Lyde Goodwin after his insolvency, pass by his assignrnent to Oliver. A resolution of these questions,-by or through
any thing to be found on the face of the treaty or award, or
any necessary intendment or even possible inference. therefrom,
is palpably impossible.
The whole case evidently turns on the construction of the
laws of Maryland, and on facts connected with the previous
history of the claim, which are not disputed, and which are
incidental to the treaty and award, but which raise no question
either as to their validity or consfruction.
This case is therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr: Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
Chief Justice TANEY stated that, in his opinion, this court

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

549

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

had jurisdiction of the question upon which the case was decided
in the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and that their decision
was erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN concurred in opinion with the Chief
Justice.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY.
I object to the form of the judgment to be entered in this
case, rather than to the results of it to the parties. By dismissing the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, as is done here,
the judgment in the State court is left in full force; whereas,
in my view, this court has jurisdiction, and should affirm the
judgment in the State court, thus leaving it, as the other
course does, in full force, but on different grounds. The consequence to the parties, by pursuing either course, differs so little, that it does not seem necessary to go into any elaborate
exposition of the reasons for this dissent, and I shall therefore
content myself with stating only the general grounds for-it
All that seems indispensable to give jurisdiction to us in this
class of cases is, that the plaintiff in error should have set up,
in support of his claim in the State court, some right or title
under a treaty or doings by authority from Congress, and that
it should be overruled by the State court. See the twentyfifth section of the act of 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 85), and various decisions under it, including Owings v. Northwood's Lessee, 5 Craneh, 348, and Smith v. Maryland, 6 Cranch, 304; 2
Howard, 372. Here the appellant set up in his bill a claim to
money under a treaty with Mexico, and an award under it by
commissioners appointed by an 'act of Congress, and the State
court, in his opinion, overruled his claim. This, in my view,
gives jurisdiction to us, whether the State court decided right
or wrong. See Armstrong v. Athens Co.unty, 16 Peters, 285;
Miller v. Nichols, 4 W"heat. 311. The very object of the writ
of error is to ascertain whether they did decide right or wrong,
and the jurisdiction to make this revision of their opinion
arises not from its error, but its subject-matter; the latter being
a claim set up under some United States authority. Neilson
v. Lagow, 7 Howaid, 775.
The next and only remaining inquiry for me, supposing that
we-b ve jurisdictin, is, whether the State court formed a right
conclusion in overruling the claim s~t up 'by the appellant. I
think they did. So far as it rested on authority under the
United States, it is by no means clear that they overruled it
improperly. The claim, so far as regards the enforcement of
the treaty with Mexico, does not seem to have been overruled,

550

SUPREME COURTI
Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

in terms by the State court. That court did not decide that
the treaty was corrupt or illegal, or in any way a nullity, when
they held that the original contract violated the laws of neutrality. So far, too, as regards the award made by the commissioners, that the Baltimore Mexican Company and their
legal representatives had a just claim under the treaty for the
amount awarded, it was not overruled at all.
It is not manifest, then, that any thing really in the treaty
or in the award, set up by Gill, the plaintiff, was actually decided against, but only something he claimed to be there ;that when the appellants claimed that he, rather than others,
was legally entitled to one ninth of the sum awarded to the
Baltimore Mexican Company, the State court seems to have
overruled that. But in doing this, they must sfill have held
the treaty itself to be valid, and the award of the commissioners under it to be valid, or they could not have decreed this
share of the fund to Oliver's executors, as they appear to have
done expressly by the record.
, All must concede, that the State court speaks in its language
against the Mina " contract" alone as illegal, and in terms do
not impugn either the treaty or the award; and it'is merely a
matter of inference or argument that either of these was assailed, or any right properly claimed under them overruled.
But it is true the court held that Oliver's executors, rather
than the appellant, were entitled to the fund furnished by Mexico, and lopg subsequent to Mina's contract; but in coming to
that conclusion, they seem to have been governed by their
views as to their own laws and the principles of general jurisprudence. The treaty or award contained nothing as to the
point whether Gill or Oliver's executors had the better right
to this share, but only that the Mexican Company and their
legal representatives should receive the fund. This last the
court did not question.
But who was the legal representative of Lyde Goodwin's
share? Who, by insolvencies, sales, or otherwise, had become
entitled to it?
That was the question before the court, and the one they
settled; and in deciding that, they overruled the claim of Gill
to be so, by virtue of any authority in the treaty or award; and
in saying thitt the fund should go to Oliver's executors, as best
entitled, rather" than Gill, they did it under their own State
laws.
It is a general rule for the State tribunals, and not the commissioners, to settle any conflict between different claimants;
and the usage, whbn disputes exist is not for commissioners
to go further than act on the validity of the claim, and decide

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

551

Gill v. Oliver's .Executors et al.

besides the superior rights of one of the claimants. Frevall v.
Bache et al., 14 Peters, 95; Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Peters, 212;
Sheppard v. Taylor.et al., 5 Peters, 710.
It is true, that the opinion given in the State court in support of its judgment is not entirely free from some grounds for
misconception, yet the judgment itself appears right, and, if
erroneous, resting as idoes wholly on the State laws, it is not
competent for us, under this writ of error, to reverse it. We
can reverse it only when wrong, and wrong, too, for deciding
improperly against some claim under a tnited States law or
treaty.
This, I think, it has not done. In short, the whole real
truth appears to be, that the State court considered the Mina
contract in 1817 as a violation of the neutrality act of 1791;
and therefore, -when Lyde Goodwin failed in the same year,
and went into insolvency, that his share in the contract, being
illegal and void, could not then pass to his creditors, or his
trustee in their behalf. But when the Mexican government,
about 1825, adopted the contract, and acknowledged its liability to pay those entitled, the court seems to have thought that
their obligation was virtually a new one. It occurred after the
insolvency, and hence seems supposed not to have passed to
the creditors, any more than did new property subsequently
acquired.' (See Insolvent Act of 1805, ch. 110, § 2.) Consequently, the commissioners held that the creditors end their
trustee were not entitled to its benefits. Goodwin could and
did legally assign to Oliver his new rights and new guarantees,
for his share from Mexico. These last, though growing out of
the original Mina purchase, were 'not a violation of'the act of
1794,- were honorable, though not compellable, and were not
deemed illegal either by. Mexico or the government of the
United States, or the comimissioners, or the State court.
Again, under the State laws doubts seemed to arise, (in deciding on which was the proper claimant,) whether the original
trustee was not duly appointed in 1817, and could not legally
assign this claim, if it passed to him then or afterwards, as he
attempted to pass it to Oliver, rather than considering it as
belonging to, or vesting in, Gill, the appellant, who was not
appointed trustee till 1825, and then in a manner somewhaf
questionable. (4 Gill & Johns. 392.) That, however, was like-wise a point arising exclusively under the State laws, and
which we are not authorized to decide in this writ of error.
It is for reasons like these, that, in'my opinion, the judgment
in the State court, so far as it related to any claim -set up and
supposed to be overruled under any authority derived from the
Uited States, is within our jurisdiction; but that the State

552

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

court did not improperly overrule any such claim so set up,
and hence that the judgment in the State court ought to be
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on -to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals for the Western Shore of Maryland, and was argued by counsel, On consideration wvhereof,
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that this cause he, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction;

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DAVID M. HUGHES, ROBERT
SEWALL, AND FRANKLIN HUDSON, A MINOR, BY HIS TUTOR, HOLmES
HUTCHINSON.

Where a person entered land according to law, but omitted to obtain a patent for it,
and another person afterwards obtained a patent from the United States by proceeding as if it were vacant land, knowing at the same time that it was not vacant,
the patent thus obtained will be set aside.
Nor is it a sufficient objection to a decree, that the process was by an information in
the nature of a bill in chancery, filed by the attorney for the United States. A
simple bill in equity would have been better, but this process being so in substance, the case will not be dismissed for want of form.
'
An individual owner of land would, in such a case, be entitled to the relief of having
the patent set aside; and the United States, as a landholder, must be entitled to
the same.
The deeds of conveyance filed as exhibits show the property to have been sold for
two thousand dollars, and that it was afterwards converted into a sugar estatc.
This is sufficient to maintain the jurisdiction of this court.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
The attorney of the United States filed an information in
the nature of a bill in chancery against David M. Hughes, who
was the real defendant, and also against Sewall and Hudson,
nominal defendants.
On the 12th of April, 1814, Congress passed an act (3 Stat.
at Large, 122) for the final adjustment of land titles in the
State of Louisiana and Territory of Missouri.
The fifth section wag as follows :"Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That every person, and
the legal representatives -of every person, who has actually inhabited and cultivated a tract of land lying in that part of the
State of Louisian. which composed the late Territory of Orleans, or in the Territory of Missouri, which tract is not
rightfully claimed by any other person, and who shall not have

