DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

663

The'United States v. Turner et al.
MAN, OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE, COHEIR WITH THE LAST ABOVE-

NAMED PERSONS or COLUMIBUS LAWSON ; CATHARINE PAULINE BAXER, THE WIDOW

or

BLAIZE CENAS, AND NOW THE WIFE OF WIL-

LIAI CHRISTY, AND HILARY B. CENAs, AUGUSTUS HENRY CENAS,
AND AUGUSTUS ST. JOHN, RIcHARD BRENEN BLANCH9, AND GEORGE
CHRISTY,
PAULINE

THE

LAST

FOUR

BEING

ST. JOHN, THE WIDOW

MINORS,

AND

REPRESENTED

BY

OF PETER CENAS, THEIR MOTHER

AND NATURAL TUTRIX, ALL OF' THE STATE OF LOUISIANA; JONATHAN MONTGODIERY AND MICHEL MUSSON, THE TESTAIENTARY EXECUTORS

OF THE

LATE WILLIAM'r

NOTT,

OF

THE- STATE- OF LouI-

SIANA, AND THE HEIRS OF NATHANIEL A'IORY, OF THE STATE OF

RHODE ISLAND.

THIS, like the two preceding cases, was an appeal from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana,
and involved the validity of the Bastrop grant. It was argued
together with that of the United States against the Mayor,
Aldermen, and Inhabitants of Philadelphia and New Orleans,
and was included in the same judgment. See the concluding
part of the opinion of the court in the last-named case.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. SABAH TURNER, THE WIFE OF
JARED

D.

TYLER, WHO

IS

AUTHORIZED

AND

ASSISTED' HEREIN

HER SAID HUSBAND; ELIZA TUENER, WIFE OF
WHO

IS IN

LIKE

JOHN A.

IANNER AUTHORIZED AND ASSISTED

BY

QUITMHAN,

BY HER SAID

HUSBAND; HENRY TURNER, AND GEORGE W. TURNER, fHIRS AND
LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OF HENRY TURNER, DECEASED.
The decision of this court in the case of the United States v. King and Coxe (S Howard, 773, and 7 Howard, 833) again affirmed, viz. that the contract between the
Baron de Carondelet and the Marquis de Malson-Rouge conveyed no interest in
the land to Maison-Rouge, but was merely intended to mark out by certain and
definite boundaries the limits of the establishment which he was authorized to
form.
The contract must be judged of according to the laws of Srain; but under those
laws, whenever there was an intention to grant private property, words were always used which severed the property from the public domain.
The absence in this case of the royal order of 1795, and of all testimony respecting
the genuineness of the certificate of survey by Trudeau, makes no difference in the
decision of the court. The construction of the grant was the main point of that
case, and is also of this.
Whether or not the instrument was a perfect and complete grant by the laws of
Spain, was a question for the court, and not for the jury.
The case of the United States v. King and Coxe explained.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District Court of Louisiana.
It was a petition filed in the District Court by the appellees,.
who claimed a tract of land under the Maison-Rouge grant..

664

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Turner et al.

The District Court decided in favor of the petitioners, and
the United States appealed to this court.
It was submitted by 311r. Crittenden (Attorney-General), for
the United States, upon the ground that this court had already
decided, in the case of United States v. King (3 Howard, 773,
and 7 Howard, 833), that the grant was invalid.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the coup.
This is an appeal from the decree of the District Court. .if
the United States for the District of Louisiana. The proc, -dings were instituted by the appellees against the United St',es,
according to the acts of Congress of May 26, 1824, ana June
,17, 1844; and they claim title to a parcel of land in the State
of Louisiana, under an instrument of writing executed by the
Baron de Carondelet, on the 20th of June, 1797, in favor of the
Marquis de Maison-Rouge. The conveyances by which they
deduce title to themselves from him are -set forth in the petition. The case turned altogether, in the District Court, upon
the construction and effect of the document above mentioned;
and this is the only question arising on this appeal. .
The appellees insist that this instrument of writing conveyed
to the Marquis de Maison-Rouge either the legal or equitable
title to tha thirty superficial leagues of land described in the
plan of Triideau annexed to the instrument. But the question
Which they propose to raise has already been decided. The instrument under which they claim title came under the consideration.f this court in the case of the United States v. King and
Coxe, reported in 3 Howard, 773, and 7 Howard; 833. And in
the last-mentioned report it will be seen that the construction
and effeck of this instrument was at that time directly before
the court, and the decision of the case depended upon it. The
question was then fully and carefully examined and considered,
and the court held that this instrument of writing conveyed no
interest in the land to Maison-Rouge, as his private property;
and that it was intended merely to mark out by certain and
definite boundaries the, limits of the establishment, he was
authorized to form, accordiiig to the stipulations of a previous
contract which he had entered into with the Spanish government, in 1795. And as regarded that previous contract the
court said: "It will be observed that this contract contaihs no
stipulation in favor of Maison-Rouge. All the engagements
on the part of the government are in favor of the emigrants
who should accept the conditions. . Indeed, it seems to have
been no part 6f the turposes of this agreement to regulate the
compensation which he was to receive for 'his services. Its
only object, as appears by the concluding sentence, was to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

665

The United States v. Turner et al.

make known the offers made by the Spanish government to
those who were disposed to come. It was therefore to be
shown by the Marquis to those whom he invited to remove to
this establishment, and it does not appear to have been thought
necessary, and perhaps was not desirable, that his compensation or his interest in forming the colony should be made public. That was a matter betweeh him and the Spanish authorities, which doubtless was understood on both sides. And
whether it was to be in money, or in a future grant of land,
does not appear. Certainly it w"as not to be in the land on
which this establishment was to be formed, because the government was pledged to grant it to the colonists."
The question which this appeal brings up is therefore res
judicata. Nor does the court perceive any ground for doubting the correctness of the opinion heretofore pronounced. And
in the case arising under the claim of the Baron de Bastrop, in
which the judgment of the court has just been delivered, the
principles decided in the case of the United States v. King
and Coxe have again been affirmed, after full argument by counsel and reconsideration by the court. The De Bastrop claim
was upon an instrument of writing similar to that in favor of
Alaison-Rouge, and executed on the same day by the-Baron de
Carondelet, for a still larger tract of country than that destined
and appropriated for the establishment of the Marqijis de Maison-Rouge. Undoubtedly the validity and effect of both of these
instruments depend altogether upon the laws, ordinances, and
usages of the Spanish government, prevailing in the province
of Louisiana at the time they were made; and it is the duty
of the court to expound them accordingly. And they are both
strikingly unlike the grants for colonization authorized by the
Laws of the Indies; and equally unlike the grants usually
made by the Spanish authorities to persons undertaking to
introduce into the province a certain number of colonists. In
grants of this description, authorized by the La'ws of the Indies
and usually made by the provincial authorities, the bolonists
were introduced by the grantee free of"expense to the government, and the grant was the equivalent for the service per-formed, and depended upon the number thus brought in. And
in such cases the intention to grant as private property was
always indicated in clear and appropriate words, which severed
the land at once from the royal domain, and converted it into
private property.
But in the cases of De Bastrop and Maison-Rouge the colonists are to be brought in at the expense of the government
itself, and supported for some time afterwards; and they are
to receive their grants for the land allotted to them from the
-

56*

666

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Turner et al.

public authorities, and not from De Bastrop or laison-Rouge.
There would seem, therefore, to be no equivalent or consiieration for these extensive grants, and certainly there are no
words in either of the instruments that indicate an intention
to convey to them as private property the land delineated for
their respective establishments. On the contrary, as the colonists were to receive their titles and grants from the government, it follows necessarily that the entire title, legal and
equitable,. must have remained in the government, and have
been so understood by the parties. For otherwise this stipulation could not have been performed. And if the land designated for the establishment remained national property, aid
was not severed by these instruments frora the national domain,
it passed to the United States as public property by the trety
of cession.
It is true that the contract of 1795, and the royal order which
sanctioned it, and which are referred to in the instrument relied
on by the petitioners, were not offered in evidence in this case,
and are not in the record before us. And in the opinion of the
court, reported in 7 Howard, 849, 850, it will be seen that this
contract was regarded as furnishing a key to the construction
of the instrument subsequently executed. But the court also
held that the instrument of 1797, if construed by itself, conveyed to Mlaison-Rouge no right of property in the hnd; and,
indeed, that it was not intelligible, unless taken in connection
with the prior one. The omission, therefore, of the contract and
royal order of 1795 in this record, will not distinguish this case
from that of the United States v. King and Coxe.
It is proper also to say, that a question of fact which was
very much discussed when the case of the United States v. King
and Coxe was first before the court, and upon which' the court
at that time expressed an.opinion, is not in controversy upon
the evidence in this record. In the case referred to, a great
mass of testimony was offered on behalf of the United States,
tending to show that the plan of Trudeau annexed to the instrument of 1797 was not the one to which it intended to
refer; that it referred to another, which designated land at a
different place, and higher up the Ouachita River; that the survey .annexed was not made until the latter end of 1802 or the
beginning of 1803, when negotiations were actually pending
for the cession of the territory, and was then made in expectation of the cession to the United States, and the certificate
antedated to cover the land now claimed.
But as the case of the United States v. King and Coxe was
an action at law, and brought up to this court by writ of error,
the questions of fact arising upon the evidence in the record

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

667

The United States v. Turner et aL

were not open to revision in the appellate court. The question
above mentioned had been decided against the United States
by the District Court, according to the Louisiana practice, without the intervention of a jury, and his decision, like the verdict
of a jury, was conclusive as to the fact, where the case was
brought up by writ of error. And this court, when their attention was called to the subject, set aside the judgment and.reinstated the case, to be heard and determined on the questions
of law, assuming the facts to be true as decided by the District
Court.
In the present case, however, the proceeding is acc6rding to
the rules and principles of a court of equity, and the facts as
well as the law are brought'here for revision by the appeal.
.The genuineness of the certificate of Trudeau would therefore
be open to inquiry, if the evidence in the former case was in
this record.
But none of the evidence offered on behalf of the United'States, of any description, in the case against King and Coxe,
is co-otained in the record before us. The case appears to have
been tried and determined in the -District Court altogether
upon testimony adduced by the appellees. They examined
several witnesses to prove that Trudeau's certificate was genuine, and not antedated. And as there was no opposing evidence, the opinion of the District Court upon this part of the
case was undoubtedly correct.
As relates to the order itself of the Baron de Carondelet, to
which this plan was annexed, it appears that the original ift
the Spanish language was produced and proved, and a copy is
contained, in the record; and with it what purports to be a
translation into the English language. By whom this translation was made does not appear; nor does the record show that
it was proved by the testimony of any witness. It differs in
material respects from that produced in the case of the United
States v. King and Coxe, which will be found in the report in
3 Howard, and also from that contained in the report of the
committee of the House of Representatives in Vol. III. of
American State Papers, p. 410 (Public Lands). The two lastmentioned translations are substantially, if not precisely,-the
*same, and conform to the ori-inal. But the one sent up in
this record is evidently incorrect.
There is likewise a translation 8et out by the appellees in
their petition, differing from the one offered in evidence, and
approaching very nearly to the two translations of which
we have spoken. But this also is inaccurate, and omits the
word "conditions," when speaking of the contract under which
Maison-Rouge was to form his establishment. But these

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.-Turner et al.

erroneous translations are not entitled to consi&ration in expounding this instrument, since the original is in evidence and
must speak for itself.
Witnesses, it appears, were examined in the District Court, to
prove that this instrument was a perfect and complete grant by
the laws of Spain then in force in the province of Louisiana in
relation to grants of land; and the counsel for the appellees
moved for an issue upon this point, to be tried by the jury.
This motion was properly refused by the court, and the issues
which the court directed were confined to questions of fact.
The Spanish laws which formerly prevailed in Louisiana, and
upon which the titles to land in that State depend, must be
judicially noticed and expounded by the court, like the laws
affecting titles to real property in any other State. They are
questions of law and not questions of fact, and are always so
regarded and treated in the courts of Louisiana. And it can
never be maintained in the courts of the United States that
the'laws of any State of this Union are to be treated as the
laws of a foreign nation, and ascertained and determined as a
matter of- fact, by a jury, upon the testimony of witnesses.
And if the Spanish laws prevailing in Louisiana before the
cession to the United States were to be regarded as foreign
laws, which the courts could not judicially notice, the titles to
land in that'State would become unstable and insecure; and
their validity or invalidity would, in many instances, depend
upon the varying opinions of witnesses, and the fluctuating verdicts of juries, deciding upon questions of law which they could
not, from the nature oftheir pursuits and studies, be supliosed
to comprehend.
The testimony offered on this subject was objected to by the
district attorney, but would seem to have been re6eived by
the court. It is not material, however, to inquire whether it was
received or not. -For the only question before us is, whether
the instrument of writing of 1797, under which the petitioners
claimed title, was or was not correctly expounded by the District Court. And whetfer he arrived at his conclusion from
the language of the instrument itself; or was influenced by the
oral testimony, is not important. In 6ither case, the, decision
that this instrument was a grant to the Marquis de MaisonRouge of the thirty square leagues of land therein mentiohed
as his private pr6perty, is, in the judgmentof this-court, erroneous. And as the title of the appellees r~sts entirely upon
-this supposed grant, the .decree in their favor .must be reversed,
and the petition dismissed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr.. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice
McKINLEY, and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

669

Bennett v. Butterworth.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court that the
decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with
directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants.

JouN H. BENNETT,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SA IUEL

F.

BUTTERWORTH.

In Texas, the common law has been adopted, but the forms and rules of pleading
in common law cases have not; and although the forms of proceedings and practice in the State courts have been adopted in the District Court of the United
States, yet such adoption must not be understood as confounding the principles of
law and equity; nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be blended together
in one suit.
The Constitution of the United States has recognized the distinction between law
and equity, and it must be observed in the federal courts, although there is no
distinction between them by the laws of Texas.
Where a petition was filed claiming certain negroes, to whom the defendant set up a
title as being his own property, and the jury brought in a verdict awarding a sum
of money to the plaintiff, which was released, and then the court gave judgment
that the plaintiff should recover the negroes, these proceedings were irregular, and.
the judgment must be reversed.
They cannot be assimilated to proceedings in chancery, or treated as such by this
court. There is nothing like a bill or answer, as prescribed by the rules of this court,
nor any statement of the evidence upon which the judgment could be revised.
The casemust, therefore, be considered as a-case at law, the rules of which require
that the verdict must find the matter in issue between the parties, and the judgment must follow the verdict.
Here neither was the ee, and the errors being patent upon the records, the judgment i'. open to revision in this court, without any motion in arrest of judgment
being made or exception taken in the court below.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
In 1848, Buttenvorti filed the following petition against
Bennett :"To the Honorable J. C. Watrous, Judge of Lhe District Court
of the United States for the District of the State of Texas,
and which court has also Circuit Court powers.
"The petition of Samuel F. Butterworth, who is a citizen of
the State of New York, against John H. Bennett, who is a citizen of the State of Texas, would respectfully represent unto

