DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

609

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Secondly, if these three distinct improvements had been
claimed and granted in the letters, and described in the schedule,
then the patent would be void,,as I think, because no more than
one invention, distinct and disconnected from others, can be
granted in the same lettefs. Such is the construction that has
been given to the ,legislation of Congress at the Patent-Office,
and is supposed by me to be the correct one. If three independent inventions can be patented and monopolized together, so
any number may be; by this means, the grant may cover many
fictitious claims, vith some valid ohes, which latter will stand
protected; so that little or no risk will be run by obtaining a
grant for that which is not new; and by this mode of proceeding at the Patent-Office, fictitious claims may cover and assume to monopolize the ordinary implements now in use on
the farm and in the workshop, and, yet more than is now the
case, harass the public with fictitious and ill-founded claims to
make and sell exclusively things in daily and extensive use.
Although the claim may be fictitious, still this does not protect
the public from harassment, as usually men using cheap implements cannot afford to litigate in the United States courts.
It would be far better to allow the claim, unjust as it is, and
pay the patentee his fraudulent demand, than incur the expense of a suit, which the patentee or his assignee may well
afford to prosecute.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is noiv here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be; and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE

UNTiED STATES, AFPELLANTS, v. THE MAYOR, ALDERIEN, AND
INHABITANTS OF THE CITIES OF PHILADELPHIA AND NEW ORTEANS.

The decision of this court in the United States v. Rleynes (9 Howard, 127), again
affirmed, to wit, that under the acts of Congress of May 26, 1824 (4 Stat. at
Large, 52), and June 17, 1844 (5 Stat. at Large, 676), the courts of the United
States have no power to decide upon complete or perfect titles to land.
The contract made between the Baron de Bastrop and the Spanish government did
not vest a perfect title in Bastrop, and therefore this court can exercise jurisdiction
over the claim.

610

SUP1REME

COURT.

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.
The grant of twelve leagues square, given to Bastrop by the Spanish governor, only
pointed out the place where the families were to settle which Bastrop was to bring
in. The land was destined and appropriated to this purpose. There were to be.
five hundred families, who were to grow wheat, and Bastrop's interest was intended
to be in the monopoly of manufacturing flour and exporting it to Havana and
other places under the jurisdiction of the Spanish crown. With this view, he obtained separate grants for the bayous or mill-seats, and was bound to erect at least
one mill within two years from the date of the grant.
The families which were introduced took their titles from the Spanish government,
and not from Bastrop.
This case stands upon the same ground as the case of the United States v. King et
a], 7 Howard, 833.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
It was a petition filed by the corporate authorities of the
cities of Philadelphia and New Orleans, claiming a large body
of land under a grant alleged to have been made by the Baron
de Carondelet, the Spanish governor of Louisiana, in 1796
and 1797, to the Baronde Bastrop.
All the title-papers are set forth in the opinion of the court,
and it is unnecessary to repeat them. The derivation of title
to the petitioners in this case is explained in their petition,
which, being short, may be inserted.
"To the Honorable -T. H. McCaleb, Judge of the District
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
"_The petition of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Philadelphia, and of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Inhabitants of the
City of New Orleans, respectfully represents:
"That in the year 1795 or 1796, in the now State of Louisiana, of which the Baron de Carondelet was governor-general
and vice-patron, a grant was made to the -Baron de Bastrop,
by the proper authorities, of a certain tract of land, twelve
leagues square, lying on the Ouachita and Bayou Siard, to be
located and surveyed, which was done in due and legal form,
as by the annexed plot of survey, marked A, will more fully
appear, which was afterwards approved and confirmed; your
petitioners, for fuller information, refer to the documents published by authority of Congress, in Vol. II. State Papers, title
Public Lands, page 772, No. 40; as also to the volume of
land laws, published by Matthew St. Clair Clarke. page 951,
&c., &c.
" Your petitioners further show, that on or about the 25th
day of January, 1804, the said Baron de Bastrop conveyed to
a certain Abraham Morehouse two thirds of the said tract,
which was afterwards, by a compromise between'the said Bastrop, Morehouse, and a certain Charles Lynch, modified so
that Morehouse became entitled to four tenths, and Lynch to

DECEMBER.TERM,

1850.

611

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

six tenths of said grant; which said six tenths were afterwards
.conveyed to Edward Livingston, on the 18th day of September, 1807, as by documents marked B, C, D, E, and F, respectively, will appear. ,
"And they also show, that on or about the 5th day of
March, 1810, at a sale made by order of T. C. Lewis, parish
judge of the parish of Ouachita, 50,000 acres of the part assigned, and belonging to Abraham Morehouse, were seized and
sold for taxes, when a certain Andrew Latting became the
purchaser, and afterwards transferred to Andrew Morehouse
and George. Y. Morehouse, sons and lawful heirs of the said
Abraham, and to Sophia L. Morehouse, Charles F. Morehouse, Ann M. Morehouse, and Eliza C. Morehouse, children
also of the said Abraham, each the amount of 8,000 acres out
of the 50,000 sold for taxes. That in 1813, the said Morehouse
died, and thereby the remainder of the said property passed to
his wife,'Abigail Young, and her two sons, Andrew and George,
and that on or about the 13th of January, 1824, Stephen Girard
purchased the shares of said Sophia L., Charles F., Ann M., and
Eliza C., and in May, 1825, he purchased of George the 8,000
so to him conveyed; that the 2,000 remaining were, -by the
said Latting, sold to Nathan Morse, in his own right and as
attorney for R. R. Goelet who conveyed the same to a certain
Thomas Lovell, who sold them to Stephen Girard, as will
more fully appear by the documents herewith filed, and marked
G, H, I, J, K, KK, L, M, N, 0, P, Q, R.
"That in the autumn of the year 1815, Andrew, the elder son, died, unmarried and without issue, whereby his estate passed to his mother, Abigail, and his surviving brother,
George.
"That the said George, as well in his ownright as in virtue of a power of attorney, duly executed by his mother, Abigail, constituted and appointed a certain William Griffith, of
Burlington, in the State of New Jersey, their agent and trustee,
for the purpose of selling and disposing of their interest in the
said lands, which he accordingly did, on or about the 29th of
January, 1822, to the said Stephen Girard, Jamcr- Lyle, and
Robert E. Griffith; as also of 10,000 acres of the same parcel,
held by the said Wm. Griffith and Richard S. Coxe, of Georgetown, District of Columbia, about the 23d of January, 1824;
that afterwards, viz. at the October term, 1827, of the Seventh
Judicial District Court, in the parish of Ouachita, a partition
was decreed between the said Girard, Lyle, and Griffith,
whereby the portioti of Girard was separated and set apart, as
by said decree and the documents marked Q R, S, T, U, V,
W, and X, herewith filed, will more fully appear. And your

612

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

petitioners further show, that the portion assigned, as above
stated, to Edward Livingston, an amount of 12,600 acres, was,
by the said Girard, purchased, as per act herewith filed, and
marked AA, about the 6th of November, 1819, from a certain
John Carrier, of Baltimore, who purchased it from Samuel
McKean of said city, being part of a larger parcel conveyed by
the said Edward Livingston to Stephen Wante, by act marked
CC.
"And they further show, that on or about the 22d of November, 1824, the said Stephen Girard purchased from John
Hughes, of the parish of Ouachita, 4,300 acres of the same
land, which, said Hughes had purchased at sheriff's sale, being
a part of that assigned to Andrew Morehouse, as appears by
the document marked DD, herewith filed.
"And they further show, that on or about the 9th day of February, 1824, the said Stephen Girard purchased at sheriff's
sale, in 'the case of Brooks, Syndic, v. G. Hamilton, 23,694
acres, which the said Hamilton purchased from Andrew Y.
Morehouse, as by document EE, herewith filed, more fully appears.
"That on or about the 11th day of February, 1825, the said
Stephen Girard purchased from Cesar McGlaughlin 4,000
acres of the same parcel, which the said McGlaughlin had purchased at the sheriff's sale in the said suit of Brooks, Syndic,
v. Hamilton, which land the said Hamilton had acquired from
the said Andrew Morehouse, in proof whereof he files the doc
ument FF.
"That on or about the 29th of September, 1807, the said Edward Livingston transferred to John Adair a portion of said
lands, amounting to 75,000 acres.
"That on or about the 17th of October, 1807, the said John
Adair conveyed to T. B. Franklin, of Ouachita, 2,340 acres of
said land; and by act bearing date 11th February, 1828, the
said T. B. Franklin conveyed the same to Stephen Girard, as
per acts marked GG, HH, II, herewith filed, will more fully
appear.
" Thatt by act bearing date 23d February, 1808, the said
Adair sold to Curry 10,000 acres of this part, which Curry conveyed to the said Girard on or about the 9th day of March,
1829; and, lastly, that on or about the 10th day of July,
1827, the said John Adair conveyed his remaining interest,
amounting to 86,549 arpents, to the said Stephen Girard,
whereby the latter became possessed of all the portion conveyed by the said Edward Livingston to the said John Adair;
all which will more fully appear by documents LL, MM,
and NN.

DEGEMBER TERM, 1850.

613

The United Staea v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

"Your petitioners furt'ler show. that the said Stephen Girard, having first made his ill, departed this life on or about
day of
the
"That by his said will; -Lvh has been duly proved, and a
copy of which is herewith filed, and marked 00, he bequeathed
to your petitioners the whole of his above-described property;
from all which acts and deeds it results that your petitioners
are the true and lawful owners of the said above-described
portions of the Bastrop grant; they allege that there is no
other person or persons claiming the same, or any part thereof,
by a different title from that of your petitioners; nor are there
any person or persons holding possession of any part thereof
otherwise than by the lease or permission of your petitioners.
But that the United States deny their title thereto, and claim
the whole of the lands contained within thn said Bastrop grant
as part of the public domain.
"That the said title of the Baron de Bastrop has been partially submitted to the board of land commissioners, and by
theni reported oil unfavorably.
"Wherefore your petitioners pray that the validity of their
title may be inquired into and decided upon; to which purpose
the United States may be cited by their representative, the
district attorney, and that they may be confirmed in their said
title, with all other and further relief.
"GEO. STRAWBRIDGE,

P. SOULK',
Of counsel]i,r the citie5 of Philadelphiaand N Orleans."
There were ninety-sc pages of exhibits fLed with the petition. It is riot necessary to givd the substance either of them
or of the testimony which was afterwards collected by the petitioners and the United States, because the question was decided entirely upon the construction of the grant.
In the progress of'the case an order was made, on the motion
of the claimants, for a jury to try certain disputed facts, the court
reserving to itself "the decision upon the question of the validity
or sufficiency of said grant under the colonial laws and regulations of Spain, in force in Louisiana at the date of the grant."
On the 8th of December, 1847, the following proceedings
took place.
"The trial of this cause was to-day resumed. The argument for the plaintiffs was opened by . Strawbridge, Esq.,
and closed by P. Soul6, Esq.; for the defendants, by Thomas
J. Durant, United States District Attorney. The argument being closed, the court charged the jury; Silvain Peyroux being,
appointed foreman, they retired to consider of their verdict.
52
voL. XT.

614

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

"After consultation, they returned into court with a verdict in
the words and figures following, to wit :"From and according to the evidence adduced in this case,
we, the jury, find the following verdict :"1. That, in the year 1796 and 1797, a grant of twelve"
leagues square of land, on the waters of the Bayou Liard or
Siar and its vicinity, has been made by the Baron de Carondelet, as Governor-General of Louisiana, in favor of the Baron
de Bastrop (according to the copies and plans thereof produced
by the plaintiffs in evidence).
"2. That the location of said grant was, in pursuance of the
orders of said governor, designated by Don Juan Filhiol, commandant of Ouachita, or by Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau,
Surveyor-General of the Province of Louisiana; and that said
Baron de Bastrop did, with the consent and approbation of the
grantors, take possession of the land so granted, and proceed
in carrying out the objects of said grant.
"3. That the conditions annexed to said grant, particularly
that of introducing a given number of families and settling
them on said'grant, were fulfilled as far as-the government could
allow the said Bastrop, and that if said conditions were not
fulfilled in whole, the non-fulfilment thereof was owing to the
act and order of the grantors.
"4. Tfiat a plan of survey of said grant was made by Carlos
Laveau Trudeau, Surveyor-General of the Province of Louisiana, and was confirmed in the year 1797 by the Baron de Carondelet, Governor-General of said Province.
" SILv. PEYROuX Foreman of the fitry.
"New Orleans, 81h December, 1847."
The cause was then taken up by the court. The attorney
for the United States filed a supplemental answer, denying the
right of the petitioners, to which a general replication was
put in.
On the 23d of 'March, 1848, the trial of the cause was commenced before the court; the testimony was submifted to the
court, and the argument of counsel on the part of the plaintiffs
and defendants was concluded.
On the 31st of May, 1848, the following judgment was rendered, and entered of record :"This cause came on to be heard at the December term of
the court, and was argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon an
dttentive consideration of the law and evidence, and the court
being satisfied that the concession of twelve leagues square of
land, situated on the waters of the River Ouachita and the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

615

The United State' v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Bayous Bartholomew and Siard, in the Province of Louisiana,
made in the years 1796 and 1797, by the Baron de Carondelet,
then GovernoT-General of said Province, to the Baron de Bastrop, and commonly known as the "Bastrop grant," was a
good, valid, and lawful grant to the said Baron de Bastrop, by
a legal title in form, made by the Spanish authorities, and was
protected and secured to him as his private property by the
treaty between the United States and the French republic of
the 30th of April, 1803.
"That the mayor, aldermen, and inhabitants of the cities of
Philadelphia and New Orleans have proved a, good title in
themselves to those portions of said 'Bastrop grant' claimed
in their petition, derived-by various mesne conveyances from the
original grantee and owner, the Baron de Bastrop.
"It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the mayor, aldermen, and inhabitants of the cities of Philadelphia and New
Orleans, in their several corporate capacities as citi.s, be declared the true and lawful owners of, and entitled to recover
from the United States, the following-described tracts of land
situated within the limits of the said grant, and be for ever
quieted and confirmed as against the United States in the
ownership and possession of the same, to wit :"Thirty-two thousand arpents of land acquired by Stephen
Girard from Charles F. Morehouse, Ann M. Morehouse, Lucret'a C. Morehouse, Eliza C. Sterling, and the heirs of Sophia
L. Morehouse, by act of the 13th of January, 1824, before Oliver . Morgan, parish judge and ex officio notary public for the
parish of Oilachita.
"Two thousand arpents of laud, more or less, acquired by
Stephen Girard. from Thomas Lovell, by act of the 9th of
March, 1826, acknowledged before C. Pollock, notary public
in and for the city of New Orleans, and ratified by said Lovell
by act of the 3d of October, 1826, before Samuel G. Raymond,
notary public in and for the State of New York.
"1Eightthousand arpents of land acquired by Stephen Girard
from George Y. Morehouse and Martha, his wife, by act of the
28th of April, 1825, before Thomas Adams, notary public in
and for the State of New Jersey, at Burlington, in said State.
"Seventy-four thousand one hundred and sixty-seven arpents
of land, more or less, acquired by the said Stephen Girard by a
decree of partition between said Girard, James Lyle, and Robert E. Griffith, rendered in the year 1827 at the October term of
the Seventh Judicial District Court for the parish of Ouachita,
by the Honorable J. H. Overton, judge, in the suit entitled
Stephen Girard v. Robert E. Griffith and the Representatives
of James Lyle. The whole, according to the judgment and
figurative plans of partition, filed in the aforesaid suit.

616

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

"All the share of Stephen Girard'(ten tiventy-first parts) in
that part of four hundred and twenty-six thousand arpents of
land, more or less, which has not been comprised in the afore-'
said decree of partition, rendered in October, 1827, and which
was acquired by Stephen Girard, James Lyle, and Robert E.
Griffith, as tenants in common, from George Y. Morehouse and
Abigail Morehouse, and their trustee William Griffith, by' conveyance of the 29th of January, 1822, acknowledged on the
same day before Thomas Adams, notary public in and for the
State of New Jersey, at Burlington, in said State.
" Twelve thousand five hundred arpents of land acquired by
Stephen Girard from John Carriere and Mary, his wife, by act
of the 6th of November, 1819, before John Gill, notary public
at Baltimore, in the State of Maryland.
"Four thousand three hundred arpents of land acquired by
Stephen Girard by virtue of an act made before Oliver J. Morgan, parish judge and ex officio notary- public for the parish of
Ouachita, on the 22d of November, 1824.
"Twenty-three thousand nine hundred and sixty-four arpents
of land acquired by Stephen Girard from George Hamilton, byvirtue of a judicial sale thereof made by Jonathan Morgan,
sheriff of the parish of Ouachita, on the 9th day of February,
1825, by virtue of a Writ of execution issued at the suit of the
syndics of Edward Brooks.
"Four thousand arpents of land acquired by Stephen Girard
from Cmsar McLauchlin by act of the 11th of February, 1825,
before Oliver J. Morgan, parish judge and ex officio notary
public for the parish of Ouachita.
"Two thousand three hundred and forty arpents of land acquired by Stephen Girard from Thomas B. Franklin, by private
act of the 11th of February, 1828, recognized on or about the
14th of March, 1828, before Oliver J. Morgan, parish judge and
ex officio notary public for the parish of Ouachita.
"Thirty-six thousand five hundred and forty-nine arpents of
land, more or less, acquired by Stephen Girard from John
Adair, by act of the 10th of July, 1822, before Oliver J. Morgan,
parish judge and ex officio notary public for the parish of Ouachita.
" Ten thousand acres of land acquired by Stephen Girard
from John Casey, by act of the 9th of March, 1829, before Oliver J. Morgan, parish.judge and e.x officio notary public for the
parish of Ouachita. Judgment signed June 12th, 4848.
"THEo. H. MCCALEB, U S. Judge."
From this decree the United States, appealed to this court.
The appeal was argued by Mr1T'. Crittenden (Attorney-General),

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

617

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

for the United States, and by 11Mr. Strawbridge and 3r. ioulj,
on behalf of the appellees, with whom was .Mr. John Sergean,
representing the city of Philadelphia.
31r. Crittendenmade the following points.
1st. That the original concession to Bastrop (if any was
ever made), or if not the original, then at least an official and
authentic copy thereof, ought to have been produced, and was
indispensable and essential to the maintenance of the claim of
the complainants, and that without it their bill ought to have
been dismissed.
2d. That the testimony which was offered and admitted for
the purpose was inadmissible, and if admissible, was insufficient to establish the alleged grant to Bastrop, to prove its loss,
or to warrant the introduction of secondary evidence for proof
of said grant. The more, especia4y, as the claimants had not,
in their petition, alleged its loss, or their inability to produce it,
and had not, therefore, by their allegations, laid any foundation for the introduction of the testimony they were allowed
to give.
3d. That the evidence which was offered and admitted to go
to the jury, as to the former existence of said grant, or as to its
loss, was illegal, and ought not to have been admitted on the
trial; and, furthermore, that the verdict is not warranted by
the evidence, and is in itself bad; finding conclusions of law,
instead of matters of fact.
But, 4thly and chiefly, it will be insisted that the.concession
relied on by the claimants is not a concession to Bastrop, under whom they claim, and confers on him no title to the land
in controversy. It is in its object and purpose, and in all material particulars, if not in terms and words, identical with that
which was relied upon as a concession to the Marquis de Maison-Rouge, in the case of the United States v. King and Coxe,
and was therein adjudged and decided by this court not to be
a grant or concession to the said Maisbn-Rouge. 7 How. 830.
The decision made in respect to the Maison-Rouge concession is supposed to be in point and decisive against the pretended concession to Bastrop, and against the present claimants.
In addition to his own argument, 31r. Crittenden sanctioned
and adopted the following view, prepared by the District
Attorney, which the reporter prefers to his. own notes of the
oral argument.
Every plaintiff who brings his suit against the United States
under the act of 26th May, 1824, must show a claim to land
founded either on a grant, concession, warrant, or order of
52*

618

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia an

New Orleans

survey. The plaintiffs here allege their claim to be founded on a
grant from the Baron de Carondelet to Bastrop; and if he made
such a grant, it can scarcely be denied that their claim is good.
His authority was competent; the date of the instrument
brings it within the time prescribed by the first section of the
act above quoted, and Bastrop was an 'inhabitant of the province at the time. It is believed that a fair examination of the
instrument relied on will bring us to the conclusion, that there
was not, and was not intended to be, any grant of land person-.
ally to Bastrop; and that he himself never asked for any land;
that what is alleged to be a grant of land to Bastrop is, in
truth, nothing but a contract entered into with him by the
colonial governnment, whereby, for certain benefits and advantages stipulated in his favor, he was to undertake the personal
trouble of bringing into the province, at the expense of the
government, five hundred families of French royalists, to be
settled on a defined tract of country, twelve leagues square, for
the purpose of cultivating wheat; each of the families to receive
a grant of four hundred arpents of land, and Bastrop to enjoy
the monopoly of grinding the wheat at the flouring-mills he had
already established on the Ouachita, and exporting flour ftee
of duty to' Havana; but not the slightest mention is made,
either expressly or by implication, of any land granted to Bastrop himself.
The documents on which this claim rests, besides being iii the
record as already noted, may be found in a convenient shape in
Matthew St. Clair Clarke's compilation of the laws of the
United States in relation to Public Lands. Washington,
Gales & Seaton, 1828, p. 951 et seq.
The first is the petition of Bastrop to Carondelet. This states
Bastrop's intention of proceeding to the United States to
procure the emigrant families; urges the necessity of the
goverment's designating a district twelve leagues square, in
which the families should be placed; points out the object of
their introduction, to cultivate wheat and prevent the introduction of negroes; asks permission to export the flour to Havana;
and declares that the government should pay the expenses'of
bringing in the families.
Now, this is not a petition for a grant of land, nor any thing
like it; there are no words in the document by which the
'Baron de Carondelet, or any one else readi4" it, could possibly understand that Bastrop desired any land for himself. It
will be seen by it that Bastrop had formed an establishment
on the Ouachita. "The introduction of negroes and the making
of indigo in that district," he says, "would cause your petitioner
irrevocably to lose the expenses of his establishment." His

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

619

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

object is to increase the population in the vicinity with such
settlers as would be useful to him, viz. those who cultivate
wheat; a grant of land, no matter how large, to himself would
not answer his purpose; it is not land he wants, but families;
and he has not means, a royalist refugee himself, to bring these
families into the province; he therefore prays the government
to pay the expenses of their transportation hither. But the
families themselves would not come simply for the purpose of
promoting the interested views of Bastrop. What then-? He
prays the government to induce them to come by a gratuity of
f6ur hundred arpents of land to each family. It is plain, then,
that Bastrop does not ask for any land for himself in so many
words, nor does he by implication; but he asks that concessions should be made to the settlers. Now, had he intended
to ask for the land for himself, why should he pray that the
government should make concessions to the settlers out of the
very land which was all to be given to him, and when he himself could, if his pretended prayer were granted, give them as
much as he pleased himself? With what grace could he think
of asking for so unusual and enormous a grant of land for himself, when not only was he offering to do nothing personally for
the government, but is calling upon it to incur heavy expenses
in bringing in the immigrants, whose labor was to be highly
beneficial to himself, and to grant him peculiar commercial
favors and privileges not accorded to other inhabitants of the
province. Bastrop, then, asks for no land for himself. Does
Carondelet grant him any?
The next document (on page 952) will answer. It is the
decree of Carondelet on the foregoing petition, and, as was
usual, indorsed on the petition itself. Its terms are entirely
responsive to the prayer. There is not one of them, and no
word of them, indicating a grant of land to Bastrop himself
personally, or insinuating in the lightest degree that Carondelet
supposed that Bastrop had asked him for any land. He recognizes the advantages which will flow from Bastrop's project;
directs the commandant of Ouachita to designate the twelve
leagues square, - not which are to be granted to Bastrop, and
such would have been the expression had a grant been intended,
-but
"for the purpose of placing thereon the families which
the Baron may direct"; undertakes to pay the expenses of the
families, and limits the number to be brought in to five hundred.
The conclusion of this decree is fully expressive of the intention
of the governor, and demonstrates, if farther proof were indeed
necessary, that he had none of giving land to Bastrop. The
words are these: "After the lapse of three years, if the major
part of the establishment shall not have been made good, the

620

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.Philadelphia vnd New Orleans.

twelve leagues square destined for those whom the petitioner
may place there shall be occupied by the families which first
present themselves." Here we have the destination of the
twelve leagues square plainly stated, and it is not to be the
property of Bastrop.
The next document will be found on the same page, 952.
It is in the form of an approval by Carondelet of the location
of the twelve leagues square, made by the surveyor-general,
Trudeau, and declares that "we," the governor, "do destine
and appropriate the aforesaid twelve leagues, in order thdt the
said Baron de Bastrop may establish there, in the manner and
under the conditions expressed in the said petition and decree."
This was the order given by Carondelet after the survey had
been made, and, equally with the decree upon Bastrop's petition, contains no words that can be construed into a grant
of land to him. If these instruments, on which alone the
plaintiffs' claims rest, so far as the twelve leagues square are
concerned, contain no words of grant, nor any words equivalent thereto, how can plaintiffs recover?
By the common law, "Grants, concessions," are "the regular method of transferring the property of incorporeal here.
ditaments, or such things whereof no livery can be had." '" It
therefore differs but little from a feoffment, except in its subjectmatter; for the operative words therein commonly used are
dedi et concessi, have given and granted." See 2 Blackstone's
Commentaries, 317. So "a feoffment" "is the most ancient
method of conveyance, the most solemn and public, and therefore the most easily remembered and proved. And it may be
properly defined a gift of any corporeal hereditament to another." "The aptest word of feoffment is do or dedi." See
2 Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 310. The commoi law author here lays down, not only the principle of his own system,
but of universal reason; for it is a maxim, applicable to all systerns and known in all idioms, that no one is easily to be presumed to give away what belongg to him. Nemo facile presumitur donare. Governed by the reason of this maxim, the
common law requires expressly, in the concession of corporeal
or incorporeal hereditaments, absolute words of gift; and, governed by.the same reason, every tribunal, no matter where sitting or -under what system, will decide that A has not given
any thing to B. by written oonveyance, unlss the instrument
useswords of g ift) or words implying gift, and equivalent to it.
Measured by this standard, the instrument relied on as a grant
of land to Bastrop utterly fails.
It would bp quite impossible to find any instrument, which
has ever been decided by the courts of the United Statest.o be

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

621

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

a valid grant of lands, that did not contain the express words
of grant. To suppdrt this position, any case may be looked into
which came up to the Supreme Court of the United States
from Florida or Missouri, under the laws permitting parties to
bring suit to test the validity of their, claims to lands in those
States. We may cite U. States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 692;
Same v. Percheman, 7 lb. 54; Same v. Clark, 8 Ib.440; Same
v. Richard, 8 lb. 471; Same v. Hernandez, 8 lb. 485; Same v.
Delassus, 9 lb. 123, 124; Same v. Clark, 9 lb. 168; Same v.
Burgoin, 13 lb. 85; Same v. Arredondo, 13 lb. 133; Same v.
Rodman, 15 lb. 136; Same v. Delespine, 15 lb. 231.
Every one of these has, in express terms, what the Bastrop
claim has not, either expressly or by implication,- direct words
of grant.
Under the system of rules and regulations adopted by Spain
for the settlement and disposal of the public lands of her colonies, contracts between the government and individuals for the
introduction of settlers, of which this contract with Bastrop is
one, were well known. They sometimes contained a grant of
land .o the contractor, and sometimes not; the former was an
incident, and not of the essence of the contract, and many were
made without it. As an illustration, attention is called to the
case of the United States v. Arredondo and others, 6 Peters,
692. In this case, Arredondo and son present a petition t6 the
Intendant, Don Alexander "Ramirez, offering to form an establishment of two hundred families at a place called Alachua,
which they undertook to bring in at their own cost, provided
they should obtain, in absolute property, a grant of four leagues
of land. 'Whereupon Almirez issues his decree, int which he
uses these words: "I grant to them the part which they solicit
of the said tract belonging to the royal domain."
Here is the most striking contrast to, or indeed the very opposite of, the petition and decree in the Bastrop case. Arredondo asks for a grant of land to himself; Bastrop does not.
Ramirez grants to Arredondo a tract of land. Carondelet uses
no such word in relation to Bastrop. Bastrop and Arredondo
are both petitioning officers of the same government, acting
under the same system of laws; but their petitions are different,
and the decrees are different. How, then, can' they both be
made to mean the same thing?
In looking further into the Bastrop papers (see Laws relating to the Public Lands, p. 953), we find a petition from
Bastrop to Carondelet, dated New Orleans, June 12, 1797,
fully two years after the original petition praying to be allowed to bring in his settlers, and in this "he begs a grant,
along the Bayou Bartholomew from its source to its mouth, of

622

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

six toises on each bank, to construct upon them the mills and
works he may find necessary," &c.; and on the same page is
found the decree of Carondelet on this second petition, saying:
"I grant him, in the name of his Majesty, and by virtue of the
authorities which he has conferred upon me, liberty to
the Bayou Siar." "I also grant him the exclusive enjoyment
of six toises of ground on each side of t~qe Bayou Barthelemi,
from its source to its mouth." Now, if there were nothing
else, this alone would be conclusive against the construction
attempted to be put upon the petition of Bastrop and decree of Carondelet -in1795, by which the plaintiffs claim a
grant of twelve leagues square; for on examining the plat of
survey of Trudeau of the said twelve leagues square, it
will. be found that this very Bayou Bartholomew runs right
through the middle of it. Hence the fact is clearly demonstrated, that the proceedings in 1795 were not a grant of land,
because, if granted to him already in 1795, Bastrop certainly
would not pray, in 1797, for a grant of six toises on each side
of the Bayou Bartholomew, as the decree in 1795 would
already have given him, not only six toises, but many miles
deep on both sides of that bayou. Note, too, the mode in
which Bastrop asks for these six toises; he thinks it necessary
to apologize for making so large a demand. "This request,
Sir," says he, "will not be considered exorbitant, when you are
pleased to observe that your petitioner, who will expend in
thiese works twenty thousand dollars, will be exposed, without
these grants, to lose all the fruits of his labors." How ridiculous to suppose that a man, who had already asked for and
dbtained one hundred and forty-four square miles, would
think i necessary to excuse himself for making a modest and
reasonable -application for six toises! How still more ridiculous to suppose that a man, who had already obtained a grant
of twelve leagues square, would within two years apply for a
grant of six "toisesof the very same land, included in the very
same twelve leagues square'
The foregoing considerations would appear to be conclusive
against the plaintiffs' claim; but another may be added, of
importance not only in this, but in many other suits brought
against .the United States. If this be, as plaintiffs allege, a
grant to Bastrop, was the grant perfect or inchoate at the date
of the cession of the country to the United State.s ? If the
grant -xere perfect before that time, then it does not come
under the act of 26th May, 1824. Such a grant was protected
'by the treaty of Paris ; it had no need of an act of Congress to
assist it; it has been repeatedly decided by the tribunals of
Louisiana, and the principle is recognized by the Supreme

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

623

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Court of the United States, that a party claiming land by
virtue of a Spanish'or French grant, perfected before the cession, could maintain successfully his action of ejectment against.
a possessor under a subsequent title, even if that title were a
patent from the United States. The act of 1824, therefore,
was not intended to afford parties an opportunity to sue the
United States in cases where those parties could have relief
against individuals in possession, but to grant a remedy to
those whose rights were not perfected at the date of the treaty,
and whose claims were of such a character as, though imp6rfect,
were binding on the conscience of our predecessors; and t6
those whose claims, even when perfect grants, were derived
from the officers of Spain who remained in possession of the
country subsequently to the treaty of St. fldefonso, 3p to th,
date of the actual surrender of the province to the authorities
of the United States, all such grants, without exception, having
been declared null and void, except certain cases of actual settlers, by the stringent provisiois of the 14th section of the act
of March 26th, 1804, entitled "An Act erecting Louisiana into
two Territories, and. providing for the temporary government
thereof." 2 Statutes at Large, 287.
But if this claim of Bastrop were only an inchoate grant at
the time of the cession, then it is incumbent -on the plaintiffs
to show that it was prevented from being perfected by the
transfer- of the country to the United States; for the first section.
of the act of 26th May, 1821 (4 Statutes at Large, 52), provides, among other requisites of the claims whose validity may
be tested in the District Courts of the United States, this one,
-that they "might have been perfected into a complete title,
-under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of
the government under which the same originated, had not the
sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United
States",; showing that Congress only intended the United
States to be sued (for this is a law which must be construed
strictly in favor of the government) in those cases where the
transfer of the country prevented the perfection of the plaintiff's
title. Now it'is incumbent on the plainti 's t6 show that such
was the fact. In the present case, however, it is clear that, as
the Spanish officers were in possession of the country during
more than eight years after the commencement of Bastrop's
proceedings, if be ever had a grant, he could within that time
have got it completed, and as he did not, the cause must lie in
some other circumstance than the transfer of the sovereignty to
the United States; he fails, therefore,- in one of the essential
features of all suits that can be brought under this act of.
Congress.

624

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

On the. part of the appellees there were three elaborate briefs
filed, by Mr. Srawbridge, Mr. &ouls, and Mr. &rgeant, and
the case was fully argued orally by the two first-named counsellors. From all these materials, the reporter is perplexed
to make a selection to present to the reader. Each of the
counsel covered the whole ground in his argument. The two
most essential points were, 1st, the power of the GovernorGeneral to make such a grant, and the laws under .which it
was made; and 2d, what was the nature of the contract or
grant. As bearing more particularly upon the first, the views
of Mr. Strawbridge are presented, and upon the second, those
of Mr. &ulJ.
After examining the various muniments of title Mr. &rawbridge proceeded as follows.
Such are the title-deeds proper of the "Bastrop grant." To
any person conversant with the ancient Spanish laws, its character and object are unmistakably obvious. Philip Henry
Yeri de Bastrop was what is termed a poblador or colonizer.
The word, as defined by Salva, signifies "he who peoples;
founder of a colony, - urbium seu coloniarum conditor." His
contract was of a kind familiar to the laws of Spain. It was
the policy of that country, as it is now the policy of our own,
to encourage the population of her vast and magnificent
realms, which lay almost valueless until their resources could
be developed' under the influence of civilization. One of the
most ready, as well as least expensive, means of effecting this
object was, by granting large tracts of land to the hardy and
enterpising adventurers who were willing to follow fortune into
the unexplored wilderness of the New World,, whether singly or
bringing followers in their train. To such, the reward would
naturally be proportionate to the services rendered. Every
man became an acquisition to the country, and as land cost
nothing to the crown, it was liberally bestowed. To men of
note, or eminent for their services, a province formed no very
generous guerdon. Cort6s received a principality; other conquerors, discoverers, and colonizers were rewarded with grants
of various extent and value. The solitary emigrant, even without friends or influence, had only to ask in order to receive, on
easily performed conditions, such as actual cultivation and
occupancy, an ample property in fee simple to him and his.
heirs for ever. All grants were held by mere allodial tenure,
and were almost invariably irrevocable; always so in the
absence of any clause to the contrary. They were greater in
New than in Old Spain.
" Our ancient legislators," writes Guarinbs, Historia de Vin.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

625

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

cuos y l\Iayorazgos (Entails and Primogeniture), chap. 11, p.
150, "to repeople, cultivate, and defend the lands they conquered, endeavored to establish (arraigar) upon them families
of all classes, by means of great favors, franchises,, and donations. The spaces of lands, allotments, and caballeriaswere
not equal in all places, varying greatly, according to the greater
or less extent of the territory, the importance of its repeopling,
its situation more or less immediate to enemies, and other circumstances. For this reason the caballerias(a knight's share
or fee) and peonias (a foot-soldier's share) were much more
liberal generally than in Spain."
The pobladores were specially favored. For their services
in introducing emigrants, and settling them in districts allotted
to their reception, they not only became entitled on performance of their contracts to such portion of the designated tracts
as was not reserved to the use of the subordinate colonists, or,
if none had been actually marked out, a concession varying
according to the express or implied terms of the contract, and
the importance of the colony; but they were also rewarded
with numerous marks of honor and distinction. The celebrated body of laws, known as the Recopilacion'de las Indias,
promulgated about 1680, for the regulation and government of
the Hispano-American possessions, and repealing or superseding all contrary enactments, so far as concerned those countries, treats expressly of colonizers, colonists, and colonies. By
Tom. II.book 4, title 5, law 11, pobladores, their heirs or children, became vested with full civil and criminal jurisdiction
over their respective colonies, with the power of appointing alcaldes and other inferior officers. By various laws of the following title of the same work, they were exempted from imposts
and taxation, privileged to wear armor offensive and defensive,
recommended to the special care and favor of all governors
and viceroys, and to honorable promotion of every kind, and
ranked among the nobility of the land. The chapter in question is curious; it contains not a law that does not confer some
mark of favor or distinction'on discoverers and colonizers, so
highly were their services esteemed.
Between those who colonized the country, and ,those who
founded cities, towns, &c., a distinction was drawn, and the
rules respecting them and their rights vary, but not materially.
Title sixth of the Recopilacion de las Indias, treats, as jgst observed, of the honors and preferments conferred on both alike;
title seventh, chiefly of urban settlements; and title fifth, principally of rural colonies and their colonizers. It is this title
which I propose briefly to translate and examine, as from its
provisions it will be at once perceived that the rights of thevoL. XT.
53-

626

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

principal colonizer to the surplus of land in a poblacion or
settlement, after his colonists had been located, was a legal
right, incident to the contract, arising out of the law itself,
and wholly independent of and unimpaired by the absence or
presence of words of conveyance to him in the instrument of
concession.
The first five laws of the fifth title relate merely to the selection of good, healthy, and accessible lands and localities, to the
salaries of officers, the employment of Indians, &c., &c.; and,
like very many of these laws, are only recommendatory in
their provisions. A translation of them, more classic than
close, may be found at p. 33 of the Appendix to Vol. II. of the
Land Laws, compiled by Matthew St. Clair Clarke in virtue
of a resblution of the House of Representatives of March 1st,
1833, and also in Vol. IL p. 44, of the book known as White's
Recopilacion.
I quote, however, from an original Spanish
edition, printed at'Madrid in 1756, by authority.
Lib. 4, tit. 5, Law 6 -" If the fitness of the country should
afford opportunity for colonizing some town witch Spaniards?
with a council of ordinary alcaldes and r'iedores, and there
should be a person who will undertake a contract to settle it,
let the agreement be made, with these requisites: That within
the period which may be allotted to him he shall have at least
thirty inhabitants, and each one of them a house, ten breeding
cows, four oxen, or two oxen and two young bulls; one breeding mare, one breeding sow, twenty breeding ewes of Castile,
and six hens and a cock. He shall in like manner nominate a
priest, who may administer the Holy Sacraments,'who shall,
the first time, be of his own selection, and afterwards according to our royal presentation; and he shall provide the church
with ornaments and articles necessary to divine service. And
he shall give security that he will accomplish it within the time
aforesaid; and if he do not complete it, let him forfeit what he
may have built, constructed, and cultivated, which we appropriate to our royal-patrimony; and let him, moreover, incur a
fine of a thousand dollars of gold for our exchequer. And if
he should fulfil'his obligation, let there be given to him four
leagues of boundary and territory, in a square or oblong, according to the quality of the land, of such form that, if the
limits should be marked out, they may make four leagues
square; with this requisite, that the limits of said territory
should be distant at least five leagues from any city, town, or
village whatever of Spaniards, and that prejudice be done to
no village of Indians or to a private individual."
The next law relating to rural colonies is to 'be construed
in connection with the preceding, as appears by the context.
It runs thus, including the caption :

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

627

The United States v. Philadelphia and Neew Orleans.

Law 7tb. "That there being a contract for a greater or
smaller nimber of inhabitants, it is to be granted with boundaries and territory corresponding, and with the same conditions."
"If there be any one who will obligate himself to make a
new settlement in the manner provided, of more or less than
thirty inhabitants, providing there be not less than ten, let there
be granted to hit boundaries and territory proportionate, and
with the same conditions."
Now, if the introduction of thirty families entitled a poblador
to a tract of four leagues square, how many leagues would he
be entitled to on introducing 500? De Bastrop was evidently
restricted by the terms of his contract from claiming all that he
might have claimed in the absence of a special allotment by
metes and boiunds.
The 8th law simply provides that the children and relatives
of colonists are also to be considered as settlers, if married.
Law 9th. " That the chief poblador shall contract with each
individual who may enrol himself to settle."
" In the contracts for new settlements, which the governor,
or the person who may have that power in the Indies, may
make with a city, adelantado, alcalde, mayor, or corregidor, the
person who may take the contract shall do likewise with each
one of the individuals who may enroll themselves to settle, and
shall obligate himself to give in the settlement designated lots
for building houses, arable and pasture lands, in such quantity
of peon ias and caballeriasas each one of the settlers may obligate himself to construct, so that he do not exceed or give to
each one more than five peonias, nor more than three caballerias, according to the distinction, difference, and measure" expressed in the laws of the title on the distribution of lands,
lots, and waters."
Law 10th. "That when there is no private colonizer, but
married inhabitants, the settlement is granted to them, provided
they be not fewer than ten."
"WWhen some particular individuals shall unite in making a
new settlement, and there shall be the requisite number of
married men for the purpose, let permission be given them, so
that they be not fewer than ten married men; and let boundaries and territory be given to them, according to what has
been already said; and we grant them power to elect among
themselves ordinary alcaldes and annual officers of the council
of the settlement."
Analogous to the above are some laws from book 4, title 7,
of the Recopilacion, concerning the colonization of cities and
towns (not rural colonies, like the present).
Law 7th. "That thetract is divided between him who makes
the contract and the settlers, as is ordained."

628

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

" The tract and territory that may be givein to a colonizer by
contract is divided out in the following manner: let there be
first taken what may be necessary for lots of the settlement,
and suitable commons and pasture-grounds in which the cattle
which the inhabitants must have may graze abundantly, and
as much more for the corporation larlds of the place; the rest
of the tract and territory is to be divided into four parts; that
part which he may select shall belong to him -who is obliged to
make the settlement, and the other three are to be divided out
by lot equally to the settlers."
The other laws of this title relate chiefly to the size and
arrangement of streets, squares, churches, dwellings, &c., and
must be considered, not as imperative and stricly obligatory,
but merely recommendatory in their provisions. Among others,
the 25th law confers that power of prorogation of contracts
which was necessarily exercised, as a mere matter of justice,
by the Baron de Carondelet, in consequence of the arbitrary
order contained in his official letter of June 18th, 1797 " If by reason of the occurrence of some fortuitous event,
the colonizers should not have completed the settlement within
the time specified in the contract, let them not lrse what they
may have expended or erected, nor let them incur the penalty;
and the person governing the country may prolong it as the
-case may require."
-Lastly, I quote from book 4, tit. 12, law 4, of the same Recopilacion, concerning the sale, composition, and distribution of
lands, lots, and waters.
Law 4th. "That the viceroys may give lands and lots to
those who go to colonize."
"If in the discovered parts of the Indies there should be
some sites and districts so good that it may be proper to found
settlements, and some persons should apply to make a contract
and form a colony on them, in order that with better will and
usefulness they may do so, let the viceroys and presidents give
them, in our name, lots, lands, and waters, in conformity to
the situation of the couritry, so that it be not to the prejudice
of a third person, and be for such time as may be our will." *
* The following was cited, also, to show the power of the Spanish governors to
make such grants as that to Bastrop, and that no confirmation by the king was
necessary. It was omitted in the translation of the laws annexed to White's Rlecopilacion and Clarke's Land Laws.
Book 4, tit. 1, law 4, Laws of Indies. "Of Discoveries."
""We establish and command that no person, of whatever state and condition he
may be, shall of his own authority make any discovery by land or sea, nor entry, new
settlement, or stock-farm in what has been or is to be discovered in our Indies, without our permission and provision, or that of whoever may have our power to grant
it, under penalty of death, and of forfeiture of all his property for our chamber.
And we command the viceroys, audiences, governors, and other authorities, not to
give permission to make new discoveries without consulting us, and having our

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

629

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Other laws in pari materia exist. By law 24, tit. 3, lib. 4,
the chief colonizer is authorized to establish the right of primogeniture and entail to all that may have been granted to him.
By law 3, fit. 5, lib. 4, they are authorized to cqnvey to each
settler .a sub-concession not exceeding five peonias, or four
caballerias. Atid from the definition of these measures contained in law 1,tit. 2, of the same Recopilacion, as well as from
Escrieha,, Dictionario de la Jurisprudencia, verb. "Medida,"
where he gives the relative proportions of Spanish measures, it
is apparent that De Bastrop contracted to narrow down very
materially his own sub-concessions below the legal maximum.
Although it might seem, from the closing sentence of the law
last recited, that grants to pobladores were revocable at will,
such, nevertheless, was not the case, unless some clause to that
effect had been especially reserved in the deed of concession.
By book 3, tit. 5, law 1, of the Novissima Recopilacion de Castilla, and book 3, tit. 12, law 8, of the Fuero Real, which embody the general laws of the realm, it is provided that gifts bestowed by the king cannot be revoked without the fault of the
grantee, and pass to his heirs. So by 4th Febrero, part 2, lib.
2, cap. 2,  3, and No. 115, it is held, that royal donations
should be liberally construed; and if such a donation be made
to two persons conjointly, and one of them die without heirs,
his portion accrues to the surviving donee. In like manner,
law 234, page 74, of the Leyes del Estilo, declares, that he who
receives a donation from the crown may do with it as he
pleases. And Elizondo, in tom. 5, part 2, cap. 6,  8, writes:
" There is no doubt that thing-; which sovereigns bestow upon
any person, they cannot aftprwards deprive them of, nor prevent
them from doing with as they may desire, as well as with their
other property; more particularly if the gift be conferred on
account of the merit of the person favored, the donation rising
then to the force etfa contract."
The kings of Spain themselves have repeatedly disclaimed
any such power of issuing letters-revocatory. "Let such letters, if obtained, so far as regards their abrogation or derogation, or any other thing therein contained, whereby the just and
legal rights of-a party are taken away, be of no avail, nor have
any force or vigor whatever; let such letter be as if it had never
Ordenanzas Reales de
been given or obtdined' -Montalvo,
special license. Bat wnere the country may have been already discovered. and
peaceful, we permit them to give leave within their jurisdictions to make the settlements (po~taciones) that may be fit, observing the laws of this book, provided that,
when the settlement is made, they send us forthwith a report of what they may have.
executed; and as to the power of viceroys for new discoveries, let the 28th law,
tit. 3, lib. 3, be observed in the cases which it comprises."

63*

630

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Castilla, lib. 3, tit. 14, law 7, p. 723; also tit. 12, p. 672, &c.,
and p. 678, whence I quote.
Of the powers of governors-general to grant lands and to contract for their colonization, I believe there can be no doubt
whatever. The very laws referred to not only authorize, but
reqiiire it. By various other statutes of tom. 2, lib. 3, tit. 3, of
the Recopilacion de las Indias, viceroys and governors of the
American provinces of Spain are invested with nearly all the
authority of royalty itself. No modern procuration could be
more plenary than the second law of this title; no ukase or
firman more imperative in commanding obedience to them on
the part of Spanish subjects. It confers powers without other
limit or restriction than may be provided by law; the viceroy
may do all that he is not specially and directly prohibited from
doing. And we learn from De Mesa, Arte Historica y Legal,
lib. 2, No. 91, that the titles of viceroy, captain or commandant general, and governor political and military, are synonymous. The question of their power to grant has been repeatedly settled. See De Armas et al. v. The Mayor, 5 La. Rep.
132; Arredondo's case, 6 Peters, 728; Delassus v. The United
States, 9 Peters, 117; Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States,
9 Peters, 147 ; Pollard's Lessee v. Files, 2 Howard, 591 ; Soulard et al. v. The United States, 4 Peters, 591. A forliori they
had the power to alienate lands of the royal domain for a valuable consideration.
Such are the Spanish laws under which this grant was
made, and by which its intent, meaning, and validity must be
tested. They had not merely such force as the common law
of England exercised over her colqnies, but were enacted expressly for the government of all thb American possessions of
the Spanish crown. They may strike is as strange or unwise,
yet are not the less valid on that account, and certainly must
appear less extraordinary to an American court than the forms
and provisions of the common law would seem'to a Spanish
tribunal, when a discussion should arise about an entailed estate, with its fines, contingent remainders, and common recoveries. De Bastrop's grant is assailed and treated as void for
the alleged absence of words of conveyance, as if it had originated under the common la-&. Yet, were such words wholly
wanting, which is not the case, the clear and unequivocal laws
under which it was really made supply that want, and interpret
the meaning and effect of the deeds. They form, so to speak,
the constitution of the grant; and such as they were impressed upon it at its birth, they must ever continue. But
cQuld any Spanish tribunal, uninitiated, ever so far penetrate
the antiquated nonsense of a writ of ejectment as to discover

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

631

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleams.

its real object and effect, plain as it may be to men versed in
the common law? And when, on referring for information to
the lawyers of the land, the Spaniard should discover that the
object of a common recovery suffered by a tenant in tail was
to effect what was most positively prohibited by law (Blackstone expressly says that "they are fictitious proceedings, introduced by a kind of pious fraud to elude the statutes de donis,
de rell'iosis,&c."), what would be his astonishment at firtding
that universally held right and lawful which wore every aspect
of illegality, and was in fact illegal? A Spanish judge would
probably nullify a title held by virtue of such proceedings, and
would blunder in so doing. Such is a single instance of the
difficulties and dangers which beset an examiner into the unfamiliar laws and legal forms of a foreign country. I therefore
ask, that, if at the close of this argument any doubt should remain upon the mind of this court, the claimants may have the
benefit of that doubt; that the object, meaning, and effect of
De Bastrop's grant, as made probable, or rather certain, by the
deeds themselves, by corroborating documents, by extrinsic
evidence, by the contemporaneous aiid almost prescriptive interpretation of popular opinion, as well as of history, by the
known laws and policy of the Spanish government, and by the
opinion of the jury and of the court a quo, may have more
than ordinary weight; and that forms of concession followed
more than half a century ago in a foreign land, by its highest
officers, may not be nullified as meaningless and void, because
they do not conforin to the ideas of men belonging to a later
and widely different age, race, government, and generation; or,
if annulled, that it may not be except upon the most clear, palpable, positive evidence of their utter worthlessness and illegality. I invoke, in short, the old, trite, terse law-maxim,
"Omniia rite acta," &c.
Mr. So0.
Point No. 2.- Rights of the claimants under the title which
they exhibit.
These will depend,
1. On what construction is placed upon the terms in which
it is executed; and;
2. If the terms be such as to confer only imperfect rights,
upon the concomitant circumstances which may entitle the
claimants to have them perfected into complete ones.
Taking the instrument to be unobstructed by any suspensive
clause, absolute ab initio, or, in other words, unconditional, its
bearing and import it is respectfully submitted, are according
to the usages, customs, and laws prevailing in Louisiana at

632

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

the date of its execution, so void of ambiguity, and expressed
in a language so eminently sacramental, as Spanish jurists
would say, that they admit of no possible controversy, doubt,
or evasion. They are tle most prop'er terms' in which the
special thing which they were intended to effect could be conveyed; and the slightest attention to their obvious meaning
will convince the court of their legitimacy and fitness.
I In the original requgle which he addresses to Governor
Carondelet, Baron de Bastrop sets forth, "That it is indispensably necessary, on the part of the government, that there
should be designated a district of about twelve leagues square,
in which may remain included the Bayou Siard and its vicinity, in order that, without the least obstacle, those families may
proceed to settle upon them, which the applicant is going to
introduce, under theexpress condition that concessions of land
are to be gratis,and that under no title or pretence can they
exceed the quantities of 400 arpents at most," &c., and he
-prays that the government be pleased to fix the number of
families which he is to introduce.
The words by which the district is thus to be separated from
the king's domain, in this incipient requite, are, "Es absolutamente indispensable que per parts del gobierno se destine," &c.
By referring to one of the most accredited authorities on Spanish philology (Salva's Dictionary), your honors will find that
the word destinar is the proper one to express the idea which
the applicant meant to convey. "DESTINAR: Determinaraluna
cosaparalg'unfin o efecto." -" To determine something to some
end or purpose." It was usual that, upon such requests (Diligencias), the order of the governor should issue; and this was
done either by inserting at the foot of them the formal words,
"Como lo pide, despachase par secrelaria en la forma que solicita"; or by an extended order expressing the assent of the
Governor, in the very words of the requite, as in the present
case for instance, where the order reads: "Juan Filldot Seialaradoce leguas en quadro, mitad del lado de Bayff Siard,milad
del lado de enfrente del Ouachita, para ir colocando en ellas las
familias que el enunciado Baron fue dirigiendo," &c.-1"Don
Juan Filhiol will designate twelve leagues square, half on the
side of Bayou Siard, and half on the side opposite to the Ouachita, that the -families which the 'aforesaid Baron is conducting may locate there," &c.
And thus, from the words of the contract entered into by the
Baron de Bastrop with Governor Carondelet, these twelve
leagues, so pointedly designated, were to be assigned, to be
constituted - for v ihat? "Parair colocando en ellas lasfamilias," &c.-" That he might locate the families," &c. (Salva's

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

633

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Dictionary.) They were, therefore, from that moment, separated from the royal domain, and once so separated, could not
be resumed, except through the fault of the grantee. Had the
claimants under De Bastrop no other title but that, they would
still be vested by it with certain rights, inchoate, it is true, yet
such as would be recognized by this court, who would feel
bound in all justice and equity to perfect them by their decree,
unless it were clearly shown thiat they had been surrendered or
forfeited.
If this contract contemplated no actual grant of The lands
designated in it, but was merely intended as an adjustment of
the relations in which the emigrant families should stand to
the government, where is the necessity of marking out twelve
leagues square, or something like 1,016,264 arpents? The
number of families to be located thither under the contract was
fixed at five hundred. They were to have 400 arpents each, or
,2Q0,000 arpefits in all. What was to become of the remainder?
The. crown could no longer dispose of it, without a flagrant
violation of its faith. The emigrant famnilieg could not clim
more than what was allotted to them. To whom were to go
the remaining 816,264 arient*? To whom I ask it. Here is
a difficulty which must be got over before it can be maintained
that the grant only transferred from the public domain what
each family was to take for itself. - The words are clear, their
meaning is unmistakable. The twelve leagues. square are
asked to be set apart, and are constituted for the establishment
which De Bastrop was to form 'on Vayou Siard, and in consideration of his introducing there the Ave hundred families,
to whom he was in his turn to make grants agreeably to the
terms of his contract. " Bien entendido que a niun se ha de
dar mayor concession de tierraque la,de quatro cientos arpanes."
"It being understood that to none shall there be.given a greater concession of land than that of 400 arpents." This restrictive clause in the c6ndition imposed upon De Bastrop to grant
lands, could only enure to his benefit. 'It could 'not affect the
king, if the lands not conceded to the individual settlers were
to remain public property. Besides, it would only-bind him as
much and as long as he chose to be bound. And if the domain was to be bound by any such restriction, it was equally
bound by the other parts of the cbntract; and the twelve
leagues having once been severed from it, the 816,264 arpents
remaining, after awarding to the settlers what had been stipulated in their behalf, would have remained for ever waste property , If De Bastrop had no claim over them; certainly the individual settler had none, and the king least of all, *for he had
parted with them. He had parted with the twelve integral

634

SUPREME COURT.
The United. States r. Ph-iladelphia and New Orleans.

leagues for the benefit of De Bastrop's establishment. He could
.no more violate this than that part of the contract. The contract was absolute as to the quantity of the lands designated
and constituted, and conditional in so far only as it was to
have no effect unless Bastrop should comply with the obligations which he had assumed in it. And; pray, what was to be
the forfeiture in that case? The nullity of the grants which
he" might have made to individual settlers? By no means.
Put if Bastrop should not make good within three years the
greater. part of -the establishment, the twelve leagues square
destined for the families he was to send were to be occupied
by the first families who might present themselves.
Should, therefore, De Bastrop make good his obligations,
the twelve leagues were to remain exclusively in his establishment, and to be occupied by himself and the five hundred
families which he was to settle there. The argument is conelusive. De Bastrop was certainly comprised in the establishment; he was its head; its ruler; the five hundred families
intfoduced by him thither were not to have more than 400
arpents each, or 200,000 arpents in all. To whom, I ask again,
were to revert the remaining lands?
I have said, that, if the contract was not intended to convey
a grant of lands to the extent claimed in the r'eqtute, there
could be no necessity for executing another instrument; the
first was binding of itself. Indeed, according to the interpretation which is put-upon its terms by those who view them in a
different light from what I do, it required only at the hands of
the government that s6ccessive grants should be awarded to
the families as they should present themselves under its provisions. The spot where the establishment was to be located
could not be mistaken. It was amply described and most
pointedly marked out. What surveys were required but such
as might be necessary to set apart for every family of emigrants
what each was entitled to ?
But this assumption cannot bear the least scrutiny. It has
no solid basis to stand upon. As well attempt to lay in the
air the foundations of a large structure, or to build up a tower
on moving sands.
But I proceed.
The contract was in progress, and the contractor rapidly advancing to its completion. .Governor Carondelet considers
that the time has come for him to give it a more formal shape,
and he determines to "designate the twelve leagues destined
for said establishment in the terms, with the metes, landmatks,
and boundafies, and in the place which is deiignated, fixed,
and, marked out by the figurative plan and description affixed

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

635

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

at the head of this title, which are made out by the SurveyorGeneral, Don Carlos Trudeau, it having appeared to him (Carondelet) most expedient to avoid all contestation and dispute,
and approving them," &c., &c.; 'and he "destines and appropriates the aforesaid twelve leagues, that the said Baron de Bastrop may establish them in the terms, and under the conditions,
expressed in the petition and decree of the 20th and 21,t of
June, 1796."
The twelve leagues had heretofore been but "designated,
marked out," destinadas,senaladas; now they are both "designated and appropriated," destinanos V apropiamos, says the
grant. " APRoPIAR: hacer pr'opia de alguno qualquier cosa '
(Salva's Dict.) ;-" rem alicui adjudicare," or "to make something the property of another, to adjudicate a thing to somebody." The court perceives that the property is fully transferred by these terms, and that it, has gone out of the domain.
That this paper is a grant, who can doubt that reads 'with
the least attention its contents ? The governor calls it a title,
litulo. Speaking of the plan and description by Laveau Trudeau, he says: "The plan and description dffixed at the*head of
this title," " el plano figurativoy dilienciaque van fior caveza
de este itulo2 Yes, a titulo,which-the Spanish juriscohsults call
titulo enforma, and the French un titre translatifde propriet ;
"1a title in form; a title transferring property." And the best
evidence that it was so considered is in the fact that the plan
affixed to, and made an integral part of, the same, bears on its
face, and as its caption, eoNmcssio', g-rant: CONCESSiON BAsTROP, grant to Bastrcp.
But there are other evidences extant of the meahiing and import of that paper, - evidences of high character, too.'- of undisputed and indisputable authority.
About ten days before its .execution, to wit, on the 10th of
June, 1797, Baron de Bastrop complains, "that the twelve
leagues .which have been granted to, him by his contract are
found in part overfloved and occupied by ancient inhabitants" ;
and he prays the governor "to grant hini the same quantity of
land, &c., &c., without prejudice to the lands which his lordship has granted to the Marquis de Maison-Rouge," &c., &c.
" Don Felipe de .Bastrop tiene lalhonrade observak"a E S. que
las doce leguas en quadro que V S. le ha otergudo por s contrato se hallan en parte aneyadas y ocupadas por antiguos habitantes; en cuya virtud, a . Z suplica se sirva tener 6 bien
concederle la misma cantidadde tierra,'.&c., &e.
This request Carondeletindorses as -follows : "Como lo pide,
despachase per secretariaen forma que solicita.--" As he requests, let it be despatched in the form which he solicits."

636

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Is that enough? What else is wanted? We have something more. We hold a paper, withouta date on its face it is
true; without a name at its foot; yet a paper of an unmistakable character, and, may I not say, of some considerable'
dignity. It is apparently an elaborate essay on the practical
workings and results of an operation based on the plan of colonization proposed by De Bastrop. It is proved to be in the
handwriting of Francisco Bouligny, who was from 1796 to
1800 Lieutenant-Governor of Louisiana, and for some time
within that period acting governor, in the absence of the titulary. It refers in express terms to the Bastrop contract, and
therefore must have been written after its execution; and as
Bouligny's death occurred some time in 1800, it traces itself,
naturally, to an epoch not suspicious (from 1796 to 1800),
wheii'these matters were stil fresh in the memory of those who
spoke of them or wrote about them. It emanates from one
high in power, and, in all probability, had its origin in the exigencies of his official duty.
Let us look into it and see what light, if any, it throws on
this transaction. After going into a detail of the expenditures
to beincurred by the Baron de Bastrop, in order that he might
give value to the lands granted to him, and after showing that
he could effect it only by introducing at his own cost two
thousand families, he comes to the result, "that he will have
purchased the 800,000 arpents" remaining, after supplying the
five hundred families which he was to settle there under the
terms of his contract, ",for the value of one million of dollars,
Which," says he, "c otresponds to ten reals of silver the arpent;
a price very moderate in comparison with that which these
lands will immediately have when the introductior of these
two thousand families is once accomplished; and it may be
calculated, without exaggeration, at three dollars an arpent,
which would leave a profit to Bastrop of 1,400,000 dollars."
Is not this sufficient to establisli what meaning it had in the
opinion of those whom we must suppose to have been best
versed ifi the usages, customs, and laws prevailing with respect
to such matters? I am sure it is; and I might here part'with
this branch of the case, were it not that I can strengthen it
still more by referring to a certain historical document to be
-found anfong the papers compiled by Mr. White in his Recopilacion.
Morales (the ntendant of L6uisiana), in' a long communication to Don Pedro Varela y lUlloa, bearing date New Orleans,
October 16,17.97. complains that the royal Hacienda, the public treasury, is overburdened by the contracts which are entered into by private-iridividuals, in order to obtain grants of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

637

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

and lots; and he sets forth "that the royal Hacienda
lands
may be spared manyrexpenses and losses which may otherwise
result from the combination and execution of projects for obtaining grants of lands and lots ; that it is clear that the person who is principally responsible -for the royal treasury's interests would be mor&careful in that which may occasion expenses to the treasury, than one wh6 views the affairs of. The
Hacienda merely as accessory.'! 2 White's Recop. 425, 4?6.
And in proof of the -abuses he complains of, he adverts to the
very case under c6nsidetation. "As an instance," says he, "of
what I have stated, observe the contract-between Baron de
Carondelet and Baron de Bastrop for the settlement of five
hundred families, in the 144 leagues of plain ground granted by the governor," &c., &c. In fine' he asks that the power
of granting lands be transferred from the govern6r to the
Intendant.
Iis remonstrances were listened to; and on the 22d of October, 1798, the governor was notified "that the king had
resolved, &c., that the exclusive faculty of granting- lands of
every kind should be restored to the Intendancy of the Province, &c.; consequently, the power hitherto residing in the
governor to these effects was abolished and suppressed, being
transferred to the Intendant for the future." 2 White's Recopilacion, 477.
And thus we cannot lay our hands upon a single public document connected with that epoch, ,and having reference to
those transactions, which does not proclaim the fact that these
contracts were considered as actual grants, transferring the
lands therein designated to the contractor, appropriating them
to him, making them his property.
Nor did the governors, in making such contracts, transcend
their authority. We ,have just seen that, until 1798; it resided
fully in them. Bizt was the exercise of that authority a violation of the general laws regulating these matters in the Indies?
I am ready to show that it was not.
An ordinance of Philip II., embodied in the Leyes de las Indias, had provided that "haviendo quien qhiera obligarse a
hacer nueva poblacion, &c., de mas o menos de trein.ta vecinQs,
menos de diez, se le conceda el termino y terricon que no sean 4,
torio," &c. Lib. tit. 5, ley 7.
"Should any one contract the obligation of making a settlement of more or less than thirty families, but of no less than
ten, let him be granted a district of territory on the same terms
and conditions."
And, by referring to the law immediately piecedingr it will
be perceived that the district of land to be allowed the poblador.
54
vOL. x1.

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

the undertaker of the settlement, was four leagues square.
"Y, si cumpliere su obligacion,se le den quatro leguas de termino
y territorio." Ibid., Ley 6.
Whosoever was to receive the establishment was to give
those who should iegister themselves as settlers, lots for building houses, pasture and arable lands, in quantities to suit their
demands, &c., provided the whole he should give did not exceed five peonias or three caballerias.
".El que tomare el assiento, le hara tan bien con cada uno de
los particulares que se registraranpars poblar, y se obliara a
dar en el pueblo designado, solares paraedificar, tierras de pasto
y labor en tanta quantidad,4c., 4fc., con que no exceda ni de a
cada uno was de cinco peonias,nimas de tres caballerias." Ibid.,
Ley 9.
And the authority under which such contracts as that of
Bastrop were entered into was derived from the power originally conferred on the viceroys '(afterwards extended to governors, intendants, &c.), by an ordinance of Philip IL of
May 18th, 1752, providing: "Si en, lo y6 descubierlo de las Iadias, huviere algunos sitios y comarcas tan buenos que convena
fundar poblaciones,y algunas personas se applicaren a hacer
assiento, y vecindad en ellas, para que con was voluntad y
utilidad lo pueden hacer, los virreyes y presidentes les den ell
nuestro nombre tierras, solares y ag uas," &c. Ibid., tit. 12,
ley 3.
"If in those parts of the Indies already discovered, there
should be sites and districts so good that it may be proper to
found settlements, and persons should apply to form a settlement and colony there, in order that they may do so with more
alacrity and usefulness, let the viceroys and presidents give
them, in our name, lots, lands, and waters," &c.
I have, I think, satisfied the court on this point, and now
dismiss it entirely. But should I have failed in carrying your
honors? convictions, I would still plead, in the last resort, that I
have made out a case that claims at their hands all those considerations of equity which the law of 1824 enables theih to
allow in cases of an inchoate and incomplete title.
It will not be contested, I am sure, that, as far as the obligations of De Bastrop went, he faithfully complied with them.
Indeed, so rapidly was he proceeding to their execution, that
he had to be stopped from their further performance by an
order of the governor, issued upon a request of the Intendant,
setting forth that, on account of the scarcity of funds in the
royal treasury, it was necessary that the introduetion of
families under De Bastrop's contract should be suspended;
and thas orderit will be observed, expressly stipulated "that it

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

639

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

should not prejudice De Bastrop's rights." It extended, to two
years after the execution of the contract should have been resumed, the time within which it was originally to be completed
in its -greater par; and the decree goes on affirming that, "on
his part (the governor's), he will religiously comply with the
obligations he had contracted, -a
maxim which has always
distinguished the Spanish nation." -" Queded vmd. persuadido
sienipre que por mi parte observare religiosamente los empenos
que contracte, maxima que constantamente ha distinbuido la
nation Espafiola"
What can these obligations b&.which the governor, with so
much emphasis, asserts he will comlr with religiously? The
introduction of families being stopped, if De Bastrop's agency
was limited to his bringing them into the settlement, what
could be those rights which were not to be prejudiced? what
those obligations which imposed such duties on the governor
as to induce him to pledge the Castilian honor that they would
be strictly complied with? *Why, the meaning is obvious; he
clearly alludes to the grant which was to close and complete
the contract; and we find him, in.effect, two days afterwards
redeeming his pledge and executing it.
Still, I will admit that this execution of the grant unto
Bastrop left him, as to the remaining families whish he was to
settle there, subject to the requisition of the Spanish government, who might order him to introduce them within the time
agreed upon in the decree just cited; and this is the only
thing that can be construed as imparting an inchoate and incomplete character to his title. But it is this, also, that brings
the grant within the jurisdiction of your honors; not at their
mercy, but that they may do with it what the Spanish tribunals might have done and would have done themselves, had
not the sovereignty of .the province withinthe limits of which
it is located been transferred from Spain to the United States.
" Si,porhaver sobrevenido casofortuito, los pobladores no huvieren acabadode cumplir la poblaciam en,el termino contenido en el
asiento, no hayan perdido, ni perdan lo que huvieren gastado, ni
edificado, ni incurran la pena," &c. Leyes de las Indias, lib.
4, tit. 7, ley 25.
"If, by reason of some fortuitous event, the colonizers should
not have ,completed the settlement within the time specified in
the contract, let them not lose what they may have expended
or erected; nor let them incur the penalty," &c.
Spain might undoubtedly have exonerated De Bastrop from
his liability to bring the families agreed upon in his contract.
That she would have done so, who can doubt, that reads the
remonstrance of Iorales above referred to, the order that inter-

640

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

vened upon it, and ponders the considerations which prompted
the one and the other? Could the government of Spain give
up its solemn contract, and repudiate it to the injury of Bastrop,
when the latter had so faithfully complied with his obligations
under it? Had not De Bastrop at least an equitable claim in
that contract, against the goverfment, and will that claim be
disregarded merely because the sovereignty has changed bands?
I cannot persuade myself that there is a doubt left in the
minds of your honors. But lest they should still hesitate as to
the interpretation which I have set upon the terms of the grant,
and the opinion I entertain of their legal value and import, I
shall take leave to attach to these remarks, and to use as my
own, the argument which has been furnished me on that question by the three most eminent jurists now living in Spain,
commending it as expressing the views of men familiar with
the matters in dispute, and fully able to do them justice, and
whose character, profotud learning, and ability are avouched,
not only by the testimonial appended to their names, but by
the universal estimation in which they are held as jurisconsults
and doctors of the civil law, and as men of the highest honor,
rectitude, and integrity.
Mr. Soul filed as part of his argument the opinion of the
Spanish jurisconsults, T. F. Pacheco, Manuel Cortina, and S.
de Olozaga, .delivered in Madrid, September, 1849.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case objections were made in the court below, and
are again insisted on here, to the proof of authenticity of the
title-papers on which the petition is founded; nothing but
copies being produced. Our opinion is that the copies were
properly admitted in evidence, and that they establish the facts
that similar originals existed; and as on the true meaning of
these documents our decision proceeds, we deem it proper
to set them forth. . They are as follows: Copy.
SENOR GOVERNOR-GENERAL.: -T The Baron de Bastrop, desirous of promoting the population and agriculture of Ouachita,
and being about to pass into the United States of America tn
conclude the plan of emigration which he has projected, and to
return with his family, represents to your lordship that it is indispensable that, ofn the part of the government, there should
be designated a district of about twelve leagues square, in
which may remain included the Bayou Siar'd and its vicinity,
in order that, without the least obstacle or impediment, those
families may. proceed to settle. upon them, which the petitioner

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

641

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

is going to introduce under the express condition that concessions of land are to be gratis; and that under no title or
pretext. can they exceed the" quantity of four hundred square
arpents at most, with the object of preventing the introduction
of negroes and manufactories of indigo, which, in that disirict,
would be absolutely contrary and prejudicial to the culture of
wheat, and would cause the petitioner to lose irremediably the
profits of his establishment.
He also petitions your lordship to be pleased to grant him
permission to export, for the Havana, the flour which may be
manufactured in the mills of Ouachita, without restricting him
to sell it absolutely in New Orleans and posts of this province,
unless it should be necessary for its subsistence, as in that case
it should always have the-preference.
It becomes also indispensable that the government should
charge itself with the conducting and support of the families
which the petitioner shall have introduced; from the post of
New Madrid to that of Ouachita, by supplying them with some
provisions for the subsistence of the first months, and facilitating to them the first sowing of the necessary seed; granting
to the inhabitants who are not Catholics the liberty of conscience enjoyed by those of Baton Rouge, Natchez, ani other
districts of the province, and the government being pleased
finally to fix the number of fariilies which, the petitioner is to
introduce.
, Zeal for the prosperity and encouragement of the province,
united to the desire of procuring the tranquillity and quiet of
this establishment by removing at once whatever obstacles
might be opposed to these interesting objects, i.nduce me to
represent to your lordship what I have set forth, hoping that
your lordship will recognize in these dispositions the better
service of the king, and advancement of the province confided
to your authority.
Dn, BASTROP.
New Orleans, 20th une, 1796.
"ew
Orleans, June 21, 1796.
Seeing the advantages which will result from the establish:
ment projected by Baron Bastrop, the commandant of Ouachita, Don Juan Filhiol will designate twelve leagues square,
half on the side of the Bayou of Siar, and half on the side opp osite the Ouachita, for the purpose of placing there the famiies which the said Baron may direct, it being understood that
no greater concession of land is to be given to any one than
four hundred square arpents, at most, gratis,and free from all
dues. With regard to the object of this establishment, it is for
the cultivation of wheat alone. The exportation of the prod54*

SUPREME COIJRT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

ucts of this province being free, the petitioner need not doubt
thbt it will be allowed to him for the flour which he may manufacture at the mills of the Ouachita, to the Havana and other
places open to the free commerce of this province. The government will charge itself with the conducting of the families
from New Madrid to Ouachita, and will give. them such provisions as may appear sufficient for their support during six
months, and proportionably for their seeds. They shall not be
molested in matters of religion, but the Apostolical Roman
Catholic worship shall alone be publicly permitted. The petitioner shall be allowed to bring in as many as five hundred
families; provided that, after the lapse of three years, if the
major part of the establishment shall not have been made good,
the twelve leagues square destined for those whom the petitioner may place there shall be occupied by the families which
may first present themselves for that purpose.
Registered.

THE BARON DE CARONDELET.
ANDRES LoPEz ARRESTO.

Official.
Whereas, gn the part of the Senor Intendente, by reason
of the scarcity of funds, the suspension of further remittance of
families has been solicited until the decision of his Majesty,
there should b no prejudice occasioned- to you by the last paragraph of my decree, which expresses that if, at the end of
three years, the greater part of the establishrment shall not have
been found made good, the families which may present themselves shall be located within the twelve leagues destined for
the establishment which you have commenced, and it shall
only take effect two years after the course of the contract shall
have again commenced, and the determination of his Majesty
shall have been made known to you.
"You will always remain persuaded that, on my part, I will
religiously observe the engagements which I shall have contracted; a -maxim which has constantly distinguished the
Spanish nation. God preserve you many years.
New- Orleans, 18h June, 1797.
BARON DE CARONDELET.
THE SENOR BARON DE BASTROP.

Concession.
The Baron de Carondelet, Knight of the Religion of St.
John, Field-Marshal of the Royal Armies, Governor-General, Vice-Patron of the Provinces of Louisiana, West Florida, Inspector of their Troops, &c.
Whereas the Baron de Bastrop, in consequence of the pe-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

643

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

tition, under date of the 20th of June of the year last past,
and decree of the 21st of the same, has commenced the
establishment of Ouachita, which thereby he stipulated with
the goverinent, in order to avoid all obstacle, difficultv, and
embarrassment hereafter, and that with all facility the 4 ailies
may be located,, which, to the number of five hundred, the
said Baron is successively and proportionally to introduca 0r
cause to be introduced, we have determined to designate Ifie
twelve leagues destined for said establishment in the trms,
with, limits, land-marks, and boundaries, and in the place xwhich
is designated, fixed, and marked out by the figurative plan and
description, which go as a caption of this title, which are made
out by the Surveyor-General, Don Carlos Trudeau, it having
appeared to us to be thus most expedient to avoid all contestation and dispute, and approving them, as we do approve them,
exercising the authority which the king has granted us, we
destine and appropriate, in his royal name, the aforesaid twelve
leagues, in order that the said Baron de Bastrop may establish them in the-terms, and under the conditions, which are expressed hr the said petition and decree. We give the present,
signed with our hand, sealed with the seal of our arms, and
countersigned by the undersigned, honorary commissary of
war, and secretary for his Majesty of this commandancy-general of New Orleans, on the 20th of June, 1797.
THE BARON DE CARONDELET.
ANDRES LOPEZ DE ARMESTO.

[Formap see original.]
I, Don Carlos Trudeau, Surveyor Royal and Particular of
the Province of Louisiana, &c., do certify that the present
draft contains one hundred and forty-four superficial leagues,
each league forming a square, the sides of which are in length
two thousand and five hundred toises [a toise is six French
feet long], measure of the city of Paris, according to thecustom
and practice of this colony,.She said land being situated in the
post of Ouachita, about eighty lagues above the mouth of
that river, falling into Red River, adjoining on the part of the
southwest to the eastern shore of the river and bayous Ouachita, Barthelemi, and Siard, conformably to the red line which
borders the said river and bayous, bounded on the south part
by a line drawn from the south.seventy-five degrees east, about
three leagues and one mile long, beginning from the shore C
of the Bayou Siard, and continuing as far as the height of the
junction A of the said Bayou Siard with the Bayou Barthelemi; the said point A being as a basis on the line of measurement A B, of twelve leagues in length, parallel with the plan

SUPREME CO&URT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

of Bayou Barthelemi from the point A to the end of the said
twelve leagues, which terminate at the point B, where is the
mouth of the rivulet named Bayou Termiro; the lines D E,
F G, are parallel lines, directed north fifty-two degrees east,
without minding the variation of the compass, which varies
eight degrees to the northeast.
In testimony I deliver the present certificate, with the draft
hereto affixed, for the use of the Baron de Bastrop, on the 14th
day of June, 1797, 1, the surveyor, having signed the same, and
re~orded in the book A, No. 1, folio 38, draft No. 922, of the
surveys.
I do certify the present copies to be conformable to the
originals which are lodged in the office under my care, to which
I refer; and, at the request of a party, I deliver the present,
same date as above.
CARLOS TRUDEAU, Surveyor.
To THE-GOVERNOR-GENERAL : Baron de Bastrop has the
honor to make known to you that, it being his intention to establish in the Ouachita, it is expedient that you should grant
to him a corresponding permission to erect there one or more
mills, as the population may require; as also to shut up the
Bayou de.Siar, where he proposes to establish the said mills,
with a dike in the place most convenient for his works;, and,
as it appears necessary to prevent disputes in the progress of
the affair,, he begs also the grant along the Bayou Barthelemi,
from its source to its mouth,of six toises. on each bank, to construct upon them the mills and works which he may find necessary, and prohibiting every person from making upon said
bayou any bridge, in order that its navigation may never be
interrupted, as it ought at all times to remain free and unobstructed. This request, Sir, will not appear exorbitant, when
you "arepleased to observe that your petitioner, who will expend in these works twenty thousand dollars or more, will be
exposed without these grants to lose all the fruits of his labors
by the caprice or jealousy of any individual, who, being established on this bayou, may cut off the water or obstruct the navigation ; not to mention the loss which the province will sustain
of the immense advantages to result from the useful project
proposed for the encouragement of the agriculture and popDr BASTROP.
ulation of those parts.
_New Orleans, June 12, 1797.
New Orleans, Tzine 12, 1797.
Considering the advantages to the population on the Ouachitaand the province in general, to result from the encour-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

645

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

agement of the cultivation of wheat, and the construction of
flour-mills, which the petitioner proposes to make at his own
expense, I grant him, in the name of his lajesty, and by virtue
of the authorities which he has conferred upon me, liberty to
shut the Bayou de Siar, on which he is about to establish his
mills, with a dike at the place most proper for the carrying on
of his works. I also grant him the exclusive enjoyment of six
toises of ground on each side of the' Bayou Barthelemi, from
its source to its mouth, to enable him to construct the -works
and dams necessary for his mills; it being understood that by
this grant it is not intended to prohibit the free navigation of
the said bayou to the rest of the inhabitants, who shall be free
to use the same, without, however, being permitted to throw
across it any bridge, or to obstruct the navigation, which shall
at all times remain free and open. - Under the conditions here
expressed, such mills as he may think proper to erect may be
disposed of by the petitioner, together with the lands adjoining,
as estates bejonging entirely to him, ini virtue of this decree, in
relation to which the surveys are to be continued, and the
commandant, Don Juan Filhiol, will verify and remit them to
me, so that the person interested may obtain a corresponding
title iii form; it being a formal and express condition of this
grant, that at least one mill shall be constructed within two
years, otherwise it is to remain null.
THE BARON DE CARONDELET.

Registered.

ANDRES LOPEZ ARuvESTO.

To his Excellency the Senor Baron de Carondelet, GovernorGeneral of the Province of Louisiana, &c.
Don Philip de Bastrop has ihe honor to observe to your
lordship, that the twelve leagues square which your lordship
has granted to him by his contract are found in part overflowed and occupied by ancient inhabitants, in consequence of
which he prays that your lordship will be pleased to'grant him
the same quantity of land, to be taken upon the River Ouachita and the Bayous de Siard and Barthelemi, where it will be
most convenient to him, without prejudice to the lands which
your lordship has granted to the Senor de Maison-Rouge, in
the Prairie Chatellerian; a favor which he hopes to receive
from the upright justice which your lordship admihisters.
P. DE BAsTRoP.

New Orleans, 10th June, 1797.
Order.
New Orleans, 10th u-ne, 1797. As he requests, let it be
despatched by the secretary department, in the form which
e solicits.

THE-BARON DE CARONDELET.

SUPREME COURT.

646

The United States t. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Translation.

June 21, 1796.
attention to
To THE SENOR BAROX DE BASTROP: -With
the advantages which muist result tothe population of the
Ouachita, and that of the province in general, from the encouragement of the cultivation of wheat and construction of flourmills which the petitioner intends to, make at his expense, I
grant him, in the name of his Majesty, and using, the powers
which he has conceded to me, that he may close the Bayou de
Siar, where he may establish the mills with a dike at the place
most suited to his works. I likewise grant him the exclusive
enjoyment of six toises of land on each side of the Bayou Siar,
from its source to iti mouth, in order that he may construct the
works and embankment- necessary to his mills; it being well
understood that in this grant it is not understood to prohibit
the free navigation of said bayou to the other inhabitants who
may make use of it, without, nevertheless, it being permitted
to them to cast any bridge nor embarrass the navigation, which
at all times is to remain free and unimpeded. Under the conditions expressed, when the mills have been constructed which
he may see fit, he may dispose of them and of his adjacent
lands as property belonging to him entirely, in virtue of this
decree, by which the proceedings of survey, which the commandant, Don Juan Filhiol, shall make out and remit, shall be
extended in consequence, in order to provide the party concerned with the corresponding title in form. It being a formal
and express condition of this grant,. that at least one mill be
found constructed within two years, since otherwise it shall
remain annulled.
The Baron de Bastrop contracts with his Majesty to furnish, for the term of six months, rations to the families which
he has latterly introduced at the post of the Ouachita, which
are to be composed of twenty-four ounces of fresh bread, or
an equivalent in flour; twelve ounces of fresh beef, or six of
bacon; two ounces of fine manestra, or three of ordinary, and
one thousandth part of a celernin (about a peck) of salt; for
which there is to he paid to him, by the royal chests, at the
rate of a real and a half for each ration; for which purpose
there shall be made out, monthly, a particular account, the
truth and regularity of which shall be attested, at foot, by the
commandant of that post. Under which conditions, I oblige
myself, with my person and estate, to the fulfilment of the
present contract, subjecting myself, in all things, to the jurisdiction of this General Intendancy.
In testimony of which, I sign it at New Orleans, the 16th
of June, 1797.

BARON DE. BASTROP.

DECEMBER TERIM, 1850.

647

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

New Orleans, date as above.
I approve this contract, in the name of his Majesty, with
the intervention of Senor Gilbert Leonard, principal contractor
of the army in these provinces, for its validity. Two certified copies are to be directed to the Secretary, Juan Ventura
lorales. With my intervention, Gilbert Leonard. Copy of
the original, which remains in my keepiig, and which I certify,
and is taken out) to be passed to the Secretary of this General
Intendancy.
New Orleans,ut sz pra.
GILBERT LEONARD.

Whereas the Intendant, from the want of funds, has solicited the suspension of the last remittance of families, until
the decision of his Majesty, there ought to be no prejudice
occasioned to you by the last paragraph of my decree, which
expresses that, if within three years. the major part of the
establishment shall not have been made good, such families as
may first present themselves shall be located within the twelve
leagues destined for the settlement which you have commenced; and this shall only have effect two years after the
course of the contract shall have again commenced to be executed, and the determination of his Majesty shall have been
made known to you. You will always remain persuaded that,
on my part, I will observe, religiously, the engagements I have
contracted; a principle which has constantly distinguished the
Spanish nation. God preserve you many years.
ew Orleans, Tane 18, 1797.
THE BARON DE GARONDELET.
BARON DE BASTROP.

Complainants exhibit all these title-papers, and pray that the
validity of their claim may be inquired into and decided. On
part of the United States, a brief denial of all the facts alleged
was made; and on this issue the District Court adjudged that
the grant to the Baron do Bastrop wps a valid and lawful grant,
by legal title in form; and further adjudged that complainants
be declared the true and lawful owners, and entitled to recover
from the United States, and be for ever quieted and confirmed
as against the United States in the ownership and possession
of the land claimed by them.
And here a difficulty arises whether the District Court had
jurisdiction, as on its own assumption, that this was a perfect
Spanish grant, no power existed under the act of 1824 to pass
judgment on such title. So we held at our last term, in the
case of- the United States v. Reynes, 9 Howard, 127.

SUPREME COVRT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

But in all cases of titles not perfect, and which by decree
may be made so, founded on the equity of such claim, jurisdiction does exist; and Bastrop's contract with the Spanish
government, not being a perfect title'in bur judgment, either in
form or substance, its character and validity can be inquired
into, and adjudged, under the act of Congress. And that it
-was of this imperfect character, complainants theniselves formerly assumed; they having submitted their title to a board
of commissioners instituted to examine and report to Congress
on imperfect grants, and which board reported unfavorably of
the Bastrop claim.
It'has also on several occasions been presented to Congress,
and a perfect title required, on the assumption that there was
none.
It is true, that no equity is set up in the petition, the titlepapers being relied on, and nothing more; nor is there any evidence found in the record, tending to prove that Baron Bastrop
expended any thing whatever by bringing in families. They
were obviously settled on the land at government expense.
Only
twenty
thirty families were settled, as is
rovedbetween
by Stuart
and and
Filhi61,
who name theheads of each
mily, and who are complainants' witnesses. The settlers
or
from
the United
gorenment,
have
received
titles States
from the
Spanish provincial
.under which
government,
they now
stand protected. They manifestly never claimed under Bastrop, nor sought to acqure titles under him. This disposes Of
the preliminary questions.
And we now come to an examination of the title set forth
and relied on in the petition. The final power concluding
Governor Carondelet's decrees-bears date June 20, 1797. For
a proper understanding of this decree it must be taken in connection with previous documents to which it refers, including
the proces verbal and plan, delivered to Baron Bastrop, June
14, 1797, by Trudeau, the Surveyor-General. June 20, 1796,
Bastrop represented to the governor, that, to conclude his plan
of emigration to Ouachita, which he had projected, there should
be designated a district of about twelve leagues square, in order that,'without the least obstacle or impediment, the families
he might introduce could proceed to settle on the land.
June 21, 1796, the governor assented to this request, and
ordered Filhiol, the commandant at Ouachita, to designate the
landi "for the purpose of proceeding to locate uponithem the
families which the aforesaid Baron mry direct."
The land was designated by a plan; and on it, and on the
previous agreement, the final decree of June 20, 1797, proceeds. It is insisted that this is a decree of a perfect title, (or

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

649

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

fee simple in our law language,) vesting the twelve leagues
square in absolute property in the Baron de Bastrop, subject
to descent and alienation; and as a settlement of this question will end the controversy, we do not propose to examine
any other. This document 'recites, tiat the Baron had commenced the establishment, according to his petition and the
governor's decree therein, of the previous year; and in order
to avoid all obstacles, difficulty, and embarrassment thereafter,
and that with all facility the families might be located to the
number of five hundred, as the Baron was bound to do; "we
have," says the governor, "determined to designate the twelve
leagues destined for said establishment." That is to say, according to the plan of survey above referred to, and which is
attached to the decree. And then came the effective words of
grant relied on: "1We destine and appropriate in his royal
name [the king's] the aforesaid twelve le6.gues, in order that
the said Baron de Bastrop may 'establish' 'them, id the
terms, and under the conditions, which are expressed in the
said petition and decree." Having had a translation made of
the Spanish grant, we find that the vord "establish," next
above, should be ".ettle."
A territory of twelve leagues on all sides, amounting to one
million of arpents, was "destined and appropriatedi" in oder
that the Baron "might settle the land," and establish his colony, without difficulty or embarrassment in exclusion of others
making similar establishments under public iuthority; and
also in exclusion of private persons, not introduced by the
Baron. For this purpose, the land was destined and appropriated. As colonizer, the Baron had a monopoly, within
the district, to introduce settlers. His object was monopoly
throughout. He was a Hollander, ana proposed to introduce
farmers from his own country, as appears by Govornor Carondelet's letter to Filhiol, commandant at Oudchita, read by complainants. - To each emigrant family a tract of four hundred
arpents was to be granted gratis; the farmers were to be engaged in raising wheat, and restricted to this crop as an article
produced for the market. To prevent other crops, such as
indigo, from being grown, ihe farms were to be small ; and in.
aid of this policy, slave labor was intended to be excluded.
As five hundred wheat-growing farms were to be established,
uhder the supervision of the-Baron, it is manifest that a large
section of country was deemed necessary, because the greater
portion of southern flat and wet lands were unfit for the purpose of raising vheat;
Another circumstance is manifest. The agitations of his.
own country, growing out of the French revolutionary wars,,
5
VOL. Xx.

050

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and Ne-w Orleans.

were such as to induce the Baron to believe, no doubt, that
families might be had, to almost any number, whose farms had
been devastated at home by the events of war, or who desired
to seek shelter from harassment in Louisiana. And in this
conclusion the Spanish government obviously concurred; and
was furthermore of opinion, that great advantage would result
to the province from such an establishment as was proposed
by the Baron; and therefore he was most liberally dealt by.
From New Madrid, on the River Mississippi, through the
country, to the lands designated, the government bound itself
to transport the emigrant families and their baggage, to the
numbei- of five hundred; to furnish them with support for six
months, and with seed for the first year.
Thus, provision was made for a colony at public expense.
The Baron's design was the production of large quantities of
Wheat. This was a primary step contemplated. But the leading object of profit, on part of the Baron, was the manufacture
of flour; and that he should be the exclusive monopolist in
grinding, the wheat. To secure this monopoly, he applied to
the governor for a grant in property of the Bayou de Siar,
and also the Bayou Barthelemi, and six toises of land on each
side of said bayous, from their sources to their mouths, for the
purpose of enabling him to erect his mills on them, and of
making the necessary dams and dikes: in doing which he
all'pged that he would have to expend twenty thousand dollars,
or more. The grant was made, as solicited, for both the bayous.
It declares that '-such mills as he (the Baron) may think proper to erect, may be disposed of by him, together with the lands
adjoining, as estates belonging entirely to him." And the
commandant, Filhiol, was ordered to survey the bayous and
lands granted on each ide thereof, and remit thel4urveys to
the governor, so that the Baron might obtain a correponding
title in form. The Bayou da Siar bounds one side of the survey of twelve leagues, and the Bayou Barthelemi meanders
through its depth, for twenty or thiity miles.
The Baron also stipulated bj-This contract that he inighi be
permitted to transport his flour to. Havana, and other places
,open to the free commerce of the province, without hinderance
or charge.
Taken in all parts, such was this contract and its objects.
And as the motives of the parties enter decidedly into its construction, we hatv stated them in advande.* The manifest
design of the Baron was to .become a large manufacturer of
flour; to control the inhabitants and monopolize the wheat,
throughout the territory designated for the colony. He did
not propose to cultivate the sail himself, nor did ie require

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

651

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

land for this purpose; his grant in full property of the waterpower necessary for grinding was all the property he required.
Over other lands within the twelve leagues he sought control,
but asked for no title to property in them. His first request
to the Spanish government was in plain accordance with these
views of the transaction; he solicited." that a district be designated about twelve leagues square, in which he may place the
families he is"about to bring in": and the request was granted,
in the terms and for the purposes expressed by the petition.
To hold that the language employed by the petition, and
reiterated by the governor in reply, amounted to a title in
property, would be a forced and unnatural construction, contrary to the objects proposed'to be accomplished, and in violation of the known policy of the Spanish government; which
was, to encourage population and agricUlture, but to discourage speculation, by refusing to grant large districts of arable
lands to single individuals.
If the decree of June 20, 1797, was intended to cdnfer a title
in full property, and the term "
"destine and appropriate"
meant to convey the same title, that was plainly given to the
two bayous, what occasion could exist for such a careful proceeding to obtain these bay6us in full property? The Bayou
Barthelemi lies within the grant, and the assumption is extravagant that it was twice granted; once June 12, and again
June 20, 1797.
Another consideration shows the manifest inconsistency of
assuming that both grants were in full property. The grant
of the bayous was on the express' condition that at least one
mill should be constructed within two years from that date,
otherwise the grant should remain null. How could it stand
annulled on failure to perform a subsequent condition, if the
larger grant was also in full property, and included the bayous?
In such case, the forfeiture would not result to the crown, but
to Bastrop himself; being saved by the larger grant, ifieluding
the bayous. e And then, the twelve league grant having no
condition in it, that of the bayous amounted to nothing, was
idle, and useless.
In the next place, if the Baron had -a perfect grant, the
families brought in could only take titles from him as owner;
the government having nothing left to grant. And yet these
immigrant settlers applied to the Spanish government for titles,
which were granted, and that at a time when the meaning of
the contract could hardly be misunderstood; being only a
couple of years. aftek it wasconcluded.
An instance is found in the record, and was given in evidence below. April 1, 1799, NIfichael Rogers, a settler placea

652

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philad-elphia and New Orleans.

on the land by Bastrop, applied for a title, and during Ihat year
,a perfect title was decreed by the Intendant Morales, according
to the petition of Rogers.
Again, if the Baron could not by.a conveyance make title
to settlers, on what plausible pretence caA it be assumed that
he could convey in full property the whole-twelve leagues'to
Morehouse and others?
Furthermore, if. Morehouse took the full legal title by his
deed, on what ground can it be assumed that our government
could defeat such fee-simple title in Morehouse, and his alienees, by making grants in fee to individual settlers, either coming
in under Baron Bastrop or otherwise-? And yet this has been
uniformly done. For forty years and more, the claimants
under this grant have st6od by, announcing that they were feesimple owners, and in possession of a perfect legal title, without an attempt to try the strength of their claim by suit The
manifest truth is, that the validity of this claim has been disavowed by the Spanish and American government-, and that
the claimants had no onfidence in it themselves; certainly not
enough to risk a trial of it in a court of justice, as they might
at all times have done, by petitory actions against obtruders.
These references, however, to particular transactions and facts,
. whether found within or outside of the title-papers, are of little
consequence, compared with the prominent and conclusive
consideration, that a complete Spanish grant uniformly (so far
,as our knowledge extends), plainly, and in language the most
direct and unequivocal, gave to the grantee the whole ownership to the land granted, for him and his successors; with
power to sell the same at his will. An instance of such grant
is given in 8 Howard, 314, attached to the case of. Menard's
Heirs v. Massey.
We repeat, that no language is employed in any part of the
contract with the Baron de Bastrop, importing a grant in property. No expression is used by the Spanish governor conveying such intention. It is plainly a contract that a large district
should be designated on lands belonging to the public domain,
where the Baron might exercise certain exclusive privileges.
In its nature and extent of grant this contract is identical with
that made on the same day (June 20,1797) with the Marquis de
Maisdn-Rouge, appropriating a district of country adjoinihg to
that set apart for the Baron de Bastrop, on which the Marquis agreed to establish settlers, and which lands were claimed
under his will, on an assumption that the grant was complete
and conferred absolute ownership. The principles governing
the two contracts are the same. The'claim set up under the
Marquis de Maison-Rouge was adjudged not to have given

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

653

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

any title, in the case of United States v. King, first reported in
3 Howard, 773; but, which was finally decided in 1849, and
stands reported in 7 Howard, 833. We deem, the principles
there adjudged as governing the case before us; and to the
opinion of the court then delivered by the chief justice, and
found in 7 Howard's Reports, we refer for a more full discussion on this description of claim. Nor would we again have
considered the question involved, had there not been various
circumstances connected with the cause now before us, and expressions used in the agreement made by the Spanish authorities with the Baron de Bastrop, that are supposed to be of a
character to distinguish the casesi and were urged in argunment
as having done so; but which ge found on examination to be
immaterial.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of the Dis,
trict Court should be reversed, and the petition dismissed; and
so order.
The causes of United States against Louise Livingston and
.others, and United States against Thomas Callender's widow
and heirs and others, claiming under Bastrop, are. identical
with the cause above decided; and for the reasons here assign.
ed, it is ordered that both the decrees in these causes be reversed, and that the petitions be dismissed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice
McKINLEY, and Mr.'Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I had hoped that the attitude in which this case was presented
would have led to a different result from that which has just
been pronoiinced. It appeared to me that there were grounds
for such an expectation. The case is in chancery. It presents
the broad basis of equity, and in this view, I supposed, could
not be considered as having been ruled by the decision in the
case of the United States v. King. That was a petitory action
under the Louisiana practice, in the nature of an action of
ejectment. In their opinion the court say : "If these defendants
had possessed an equitable. title against the United States, as
contradistinguished from a legal one, it would have been no
defence to this action. But no such title is set up, nor any
evidence of it offered. The defendants claim under what they
insist is a legal title, derived by the Marquis de Maison-Rouge
from The Spanish authorities." And in the conclusion of their
opinion. the court say: "For the reasons herein before stated,
that this instrument of writing relied on by the defendants did
not convey, or intend to convey, the land in question to the
65 *

654

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Marquis de Maison-Rouge, the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be reversed, and the cause remanded," &c.
Now if the instrument did not convey the land by a complete title to the Marquis, it by no means necessarily followed
that, under the usages of the Spanish' government, an equity
was not transferred by if. It is admitted that all instruments of
writing, whether purporting to be grants or contracts, must be
construed by the court But if the instrument has been executed under foreign laws, and especially if it relate to the
realty, parol evidence is heard both in regard to its form and
effect. This principle is as old as the law itself; and it
arises from that natural sense of justice 'which pervades all
systems of jurisprudence. And if on such an investigation it
should appear, that an interest less than a complete title was
cqnveyed, the interest would be protected under the treaty of.
1803, and the acts of Congress.
By the act of the 26th of May, 1824, made applicable to this
case by the act of the 17th of June, 1844, claims are provided
for "which might have been perfected into a complete title,
under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of
the government under which the same originated, had not the
sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United
States." And the proceeding in the court is to "be conducted
according to the rules of a court of equity." And the decree
in regard to the title is to be "1according to the law of nations,
the stipulations ofany treaty, and proceedings under the same,
the several acts -of Congress in relation thereto, and the laws
and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to
hove been derived." The treaty of cession stipulated that the
property of the citizens should be protected. And if the claim.
now befoi us, under the Spanish law, could be denominated
property, this court have jurisdiction, and the right should be
maintained. On 'a mature examination of this whole case, I
am brought -to the conclusion that, under the Spanish government, the right now asserted would have been enjoyed by the
Baron de Bastrop, his heirs and assignees.
He brought over from-Europe, and settled on this grant, at
least one hundred and eleven families, at an expense, probably,
of from thirty to fifty thousand dollars. His labors and responsibilities were very great in carrying out his engagement'
with the government, and he would have completed it, without
doubt, had not the importation of families been suspended, at
the instance of the government, on account of the scarcity of
funds. The enterprise was deemed of the highest importance
by the Governor-General. In a letter to Filhiol, the commandant at Ouachita, dated New Orleans, 2d April, 1795,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

655

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Carondelet says: " Your hopes are about to be satisfiea."
94We have just passed a contract with the Marqidis of MaisonRouge for thirty families of agriculturists," &c. " On the other
hand, the Baron de Bastrop, a Hollander, has contracted also
for a quantity of families who will come to us direct from Hol.
land," &c. And he remarks: "Accordin g to this plan you see,
Sir, that you will no longer,'be so isolated as heretofore, and
that in a short time you will find yourself in a condition to
make head against the savages," &c.
How favorably would such a consideration contrast with
those on which immense tracts of land were granted, by the
Spanish government, in Egst and West Florida, and which
have been- confirmed by this court. The construction 'of a
saw-mill, the formation of a cow-pen, or other service, real or
supposed, rendered to the public, was deemed sufficient to authorize a large grant of territory. - This was the policy of that
government, and, under the faith of the treaty and the acts of
Congress referred to, it was sanctioned by this court.
For more than fifty years have the families brought from
Europe by the Baron de Bastrop .been in possession of this
land. They occupied and improved it as their own, and, in'
the course of nature, their children and descendants may now
be supposed to possess it. The right of each family was limited in the grant to four hundred arpents. This claim, being
located and designated by boundaries, entitled each family to
a particular tract, and some evidence of title was necessary,
whether from the Baron de Iastrop, or, by his designation and
consent, from the governor, would seem to be unimportant. In
fact, it could have been only a mere allotment among the families in pursuance of the grant. Of this character was the allotment to Michael Rogers; it was a recognition of the grant
to Bastrop.
The correctness of this statement is shown from a letter of
Filhiol, dated 12th September, 1796, to the Marquis de MaisonRouge, which says, referring to a letter from the Governor-General: - " His Excellency adds: I charge you also, Sir, in the
absence of A. de Grand Pre, to oblige M.'de Maison-Rouge to
make choice of the four thcusand arpents of land which are to
be distributed to the thirty families which he is to establish."
It appears from the evidence, that about twenty-bne thousand dollars have been paid in tgxes upon about three sevenths
of this grant, and it is supposed that a larger sum has. been
paid on the other four sevenths.
What was the nature of the title given to the Baronde Bas.
trop ?
In his petition to the Governor-General, dated the 20th of

656

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

June, 1795, he asks that there should be designated a district of
about twelve leagues square," &c., "in order that, without the
least obstacle or impediment, those families may proceed to
settle upon them which he is going to iniroduce under the express condition that concessions of land are to be gratis; and
that under no title or pretext can they exceed the quantity of
four hundred arpents at most."
The decree of the governor the following day was: "Considerhig the advantages which must result from the establishment,"
&c., "the commandant of Ouachita, Don Juan Filhiol, will
.designate twelve leagues square, half on the side of the 'Bayou
de Siar, and half on the side opposite Ouachita, for the purpose
of proceeding to locate upon them the families which the aforesaid Baron may direct; it being well understood that to none
shall there be given a greater concession of land than that of
four hundred square arpents at most; gratis and free from all
dues, inasmuch as the object of this establishment is to be only
for the cultivation of wheat," &c. And the gdvernment is
asked "to fix the number of families which the petitioner is to
introduce." In the decree which followed, it is said: " The
petitioner may introduce to the number of fiVe hundred families." And the government undertook to pay the expense of
conveying the families from New Madrid to Ouachita, and
furnish them With provisions for six months, "Provided that, if,
after the lapsd of three years, the greater part of the establishment shall not*have been made good, the twelve leagues square
destined for the families which the Senor petitioner will send
shall be occupied by the first families that may present themselves."
The expenses to the government-under this decree being
greater than its limited means would warrant, the Baron de
Carondelet, on the 19th of June, 1797, gave an official paper to
the Baron de Bastrop, stating, "whereas, , on the part of the
Senor Intendente, by reason of the scarcity of funds, the suspension of further remittance of families has been solicited
untilthe decision of his Majesty, there should be io prejudice
to you by the last paragraph of my decree, which expresses that,
if, at the end of three years, the greater part of the establishment shall not have been found made good, the families which
may present themselves shall be located within *the twelve
leagues destined for the establishment which you have commenced, .and it shall only take effect two years after the course
of the contract shall have again commenced, and the determination Qf his Tiajesty shall have been made known to you.".
And on the 20th of June, in the same year, the Baron de
Carondelet issued a concession, stating, " Whereas the .Baron

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

657

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

de Bastrop, in consequence of the petition, under date of
the 20th of June of the year last past, and decree of the 2 1st
of the same, has commenced the establishment of the Ouachita, which thereby he stipulated with the government, in
order to avoid all obstacle, difficulty, and embarrassment hereafter, and that with all facility the families may be located,
which, to the number of five hundred, the said Baron is successively and proportionally to introduce, or cause to be introduced, we have determined to designate the twelve leagues
destined, for said establishment in the terms, with limits, landmarks, and boundaries, and in the place which is designated,
fixed, and marked out by the figurative plan and description,
which go as a caption of.this title, Which are made out by the
Surveyor-General, Don Carlos Trudeau, it having appeared to
us'to be thus most expedient to avoid all contestation and dispute, and approving them, as we do approve them, exercising
the authority which the 'king haa granted us, we destine and
appropriate, in his royal name, the aforesaid twelve leagues, in
order that the said Baron de Bastrop may establish them in
the terms, and under the conditions, which are expressed in the
said petition and decree." The boundaries of this grant are
made certain by its calls, the figurative plan of Don Carlos
Trudeau, the Surveyor-General, and an actual survev executed
by MeLaughlan.
Does this grant convey any title to the Baron d6 -Bastrop,
and if it does, to what extent?
The consideration which induced the grant was, the establishment of five hundred families within its limits.- As each
family was restricted to four hundred arpents, the five hundred
would occupy only two hundred thousand acres, leaving eight
hundred thousand within the grant unappropriated. In the first
grant, if the greater part of the establishment should not be
made good within three years, the first families that shall
present themselves were to be received, as a part of the five
hundred which were to be introduced by Bastrop. And as
the pecuniary aid of the'government was withheld, the above
condition was suspended until.the lapse of two years after the
will of the sovereign should be made known.
Governor Bouligny, a contemporary, speaking of this grant,
says: "nLetus make the calculation upon a million of arpents,
in round numbers. Bastrop has obliged himself to introduce
and locate in this tract five hundred families of cultivators,
giving them to each family a piece of land ten arpents front
upon the Ouachita or Bayou Siar by forty arpents depth, which
will make a superficies of four hundred arpents for each family,
so that the five hundred families will occupy a surface of two

658

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

hundred thousand arpents. So that there 'ill be to him, in absolute property and lordship, eight hundred thousand arpents."
To suppose that the Baron de Bastrop would engage in
such an enterprise, involving an immense expenditure of money,
in addition to the great labor and responsibility of superintending the importation from Europe of five hundred families,
would be unreasonable, and against the established usages of
the government. The service was one of the greatest importance to the country, and it was favored by the sovereignty
itself.
This is shown by the express sanction by the king of the
contract made by the Baron de Carondelet with the Marquis
de Maison-Rouge, to bring into the country thirty families,
dated 17th March, 1795; and as a consequence of which
there were subsequently granted thirty superficial leagues. The
transaction with the Baron de Bastrop occurred about the
same time.
It is true, that Morales, being Intendant ad interim, and
being under obligations to provide means to meet the expenditures arising out of these and similar grants, remonstrated to
the king against the policy of 'making them. He says, in a
letter to Don Pedro Varela y Ulloa, dated October 16th, 1797:
"As an instance of what I here state, observe the contract be,
tween Baron de Carondelet and Baron de Bastrop, for the
settlement of fifteen hundred Protestant families, in the one
hundred and forty four square leagues of plain ground, in the
district of Ouachita granted by the governor, on condition that
the royal Hacienda should pay the expense of transporting
those persons from New Madrid to their place of settlement, of
maintaining them for the first six months," &c.; and he says
it would cost the treasury $ 125,000, and suggests: " It is not
probable that, if the Baron de Carondelet had hield the obligations of the intendency, he would have rendered it liable for a
demand which there was no means to satisfy." In consequence
of this remonstrance, by a royal order, dated 22d October, 1798,
the right to grant lands was transferred from the GovernorGeneral to the Intendant.
It must be observed, if there be no error in the translation,
that Morales was mistaken in stating the number of families,
and that they were to be Protestants. In a letter dated the
25th of July, 1799, "heparticularly complains of the prodigality
of Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos in allotting large quantities
of land to person's who could not even cultivate them," &c.
But, he says, "to annul these grants would be productive of
great difficulties, and this must be considered an evil without
a remedy."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

659

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

There is nothing in this change of policy, which was induced
from a want of funds, to affect the rights acquired under the
more liberal policy which preceded it.
But, it is said' the grant must be construed by its language,
and not by extraneous facts and circumstances. This is correct as a general principle, but when we are called to construe
an instrument, unknown to the laws with which we are familiar, and which was formed in a foreign idiom, and in accordance with usages and laws to which we are, in a great degree,
strangers, it is wise and it is legal to follow the established
construction of such an instrument under such laws. "
That the grant in this case separates the land designated
from the public domain, is clear to my mind; and if separated,
has it not passed from the control of the sovereignty? Beyond
the settlement of the five hundrea families, the government
had no demand on the grantee. This settlement being made,
the condition of his grant is performed. And if the government failed, as was the fact, to advance the funds stipulated to
be paid by it, and the -condition was suspended, its non-performance to the full extent is not imputable to the grantee.
He stands upon the grant, having done what the law required
him to do. Two hundred thousand arpents of the grant are
appropriated to emigrant families; eight hundred thousand remain, not to the government, for the graht has separated the
entire tract from the public domain. The grantee is under no
obligation, express or implied, to settle more than five hundred
families; the remainder of the grant, under any construction
sanctioned by law or justice, I think, remains to him..
There are no words in this instrument which convey a fee
simple at common law, but by the civil law it gives to the
grantee, in my judgment, a complete title. No technical terms
are necessary,, under the civil law, to c6nstitute such a title.
The intent of the parties is ascertained by the language of the
entire instrument, and effect is given to it accordingly. This
mode of construction commends itself to our reason and judgment more strongly than the technical forms of the common
law. Whilst the'latter are seldom understood by the uninstructed, the former cannot be misapprehended by an individual of ordinary intelligence.
In this grant words are used of strbng and'decisive import;
words which, it is believed, show the intent of the grantor as
fully as any that could have been adopted. "Exercising the authority which the king has granted to us, we destine and appropriate, in his royal name, the aforesaid twelve leagues." To
destine is "to set, ordain, or appoint to a use, purpose, estate,
or place.", We are all "destined to a future state." " To fix

660

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

The
unalterably by a divine decree, to appoint unalterably'
word appropriate,inthe sense used, signifies, "to set apart for
or assign to a particular use, in exclusion of all other uses";
"to claim or use by an exclusive right" No words 6f a more
determinate character, to convey a complete title, could have
been found in any language. The.words " destinamos y apropiamos," as used in the original grant, mean, "to grant and
deliver as property."
In the grant it is said, "We have determined to designate
the twelve leagues destined for said establishment," &c. The
five hundred families are named "that the said Baron de Bastrop may establish them in the terms, and under the conditions,
which are expressed in the said petition and decree." The intent of the grantor in this is plainly signified. The land granted is called the establishment, - the establishment of the Baron
de Bastrop, which is destined and appropriated on condition
that he shall establish thereon five hundred families, each having four hundred arpents. Jn the Spanish forms it is still called
the establishment, indicating the terms on which it was granted. Under the Spanish laws and usages, the Baron dj Bastrop was a poblador, meaning "1one that peoples."
Unider title 12, lib. 4, of the Recopilacion de Indias, there are
several books exclusively devoted to colonization. The viceroys exercised the power and discretion of the king in granting
lands, &c., and the governors-general, in the absence of the
viceroys, exercised'the same powers, and afterwards,- also, the
intendentes. " There was no other limitation of this power
"than that of not causing injury to-third parties."
" If," says the law, "in that part of the Indies already discovered there be any sites or districts so good that it may be expedient to found settlements there, and any persons should apply
themselves to making establishments and neighborhoods upon
them, that they may do so with better will and greater usefulness, the viceroys and presidents may give them, in our name,
lands, lots, and waters, according to the disposition of the lahd,
so that itbe not to the prejudice of any third person, and that
it be for the time that it may be our-will." Temporary grants
were subsequently made perpetual.
The tenth law further provides: "Let the lands be divided
without excess between discoverers and ancient pobladores and
their descendants, who have to remain on the lands; and let
the best qualified be preferred; and let them not have power
to sell to church or monastery, or other ecclesiastical person."
I may hazard the assertion, without the fear of successful
contradiction, that the'remuneration given, for colonization, in
the Spanish colonies, was uniformly a grant of lands. And

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

661

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

these grants were often made in the form of this grant to the
Baron de Bastrop. Indeed, the fa6e of the grant seems to me
to admit of no other construetion. The twelve leagues square
were "destined and appropriated," that is, "granted and delivered as property." To whom? Not to the five hundred families only, for their rights are limited to two hundred thousand
arpents. It was destined and appropriated for or to the establishment, including the five hundred families and the Baron de
Bastrop, the poblador. There is no want of precision in the
grant. The rights of the families being limited, the remainder
belongs to the Baron de Bastrop, in full property, subject only
to the conditions expressed.
This is the result to which I have been brought by a careful
investigation of this case. And I am the more confirmed in
this opinion, as it concurs with that which has been expressed
by three of the most learned and eminent jurisconsults in Spain.
J. F. Pacheco, lanuel Cortina, and S. de Olozaga stand in
the front rank of Spanish lawyers. Cortina was formerly min-.
ister of justice, the other two have both been prime-ministers.
I make these statements from the highest authority of Spain
in this country.
The opinions referred to are not authenticated so as to make
them evidence. But as I have arrived at the same conclusion
to which they came on a construction of the grant, I will extract from their opinion one or tvo sentences. "Destining and
appropriating the twelve leagues to the establishment of the
Baron de Bastrop, means the delivering them to his proprietorship and dominion, he complying with the -conditions dth
which they were petitioned for and granted." And again: "In
it [tfie grant] are employed the words properly called effective,
' to destine and appropriate,' and the last, especially, .as well
legally as vulgarly, signifies, ' to make the property of,' so that
under whatever aspect the question is looked at, the twelve
leagues, by virtue of the said concession, became the property
of the Baron, and the property which he acquired in them was
the allodial and complete property recognized by our laws,
without other trammels than those in the general 'conditions
imposed upon all pobladores and the special ones of this case;
and it appears that,-if these last were not fully complied with,.
it was not through the fault of the Baron, but through. obstacles opposed to him by the authorities of the colony theniselves..
His failure of compliance cannot prejudice or diminish in thesmallest possible degree the right which, by the concession, he
undoubtedly acquired '
In this opinion I have the, concurrence of my brother:
McKinley, whose views are embodied in it with my own.
,56
VOL. Xi.

662

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Livingston et al.

Order.
This cause came on to -be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by couseL On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the title set up of,
the petitioners is neither a legal nor eqctable claim, and is null
and void. *Whereupon, it is now here ordered and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District
Court, with directions to dismiss. the petition of the claimants.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELA.NTS, v. LouIsE LIVINGSTON, THE

WIDOW

AND SOLE EXECUTRIX OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF EDWARD LIVINGSTON, DECEASED, AND CORA LIVINGSTON,. THE ONLY
CHILD AND FORCED HEIR OF SAID EDWARD LIVINGSTON, AND THE

VpoF

T, oAs BARTON.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for. the District of Louisiana, and was a clai m under the
Bastrop grant - It was included in the opinion of the court in
the preceding casq of the United States v. The Cities of Phila.
delphia and New Orleans, - which see.

1)1E UNITED STATES, APELLANTSI v. ANN M. CALLENDER, ELIZABETH
CALLENDER, CHRISTOPHER Q. CALLENDER, AND STANHOPE CALLENDER, OF THE STATE oF-NEw YORK, AND FRANCES CALLENbER, THE
WIFE or THoMxS SLIDELL, AND CAROLINE CALLENDER, THE WIFE OF
EDWARD OGDEN, OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, SAID PERSONS BEING
-

THE WIDOW AND HEIRS OF THE LATE THOmAS CALLENDER; SIDONIA
PIERCE LEWIS, WIFE OF PETER K. WAGNER, JOHN LAWSON LEWIS,
LouISA MARIA LEWIS, THEODORE LEWIS, ELIZA CORNELIA LEWIS,
ALFRED HAMPDEN LEWIS, ALGERNON SIDNEY LEWIS, GEORGE
WASHINGTON

LEwiS, BENJA14'. FRANKLIN

LEWIS, AND JOSHUA

LEWIS, A MINOR, REPRESENTED BY ELIZA MAGIONI, THE WIDOW OF
ALFRED JEFFERSOIt LEWIS, HIs MOTHER AND NATURAL TUTRIX, ALL
OF THE STAtE OF LouxsIAxA ; THE SAID PERSONS HEREIN ACTING
AS THE HEIRS OF THE LATE JoSHUiA LEWIS AND AMERICA LAWSON,

ms WIFE, AND ALSO THE COHEIS WITH MARY P. BowMAN OF
COLUMBUS LAWSON; MARY P. LAWsoN, THE WIFE or JOHN Bow-

