SUPREME COURT.

528

Pennsylvania.v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et aL

The salvage on the largest claim would be only $ 1,136.80,
and would have to be paid by J. S. Vedder, the consignee, in
order to prevent a sale of his part of the cargo. From its being
under $ 2,000, as we before said, he could not appeal, nor any
other person for him, so as to confer jurisdiction on us.
- It follows, then, that, as no one person, either in his own right
or in the right of some other person or firm, and as no one lot
of the goods, or owner of the vessel, was subject by the decree
to pay as much as $ 2,000 in salvage, the appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Were this result more doubtful, we should feel averse to sustain jurisdiction, unless clearly bound to, in a class of appeals
like this, not entitled to favor, unless, in the language of Chief
Justice Marshall in The Sibyl, 4 Wheaton, 98, "it manifestly
appeared that some important error had been committed."
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the 'transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United Stateg for the
District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here.ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COIPLAINANT, v. THE WHEELING AND
BELMONT BRIDGE CoIIPANY, WDI. OrlTISAN, AND GEORGE CRAFT.
-Bill

in Ckancery.

A day assigned for the argument, at the next term, of a cause upon the original
docket of this ,court.

ORDERED, that the time for taking testimony in the above
cause by the commissioner appointed by the order entered
29th May, 1850, and for making the report to this court
therein provided for, be extended till the further order of the
court: and, that the authority to take testimony in said cause
since the first day of the present term be, and the same is

hereby, confirmed.
And now comes the complainant by her counsel, and moves
the court to assign a day daring the present term of this court
for a final heariig uponthe bill, answers, exhibits, testimony,
and comt~iissib6er's report in this case.
C. DARRAGH, Attorney- General of Pennsjilvania.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

529

Gill v. Oliver's Executors et al.

The motion filed by Mr. Walker, the 18th instant, for the
hearing of this cause, was argued by 3Messrs. Stanton and
IFallw,, in support of, and by .lIessrs. Stuart and Johnson, in
opposition to, the same.
The report of the commissioner appointed at the last term
having been returned on Thursday, the 13th instant, it is thereupon ordered by the court, that the case be continued to the
next term, with leave to each party to file exceptions to the
commissioner's report on or before the first Monday of July, the exceptions to stand for argument on the second Monday
in December next. If no exceptions shall be filed by either
party, then the case to stand for final hearing on the day last
mentioned.

GEORGE M. GILL, TRUSTEE, &C.,
OF LYDE GOODWIN, V. ROBERT
OLIVER'S EXECUTORS, AND GLENN AND PERRINE, TRUSTEES.

In 1839 a treatr was made between the United States and Mexico, providing for the
"adjustment'of claims of citizens of the United States on the Mexican republic."
Under this treaty a sum of money Was awarded to be paid to the members of the
Baltimore Mexican Company, who had subscribed money to fit out an expedition
against Mexico under General Mina, in 1816.
The proc'edi of one of the shares of this c6mpany were claimed by two parties, one
as being the permanent trustee of the insolvent owner of the share, and the other
as b.ing the assignee of the.provisional trustee and afterwards the assignee of the
insolvent himself
The judgment of the Court bf Appeals of "Maryland,that the latter claimant is entitled to the money, is not reviewable by this court under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.

THIs case came up by writ of error to the Court of Appeals
for the Western Shore of Maryland, being the highest court of
law and equity in that State; which writ was issued under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued at last term, on a motion to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction:, But the court reserved the point till final hearing. On the hearing at this term, the question of jurisdiction
continued to be the most important question in the case,and that on which it was decided by the court.
A brief history of the facts connected with the case, and of
the pleadings, will be sufficient to exhibit the questions involved.
In the year 1816, General Xavier Mina, who was at that
time connected with the revolutionary party in Mexico in opposition to the authority of. Spain, came to the city of BaltiVOL. XI.

45-

