204

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks v. Norris.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas is therefore
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Texas, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JEHIEL BROOxS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SADUEL

NoRnis.

"Where n judgment vas rendered on the 25th of October, 1843, and a writ of error
allowed on the 19th of October, 1848, but not issued and fled until the 4th of November following, more than five years had elapsed after rendering the judgment,
and the writ of error may be dismissed on motion.
It.is,the filing of the writ which removes the record from the inferior to the
apellate court; and the day on whieh the writ may have been issued by the
clerk, or the day on which it is tested, are not material in deciding the question.
By the English practice this error must be taken advantage of by plea; but according
to the praetice of this court, a party may avail himself, by motion, of any defect
which appears upon the record itself.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
It appeared from the record that the judgment 6f the Supreme Court of Louisiana was rendered on the 25th of October, 1843.
The petition for the writ of error was addressed to the 'Honorable George Eustis, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana. It was thus indorsed.
Order allowing Writ.
"A writ of error is allowed as prayed for, without prejudice.
Security is required in the sum of five hundred dollars.
"GEqprE

EusTIs,

Chief Tustice, .ohioe, West District.
"October 19, 1848.
"Supreme Court, Alexandria.
"Filed November 4, 1848.

M. R.

ARIAIL

Clerk."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

205

Brooks v. Norris.

Bond for Writ of Error.
"Supreme Court, State of Louisiana.
JEHIEL BROOKS V. SAmuEL NoiRIS, in error.

"Know all men by these presents, that we, Jehiel Brooks,
of the District of Columbia, and B. J. Sage, of New Orleans,
Louisiana, are held and firmly bound unto the above-named
Samuel Norris, in the sum of five hundred dollars, to be paid
to the said Samuel Norris, his executors or administrators. To
which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves,
and each of us, jointly and severally, and our and each of our
heirs, executors, and administrators, firmly by these presents.
"Sealed with our seals, and dated this 19th day of October,
A. D. 1848.
'Whereas the above-named Jehiel Brooks hath prosecuted
a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States, to
reverse the judgment rendered in the above-entitled suit by the
Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
"Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation is such,
that if the above-named Jehiel Brooks shall prosecute his said
writ of error to effect, and answer all costs if he shall fail to
make good his plea, then this obligation shall be void; otherwise the same shall be and remain in full force and virtue..
"B. J. SAGE, for ehiel Brooks.
B. J.SAGE.
"Sealed and delivered, in the presence of
Test -

JOHN RAY."

Approval of Bond.
"Personally appeared before me the above-named B. 3. Sage
and John Ray, who acknowledged their signatures to the foregoing bond, which is approved in the case of Brooks, plaintiff
in error, v. Norris.
" GEORGE EUSTIS, Chief Justice.
".Monroe, Oct. 19, 1848."
Instructions.
"cThe clerk of the Supreme Court will only sign the writ of
error in the event of its being sued out within five years from
the date of the decree of the. Supreme Court in the case
which it is taken.
"GEORGE EUsTIs, Chief Justice.
"Supreme Court, Alexandria.
"Filed November 4th, 1848.
M. R. ARIAIL, Clerk2'
The writ of error bore the following t*este:VOL. xI.

18

26

SUPREME

COURT.

Brooks v. Norris.

"Witness the Honorable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of
the said Supreme Court of the United States, this 4th day of
M. R. ARIAIL,
November, A. D. 1848.
Clerk of the Sup'eme Court of the &ate
of Louisiana, at Alexandria'
"Copy of the writ'of error lodged in the clerk's office of the
Supreme Court of the State of Louisian, at Alexandria, in
pursuance of the statute in such cases made and provided,
B. . SAGE)
this 4th day of November, 1848.
Attorney of Plaintiffin error.
"cSupreme Court, Alexandria.
" Filed November 4th, 1848."

Mr. Bullard,for the defendant in error, moved the court to
dismis this writ of error, because the same was not brought
within five years after the final judgment in the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana.
Whereupon the court directed the motion to be set down for
argument on that day week, viz. the 24th of January, and
that the counsel give notice thereof to Mr. Walker, the counsel
for the plaintiff in error.
On the 24th of January, the motion was argued by M5r.
Bullard and Mr. Walker.
.3&.
Bullard referred to the record, and cited the act of 1789,
chap. 20, ยง 22, to show that the writ of error was not in time.
Mr1i. Walker referred to the prayer for the writ of error, which
was allowed on the 13th of October, before the expiration of
five years from the date of the judgment. The bond also was
executed and approved on the same day. If -necessary, he
would move to amend the. record under the act of 1789, as the
error was merely one of form.. The teste of the writ should be
dated at thi preceding term of this court, because, although
issued in the name of the chief justice, it was always pre.
sumed to be issued by the authority of the court. He would
move, therefore, to amend it by inserting the date of the preceding term, viz. December term, 1847. Filing does not
mean issuing. Although"the writ was not filed until the 4th
of November, the record does not show that it was not issued
before. Suppose, after the writ is allowed; the clerk refuses or
neglects to issue it; will that deprive the party of his remedy?
In-10 Wheat 311, the appeal was allowed, but security not
given within five years. He cited also 2 Pick. 592; 7 Cranch,
277 ; 3 Peters, 459.
The case was docketed in this court on the 23d of January,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

207

Brooks v. Norris.

1849. Therefore this is the third term, and it is now too late to
make this motion.' There has been a regular appearance
entered, not merely .a formal one, but the opposite counsel
directed in writing that his appearance should be entered.
Brooks might have brought a new action if he had not supposed this appeal to be pending. Millaudon v. MeDonogh,
3 Howard, 707.
M'. Bulard,in reply. When he directed his appearance to
be entered, he did not know the state of the record. This is
not a question of form, but one of jurisdiction.. The cases
cited are not analogous. In appeals there is no necessity for a
writ from a higher court, and this was oDe of the cases cited.
But in writs of error, the higher court must act. j When a
motion should be made to alter the teste, he would meet it.
This action was a petitory action, and Brooks could not have
brought another suit, as he could have done in an ejectment.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by writ of error upon a judgment
rendered in the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
a motion has been made to dismiss the writ.
It appears by the record that the judgment was rendered on
the 25th of October, 1843. The writ of error by which the
case is brought here was allowed by the chief justice of the
State court, upon the petition of the appellant, on the 19th of
October, 1848, and the bond also bears date on that day. But
the writ of error Was not issued until the 4th of November following. It was issued by the clerk of the court in which the
judgment was rendered, and on the same day, as appears by
indorsement upon it, filed in that office by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error. lore than five years from the day of the
judgment had therefore elapsed when this writ of error was
filed.
The act of 1789, chap. 20, ยง 22, provides that writs of error
shall not be broughtbut within five years after rendering or
passing the judgment or decree complained of. The writ of
error is not brought, in the legal meaning of the term, until it
is filed in the court which rendered the judgment. It is the
filing of the writ that removes the record from the inferior to
the appellate court, and the period of limitation prescribed by
the act of Congress must be calculated accordingly. The day
on which the writ may have been issued by the clerk; or the
day on which it is tested, are not material in deciding the
question.
In this case, therefore, five years had elapsed before the

208

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks v. Norris.

writ of error was brought, and the limitation of time in the act
of Congress was a bar to the writ. According to the English
practice, the defendant in error must avail himself of this defence by plea. He cannot take advantage of it by motion:
nor can the court judicially take notice of it, as the limitation
of time is not an objection to the jurisdiction of the court.
It is a defence which the defendant in error may or may not
rely upon, as he himself thinks proper. But according to the
established practice of this court he need not plead it, but may
take advantage of it by motion. The forms of proceeding in
the English courts of error have never been adopted or followed in this court. And either party, without any formal assignment of error or plea, may avail himself of any objection
which appears upon the record itself. In this case the bar
aising from the lapse of time is apparent on the record, and
the defendant may take advantage of it by motion to quash or
to dismiss the writ.
As this objection is conclusive, it is unnecessary to inquire
whether the writ of error was allowed or issued by proper
authority, or what previous defects may be cured by the appearance of the defendant in error. The writ must be dismissed, upon the ground that it is barred by the limitation of
time prescribed by the act of Congress.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
on the motion of H. A. Bullard, Esquire, of counsel for the appellee, to dismiss this writ of error upon the ground that it is
barred by the limitation of time prescribed by the act of Congress, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with costs.

