DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

587

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

This case was not docketed until after the close of the~regular term of the court, and is, therefore; not within the rule.
Order.
un consideration of the motion made in this case by Mr.
Stanton, on a prior day of the present term, to wit, on Friday
the 28th ultimo, it is now here ordered by the court, that said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

PETER HOGG AND CORNELIUS H. DELADTATER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. Jonx B. E~mRsoN.
The decision of this court in the ease of Hogg et alv.Emerson, 6 Howard,437,
reviewed and nffirmed.
The specitication of Emerson's patent "for certain improvements in the steamengine and in the mode of propelling therewith either vessels on the water or carriage, on the land," conqtituted a part of the patent, and must be construed with it.
Anterior to 1836, the law did not imperatively require that the specifitation be
made a part of the patent, but the inventor had a right to advise the Commissioner of Patents to make the specification a part of the patent, and it was peculiarly
proper that le should comply with the request.
This court again decides that the patent ijsufficiently clear and certain, and does not
cover more groand than one patent may cover. Only one is necessary for two
kindred and auxiliary inventions.
The dra'wings which accompany th, ,pecification may be referred to for illustration.
Within what time drawingi ought to have been replaced, after the destruction of
the Patent-Office by fire, so as to avoid the imputation of negligence or of a design to milead the public, was a question which was properly left to tie jury.
The principles stated, within who.e operation a jury can properly act in assessing
damages against the maker of a patented machine.

Tins case was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.
It was reported in 6 Howard, 437, and at the conclusion of
the report of that case is the following note: "9NOTE. - After the delivery of this opinion, the counsel for
the plaintiffs in error suggested that other questions were made
below, which they desired t6 be considered, and therefore moved
for another certiorari to bring them up. This was allowed,

and judgment suspended till the next term."
Another certiorariwas issued, which brought up the entire
record. The case, as now to be reported, consists of three
records, in parts. Instead of republishing ihose parts already
reported, they will only be referred to; and if the reader is

desirous to invstigate the case thoroughly, he must read this.
report inconjunction with that in 6 Howard.

SUPREME COURT.

588

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

On the 8th of March, 1834, John B. Emerson obtained a
patent for a new and useful improvement in the steam-engine,
which is set forth, together with the schedule, in 6 Howard,
437 et seq.
At April term, 1844, he brought an action of trespass on the
case against Hogg and Delarnater for an infringement of his
patent right The declaration is inserted in extenso in 6 Howard. The defendants filed the general issue plea, and gave the
following notices.
"Circuit Court of the United States of America, for the Southern District of New York, in the Second Circuit.
"PETER HOG6

&

CORN-LIus DELAMATER V. JOHN

B. BMERSON.

"Si, -You will please to take notice that, on the trial of the
above-entitled cause, without waiving the right to require the
plaintiff to make out all facts essential to support and prove his
declaration and cause, and without admittilg any part thereof,
the defendants will, under the plea of the general issue afore:
said, give in evidence, prove, and insist upon tjie following
special matter, of which notice is hereby given, pursuant to the
statute, in addition to such other defence as they are by law
entitled to make.
"I. That the patent granted to John B. Emerson, bearing
date the 8th day of March, 1834, under which the said plaintiff claims, is void for the following, among other reasons: "1. Because, although it is, in and by the schedule annexed
to the said patent, recited that the said John B. Emerson
had alleged that he had invented a new and useful improve.
ment in the steam-engine, and in the mode of propelling
therewith either vessels on the water or carriages on the land;
and-it is claimed that, in and by the said patent, the exclusive
right and liberty of making, using, and vending to others to be
used, the said improvement, was granted to the said Join B.,
Emerson, his heirs, executors, administratorsi or assigns, for
the term of fourteen years from and after the date of the said
patent; yet the said patentee did not (according to law) deliver, with his application for the said patent, or at any. other
time, to any of the officers who were to consider his application, a written description of his said improvement or invenlion, and of the manner of using the same, in -such full, clear,
and exact terms, as to distinguish the sartie from all other
things before known, and to enable any person skilled in mechanics to make and use the said invention; and that the improvements tlaimed by the said John B. Emer.;on are not in
the said patent, or in the schedule thereto annexed, described in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

such full, clear, and exact terms as to distinguish the same from
all other things before known, or to enable any person skilled
in mechanics to make or use the said improvements; and that
the said John B. Emerson did not deliver, with his said application for the said patent, or at any other time, to any of the
officers who were to consider his application, a full explandtion
of his said improvements, and the several modes in which he
had contemplated the application of the 'principle by which
they could be distinguished from other inventions, and he-did
not accompany his application with drawings and written reference, as required by law.
"2.. Because the said patent is granted for an improvement
in the steam-engine; and in the schedule annexed to the said
patent the said John B. Emerson has claimed as his invention
different, and distinct improvements, to wit, in the steam-engine
and in the paddle-wheel, either of which may be used singly
and separately for the purpose indicated in said schedule.
And although the said John B. Emerson, in the schedule annexed to the said patent, does not claim the invention of spiral
paddle-wheels, but claims merely the invention of an improvement in spiral paddle-wheels already essayed, yet he has not,
in the said schedule annexed to the said patent, described in
what his said improvement in the said spiral paddle-whedls
consists; so that any person skilled in mechanics can know
wherein the paddle-wheels mentioned in the said schedule differ from spiral paddle-wheels before known and used; and
because no distinction or discrimination is made between the
parts and portions of the said propelling-wheel of which the
said John B. Emerson may be the inventor or discoverer; the
said defendants protesting at the same time that the said John
B. Emerson has not been the inventor or discoverer of any
part or portion of the alleged improvements.
"3. Because the thing patented as set forth in the said patent is different from the things claimed as the invention of the
patentee in the schedule annexed to the patent. The thing
patented is a new and useful impYovement in the steamengine; but in the schedules, annexed to 'the said patent, the
thing claimed by the said patentee as his inventions is not
only the alleged improvement in the steam-engine, but also
the spiral propelling-wheel, and the application of the revolving vertical shaft to the turning of a capstan on the deck of a
vessel, while the specification indicates only an improvement
in the spiral paddle-wheel, without describing the same in such
full, clear, and exact terms as to distinguish the same from all
other things before known, or to enable any person skilled in
mechanics to make or use the said improvement.
VOL. XI.
50

590

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et aL v. Emerson.

"4. Because the drawings of his alleged invention, as deposited in the Patent-Office, do not agree with each other, nor
with the specification to his letters patent annexed, and render
it altogether doubtful and uncertain what his alleged invention
truly and really was. •
" II. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial of he issue aforesaid, that the machine
for propelling boats allege* t6 have been made by them, in
violation of the right of the plaintiff in this case, was made,
if made at all, under certain letters patent heretofore granted
by the United States to one John Ericsson, to wit, on the 1st
day of February, in the year 1838.
"IIL And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial. of the issue aforesaid, that there was at
no time on file, or deposited in the Patent-Office, whilst they
Were engaged in making machines under the said John Ericsson's patent, any specifications or drawings deposited by the
said John B. Emerson, from which any person skilled in mechanics could construct a machine -similar to the machines
they have constructed under the patent of the said John
Ericsson.
"IV. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial of the issue afdresaid, that the specification to the letters patent of the said John B. Emerson annexed
contained no description of the inventions and improvements
now alleged and pretended to be covered by his said letters
patent, and claimed to be included therein.
"V. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial of the issue aforesaid, that the said John
B. Emerson was not the original inventor or discoverer of any
part or parts of the propelling-wheel described in his said letters patent, or of, eny improvement in any part or parts of th6
said machine.
"VL And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
on the trial of the issue aforesaid, a printed description of a
certain propelling-wheel, invented by'Archibald Robinson, of
London, which Said description was published in one or more
public works, and particularly in the seventh volume of the
London Journal of Arts and Sciences, edited by W. Newton,
and published in London in the year 1831, and extensively
known to mechanics and engineers in the United States; fending to prove that the plaintiff was not the original and first'inventor or discoverer of the thing patented, or of a substantial
and material part thereof claimed as new, but that it had been
described as aforesaid, in public works, before the supposed discovery thereof by the plaintiff.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

591

Hogg ct al. v. Emerson.

"VII. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
on the trial of the issue aforesaid, the printed description of
certain improvements in machinery for propelling steam-vessels, invented by Jacob Perkins, of London, as early as the
year 1829, -which said description was published in a public
work, printed in London, in the year 1831, to wit, in the seventh volume of the London Journal of Arts and Sciences,
edited by W. Newton, a well-known scientific journal, published in London in the year aforesaid. And the said defendants will further give in evidence a plate, number nine in the
said volume, containing an engraved delineation of the said
invention; all tending to prove that the plaintiff was not the
original and true inventor or discoverer of the thing patented,
or of a substantial and material part .thereof claimed as new,
but that it had been described as aforesaid, in a piblic work,
before the supposed discovery thereof by the plaintiff.
"VIII. And the said defendants will further give in evidence, on the trial of the issue aforesaid, a printed description
of a certain mode of propelling boats in the water by the application of sculling-wheels, or screw propelling-wheels, invented
by Benjamin Il. Smith, which said description was -published
in the year 1830, in the sixth volume of the new series. of the
Franklin Institute, a scientific journal published- in the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, tending to prove
that the plaintiff was not the original and true inventor or discoverer of the thing patented, or of a substantial and material
part thereof claimed as new, but that it had been described as
aforesaid in a public work before the supposed discovery thereof hy the plaintiff.
" IX. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial of the issue aforesaid, that the said machine, alleged in the plaintiff's'writ in this cause to have been
made by the said defendants, does not in any of its parts
resemble the machine described in the schedule annexed to
the letters patent granted to the said plaintiff.
"X. And tle said defendants will further give in evluence,
and prove on the trial of the issue aforesaid,*that the said John
B. Emerson, if he was really the inventor of the improvements
now alleged, pretended, and claimed by him, voluntarily abandoned the same to the public.
" XI. And the said defendants will further give in evidence,
and prove on the trial of the issue aforesaid, that they have
never made, used, or sold the machine patented by the said
John B. Emerson, or any part thereof, nor any imitation of the
said machine, nor of any part thereof.
"XII. Anid the said defendants will further give in evidece,

592

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

and prove on the trial of the issue aforesaid, that the description and specification filed by the said plaintiff do not contain
the whole truth relative to this invention or discovery.
"Dated New York, October 26th, 1844.

"Yours, &c.,

P. A.

HANFORD,

Attorney for Defendants.
"To PETER CLARK, ESQ., Attorney for Plaintiff."
"Circuit Court of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, in the Second Circuit
"PETER HOGG & CORNELIUS DELAMATER V. JOHN B. E.19RSON.

" SIR, - You -rill please to take notice that, on the trial of
the above-entitled cause, the defendants, in addition to the
various matters set forth in the notice heretofore given in this
catise, under date of the 26th of October, 1844, will, under
the plea of the general issue, prove and insist upon the following special matter, of which notice is hereby given pursuant to
statute.
"The said defendants will give in evidence, on the trial of
the issue aforesaid, the letters patent granted to John Ericsson
by the English government in 1836, and the letters patent
granted him by the government of the United States in the
years 1838 and 1840.
" The said defendants will also give in evidence copies of letters patent granted by the United States government to Josiah
Copley, for a spiral propeller, under date of May 22, 1830; and
to John L. Sullivan, under date of March 24, 1817, for a submarine propeller; and to Edward P. Fitzpatrick, under date of
November 23, 1835, for a screw for propelling boats ; -and to
James Widdifield, under date of October 11, 1815, for propelling boats by screw wheel; and to John L. Smith, under date
of September 18, 1835, for propelling boats by screw wheel;
and to Henry W. Wheatley, under date of December 30, 1818,
for propelling boats by screw power; and to Jesse Ong, on the
22d of May, 1837, for propelling paddle-wheels.
"The said defendants will also give in evidence the digest
of patents issued by the United States, published under the
superintendence of the Commissioner of Patents in 1840, and
more particularly pages 219, 220, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, of
the same.
" The said defendants will also give in evidence a description of certain improvements in propelling vessels, communicated by Charles Cummerow of London, and published in
Newton's -London Journal, second series, eighth volume, page
144; which volume the said defendants will give in evidence.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

593

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

"The said defendants will also give in evidence a description
of certain improvements in the construction and adaptation of a
revolving spiral paddle, for propelling boats and other vessels,
patented by the British government to Bennet Woodcroft of
Manchester, in the county palatine of Lancaster, printed and
published in Newton's Journal, third series, first volume, page
349; which volume the said defendants will give in evidence.
"1The said defendants will also give in evidence the seventh
volume of the Repertory of Patent Inventions, for 1837, published illLondon, and the copy, printed at page 172 of the
same, of certain letters patent granted to F. P. Smith for an
improved propeller.
" The said defendants will also give in evidence certain
letters patent, issued by the government of the United States
to Francis P. Smith, for an improved propeller, bearing date
the 12th day of November, 1841.
"The said defendants will also give in evidence, that the
alleged invention of the said plaintiff, or so much thereof as the
said plaintiff may allege or claim that the said defendants have
infringed, was invented, known, and used before the same was
patenited or invented by the said plaintiff. And the said defendants 'il prove the said prior use and knowledge of the
said alleged improvement or invention, and where the same
had been used by Dr. Thomas P. Jones, who resides in the city
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
"The said defendants will also give in evidence the sixth
volume of the Journal of the Franklin Institute, new series,
page 149, where is contained an account of the spiral propeller
above referred to, patented to Josiah Copley, and the fifth volume of the same, new series, page 136, where is contained a
notice of the propeller patented to Benjamin P. Smith.
"The said defendants will also give in evidence certain letters
patent granted to John S. Trott of Boston, by the government
of the United States, under date of June 2d, 1818, for propelling wheels for boats by animal power.
"Dated New York, October 27th, 1845.
"Yours, &c.,
F. A. HANFORD,
Attbrney,for Defendants.
"To PETER

CLARK, ESQ.,

Attorneyfor' Plaintif."

In lMay 1847, the cause came on for trial. Both plaintiff
and defendant examined many witnesses; the substance of
the testimony on the part of the defendants is stated in the
argumentative opening of their counsel in this court, which is
copied in order to show their view of the evidence. After it
was closed, the counsel for the defendants made the following
prayers to the court to instruct the jury.
504

594

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

"1. That the claim of the plaintiff, as set forth in his specification annexed to his letters patent, embraces the entire spiral
paddle-whil. The claim is therefore too broad upon the face
of it, and the letters patent are void upon this ground, and the
defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"2. That if the court should depart from the language of the
patentee, in which he has made his claim, for the purpose of
giving to that claim a limitation which may not be too broad,
it could not clearly, or with any, reasonable certainty, or without resorting to conjecture, be determined by the court what
the claim was; and the patent is therefore void for ambiguity,
and the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"3. That the patent is void upon its face for this, that, purporting to be a patent for an improvement, and specifying that
the invention is of an improved spiral paddle-wheel, differing
essentially from any which have been heretofore essayed, without pointing out in what the difference consists, or in any
manner whatever indicating the improvement by distinguish.
ing it from the previously essayed spiral wheels, it is wanting
in an essential prerequisite to the validity of letters patent for
an improvement.
"4. That the patent is void upon its face for this, that it
embraces several distinct and separate inventions as improve.
ments ii several distinct and independent machines, susceptible
of independent operation, not necessarily connected with each
other in producing the result aimed at in the invention, and
the subject-matter of separate and independent patents.
"5. That, inasmuch as it appears conclusively by the deposition ofArthur L. McIntyre, the officer in the Patent-Office of
the United States who hasthe care and custody of the drawings
therein filed, that on the 12th day of February, 1844, the plaintiff filed a drawing, sworn to by him as a correct delineation of
his invention, which drawing had been on file since the 5th day
of May, 1841, when it was there deposited by the plaintiff unattested; that said drawing became a part of the record of the
plaintiff's patent, and that the said record was then complete;
and the rights and privileges of the plaintiff, under the act of
Congress of March 3d, 1837, were exhausted by the filing of
said attested drawing, and therefore said drawing was the one
which (if any) should have been introduced in evidence as the
recorded delineation of the invention, and the second drawing
subsequently filed and introduced in evidence should be disregarded by the jury.
"6. Though inasmuch as it appears conclusively by the
deposition of Arthur L. McIntyre, as before stated, that on
the 12th day of February, 1844, the plaintiff filed a drawing,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

-595

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

sworn to by himself as a correct delineation of his invention,
which drawing had been on fife since the 5th day of May,
1841, when it was there deposited by the plaintiff, unattested,
that said drawing became a part of the record of plaintiff's
patent, and that as against these defendants, who, by legal presumption, were notified of the nature and character of the invention of said first drawing, he is now estopped from asserting that the same is not a true delineation of his invention,
either by the testimony of witnesses, or by the introduction of
a second and different drawing.
"7. That the rule of law whieL declares the drawings for
patentee to be part of his patent, and that they may be referred
to for the purpose of helping out the specification, should be
limited to those cases in which the drawings are either annexed
to or referred to in the specification; and that even in such case
the drawings cannot be resorted to for the purpose of adding
to, or in any manner enlarging, the claim as set forth in the
specification.
"8. That, if the second drawing which has been exhibited in
evidence is to be regarded as a part of the plaintiff's patent,
and to be referred to to help out the specification, there must
be a conformity between them. If they are substantially at
variance, and incongruous, and inconsistent with each other,
it is a fatal defect in the patent, which alone is sufficient to prevent the recovery of the plaintiff.
"9. That if, from the testimony, the jury believe that the
placing of the paddles obliquely upon the rim of the wheel,
sworn to by John S. Trott as having been done by him in
1818, was substantially the same in principle as placing them
spirally upon said rim, the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"10. That the plaintiff must satisfy the jury, (to sustain the
only judicial construction of which the patent admits,) that he
is the first and original inventor of the spiral form of the propelling float; and if from the evidence in relation to the patent
and wheel of Benjamin M. Smith, in 1829,- of Ebenezer Beard,
in and of the spiral float used by John Stevens, in 1805,they believe that this spiral form was not new in the plaintiff,
but was known and used before his patent, that upon this
ground the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"11. That if the jury believe, from the specification, of the
plaintiff and the testimony, that he designed to express his
improvement to consist inthe trough form given to the propelling plates by bending them along the centre, so that the sides
of the plates shall be at right angles, or nearly so, to each other,
and that this trough form, thus produced previous to giving the
plate the spiral curve longitudinally, is to be considered as of

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

the essence of plaintiff's invention, then the defendants have
not infringed upon his rights, and are entitled to a verdict
12. That-if the jury believe, from the specification and the
testimony, that neither a cylindrical band nor the twisted
spokes were described by the plaintiff as 'constituting a part
of the paddle-wheel by hin patented, the same cannot be
added as a component part of his invention by their insertion in a drawing filed ten years after the issuing of his letters
patent.
"13. That from the silence in the specification, both ai to
the hoop or cylindrical band and twisted spoke, notvithstanding their delineation in the drawing, the jury must infer one of
two things; either that the plaintiff did not invent, and therefore did not describe them, or that they were (as his witness
Allaire in substance testified) not the subject-matter of invention at the time at all, being old and well-known parts of the
machine described.
"14. That unless the jury believe from the testimony that the
plaintiff, before the issuing of his letters patent, actually reduced his alleged invention to practice, the patent is void, and
the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"15. That if, from the testimony, the jury believe that Captain Exicsson actually reduced the propelling wheel to practice,
such as were constructed by the defendants, before the same
were reduced to practice by the plaintiff, the defendants are
entitled to a verdict.
"16. That the exclusive rights of a patentee are to make as
well as to use, and vend to others to be used, and that the rule
of damages, as against the manufacturer who has invaded the
exclusive right to make it, are the profits which he has derived,
or which the plaintiff might have derived from such making,
because it is-the sum which by his invasion he has prevented
the patentee from obtaining.
"17. That if from the evidence the jury are satisfied that no
propelling-wheels were made by the defendants" between the
27th of March, 1844, the date of the alleged completion of the
record of the plaintiff's patent, under the act of March 3d,
1837, and the commencement of this suit in April following,
upon this ground the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
"18. That the invention of the plaintiff, as described in his
specification, as illustrated by his drawing, cannot be regarded
as a combination of the several parts of the wheel; ab a combination the invention is not brought out in the specificaion or
drawings, and such a view of the case is entirely inadmissible."
But the court refused to instruct the jury according to the
prayers of the defendants, and charged them as follows.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

597

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

(That part of the charge which was brought up by the record in 6 Howard is there printed; but the ,certiorari having
brought up the residue, it is now printed entire.)
"The court, in charging the jury, submitted to them, as a
question of fact, whether the drawings made by Dr. Jones, in
1844, of the paddle-wheel of the plaintiff, were substantially in
conformity with the drawing .filed and model deposited in the
Patent-Office in 1834; that if this fact was found in the affirmative, it was not seriously disputed but that the wheel of
Ericsson was similar to one constructed from the specification
and drawing of the "plaintiffwhen taken together.
"The court further charged, that if the jury found the above
question in the negative, then it would becbme necessary for
them to inquire whether the specification, without the aid of the
drawing, was sufficient to enable a mechanic of ordinary skill
to construct the plaintiff's wheel; such a one as could be constructed with the aid of it.
"The court further charged, that the claim of the plaintiff was
for an improvement upon the spiral paddle-wheel or propeller;
that, by a new arrangement of the parts of the wheel, he had
been enabled to effect a new and improved application and use
of the same in the propulsion of vessels; that the ground upon
which the claim is founded was this: it is the getting rid of
nearly all the resisting surface of the wheels of Stevens, Smith,
and others, by placing the spiral paddles or propelling surfaces
on the ends of arms, instead of carrying the paddles themselves
in a continued surface to the hub or shaft. It is claimed that
a great portion of the old blade not only did not aid in the propulsion, but actually impaired its efficiency, and also that the
improved -wheel is made stronger.
" It was made a question, on the former trial, whether the
plaintiff did not claim, or intend to claim, the entire wheel;
but we understand it to be for an improvement upon the spiral
paddle-wheel, claimed to be new and useful in the arrangement
of its parts, and more effective by fixing t~ie spiral paddles upon
the extremity of the arms at a distance from the shaft.
"9The court further, in charging the jury, submitted to them
the question, whether the plaintiff was the first and original inventor of the improvement, ieferring them to the evidence upon
this branch of thd case.
"The court further instructed the jury, that the description of
the invention was sufficient, and that the objection that the
patent embraced several distinct discoveries was untenable.
"That the filing of imperfect drawings of his wheel in 1841
did not preclude the plaintiff from filing a corrected one in
1844, and that the drawing could be referred to in aid of the

598

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

specification, though not annexed to the patent, or referred to
in the specification; if it was filed with the application in the
Patent-Office at the time of the taking out of the patent, it is
then a part of the record.
"That if the drawing and specification were so contradictory
that a mechanic of ordinary skill could not construct the wheel,
the patent was void. But if the latter was ambiguous, obscure,
or doubtful, the drawing might be referred to to remove the
difficulty.
"That the omission or neglect of the patentee to bring his
improvement into public use did not forfeit his right to the invention, and that the fact of Ericsson's propeller having been
brought into public use first did not give his patent priority, if
the plaintiff was the first and original inventor.
"1We ,do not understand that the original inventor and
patentee, in order to enable him to maintain an action for an
infringement, must prove that he put his patent in use by actually building a boat, and running her with a propeller; it is
sufficient, if he shows by his experiments, model, and descriptions, that his improvemefht is useful.
" On the question of damages, the court instructed the jury,
that the settled rule was to give the actual damages that the
plaintiff had sustained. And it was apprehended, as applied
to the case before them, that that would be the sum the patentee
was entitled to for the right to make his propeller to be used in
the several vessels built by the defendants, and in which Ericsson's propeller had been placed by them.
."That the damages were not necessarily confined to the
making of the wti&els between Mlarch, 1844, when the drawings
were restored to the Patent-Office, and the bringing of the •suit.
Such a limitation assumes that there can be no Iffringement of
the patent after the destruction of the records in 1836, until
they are restored to the Patent-Office, and that during the
intermediate time the rights of the patentee might be violated
with impunity. We do Aiot assent, to this view.
In the first place, the act of Pongress providing for the res-,
toration was not passed until the 3d of March, 1837; and in
the second place, in addition to this, a considerable 'period of
time must necessarily elapse before the act would be generally
known; and then a still further peiod before, copies of the
drawings and models could be procured. Patentees were
not responsible for the fire, nor did it work a forfeiture of their
'rights.
"The ground for the restriction claimed is, that the community have no means of ascertaining, but by a resort to the records of the Patent-Office, whether the construction of a par-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

599

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

ticular machine or instrument would be a violation of the rights
of others; and thr infringement might be innocently committed.
"9But, if the embarrassment happened without the fault of the
patentee, he is not responsible for it; nor is the reason applicable to the case of a patent that has been published, and the
invention known to the public. The specification in this case
had been published. It is true, if it did not sufficiently describe the improvement without the aid of the drawing, this
fact would not help the plaintiff.
"If there were unreasonable delay and neglect in restoring the
records, and in the mean time a defendant had innocently made
the patented article, a fair ground would be laid for a mitigation
of the rule of d5.mages, if not for withholding them altogether;
and the court left the question of fact, as to reasonable diligence of the patentee or not, in this respect, and also all questions of fact involved in the points of the case for the defendants, to the jury."
The counsel for the defendants, having taken an exception
to all that part of the charge which was inconsistent with their
prayers, brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by AL. .Tohn, 0. Sargent, from a brief filed by
himself and 111r. Johnson, for the plairtiffs in error, and by 1r.
Gillet, for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error stated the case as follows.
On the 8th of March, 1834, John B. Emerson obtained letters
patent of the United States for certain improvements in thesteam-engine. In December, 1836, tle copy of the letters in
the Patent-Office, with the drawing and the model, was destroyed by fire. In 1837, Congress passed an act, calling upon
inventors, whose models and drawings and letterg had been
destroyed, to replace them. (5 Stat. at Large, 191.) In 1841,
Emerson recorded his letters anew, and filed an unattested
drawing. In 1844, February 12, he completed his record by
swearing to said'drawing, and filing it in the Patent-Office.
In March, 1844, he visited Washington, and, on consultaion
with Dr. Jones, prepared a new drawing, and swore to it, bud
filed it. In the month of May, he commenced a suit against
Iogg and Delamater for making the Ericsson propeller.
In the-year 1835, the instrument known as the Ericss.on propeller was in operation in London. In 1838it was patented
in the United States. From 1839 to 1844o it was made by
manufacturers in New York and elsewhere, withoht hinderance
or molestation, till the suit was commenced against -Hogg and
Delamater. This instrument is a cylindrical band' supporting,

600

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

a series of spiral planes, and sustained on the shaft by two or
more twisted spokes. The spokes and the band constitute
its peculiar and patentable features.
John B. Emerson's specification contains no allusion to a
cylindrical band or a twisted spoke. His drawing, filed in
March, 1844, adopts and adds these features. The only evidence tending to show that they were contemplated by him at
any time is a model said. to have been made in 1837, two
years after Ericsson's propeller was in operation in London.
This model contains three hoops, and nine or more spiral arms.
From this model of 1837, and information of the patentee, Dr.
Jones made the drawing of 1844.
Hogg and Delamater were ion-founders in the city of New
York. They made no lropellers to use, and used none; they
merely manufactured them to order. They had no interest
whatever in the patent right of Captain Ericsson. No evidence appears in the case, tending to show any such interest.
It is not pretended that J. B. Emerson ever, at any time, reduced his wheel to practice, until the year 1843, when he made
an experiment with it in the harbor of New Orleans. All that
we know of it, therefore, prior to the year 1837, is derived from
the drawing made from the model of 1837, or the statement of
the patentee himself, and the formal oath that this drawing
was a correct delineation of his invention.
The attempt, therefore, to incorporate the spiral spoke, and
the cylindrical band or hoop, into Mr. J. B. Emerson's patent,
rests exclusively upon his own allegation, which is unsupported
entirely by the specification. Emerson's own witnesses admit
that there is no mention of these features in the specification,
and Dr. Jones, Keller, Birkbeck, Dunham, Belknap, Bartol,
Cunningham, Mapes, Cox, and Kemp swear distinctly that
the specification, in this respect, contradicts the drawing. It is
not denied that the absence of these would destroy every point
of resemblance between Emerson's wheel and Ericsson's propeller.
It was distinctly proved by John S. Trott and Nathan Rice,
that the entire wheel of Ericsson, except the spiral twist of the
propelling blade and fhe spiral twist of the arm, Was in use in
1818, and then patented, by Trott. Evidence was also offered
tending to show that Trott's wheel, with the oblique float
operated on the same principle with Ericsson's wheel with the
spiral float.
It was distinctly proved, that spiral wheels, with arms, employed at the stern, and submerged, were -successfully in use
long before J. B. Emerson obtained a patent.
The trough form which is so distinctly dwelt upon in Emer-

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

601

Hogg Ct al. v. Emerson.

son's specifications, and which in fact constitutes the only feature described and relied upon, does not exist in the Ericsson
propeller. The latter' instrument employs only spiral planes,
which had been in use half a century.
In 1847, a verdict was rendered in the cause against the defendants below, and judgment taken thereon, on which a writ
of error was allowed under the seventeenth section of the- patent act, restricted to certain questions made at the trial, and
upon certain conditions; among which were those of submitting the case on written arguments, within a limited time, and
of paying the amount of the judgment into court. The cause
was argued according to those conditions, and the court gave
an opinion in the case, in which they decided substantially, that
the plaintiffs here were entitled to stand .before this court like
all other suitors, and that the wri, if granted, must be on the
whole case.
Judgment was therefore suspended, on plaintiffs' suggestion
of a diminution of the record, and a certiorariissued, by .which
the case is now brought before the court.
Points.
I. The defendant in error has no patent for an improved
spiral paddle-wheel.
American Authorities - Phillips on Patents, 224, and cases;
Curtis, 127, 208; Sullivan v. Redfield, Paine, C. C. 442; Shaw
v. Cooper, 7 Pet 292, 315; Evans v. Chambers, 2 Wash. C. C.
125; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 476;- Whittemore v. Cutter, 1
Gallis. 437 ; Evans v. Eaton, Peters, C. C. 340, 341 ; Kneiss v.
Schuylkill Bank, 4 Wash. C. C. 9; Cutting et al. v. Myers, 4
Wash. C. C. 220; 1 Stat. dt Large, 319, §§ 1, 3.
English Authorities :- Godson on Patents, 108, 113, and'
cases; Neilson v. Harford, Webst. 312 and arg.; Rex v. Wheel-'
er, 2 Barn. & Ald. 350; S. C., 3 Merivale, 629; Glegg's
Patent, Webst. 117; Russell v. Cowley, Webst. 470; Househill
v. Neilson, Webst. .679; Webster on Patents, p. 65; Hindmarch, 41, 42, 509, 510, 511; Godson, 170.
II. If the defendant's patent is for the combination of instruments described in the specification, there is no pretence that
the combination has been infringed; if for several improved
machines, it cannot be supported in law. Evans v. Eaton, 3
Wheat. 454; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 447; Moody v. Fiske,
2 Mason, 112; Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story, 200.
II. The claim of the specification is too broad, and, the
patent therefore void; and 'the patent does not distinguish the
improvement from other inventions.
English Authorities :- McFarlane v. Price, I Starkie, 199;
VOL. XI.
51

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al v. Enerson.

In re Nickels, Hindmarch on Patents, 186; Hill v. Thompson,
3 Merivale, 622; S. C., 8 Taunton, 325; Williams v. Brodie,
Davis's Pat. Cases, 96, 97; Manton v. Manton, Davis's Pat.
Cases, 349; Minter v. Wells, 1 Webst. 130.
American Authorities: -Dixon
v. Moyer, 4 Wash. C. C.
69; Evans v. Hettick, 3 Wash. C. C. 425; Lowell v. Lewis,
1 Mason, C. C. 189; Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner, 482; Evans
v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 454; Woodcock v. Parker, 1 Gallis. 438;
Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallis. 478; Odiorne v. Winkley,
2 Gallis. 51; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 447; Sullivan v. Redfield, Paine, C. C. 441; Evans v. Eaton, 7 Wheat. 408; Isaacs
v. Cooper, 4 Wash. C. C. 261; Cross v. Huntly, 13 Wend.
385; Head v. Stevens, 19 Wend. 411; Krneiss v. Schuylkill
Bank, 4 Wash. C. C. 9;.Morris v. Jenkins et al., 3 McLean,
250; Peterson v. Woodler, Ibid. 248.
IV. The drawing, filed March 27, 1844, was not legal evidence of the defendant's patented invention, because there was
a drawing filed by the patentee on the 12th of February previous, which was, by the second section of the act of 1837, with
his letters patent, the only legal evidence of his invention, as
patented, that could be offered in any judicial court oK the
United States.
V. The patentee, after an alleged correction of his letters
patent by filing the second drawing, could not in law avail himself of that correction to cover causes of action that had previously accrued; and-in the absence of proof of any subsequent
infringements the plaintiffs here were entitled to a verdict below. In re Nickels, Turner & Phillips, 44; S. C., 1 Webst.
659; Hindmarch on Patents (Eng. ed.), 216 et seq.; Wyeth
v. Stone, I Story, 290; Woodworth v. Hall, I Wood. & Min.
248, 389.
VI. The defendants below, having sought to establish by
the testimony of Jones, Keller, Birkbeck, Dunham, Belknap,
Bartol, Stillman, Cunningham, Mapes, Cox, and Kemp, the
nonconformity of Emerson's specification of 1834 to the drawing filed in 1844, and having disputed, at every step, that Ericssoil's propeller, or any thing like it, could be made by taking
the two together, were entitled to the instructions sought by
their eighth prayer; and the various instructions of the court
on the'subject of the drawing amounted distinctly to a denial
of that prayer.
VII. The original letters patent were produced in evidence.
There was no drawing annexed, referred to in them, or accompanying them. No case has gone so far as to say that any
other drawing shall be permitted to enlarge or add to the specifiation. Curtis on Patents, 123, 125, 173, 174, and cases
there aited; Brooks v. Bicknell, 3 McLean, 250, 261.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

603

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

VIII. The wheel pa:tented by John S. Trott, in 1818, having
been proved to be identical with that made by Ericsson, with
the single exception of the spiral curvature to the arms and the
paddles, the ninth prayer of the defendants below should have
been allowed.
IX. The court ered in rejecting a portion of C. M. Keller's
deposition.
X. The court erred in admitting testimony as to the patent
fee paid to Captain Ericsson, as a measure of damages against
the manufacturers.
XI. The court erred in refusing the sixteenth prayer, on the
subject of damages; and in instructing the jury, as matter of
law, that the actual damages sustained by Mr. Emerson, by
the manufacture of the Ericsson propeller, was the sum the
patentee was entitled to for the right to make his propeller to
be used in the several vessels built by the defendants, and in
-which the Ericsson propeller had beeft placed by them. The
defendants were the manufacturers, built no vessels, used no
propellers, sold no propellers, but were merely employed to
make. .The actual damage, by the invasion of the right to
make, was the maker's profit, and not the patentee's fee.
Curtis on Patents, 292, 293, 294, 295, and cases there cited;
Bryce v. DoiT, 3 McLean, 582; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallis.
429; Earle v. Sawyer, 4 Mason, 1, 12.
XII. Whether or not there was reason for withholding damages altogether was a question for the court, and should not
have been left to the jury, where there was no dispute about
the facts, as in the ease presented by the record. Bend v.
Hoyt, 13 Peters, 263; Ellis v. Paige, 1 Pick. 43; S. C., 2 lb. 71;
Livingston & Gilchrist v. Maryland Ins. Co., 7 Cranch, 506;
Gilbert v. Moody, 17 Wend. 354; Oliver v. Maryland Ins. Co.,
7 Cranch, 495; Reynolds v. Ocean Ins. Co., 22 Pick. 191.
XIV. Whoever first perfects a machine is entitled to the
patent, and is the real inventor, although others may previously
have had the idea, and made some experiments towards putting it in practice. He is the inventor, and is -entitled to the
patent, who first brings a machine to perfection, and renders it
capable of useful operation. Washburn v. Gould, 3 Story, 1;33.
Of .ZIt. Gillet's argument for the defendant in error, the reporter has no notes.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the same case which has been before us on a former
occasion, ap reported in 6 Howard, 437.
The decision there announced on the points presented by

604

SUPREME

GOURT.

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

that record was accompanied by a rulirg that, in writs of error
in patent cases, all the questions of law which arose at the
trial might be brought up, and not, as there, only such as the
court below should deem reasonable, Thereupon the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error moved for a certorari to transfer here
such other questions as had not been before brought up and
decided.
This certiorariand a subsequent one having been allowed,
the same counsel proceeded to argue the questions appearing
on the whole record, as well those on which an opinion had
already been pronounced, as the new questions arising on the
additional parts of the record.
This was objected to by the defenlants in error, but permitted by the court, on the ground, that a division among them
existed before, and that two, if not three, members of the court
were now present, who were not when the former opinion was
agreed to. On this state of things, having heard the whole
case fully reargued, the first inquiry is, if any of the points before settled appear to have been ruled erroneously, either on
the record as it then stood, or on it including the new matter
since brought up.
It is very manifest that this matter does not relate to any
of- the former points, and consequently does not impair, or in
any way affect them, or our decision before given upon them.
In the next place, has the new argument, or the further consideration of the case, presented any thing which justifies' a
change of views on 'What was then settled. We think not.
Without repeating 'the whole reasoning and precedents
stated in 6 Howard, in support of the former views of the
court, we shall only submit a few, further explanations concerning some of them.
On the leading question, whether the invention is sufficiently
described in the letters patent, it may be sufficient to add, that
this depends on what must be considered as a part of those
letters.
The letters in this case were taken out in 1834, under the act
.of 1793, and the law did not then require the patentee or the
commissioner to make the specification a part of the letters
patent, as it does by the act of 1836. But the inventor still had
a right; if he pleased, for geater fulness and clearness, not
only to file a specification as such, and as the law directed, but
tb advise the Patent-Office also to incorporate it into the letters
as a part of them by express terms of reference. This it would
bepeculiarly proper for the officers of the government to do, as
the language of the -sp-ecification is the language of the inven.
tor, and describes the invention in his own way, and, it.is to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

605

Hogg et aL v. Emerson.

presumed, in the best way; whereas the language of the let.
ters is that of the Commissioner of Patents or the President,
who signs them, and, if standing alone, might by mistake or
accident not fully describe the invention. Here, then, in order
to avoid any such untoward result, they did expressly incorporate the whole specification into the patent as "a part" of it,
besides referring to it fo'" a description" of the improvement.
This the officers had a right to do, as grantors in deeds have
a right to refer to other deeds or papers, and annex or incorporate them as a part of the instrument of conveyance. See
cases cited in 6 Ho*ard.
A similar course is often pursued in policies of insurance by
the makers of them, and in other contracts, as well as in declarations on accounts annexed. That such a course, too, is prudent, and to be encouraged in the case of patents, is shown by
Congress in the act of 1836, imperatively requiring it to be
done thereafter.
The specification being, therefore, in this case, voluntarily
annexed, and made, in express terms, a part of the patent,
though before the law required it to, be done, it still became a
portion of the patent by general principles, as clearly as it does
since by the words of the law. It follows, also, that, being thus
adopted and recognized as 4"a part" of the patent itself, if the
'improvement is there described with due fulness and certainty,
it is so described in the patent itself.
But it is manifest that it is thus described there. In the very
first lines it is set out, not only as ":an improvement in the
steam-engine," but "in the modc of propelling therewith either
vessels on the water or carriages on the land." These together
constitute a full and satisfactory description of the whole. It
is an "improveinent in the steam-engine," not in generating
steam, but in applying it; and, after describing minutely the
application of it for propelling carriages on land, it proceeds to
point out, "when used for steamboats," how it is 'to be connected with "an improved spiral paddle-wheel."
After all this, no one, it is believed, could justly contend
that the patent itself was defective, or likely to, mislead in describing the improvement which the patentee claims to have
invented.
Referring to the former opinion in this case for other reasobs
and decisions in support of this view, we proceed to the next
objection. It is, that the improvement thus described is for
more than one invention, and that one set of letters patent for
more than one invention isnot tolerated by law.
But grant that such is the result when two or more iqventions are entirely separate and independent, - though this is
510

606

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

doubtful on principle,-yet it is well settled in the cases formerly cited, that a patent for more than one invention is not void,
if they are connected in their design and operation. This last
is clearly the case here. They all here relate to the propelling
of carriages and vessels by steam, and only differ, as they must
on water, from what they are on land ; a paddle-wheel being
necessary on the former, and not on the latter, and one being
used on the former which is likewise claimed to be an improved one. All are a part of one combination when used on
the water, and differing only as the parts must when used to
propel in a different element.
In Wveth et al. v. Stone et al., 1 Story, 288, in order to render different letters patent necessary, it is said, the inventions
must be "wholly independent of each other, and distinc. inventions for unconnected objects"; as one to spin cotton and
"another to make paper.'
Again, if one set of letters patent is permissible for one combination consisting of many parts, as is the daily practice,
surely one will amply suffice for two or three portions of that
combination.
The next point before decided was, that the description was
sufficiently clear and certain. lUder the instructions of 'the
court, the jury found that it was clear enough to be understood
by ordinary mechanics, and that machines and wheels could
readily be made from it, considering the specification as a
whole, and adverting to the drawings on file. This is all which
the law requires in respect to clearness, and it does not appear necessary to add tny thing to what is cited and stated in
the former opinion in support of the instructions given below
on this point.
The court did right, too, in holding to the propriety of looking to the whole specification, and also to the drawings, for
explanation of any thing obscure. The drawings, then, being
proper to be referred to in illustration of the specification, they
could be restored when burnt, and if appearing in some respects
erroneous, they could be corrected. That this last was done,
and done well, was distinctly shown by Doctor Jones, a skilful
draughtsman and expert. It would be unreasonable to prevent or refuse the correction of such errors, so as not to mislead nor cause contradictions; because, after all, it is the
specification which governs, and the drawings merely illustrate. It is true that it would not be proper to leave the
drawings so long, not restored nor corrected, as to evince
neglect or a design to mislead the public; and the jury were
allowed to decide what was a reasonable time for this purpose, under the circumstances'of the case, and the duties im-

DEC.EMBER TERM, 1850.

607

Hogg et al. r. Emerson.

posed by law on the patentee. This being a point in part
of law and in part of fact, it was properly submitted to the jury,
and their finding must stand, unless it is shown, s has not
,been done, that illegal instructions were given to them concerning it, or that proper legal directions were omitted. See
analogous cases, Chitty on Bills, 336, 379; 9 East, 347; 1
Camp. 246; Johnson v. Sutton, 1 D. & E. 514; 2 Barn. &
Adol. 857, 858.
In respect to another objection, of the claim being too broad
that was fully answered in the former opinion, and so Was the
objection, that damages could not be recovered *after the fire,
and before the restoration of the specification and drawings.
Certain new points are also presented on the new matter
brought here by the certiorari. Among them, no one seems
specially relied on, which is not involved in those already considered, except the instructions on the rule for settling the whole
damages. It is true, that the verdict appears large in amount.
But if too large, and the jury were properly instructed on the
subject, the fault is theirs rather than the court's, and cannot
be corrected here.
It is not, however, clear that it is too large, as it does not
appear to have exceeded, and, indeed, it rather fAlls short of,.
the price paid for-a license to make an improvement like this
to be used in so many vessels. It is the making and selling
to be used, and not the selling or buying or making alone,
for which full damages are usually given. (10 Wheaton, 350;
Curtis on Pat 256, 3 note; 3 McLeah, 427.) The court, therefore, being called on to lay down some general rule, very properly informed the jury that such price might be a suitable guide,
and it is the customary one followed for making and selling
patent stoves, lasts, spokes, &c., and seems once to have been
treated by law as the chief guide in all patent cases; as the
act of 1791, § 5, (1 Stat. at Large, 322,) gave three times
its amount when one either made for sale or used a patented
machine.
But that law being repealed, and the damages now left open
for each case, the judge correctly added, that a fair ground
existed for a mitigation below that amount, if the maker of the
machine appeared in truth to 'be ignorant of the existence of
the patent right; and did not intend any infringement. That
would not, however, furnish a reason, as was insisted by the
plaintiffs in error, for allowing no damages when making the
machine to be used, and not, as in some cases, merely for
a model, or for fancy, or philosophical illustration. (Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallis. 429; Jones v. Pearce, Webster's P. C.
125; 3 McLean, 583.) The intent not to injure, also, never ex-

608

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

onerates, as is contended, in these cases, from all damages for
the actual injury or encroachment, tho.ugh it may mitigate
them. (Bryce v. Dorr, 3 McLean, 583.). The further general
suggestion by thk judge, to give only the actual damages, was
well calculated to prevent any thing vindictive or in excess,
and justified the jury to go still lower than they did, if appearing just to them, and as has sometimes been done in this class
of cases. (See Lowell v. Lewis, 1 Mason, C. C. 182; 1 Gall.
C. C. 420.)
That, however, was a matter of discretion for the jury, under
all the circumstances, and not a question of law for the court.
Nor will the consequence of damages so large as the present
seem harsh, if thereby any further recovery should be prevented
for using or selling as well as making the machine, but which
point is not decided by us now, because not raised on the record. It may be added, however, in this connection, that the
defendants are certainly relieved now from one consequence by
way of damages or penalty which once existed, and which was
to fofeit the materials of the machine to the-patentee. (See
section 4th in act of April 10th, 1790, 1 Stat. at Large, 111.)
It must be a very extreme case, too, where.a judgment below
should be reversed on account of damages like'these in actioni
ex delicto, and when the instructions suggested to the jury the
true general rule and the leading ground for mitigation, as well
as against excess, and when, if appearing to be clearly excessive under all circumstances, a new trial could have been
moved and had oa that accpunt in the Circuit Court.
Judgment below affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Julstice "CATRON, Mr.
Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Ir. Justice CATRON.
To the opinion just delivered I dissent. I think the letters
patent are for a single improvement on the steam-engine, and
that the schedule has added two distinct inventions in addition; the one on the paddle to a wheel propelling machinery
or a vessel of any kind in the water; and the second in applying the power of the shaft to turning a capstan by means of a
cogwheel. These two claims are entirely indepbndent of the improvement claimed in the letters patent actually granted; this
is for inventing a piston and shaft which turn a wheel without
employing a crank. And as this controversy depends on a
"upposed infringement of the improved paddle (which, in my
judgment, is not covered- by the letters), I therefore think that
the suit cannot be maintained on. the face of the letters.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

609

The United States v. Philadelphia and New Orleans.

Secondly, if these three distinct improvements had been
claimed and granted in the letters, and described in the schedule,
then the patent would be void,,as I think, because no more than
one invention, distinct and disconnected from others, can be
granted in the same lettefs. Such is the construction that has
been given to the ,legislation of Congress at the Patent-Office,
and is supposed by me to be the correct one. If three independent inventions can be patented and monopolized together, so
any number may be; by this means, the grant may cover many
fictitious claims, vith some valid ohes, which latter will stand
protected; so that little or no risk will be run by obtaining a
grant for that which is not new; and by this mode of proceeding at the Patent-Office, fictitious claims may cover and assume to monopolize the ordinary implements now in use on
the farm and in the workshop, and, yet more than is now the
case, harass the public with fictitious and ill-founded claims to
make and sell exclusively things in daily and extensive use.
Although the claim may be fictitious, still this does not protect
the public from harassment, as usually men using cheap implements cannot afford to litigate in the United States courts.
It would be far better to allow the claim, unjust as it is, and
pay the patentee his fraudulent demand, than incur the expense of a suit, which the patentee or his assignee may well
afford to prosecute.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is noiv here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be; and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE

UNTiED STATES, AFPELLANTS, v. THE MAYOR, ALDERIEN, AND
INHABITANTS OF THE CITIES OF PHILADELPHIA AND NEW ORTEANS.

The decision of this court in the United States v. Rleynes (9 Howard, 127), again
affirmed, to wit, that under the acts of Congress of May 26, 1824 (4 Stat. at
Large, 52), and June 17, 1844 (5 Stat. at Large, 676), the courts of the United
States have no power to decide upon complete or perfect titles to land.
The contract made between the Baron de Bastrop and the Spanish government did
not vest a perfect title in Bastrop, and therefore this court can exercise jurisdiction
over the claim.

