DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

293

Florida v. Georgia.

ed States, and on the d .y last aforesaid antered into bond in
the penalty of one thouand dollars with Silas Parsons his
security, paynble to the said William Scott and William
Greene, cbnditioned that, if the said Early Boyd should prose.
cute the said writ of error to effect, and should also pay and
satisfy the judgment which shall be rendered in said cause by
the Supreme Court of the United States, then the said obligation should be void, else remain in full force and virtue.
"In testimony whereof, I hereto subscribe my name and
affix the seal of the said District Court, at office, in the town
of Huntsville, in the District aforesaid, this the 24th day of
January, A. D. 1851, and of the independence of the United
States of America the seventyfifth.
"B. T. Moonn, Clerk."
moved the court for a rule on the plaintiff in error, to file the
record on or before the
day of
, and that on failure
the ease be dismissed. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same
is hereby, overruled.
Per Mn Cnrnr JusTira. T~aimy.

Tim STATE or FLorDA, COMnPLAINANT, t. T=n STATE or GEonGIA.
Bill in Chancery.
A bill by the State of Florida against the State of Georgia ordered to be filed, anc
process of subpoana dhected to be issued against the State of Georgia.

MNssRs. JOHNsoN and WESTCOTT, solicitors for the complainant, moved the court for leave to file the bill of complaint in
the cause and for a writ of subpoena, or such process as to
the court may seem proper. Whereupon this court, not being
now here sufficiently advised of and concerning what order to
render in the premises, took time to consider.
On consideration of the motion made in this case yesterday,
by the solicitors for the complainant, it is now here ordered
by the court that this bill of complaint be filedf and that process of subpcsna be, and the same. is hereby, awarded, as
prayed for by the complainant, and that said process issue
against "The State of Georgia."

25*

