DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

461

Van Buren v. Digges.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the Territory, now State, of
Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that a statement of
this decision be certified to the Supreme Court of Iowa.

WILLIAr

H.VAN ButrEN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILIAx
DiGGEs, UsE OF JOSEPH LIrBEY.

H.

Where a contractor engaged to build a house for a certain sum of money, and the
owner of the house, when sued, offered to prove that there were various omissions
in the work stipulated to be done, and portions of the work were done in a defective manner, not being as well done as contracted for, and filed a bill of particulars
of these omissions and defects by way of set-off, this evidence was admissible.
The old rule, that, where a party shall have been injured, either by a partial failure
of consideration for the contract, or by the non-fulfilment of the contract, or by
breach of warranty, he must be driven to a cross action, has been much relaxed
in later times. The ease of Withers v. Greene (9 Howard, 213 referred to and
reaffirmed.
Where the contract provided that,if the house were not finished by a certain day,
a deduction of ten per cent. fromn the price should be made, and the defendant
offered evidence to prove that this forfeiture was intended by the parties as
liquidated damages, the evidence was properly rejected. It would have been
irregular in the court to go out of the terms of the contract. Unless the
forfeiture had been expressly adopted by the parties as the measure of injury or
compensation, it would have been irregular to receive the evidence where the
inquiry was into the essential justice and fairness of the acts of the parties.
Where the defendant offered to prove that certain work which he, the defendant,
had caused to be done by a third person, was usual and proper, and necessary to
the completion of the house, this evidence was properly rejected. He should have
proved that it came within the contract. So, also, evidence was inadmissible that
the defendant, in presence of the plaintiff, insisted upon its being within the
contract; fur this would have been making the defendant the judge in his own
case.
Mere acquiescence by the contractor in the defendant's causing certain work to be
done by a third person, will not exclude the contractor from the benefit of having
fa,'her time allowed to finish the house. It was not necessary for him to make a
sp~eial agreement that further time should be allowid, in consequence of the
delay caused by this extra work.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting for the County of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
On the 7th of August, 1844, William H. Digges and
William H. Van Buren entered into a contract in the city of
Washington, as follows: It is hereby agreed, between William Diggesj of the city
39.

SUPREME COURT.
Van Baren v. Digges.

of Washington, carpenter, of the one part and W. H. Van
Buren, M. D., of the other part, as follows -" First. -The said William Digges agrees to build, or cause
to be built, for the said W. H. Van Buren, a house, with
office, back buildings, woodhouse, stable, and privies, in the
style and of the materials set forth in the following specifications, and represented in the accompanying plan, to wit:'(Then followed numerous specifications.)
" Second. That the said W. H. Van Buren is to pay to said
William Digges for the house built and finished as above
specified, the sum of $ 4,600 in gold or silver current money
of the United States, or its equi~alent in bank-notes, in the
following manner; viz. $ 1,000 on the 1st day of September,
$ 1,000 on the 1st of October, $1,000 on the 1st of November, and $ 1,600 on the day that the house is entirely finished
and fit to occupy; provided that it shall not be later than ti e
25th of December, 1844; he, William Digges, to forfeit ten pfr
cent. on the whole amount if said house is not entirely completed and fit to occupy at the time agreed upon, viz. December 25th, 1844.
"If there should be any matters of detail or finish, or
natters not specified properly, and usually attached to or
necessary to the completion of a house such as the one above
specified, such things are to be considered as included in this
agreement.
"If any disagreement should occur between the parties in
this agreement with regard to matters above specified, such
disagreement shall be settled finally and without appeal, by
three persons, one of whom to be selected by each of the
parties, and the third chosen by the persons thus selected, and,
if necessary, by lot.
" In witness whereof, the said parties have hereunto set
their hands and seals this 7th day of August, in the year of
our Lord 1844.
94- . H. DhGcns,
r. H. VAN BUREN.
" Signed and sealed in presence ofTH. LAWSON,
T. P. ANDREWS."
An additional Agreement.
"The undersigned hereby agree to the alterations of, and
additions to, the above contract mentioned below; and also
that this additional agreement shall in no respect invalidote
the above contract, except in the specifications herein contained, to wit: that in place of (the attic story with rooms,'

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

463

Van Buren v. Digges.

&c., as specified in the above contract, W. H. Digges is to
build a third story, divided and finished in all respects like the
second story, as specified above, except that the ceiling
shall have nine feet pitch in the 'clear, and that there shall be a
window on the stairway in the back ;wall, and a window on
the gable end of the main building on the passage, each of
the same size as the other windows of the story, and all to be
double hung; and also a garret, floored, plastered, and divided
as agreed upon, with the necessary stairways, in the best manner, and with the same material employed in the second story.
The passage in the garret to have a semicircular window,
with a base of equal width with the windows of third storyj
and made to slide into a frame in the wall, and each garret
room to have a window on the east gable, except.the small
room on the passage, which is to be fitted up as a closet, with
shelves and drawers, as specified for the corresponding room
in the ' attic story' of the original agreement.
"And also, that for the third story and garrets as herein
specified, W. H. Van Buren is to pay to W. H. Digges the
sum of $ 525, when they shall be completed, in addition to all
other payments already provided for. 'Pitch of second story
to be reduced to eleven feet in the clear.'
"6Signed this 1st day of September, 1844.
"Wm. H. VAN BuREN,
W. H. DIGGES."
On the 26th of June, 1845, Digges filed an account with
the clerk of th6 Circuit Court, under the act of Congress
passed on the 2d of March, 1833 (4 Stat. at Large, 659),
entitled "An Act to secure to mechanics and others payment
for labor done ana materials furnished in the erection of buildings in the District of Columbia"; and claimed the lien given
by that act. The account was as follows:
Account.
Dr. William IL Van Buren to William H. Digges. - Dn.
1845, April 21.
To the price of the contract for building, &c., on lots
$4,600.00
.
.
.
.
11 and 12, insquare 169,
To the addition thereto, and alteration in the plan
thereof, as per agreetnent of 1st September, 1844, . 525.00
To additional extra work required by you to be done
on said building, not specified in said contract, or
the additional agreement aforesaid, viz.:.
101.71
.
.
.
Paid bricklayers for extra work, .
7.00
.
.
.
.
4.
Removing fence, .

464

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Digges.

Grading the yard,
.
..
.
Window in the gable end of main house,
.
.
Two closets in the office,
.
.
.
Two
do. dining-room,
.
.
.
Snow breakers on the roof,
.
.
.
.
.
Cutting three holes in parlor floor for furnace,
.
Cutting - window in gable end,
.
.
.
.
Fixing sliding d6or in closet between dining-room
and kitchen, .
.
.
.
.
.
Shelf connecting cases in the office,
.
.
.
To extra additional size of closet in office,
.
To two course brick additional height of third story,
To plastering the additional height,

.

To extra width of three frames back of the house,

.
.

12.00
25.00
14.00
15.00
6.00
1.50
2.50
20.00
6.50
6.50
11.50
3.64

21.00
$5,376.85

On the 31st of January, 1846, Digges sued out a scirefacias,
on which the marshal returned made known. The defehdant
then put in a plea of non-assumpsit, and the case went on
regularly in that form, no declaration having ever been filed,
but it was agreed that a declaration should be considered as if
embraced by the record.
In April, 1847, the following notice of set-off was filed:"W n. H. DoGES V. W. H. VAN BUREN. - Notice of Set-off.
"Take notice that the above-named defendant, on the trial
of this cause, will give in evidence, and insist, that the above
plaintiff, before and at the trial of the commencement of this
suit, was and still is indebted to the said defendant in the sum
of seven hundred and seven dollars for divers materials and
other necessary things made, done, furnished, used, and applied
in and about a certain building that the plaintiff had undertaken and contracted to build for the defendant, at the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia, and which said
materials and things were so used, applied, done, and finished
on account of, and in behalf of, at the special instance and
request of, the plaintiff; and also in the sum of seven hundred
and seven dollars for money by the defendant before that time
paid, laid out, and expended for the plaintiff by the defendant,
on account of and on the behalf of the said plaintiff, under his
contract as aforesaid, and by his special instance and request;
and that the said defendant will set off and allow to the said
plaintiff on the said trial so much of the said several sums of
seven hundred and seven dollars, so due and owing from the
said plaintiff to the said defendant, against any demand of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

465

Van Buren v. Digges.

said plaintiff, to be proved on the said trial, as will be sufficient
to satisfy and discharge such demand, according to the form of
the statute in such case made and providcd.
"Dated this
day of April, 1847.
" H. 1%Ltv, Defendant's Attorney.
"To W.Ni. H. DIGGES, Present."
"Mmuo. - A particular account of the above set-off is hereto
annexed.
H. MAY, Defendant's Attorney.
Win. H. Diges to T. H. Van Buren, Dr., to amounts paid.
1844.
Nov. 5. Charles E. Craig, for Daintin- and Dencilling
front of house,
.
Z ..
.
$40.00
Dec. 23. R. J. & W. Brown for cornicing parlors and
vestibule, and centre-pieces with hooks, &c.
75.90
Dec. 24. Do., for plastering house,
30.00
1845.
109.85
Jan. 4. P. L. Coltman, for paving, &c.,
40.00
Feb. 5. Thomas Curtes, for bricks and digging, &c.,
R. 0. Knowles, for fencing walls, &c.,
44.55
Mfar. 10. Thus. Curtes, for digging and curbing, &c.,
26.26
" 27. Lewis H. Schneider, for hanging bells, &c.,
57.63
22.21
Apr. 3. Thoi. Curtes, for screws, gravel, bricks, &c.,
" 30. F. H. Darnell, for painting,
15.00
May 2. S. W. Wheeler, for shelves and repairs and
jobbing,
.
.
13.25
3. F. & A. Schneider, for kitchen crane, rings
.
.
.
..
.
to manger,
4.87
9. Do., for 4 night latches and putting on same,
5.50
10. Taylor, for paving, repairing gate-piers, and
pointing walls, .
28.17
12. -Hughes, for sodding and work about yard,
41.50
k6 27. Hervey Emmert, to repairs to spouting,
13.87
July 2. C. L. Coltman, for paving stable-yard,
57.98
it 2. R. 0. Knowles, for closets in chambers, and
.
58.75
repairs, .
.
.
Bessy, for steps, &c.,
Sept.
24.00
Sundry amounts paid for repairs and jobbing,
38.75
To amount paid for rent of house occupied by defendant from 25 Dec., 1844, to 16 April, 1845,
155.16
In March, 1847, the cause came on for trial, when the jury,
under the instructions given by the court, found a verdict for the
plaintiff for $ 1,223.21, with interest from the 21st of August,
1845, and costs.
The bills of exception were as follows: -

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Diggos.

Defendant's First Exception.
VAN BUREN v.DIGGES, Use of Libbey.
o-f
"The plaintiff, in'su~port of the issue joined upon the plea of
non-assumpsit, produced and proved written contracts between
the liarties, as follows (copied in pp. 4 6 1-4 6 3), and further offered
evidence tending to prove that he had executed the work there.
in stipulated for, and had delivered it to the defendant, who
received it without objection. 'And theieupon the defendant
offered to prove, by competent.witnesses, that, before receiving
the said work, and during the progress thereof, he had objected
to the sufficier -y of various parts of the same as a compliance
with the contract, and had communicated said objections to
the plaintiff, and that there wer& various omissions of work
stipulated to be donei and various portions of the work contracted for were done in a defective and inferior manner, and
not as well as contracted for by the plaintiff, and that some of
these defects were not and could not be discovered by the defendant until after the defendant had entered into the posses.
sion and rise of the house; and the defendant offered to prove,
by way of set-off, and having filed a bill of particulars of said
alleged omissions and defects, and given due notice thereof to
the plaintiff, and of his purpose in reduction of the ccatract
price of -the vhole work sued for by the plaintiff, the value
of said omissions, and the difference in value between the
actual work defectively executed and that contracted for; to
which evidence so offered, or any of it, the plaintiff objected
as inadmissible under the issue; and the court, on the objection of. the plaintiff so taken, refused to admit any of said evidence for said purpose; to which refusal the defendant excepts,
and tenders to the'court this his bill of exceptions, which is
thereupon signed and sealed, this 14th day of April, 1847.,
W. CRANCH,
JAMES S. MOSL.

Defendan's .&cond Exception.
"In addition to the evidence contained in .he aforegoing
bills of exception on the part of defendant, and which are
made a part hereof, the defendant, for the purpose of informing the court as to the relation and situation of the said defendant in regard to the said house, and the plan and building
thereof, and the said plaintiff, at the time of the execution of
the contract aforesaid, and the circumstances surrounding the
parties, and leading and inducing to the said cbntract, offered
evidence by T. P. Andrews, a competent witness, and who
was present at the execution of said contraet and signed the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

467

Van Buren v. Digges.

same as a witness, tending to prove that the said defendant intended to reside in the said house with .his family as their permanent home; that the site of the same was-selected by
him on account of its great convenience to be a place of business; that-the plan thereof was, in many respects, peculiar, and
according to his own plan, and intended for his own convenience and professional habits; and that the amount of ten per
cent. on the contract price, stipulated by the contract aforesaid
to be forfeited if the said house was not entirely finished and
fit to occupy, - therein provided, on the 25th of December,
1844, was intended by the said parties, at the time of entering
into said contract, as and for the liquidated damages that
would result and I irly belong to the said defendant by reason
of said failure to finish the said house on the 2.5th of December,
1844; to which said offered evidence, and every part thereof,
the plaintiff objected, and the court refused to hear the same;
to which refusal of the court the defendant, by his counsel, excepts, and prays the court to sign, seal, and enroll this his bill
of exception, which is accordingly done, this 15th day of Aprl,
W. CRANCH,
1847.
JAaIES 8. MORSELL,
JA

E:S DUNLOP."

Defendant's Third Exception.
"Upon the further trial of this cause, and in addition to the
evidence contained in the aforegoing bills of exceptions, the
plaintiff having given evidence tending to show that the said
defendant, while the said house was being built, made a contract for an alteration in the style and finish of the plastering
of the said house, which contract was made with a third person, and not with the plaintiff, and thereby the exeqution of
the wyork on the said building was delayed beyond the said
25th of December, 1844; the defendant offered evidence tending to prove that the said plastering, and the style and finish
thereof, was usual and proper and necessary to the completion
of the said house; and further offered to prove, that at the
time of the execution of the said plastering the defendant, in
the presence of the plaintiff, insisted on and required him to
execute the same as a part of his contract, and that he refused
so to do. To the admissibility of which said offered-evidence,
and every part of it, the plaintiff objected, and the c6urt refused to permit the same or any part thereof to go to the jury;
to which refusal the defendant excepts, and prays the c.ourt to
sign, seal, and enroll this his exception, which, is accordingly
W. CRANCH,
done, this 15th day of April, 1847.
JAB' S. MoasEL.L."

468

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Digges.

Defendant's Fourth Exception.
"On the further trial of this cause, and after the evidence
contained in the foregoing bills of exceptions, and which are
made a part hereof, the defendant offered evidence tending to
prove that he had paid, laid out, and expended various sums
of money to various persons other than the plaintiff; for and
on account of the omissions and deficiencies "in the work and
materials done and furnished by the plaintiff, and omitted to
be done and furnished by him under his said contract; and offered to prove, in connection therewith, Oat such omissions
and deficiencies were in and about the work and materials furnished and done by the plaintiff finder his said contract; but
the said plaintiff objected to fhe admissibility of the said offered evidence, and every part thereof, and the court refused to
allow the same, or any part thereof, to go to the jury; to which
refusal of the court the defendant excepts, and prays the court
to sign, seal, ind enroll this his exception, which is accordingly
done, this 15th day of April, 1847.
W. CRANcH,
JTAS. S. 1lORSELL."

Defendant's Fifth Exception.
"Upon the further trial of this causer the plaintiff having
given evidence in addition to that contained in the aforegoing
bills of exceptions, and which are made a part hereof, tending
to prove that he had, at the request of defendant, in addition
to the wrk and labor and m.aterials provided for in the said
contract, done and performed certain extra work, and furnished
extra materials on and about the said house and premises, and
f6r which he claimed extra compensation and damages over
and above the amount specified in the said contract and the
defendarit, .having offered evidence tending to prove that he did
not consent to any extension of the time for completing the
said house as provided by the said contract, prayed the court
to instruct the jury, that if, from the whole evidence aforesaid,
the jury shall believe that any extra work ordered or sanctioned
by defendant beyond that provided for by the written agreements did not entitle the plaintiff to any extension of time in
the completion of said work, unless the jury shall find that at
the time of agreeing for said work it was distinctly understood
that extra time should be allowed in consequence, and then
only to the extent of the time actually agreed upon, or ini the
absence of. any agreement .for a precise time, to such extent as
was reasonably necessary for such extra work; which instruction the court gives, and on the prayer of the plaintiff adds
thereto: But the court further instructs the jury, that the de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Van Buren v. Digges.

fendant is not entitled to set off in this action the sum of ten
per cent. on the amount of the contract mentioned in the proviso in the said contract, nor any damages which may have
resulted to the defendant by any delay on the part of the
plaintiff in completing the said house, and delivering the same
to the defendant on the said 25th of December, 1844. To
which modification of the court and instruction on the part of
the plaintiff, as above granted, the defendant excepts, and prays
the court to sign, seal, and enroll this his bill of excepti6is,
which is accordingly done, this 15th day of April, 1847.
W. CRANCH,
JAS. DUNLOP."

Defendant's Sixth Exception.
" And the said plaintiff, having further given evidence tending to show that, after the plastering of the said house had
been begun, the defendant entered into a contract with the
plasterer to make cornice and centre-pieces for the parlors and
passage, that a delay in the work for a week was occasioned
by the negotiation leading to the said agreement, and a further
delay of two weeks was occasioned by the work required on
the said additional plastering, and part of the same being frozen
insomuch that the said plasterer did not and could not finish
the said work until some days after the said 25th of December,
1844, and much of the carpenters' work and the painters' was
thereby postponed and delayed until after the said day; the
said defendant then gave evidence to show that the plaintiff
knew of the said agreement for the said additional plastering,
and did not object- thereto.
" And thereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct
the jury: If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that any delay was caused in completing the work in consequende of the
extra plastering in the parlord and passage, dohe under the distinct contract between the defendant and Messrs. Brown, given
in evidence, and they shall further find that said extra plastering was so done with the full knowledge and sanction of the
plaintiff, and without any understanding between him and the
defendant at the time, that in consequence thereof a further
time should be allowed for completing the building, then the
plaintiff is not entitled to any further time for completing the
building because of such work and the delay attendihg the
same.
" That the forfeiture of ten per cent. in the contract price of
the work for a failure to complete the same by the 25th of December, as stipulated in the written contract given in evidence,
is to be held as the liquidated amount of damage for the failure.
VOL. X1.
40

470

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Digges.

to complete the work in that time, and the defendant is entitled to a deduction of the full amount thereof from the specified
price of the work, unless the jury shall find that the failure to
complete the same by said date proceeded wholly from the
acts or default of the defendant, so that, independently of such
acts or default, he would have so completed it within said
time.
" Which instructions, and each of them, the court refused to
give; to which refusal of the court the defendant excepts, and
prays the court to sign and seal this his bill of exceptions;
which is done accordingly, this 15th of April, 1847.
W. CANCeH,
JAMES S. MORSELL,

JAMEs DUNLOP."

Defendant's Seventh Exception.
"If the jury shall find, from the evidence aforesaid, That the
plaintiff contracted with the defendant, in writing, to build,
complete, and deliver the said house to him on or before the
25th of December, 1844, and that the plaintiff failed so to do,
and shall further find that the time for said completion and
delivery was not extended beyond the said 26th of December,
1844, by the agreement of the said plaintiff and defendant, or
by the act of the defendant, then the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover in this action.
" Which the court refused to give; to9 which refusal the defendant prays leave to except, and that the court will sign and
seal this his bill of exceptions ; which is accordingly done, this
15th of April, 1847.
W. CRANcH,
JADMES S. MoRsELL."

Defendant's Eigohth Exception.
"If the jury find, from the evidence aforesaid, that the plaintiff contracted, by the contract of the
day of
aforesaid, and the additional agreement thereto of the
day as
aforesaid, to build, complete, and deliver to the defendant the
said house oi or before the 25th of December, 1844, and that
the plaintiff failed so to do, then the defendant is entitled to
claim ten per cent. as a deduction on the whole amount of the
contract price from the claim of the plaintiff; provided the jury
shall find, from the evidence, that the plaintiff could reasonably
have so completed and delivered the said house on the 25th of
December aforesaid, and notwithstanding the jury may further
find that the building and'completion therdof were delayed by
the act of the defehdant.
"Which instruction the court refused to give; to which re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1-850.

471

Van Buren v. Digges.

fusal the defendant excepts, and this his bill of exceptions is
signed, sealed, and ordered to be enrolled, this 15th of April,
1847.
W. CRANCI,
JAMES S. MORSELL,
JAMES DUNLO'."

.Defendant's-Ninth Exception.
" If the jury find, from the evidence, that the plaintiff contracted with the defendant to build, complete, and deliver to
him the said house on the 25th of December, 1844, and failed
so to do, then the defendant is entitled to claim ten per cent on
the amount of the whole price of the contract, as a deduction
from the plaintiff's claim.
" If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that the plaintiff
contracted with the defendant, in *vriting, to build, complete,
finish, and deliver to him the said house on or before the s aid
245th of December, 1844, and shall further find that the said
plaintiff failed so to do, and that the time for said completion
and delivery was not extended by agreement of the parties beyond the said 25th of December, 1844, then the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover in this action:
"Which instruction the court refused to give. Whereupon
the defendant, by his counsel, excepted to -said refusal, and
prayed the court here to sign and seal this his bill of excep.
tions; which is accordingly done, this 15th of April. 1847.
W. CRANCH,
JAMES S. MORSELL,
JAMES DUNLOP."

Upon these exceptions, the case came up to this court
It was argued by rft.May, for the plaintiff in error, -and Mr.
Bradley, for the defendant in error.
Mr. May, for the plaintiff im error, contended that the Circuit
C6urt had erred.
The principle asserted in the first, fourth, and fifth exceptions is understood to be,That in an action to recover the stipulated price on a special
contract (to build -a house, where the house, when built, has
been accepted), evidence cannot be offered to show a partial
failure to perform the same, according to its terms. Neither
can money paid to a stranger to complete the same or on account of said failure, nor any evidence of damages- suffered by
reason of such failure, be offered to reduce the said price, even
though the same be specially pleaded, or notice by way of set.
off, with a particular account thereof, be.filed in the case.

472

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Digges.

Against this principle the following authorities wvill
be relied
on. Act of Assembly of Maryland of 1785, ch. 46, ยง 7; Evans's
Maryland Practice, 153; 2 Evans's Harris, 37; 2 Greenleaf's
Evidence, ยง 136, and cases there cited ; Basten v. Butter, 7 East,
482; Poulton v. Lattimore, 9 Barn. & Cress. 263 ; Runyan v.
Nichols, 11 Johns. 547; Withers v. Greene, 9 Howard, 213.
The second exception denies that it is the duty of the court to
hear evidence to aid its exposition of a doubtful intention ap.
pea~ing in a written instrument, so as to give it effect according to the real intentions of the parties.
Against this will be cited, 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, ยง 277;
Gray v. Harper, 1 Story, 574; Smith v. Bell, 6 Peters, 75;
Bradley v. Steamboat Co., 13 Peters, 99.
The fifth and eighth exceptions -declare that the sum of ten
per cent., as agreed by the said contract to be forfeit, in case
the.said house was not completed and delivered by the 25th of
December, 1844, was intended by the parties as "a penalty,"
and not as "liquidated damages," and could not be set off or
discounted against the plaintiff's claim.
Against this will be cited, 2 Pothier on Obligations, by
Evans, note No. 12, pp. 85-99; Davies v. Penton, 6 Barn. &
Cress. 2.24 ; Lindsay v. Anesley, 6 Iredell, 189; Fletcher v,.
Dyche, 2 Term Rep. 32; Huband v. Grattan, 1 Alcock & Napier, 394; Crisdee v. Bolton, 3 Carr. & Payne, 240; Leighton
v; Wales, 3 Meeson & Welsby, 545; Nobles v. Bates, 7 Cowen,
309; Dakin v. Williams, 17 Wendell, 454; Allen v. Brazier,
2 Bailey, (S.C.) 295; Brewster v. Edgarly, 13 N. Hamp. 277;
Mead v. Wheeler, Ibid. 354.

Mr. Bradley, for the defendant in error, referred to the following authorities: On the first point, 12 Wheaton, 183, 189, 193.
Second point, 13 Peters, 99.
Third point, 7 Wheaton, 13, 16, 17, 18.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, in a form of proceeding practised in
the court of Washington, instituted a suit in the nature of an
action of assumpsit against the plaintiff, upon a contract in
writing for building a house. The contract between these
parties, which is drawn out in much minuteness of detail, it is
not deemed necessary to set forth here in extenso in order to a
correct understanding of the questions of law raised upon this
record. Enough for that purpose will be shown in the following extracts from the agreement above mentioned.
After giving the dimensions of the house to be built, the con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

478

Van Buren v. Digges.

tract proceeds with these stipulations concerning the work to
be done, and the compensation to be paid therefor: " House to be built of two stories, with attic chambers above,
of first-rate materials throughout, including office and back
buildhgs, and in the best and most modern style of workmanship, and to be entirely finished and fit for occupation on or
before the 15th of December, 1844.
" For the brick-work throughout, the best hard-burned red
brick are to be employed, with sharp river sand and best lime.
For the flooring throughout, the best quality narrow North
Carolina yellow heart pine, tongued, grooved, and secret nailed.
Roofs to be slated in the best manner. Spouting to be thoroughly arranged, in the least conspicuous manner, so as to
carry off all the water that falls on the roofs of the main buildingi office, and back buildings. Door and window frames and
doors to be of perfectly seasoned material, warranted not to
shrink."
After'a long detail, having reference rather to an enumeration than to the quality of the several things to be done in
completing the house and offices, the agreement c3ncludes in
these words -" That the said William H. Van Burerl is to
pay to the said William Digges for the house built and finished
as above specified, the sum of $ 4,600 in gold, or silver current
money of the United States, or its equivaleit in bank-notes, in
thd following manner; viz. $ 1,000 on the 1st day of September; $ 1000 on the 1st day of October.; $ 1,000 on the 1st day
of November; and $1,600 on the day'that the house is entirely finished and fit to occupy, provided that it shall not be later
than the 25th day of December, 1844; he, the said William
Digges, to forfeit ten per cent on the whole amount, if the said
house is not entirely completed and fit to occupy at the time
agreed upon, viz. December 25th, 1844."
Subsequently, viz. on the 1st day of September, 1844, the
above agreeme!nt was -altered by the parties in the following
particulars, vi- "cthat in place of the attic story with rooms, as
specified in the above contract, William H. Digges-is to build
a third story, divided bid finished in all respects like the second
story"; and after reciting some directions with respect to divisions and arrangements in this third story, the now agreement
provides for the "finishing of a garret; to be floored, plastered,
and divided as agreed upon, with the necessary stairways, in
the best manner and with the same materials employed in the
second story."
For the work to be performed under this new agreement,'
when it should be completed, the plaintiff, in error was to pay
the additional sum of $525; but no stipulation appears there40

474

SUPREME COURT.
Van Buren v. Digges.

in as to the time within which this additional work was to be
completed.
The plaintiff in error, the defendant below, pleaded the general issue (non assumpsit), filed a bill of particulars amounting
to the sum of $ 707, for moneys paid, expenses incurred, and
damage sustained, by reason of the non-performance by the
plaintiff of his agreement; and filed also with this bill of particulars a notice in writing, in -uhich the amount of that bill
was claimed in diminution of the plaintiff's demand. Upon
the issuie joined, the jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff, for
the sum of $1,223.21, with interest from the 21st day of August, 1845, till payment, and for this sum, with the costs of suit,
the court gave judgment against the defendant below.
At the trial of this cause, there were nine separate prayers to
the court, and nine bills of exceptions sealed to the rulings of
the court upon the prayers thus presented to them. Some of
these exceptions it will be unnecessary particularly to discuss,
as they are clearly embraced, if not within the terms, certainly
within the meaning,. of others which were taken. We will
therefore examine those exceptions only which are regarded as
propounding in themselves some distinct and sdparate legal
principle. "
The first exception by the defendant below, the plaintiff in
error-here, is as follows :-"The plaintiff, in support.of the issue joined upon the plea of
non assumpsit, produced and~proved written contracts between
the parties, as follows (copied in pages 461 -463), and further
offered evidence tending to prove that .he had executed the
work therein stipulated for, and had delivered it to the defendant, who received it without objection. And thereupon the
defendant offered to prove, by competent witnesses, that, before
receiving said work, and during, the progress thereof, he had
objected to the sufficiency of various parts of the same as a
compliance with -the contract, and had communicated said objections to the plaintiff, and that there were various omissions
of work stipulated to be done, and various -portions of the work
contracted for were done in a defective and inferior manner,
and not as well as contracted for by the plaintiff, and that
some of these, defects were not and could not be discovered by
the defendant, until after the defendant had entered into the
possession and use of the house; and the d*endant offered to
prove, by way of set-off, and having filed a bill of particulars of
said alleged omissions and defects, and given'due notice thereof to the plaintiff, and of hi&purpose in reduction of. the contract price of, the whole work sued for by the said plaintiff, the
value of said omissions, and the difference in value between

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

475

Van Buren v. Digges.

the actual work defectively executed, and that contracted for;
to which evidence so offered, or any of it, the plaintiff objected,
as inadmissible under the issue, and -the court, on the objection
so taken, refused to admit any of said evidence for said purpose."
The decision of the Circuit Court, rejecting the evidence
described and tendered for the purposes set forth in this exception, cannot be sustained upon any sound legal principle.
We are aware of the rule laid down in the earlier English
cases, which prescribed that in all instances wherein a party
shall have been injured, either by a partial failure of consideration for the contract, or by the non-fulfilment of the contract,
or by breach of warranty, the person so injured could not in an
action against him upon the contract defend himself by alleging and proving these facts; but could obtain redress only by
a cross action against the party from whom the injury shall
.have proceeded. This doctrine of the earlier cases has been
essentially modified by later decisions, and brought by them to
the test of justice and convenience, which requres, that whenever compensation or an equivalent is claimed by a party in
return for the performance of conditions for which such compensation or equivalent has been stipulated, the person so
claiming is bound to show a fulfilment in good faith of those
conditions; and the party against whom the claim sh'all be
made shall be permitted to repel it by proof of an entire failure to perform, or of an imperfect or unfaithful performance;
or by proof of injuriods consequences resulting from either of
these delinquencies; and shall not be driven exclusively to his
cross action. Of this doctrine the following examples, amongst
others to be found, may be adduced from the.English courts.
Per Parke, Justice, in the case of Thornton v. Place, 1 Moody
& Robinson, 219, it is said: "When a party engages to do
certain work on certain specified terms, and in a specified
manner, but in fact does not perform the work so as to correspond with the specification, he is not of course entitled to
recover the price agreed upon in the specification; nor can he
recover according to the actual value of the work, as if there
had been no special contract. What the plaifitiff is entitled to
recover is the price agreed upon, subject to a.deduction, and
the measure of that deduction is, the sum which it would take
to alter the work so as to make it correspond with the specification."
In Chapel v. Hicks, 2 Carrington & Marshman, 214, it is
said: "In an action on a special contract for work done under
the contract, and for work and materials generally, the defendant may give in evidence that the work has been done im-

SUPREME

COURT.

Van Buren v. Digges.

properly, and not agreeably to the contract; in that case, the
plaintiff will only be entitled to recover the real yalue of the
work done and materials supplied."
In the case of Cutler v. Close, 5 Car. & Payne, 337, where a
party had contracted to supply and erect a warm-air apparatus
for a certain sum, it was ruled, in an action for the price (the
defence to which was, that the apparatus did not answer), that,
if the jury thought it was substantial in the main, though not
quite so complete as it might be under the contract, and could
be made good at a reasonable rate, the proper course would be
to find a verdict for the plaintiff, deducting such sums as would
enable the defendant to do what was requisite. And Tindal,
C. J., in his instructions to the jury, uses this language: "The
plaintifls say that they have performed their contract, and are
entitled to be paid. On the contrary, the defendant says that
the apparatus is not at all of the sort he contracted for; and
therefore he is not liable to pay for it. The law on the subjiect,
as it seems to me, lies in a narrow compass. If the stove in
question is altogether incompetent, and unfit for the purpose,
and either from that, or from the situation in which it is placed,
does not at all answer the end for which it was intended, then
the defendant is not bound to pay. If it is perfect, and the
fault lies in management at the chapel, then the plaintiffs will
be entitled to recover the whole price. But there is another
view of the case. The apparatus may be in the main substantial, but not quite so complete as it might be according to the
c6ntract; and in that case, if it can be made good at a reasonable expense, the proper course will be) to give your verdict for
the plaintiffs, deducting such sum as will enable the defendant
to do that which is requisite to make it complete."
But, as conclusive with this court upon this point, it may be
remarked, that it was carefully considered at the last term in
the case of Withers v. Greene, 9 Howard, 213; the decisions
applicable thereto from the courts both in England and the
United States were then collated and examined, and upon that
examination the doctrine herein above propounded received
the concurrence of all the judges. Again expressing our approbation of this doctrine, we conclude that the proof tendered,
as declared in the first exception of the defendant below, should
have been admitted, and that the Circuit Court erred in ruling
its exclusion from the jury.
The second exception by the defendant states, that, in addition to the evidence previously tendered by him, he offered
proof tending to show the peculiar adaptation of the house
contracted for, both in its design and situation, to the defendant's personal and professional pursuits and convenience, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

477

Vau Buren v. Digges.

that the amount of ten per centum on the contract price stipulated to be forfeited if the house was not entirely finished and
ready for occupation, as therein provided, on the 25th of December, 1844, was intended by the parties as and for liquidated
damages, that would result and fairly belong to the said defendant by reason of said failure to finish the said house on
the 25th of December, 1844; and that the court refused to hear
the evidence thus tendered. In the refusal of the court to admit the evidence thus tendered we think they decided correctly.
It -would have been irregular in the court to go out of the
terms of the contract,, and into the consideration of matters
wholly extraneous, and with nothing upon the face of thewriting pointing to such matters as proper or necessary to obtain
its construction or meaning. The clause of the contract pro-viding for the forfeiture of ten per, centum on the amount of
the contract price, upon a failure to complete the work by a
-given day, cannot properly be regarded as an agreement or
settlement of liquidated damages. The terra forfeiture imports
a penalty; it has no necessary or natural connection with the
measure or degree of injury which may result from a breach
of contract, or from an imperfect performance. It implies an
absolute infliction, regardless of the nature and ektent of the
causes by which it is superinduced. Unless, therefore, it shall
have been expressly adopted and declared by the-paities to be
a measure of injury or compensation, it is nevei taken as such
by courts of justice, who' leave it to be enforced where this can
be done in its real character, viz. that of a penalty. 'In a defence like-that attempted by the defendant in the Circuit Court,
upon the essential justice and fairness of the acts of the parties, a positive immutable penalty could hardly be applied as a fair
test of their merits.
In the third exception by the defendant, it is stated that the
plaintiff, having given evidence to show that the defendant,
whilst the house in question was being built, made a contract,
for an alteration in the style and finish of the plastering of the
house, with a third person, and not with the plaintiff; 'and
thereby the execution of the work on the said building was
delayed beyond the 25th of December, 1844; the defendant
offered evidence tending to prove that the ,said plastering and
the style and fiish thereof were usual and proper and necessary to the completion of the said house; and further offered
to prove, that, at the time of the execution of the said plastering, the defendant in the presence of the plaintiff insisted on
and required him to execute the same as a part of his contract; and that he refused so to do, and that to the admissibility of this evidence, objection being made, it was excluded

478

SUPRE?4E COURT.
Van .Buren v. Digger.

from the jury by the court. In this decision the court were
certainly correct. The defendant could. have no right to insist
upon the performance of plastering, or of any other description
of work, unless it came within the provisions of the contract;
the 'imple fact that the work demanded was suitable to the
style of the defendant's house, could give him no right to demand its execution, unless the plaintiff had contracted for its
performance. It was incumbent, therefore, on the defendant, to
prove by legal evidence that the work demanded by him was
within the provisions of the contract; but instead of doing
this, he insisted upon showing merely that he, the defendant,
had determined this work to be proper and within the provisions of the contract, and that the plaintiff's non-concurrence
in this determination, and consequent refusal to do what the
defendant required, were to be received as proof of a faqilure
on the part of the plaintiff to perform his contract;, an I as
forming a just ground with the defendant for his resistan. , to
th& action. It would indeed have been -strange, if the court
could have tolerated such an irregularity as this; by which the
defendant would have been permitted to become a witness in
his own behalf.
The fourth and fifth exceptions on the part of the defendant
below, relating merely to the admissibility of testimony to
show a failure to perform, or an incomplete performance, on the
part of the plaintiff, are embraced within the first exception already considered, and the rulings of the court as to these two
last instances being in contravention of our opinion as declared upon the first eiception, are pronounced by this court to
be erroneous.
In the- sixth exception of the defendant, two subjects essentially distinct in character are blended. As to the first, it is
stated that the plaintiff, having further given evidence te nding
to show that, after the plastering uf the house was begun, the
defendant entered into a contract with the plasterer to make
cornices and centre-pieces for the"parlors and passages; that a
delay in the work for a week was occasioned by the negotiation leading to the said agreement; and a further delay of two
weeks by the additional plastering, and part of the same being
frozen, insomuch that the plasterer -could not finish fhe work
until some days after the 25th of December, 1844, and much
of the' carpenteis' work 'and, the-.painters' was thereby postponed and -delayed unil after he said day; and the said defendant th'e*wgdve evidence to show that the plaintiff knew of
the s d agreement for the said additional 'lastering, and did
not object thereto.- Ad thereupon the defendant piayed the
court-to instrtict'the jury, that-.it they shall find that any delay

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

479

Van Buren v. Digges.

was caused in completing the work in consequence of the ex.
tra plastering in the parlors and passage, done under the distinct contract therefor given in evidence, and they shall further
find that said extra plastering was so done with the full knowledge! and sanction of the plaintiff, and without any understanding between him and the defendant at the time, that in consequence thereof a further time should be allowed for completing
the building, then the plaintiff is not entitled to any further
time for completing the building because of such work, and the
delay attending the same.
The second subject embraced in this exception is the forfeiture of ten per centum upon the contract price of the work,
Which the court was asked to declare was the amount of liquidated damages, the whole amount of which on the price of the
work the defendant.was authorized to claim for a failure to
complete the work by the 25th of December, 1844, unless the
jury should find that the failure to complete the work proceeded wholly from the acts or default of the defendant. The
refusal by the Circuit Court of both the instructions appearing
upon this exception is entirely approved.
It is difficult to conceive, upon what ground the defendant
could be permitted to interpose an obstruction to the fulfilment
of the contract, and then to convert that very obstruction into
a merit on his own part, or into the foundation of a claim
against the party, whom he had already subjected to the inevitable consequences of the obstruction so interposed; an inability to comply with his engagement, ahd a postponement of the
fruits of a compliance therewith, if that had been permitted.
Mere acquiescence in this irregularity by the plaintiff should
not subject him to farther mischief. With respect to the second subject embraced in this exception, vik. the forfeiture of
ten per centum claimed by the defendant, we deem it unnecessary to add to what has been already said on that subject.
We will here remark, once for all, with respect to this penalty,
that, as it constitutes the only ground for the eighth and ninth
exceptions taken by the defendant below, those exceptions
must be regarded as expressly overruled.
By the seventh exception of the defendant below, it appears
that the court were asked to propound as the law, that if, from
the evidence, it should appear that the plaintiff contracted with
the defendant in writing, to build, complete, and deliver the
said house to him on or before the 25th day of December,
1844, and that the plaintiff failed to do so; .and the jury shall
find that the time for said co.mpletion nd delivery was not extended beyond the said 25th of December, 1844, by the agreement of the said plaintiff and defeiidant, or by the act of the

480

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

defendant, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this
action, which instruction the court refused to give.
The ruling of the court, as set forth in this exception, though
not reconcilable with their own decision on the first prayer presented to them by the defendant, is in accordance with the opinion we have expressed in reference to the questions raised by
that prayer, and also with the doctrine ruled by this and in
other tribunals upon those questions, as in treating of that first
prayer we have already shown. It places the parties upon the
true ground of contestation between them, viz. the truth, the
extent, and manner of performance on the one hand; the degree of injury, from omission, neglect, or imperfection of perfornance on the other. The ruling of the Circuit Court, therefore, upon this exception, is"entirely approved; but as that court
has erred in its decision in reference to the prayers in the first,
fourth, and fifth exceptions of the defendant, its decision as to
those prayers is hereby reversed, with costs, and this cause is
remanded to the Circuit Court, with orders for a venire facias
for a new trial in conformity with the principles expressed in
this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

FREDERIc D. CONRAD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. DAVID GRIFFEY.
Where a witness was examined for the plaintiff, fnd the defendant offered in evidence declarations which he had made of a contradictory character, and then the
plaintiff offered to give in evidence others, affirmatory of the first, these last
affirmatory declarations were not admissible, being made at a time posterior to
that at which he made the contradictory declarations given in evidence by the
defendant.
Where the writ, pleadings, and contract spoke only of Frederic D. Conrad, and tie
judgment went against Daniel Frederic Conrad, the defendant, it was too late
after verdict and jadgment to assign the variation ar error.

Tais case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for Louisiana.

