DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

33

Oakey v. Bennett et al.

As the case must come before that court for further proceedings, it may, in its discretion, on a proper application, relieve
the plaintiffs from the embarrassments in which the justice of
it seems to have been involved, on account of the unsklfulness
of the pleader, by opening the judgment on the demurrer, and
permitting them to amend the pleadings. It is appaient that
judgment has been rendered against them, without at all involving the merits of the case.
The writ of error is dismissed, and the cause remanded to
the court below.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the-District Court of the United States for the Northem District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this. writ of error be, and the same is hereby,
dismissed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to proceed
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

SAIUEL W. OAKEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. JOHN H. BENNETT, AD.
IIINISTRATOR OF WILLIAI HALL, AND JOHN H. ILLIES.
A decree in bankruptcy passed, in 1843, by the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, did'not pass to the assignee the title to a
house and lot in the city of Galveston and State of Texas, which house and lot
were the property of the bankrupt.
Texas was then a foreign state, and whatever difference of opinion there may be
with respect to the extra-territorial operation of a bankrupt law upon personal
property, there is none as to its operation up-rn real estate. This court concurs
with Sir William Grant, in 14 Vesey, 537, that the validity of every disposition of
real estate must depend upon the law of the country in which that estate is
situated.
Besides, the deed made by the assignee in bankruptcy to one of the parties in the
present cause was not nade conformably with the laws of Texas; and letters of
administration upon the estate of the bankrupt had been taken out in Texas before the fact of the bankruptcy was known there; and the creditors of the estate
in 'Iexas had a better lien upon the property than the assignee in Louisiana.

THIs cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
It was an ejeetment, conducted by way of petition and answer, for a house and lot in the county and city of Galveston,
in the State of Texas, being lot No. 13 in block No. 681.
The suit was brought by Oakey against Bennett, the admin-

34

SUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

istrator of William Hall, and John H. f]lies, tenant in possession. In the bill of exceptions the suit is denominated an action
of "trespass to try titles" ; but as the petition prayed for the
restoration of the property, as well as damages, it seems more
proper to call it an ejectment.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff sought to derive his title from
Hall, under whom the defendants claimed also.
In 1842, Hall was in possession of the lot by purchase from
John S. Snydor, but no deed was at that time made.
On the 9th of February, 1843, Hail (calling himself William
Hall, late of Galveston, Texas) filed a petition 'in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, praying for the benefit of the bankrupt act of the United
States, passed August 19th, 1841. The legal notice was given,
and on the 10th of March, 1843, he was declared a bankrupt,
and F. B. Conrad, of New Orleans, appointed assignee.
On the 3d of April, 1843, Snydor executed a deed to Hall
of the house and lot in Galveston.
In March, 1844, Hall died, and Bennett, the defendant, was
appointed administrator by the Probate Court of Galveston
County in Texas.
In May, 1845, Conrad, the assignee of Hall, petitioned the
District Court for an order to sell the effects of the bankrupt,
and, the usual preliminary proceedings being had, a public sale
took place for cash. An article in the inventory was "all the
right, title, and interest of the bankrupt in and to a house and
lot in ,Galveston, Texas." Samuel W. Oakey became the
purchaser of this for the price of four hundred dollars, and on
the 18th of June, 1845, Conrad executed to Oakey a deed
which conained the following recital, viz.: "And the said William Hall, bankrupt, at the time he filed
his petition in said court to be declared a bankrupt, and at the
time, said 10th March, 1843, when he was declared and decreed a bankrupt, was possessed of a claim to a house and lots
in the city of Galveston; of the exact nature of which the said
Francis B. Conrad, assignee as aforesaid, could not obtain any
exact khowledge or description; which claim, whether it was
one or in plurallty,.on a house or houses, building or buildings,
more or less in number, of lots, parcel, or parcels of land, bb
they what they were, situated in the city of Galveston, republic of Texas, by said act of Congress, and the decrees of
said court on said bankrupt's petition, with all his property
and rights of property, of every name and nature, and whether
real, personal, or mixed, became, by the mere operation of said
act thus made and provided, ipso facto from the time of such decre6 aforesaid, and was deemed to be, divested out of such bank-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Oakey

v.

35

Bennett et al.

rupt, without any other act, assignment, or conveyance whatsoever, and the same became vested by force of the same in
Francis B. Conrad, assignee as aforesaid. All of which rights
of property or real estate, whatever might be the nature of his
title thereto, or interest therein, which was situated in the city
of Galveston, republic of Texas, it was my intention to sell, as
assignee as aforesaid, at public auction; and the said court on
considering my petition to that effect, made judgment thereon,
and issued an order of sale under date of 23d May,.1845; and
by virtue of said order of sale by said court, and after due and
lawful advertisement made by William F. Wagner, United
States marshal for the district, and at the time and'place designated in said advertisement, at the hour of 12, noon, on this
18th day of June, A. D. 1845, the said marshal-did, under my
direction, then and there publicly cry, adjudicate, and sell to
Samuel W. Oakey, the last and highest bidder, as follows,
viz.: 'all the right, title, and interest of the said bankrupt
(William Hall) in and to a house and lots in the city of Galveston, Texas, being lot 13, block 681, or lot 9, block 622, or
both,' and sold without any guaranty whatever. The said
Samuel W. Oakey became the purchaser for the price and
sum of four hundre& dollars, the receipt of which is hereby, as
it already has been, acknowledged. In consideration thereofi
I, the said Francis B. Conrad, assignee as aforesaid, have bargained, sold, conveyed, assigned, transferred, set over," &c., dc.
This dei'd was afterwards recorded in Texas.
On the 12th of December, 1846, Bennett settled an account
with the Probate Court, showing that he was in advance for
the estate $ 1,811.03.
"On the 25th of January, 1847, Oakey filed a petition in the
District Court of the United States fe- the District of Texas,
which, after having been the subject of sundry pleas and demurrers and motions, was finall r withdrawn, and an amended petition filed on the 31st of May, 1848. This was the subject of
some motions too, but at length issue was joined, on the 5th
of June, 1848, and the cause came on for triat. Being left
to a jury, they found a verdict for the defendants.
The bill of exceptions sets forth all the deeds offeied in evidence by the plaintiff, for the purpose of showing a title in Hall,
and also the record of the proceedings in bankruptcy, to show.
that this title passed to himself. This padrt of the bill is not
necessary to an understanding of the prayers addressed, to the
court, and it is therefoie omitted. Nor is it necessary to insert
the evidence, as offered by the defendant, to prove interlineations and falsifications of the record. The following are the
prayers addressed to the court on the part of the plaintiff.

36

tUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

The plaintiff requests the court to charge the jury,."1st. That if the jury find, from the evidence, that at the date
of Hall's bankruptcy he was seized and possessed of the premises in question, and that, being so possessed, he, Hall, voluntarily alplied to the honorable United States District Court of
Louisiana to be declared a bankrupt, and was, in accordance
with the act of Congress of the 19th of August, 1841, 6djudged
and decreed by the court to be a bankrupt, such voluntary
petition and decree operated to divest and pass Hall's estate in
the premises, and vested the property as absolutely in Hall's
assignee as-he, Hall, might have done by his own voluntary
conveyance.
(Which instruction the court gave.)
"2d. That if the said assignee, Conrad, so appointed by said
court, in execution of the order of said court sold said property
to plaintiff for a valuable consideration, such bankruptcy, decree, order, sale, and purchase passed the right of property as
effectually to plaintiff as Hall might have done by his voluntary
deed of conveyance.
"(Which second instruction the court refused to give.)
"3d. Thatif Hall did petition, and at the time of his petition in bankruptcy surrendered the premises in question as part
of his assets, although he only had possession thereof under a
purchase by inchoate title, which was afterwards perfected by
full grant, such subsequently acquired title enured to the benefit of plaintiff.
":(Which third instruction the court refused.)
"4th. That if the jury find from the evidence that Hall applied to the proper court, by his own.voluntary petition, for the
benefit of the act of Congress of the United States of the 19th
of August, 1841, and obtained a decree of bankruptcy on said
voluntary application, then all the property of said Hall, of
every kind and nature whatever, real, personal, or mixed, wvas
thereby divested out of said Hall, and vested as fully and effectually in his proper assignee, duly appointed, as the same was
previously vested in Hall.
"(Which instruction the court gave.).
"5th. That the act of the United States Congress of the
19th of August, 1841, was recognized and adopted by the laws
of Texas as part of the law of the republic of Texas.
1"(And this fifth instruction the court refused to give, saying,
that the law of the republic of Texas referred to recognized
the bankrupt's discharge, but did not affect his real estate, and
here directs the clerk to insert the law referred to, which is
an act of the republic of Texas, approved February, 1841,
laws of that year, p. 143, entitled "An Act for the relief of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

37

Oakey v. Bennett et al.

those who have taken the benefit of the insolvent laws-of other
countries."
-" 6th. That if Hall made a voluitary assignment in Louisiana of the premises in question, in order to obtain the benefit
of the said act of the 19th of Augus% 1841, such assignment
was, and is, in point of law, equivalent to a voluntary conveyance made by Hall of said premises to the plaintiff.
:" (Which instruction the court refused.)
"7th. That the transcript of the record, marked A, from the
United States District Court of Louisiana, is competent and
conclusive evidence of what it purports to contain, and what
is recited therein; and that under law said transcript of record
is entitled to full faith and credit.
"8th. That Bennett is in no better condition in relation to
the property in controversy than Hall himself would have been
had he been living and the defendant in this suit.
"(This charge, the eighth, the court gave.)
"As to the seventh instruction asked, the court charged the
jury that full faith and credit should be given to the transcript of
the record of the court in Louisiana; that is, that it is entitled
to the same force and efficacy here that it wouid be entitled to
in the court where the transaction was had, and of which it
purports to be the record; that in this durt, as in that, parol
testimony is competent to show that that which claims to be a
record is void for f6rgery.
"9th. That if the jury believe from the evidence, that after
Hall's act of bankruptcy he became a citizen of Texas, Oakey
being and remaining a citizen of the Uited States until the
annexation of Texas to the United States,.then, by the act of
annexation, the property in question became as absolutely
Oakey's as though Texas had been one of the United States
at the date of the bankruptcy, the act of. annexation having, by
relation, removed every disability growing out of the laws of
the place where the land is situated, and of, Oakey's personal
right to hold.
(Ninth refused by the colirL)
"10th. That if the jury believe from the pleadings and evidence that Oakey has derived his title from or through Hall's
voluntary act, either of record or by conveyance, and that the
defendant Bennett only claims as Hall's administrator, and
lilies as his tenant.'then Bennett is only the personal representative of Hall, and, as such, a proxy, and as fully, and effectually estopped from denying Oakey's title as Hall himself
would have been, and that, Hall would have been absolutely
estopped.
"(Refused by the court.)
-

VOL. xr.

'4

38

SUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

"11th. That, if the jury find for the plaintiff, they may find
the rents as damages.
" (Which the court gave.)
"12th. That the act for the relief of persons who have taken
the benefit of foreign insolvent laws of Texas, passed February,
1841, (before referred to,) recognizes a surrender under a foreign
bankrupt law, if honestly made, as a valid and legal mode of
transferring the bankrupt's real estate lying in Texas.
"(Which the court refused.)
"12th. That Oakey is vested with all the rights that were
vested in Conrad by virtue of his due appointment as assignee
of Hall.
"(And this twelfth instruction the court refused to give.)
"And to the failure and refusal of the court to give the instructions hereinbefore asked, and by the court refused as noted,
and to the giving the said several instructions not asked, which
by the court were given as hereinbefore set forth, the said plaintiff at the time excepted.
"And now, for the purpose of saving the said several exceptions taken, as well as to set forth the whole facts of the case,
the court seals this bill of exceptions, and orders the same to
be filed and made a part of the record, which is done 5th June,
1848.
JOHN C. WATROUS, [L. .]

U. S. Tod-e."
The case came up to this court upon all these points.
It was argued by 111r. Hall,for the plaintiff in error, and Mr.
Bogers and Mr. Howard,for the defendants in error, with whom
were Mr. Ovid F. ohnson and 11Mr. Harris.
The points made in the arguments of counsel which are not
touched upon in the opinion of the court are omitted in this
report.
Mifr.'Hall, for plaintiff in error.
Third Point. There was error in the court below in refusing
to, charge that the plaintiff became vested with the rights of
property, which had been vested in Conrad by Hall's bankruptcy. (Charge asked for in Nos. 2 and 12.)
1. The court had charged, that the decree which discharged
Hall divested him of his property, and vested it in Conrad.
And therein it was correct. General Bankrupt Law, § 3.
2. That the vested property in Conrad, when deeded to
the plaintiff, passed Hall's rights, is a sequitur of the charge
given. The assignee had power to deed. General Bankrupt
Law, § 15.
3, The surrender and conveyance in Louisiana passed the

DECEMBER TERM, 1350.

39

Oakey v. Bennett et al.

property in Texas. This while she was yet a republic. Proviso in Act, 5 Texas Laws, p. 44; Dallam's Digest, pp. 94, 95;
Carr's Guardian v. Wellborn, Dallam's Digest, p. 624, and I
Texas Reports, 463.*
4. This was not a compulsory, but a voluntary transfer. A
bankrupt's property out of the jurisdiction of the tribunal passing it may not be transferred as against creditors of the locus
rei sita, when compulsory or scheduled in general terms; but
if he voluntarily surrenders it, it passes. Selkrig v. Davies,
2 Rose, B. C. 291; Story, Conflict of Laws, § 38; Bank of
Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; 16 Pet. 57.
Fourth Point. Had Hall been defendant in this suit, be
would have been estopped from resisting plaintiff; and there
was error in the refusing so to charge by the court. He had
voluntarily surrendered ptoperty. It had vested in an assignee.
That assignee had deeded it to plaintiff. Hall and the plaintiff
were privies in the successive relationship of the latter to the
former as to the shme rights of property. 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, § 189.
The effect of Hall's- surrender was to vest his property in
his assignee, and in whomever the assignee might sell to. He
is presumed to have known this, for it was the effect of his own
deed. Even if in law his surrender in Louisiana did not pass
Texas property, he could not set it up. Xullus comowdum
capere potest de ijurid su4 proprid. And surely either Hall or
his privy in representation cannot now deny the title of plaintiff, who, a bond fide purchaser, by reason of their own act,
will else be Prejudiced by their taking advantage of Hall's
wrong (assuming that any existed).
Fifth Point. If Hall was thus estopped, Bennett, the defendant, was also estopped. (Error in charging to contrary.)
That he was in the same condition in which Hall, if defendant,
would have been, was charged by the court. And this was so.
"Bennett was Hall's administrator, and his privy in representation. 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, § 189. The admissions of an
intestate bind his administrator. Smith v. Smith, 3 Bina. N.
C. 29; Ivat v. Finch, 1 Taunt. 141.
The record of bankruptcy was in evidence, which would
have bound Hall, and also Bennett his administrator. 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, §§ 522, 523. There was no evidence to show
that Bennett was holding for creditors. He was Hall's admin-1strator in a personal capacity only.,
* Teas had recognized and applied the force of the common law of England, as
her rule of jurispradence, whenever not in conflict with her own laws. By the comSill v. Worsof England
mon
wick, law
1 Aen.
B1. 691. the title of foreign assignees was recognized.

40

SUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

Sixth Point. The title to the property in controversy (lot
13, block No. 681, city of Galveston) was in Hall when he
was decreed bankrupt, - the time at which his property vested
in the assignee. General Bankrupt Law, § 3.
Hall bought from Snydor, in the autumn of 1842, by parol
agreement; went into occupation, and made improvements.
Snydor testifies, that he considered Hall owner all this time;
"he would have made the deed at any time after the bargain
and sale." The deed was made April 3d, 1843; discharge by
decree, June 16th, 1843.
•"In the case of a parol contract for the sale of lands, if afterwards carried into effect by a conveyance, the deed will relate
back to the date of the contract," &c. 4 Kent's Com. 451, note,
last edition; Clary v. Marshall, 5 B. Monroe, 266.
By the Texas statute of 'frauds, estate, for less than five
years could be made by parol. Dallam's Digest, 61.
There was part-performance of the parol sale; 1. By occupation. Wilber v. Paine, 1 Ham. Ohio, 261;
Gregory v. Mitchell, 1 Hoff 470.
2. By improvements. Parkhurst v. Van Cortlandt, 1 Johns.
Ch. 274.
, Part-performance of parol contract for lands saves the statute
of frauds. 4 Kent's Com. 451.
There was error in the face of these matters of fact and law,
in refusing to charge as asked for. (Charge 3.)
Seventh Point. If Hall had possessed any creditors in
Texas at the time he surrendered his Texas property, (which
does not appear so to be,) and who were thereby prejudiced,
Hall could have pleaded his discharge in Louisiana against
their demands.
- This by statute of Texas. It would be a legal mocitery,
in construing this statute, to say that, while it recognized the
validity of a foreign discharge, it did not recognize the effect
of that discharge. There was error in charging the latter.
(Charge 12.)
Eighth Point. As against every person but the State, the
assignee, although not a citizen of Texas, as well as plaintilff
could succeed to Hall's rights, and hold land.
Aliens may take by purchase, and hold land, until office
found. Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch, 603.
This is so well established, said a distinguished justice of
this court, that the reason is only a search for the antiquary.
And until land is'sei7ed by the State, aliens may convey or
maintain action. 13 Wend. 546.
Naturalization relates back, and confirms, title to land purchased during alienage. Jackson v. Beach, 1 Johns. Cas. 399.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

41

Oakey v. Bennett et aL

Texas, as a republic, having slept on her rights to escheat the
land vested by Hall in his assignee, (conceding, argumenti gratid, such right to have existed,) when admitted as a State, the
disability of the assignee was removed; and the annexation
operated to confirm hi* title in the same manner as naturalization. There was error in refusing so to charge, as at charge 9.
The points made by the counsel for the defendant were the
following:1. This is an action of trespass to try title under the statutory regulation of Texas, which declares that the trial shall
be regulated by the principles of ejectment. Hartley's Digest
of Texas Laws, p. 969. It requires a legal title to sustain the
action in this court.
2. The transfer of land by a foreign bankruptcy is not such
a title. Whatever may be doubtful as to the effect of a foreign
assignment in bankruptcy upon personal estate, it is universally admitted that it cannot convey real property, which is
regulated by the law of the situs. Story, Conffict of Laws,
§§ 422 a, 428, 591.
3. The record shows that Oakey was a citizen of Louisiana
at the date of the sale to him. He was therefore an alien, and
the tenth section of the general provisions of the constitution
of the republic forbids aliens to hold land except by titles
emanating from the government. Hartley's Dig. 38; Story,
Conft; § 429. At common law a party may take by purchase,
and hold until office found; but he cannot take by operation
of law, or by descent, or by bankruptcy. As he cannot hold,
the law will not cast the title upon him.
4. The act of the Texas Congress does not recognize conveyances by foreign bankrupt assignments. It is confined to
the effect of the discharge. The discharge is one thing, the
assignment another, and they are quite different in their effects. The Texas bankrupt law required a regular deed of
assignment from. the debtor. Hartley's Dig. 114, 115.
5. The bankrupt law of the United States of 1841 does not
provide for an assignment. ,It requires the applicant to present a petition, with a list of his creditors and their places of
residence, together with a schedule of his property, &c., and
when declared a bankrupt, the third section provides that title
to all his property, real and personal, shall .be vested in assignees "by operation of law," without any other assignment
or transfer. Such an act can have no extra-territorial fqrce on
real property, for the obvious reason, that there would be.a defect of jurisdiction. The authority of the court could not extend to lands beyond the United States.
4*

SUPREME

COURT.

Oakey v. Bennett et aL

The title to lands must be passed according to the law of
the situs. The pretended transfer of the assignee, Conrad,
could not pass title to lands in Texas, because it was not a
deed at common law, nor according to the provisions of the
laws of Texas. It had neither a seal, nor the scroll recognized
by the statutes of Texas. It had no subscribing witness, nor
was it acknowledged before any judge or other officer, -as'required by the statutes of Texas. If the judgment of the court
of bankruptcy could have had any extra.-territorial force or authority to transfer real estate, the instrument of the commissioner Conrad cannot operate as a -deed to pass the fee.
Hartley's Dig. 128. Under any. aspect of the case, it could
not support ejectment. More especially when it was shown
that there were Texas creditors at the time Hall was declared
a bankrupt.
6. The 'egistered copy of the conveyances was not competent evidence, because not legally admitted to record. The
originals were not acknowledged and proved, as required by
the Texas registry act, and were not, therefore, evidence under-her judiciary act. Hartley, 839 ; Tb. 255.
7. The description in the transfer of the commissioner, of a
"house and lot in Galveston," was not sufficient without the
interlineation of the number and block, which was proved by
the marshal to have been made after the sale, and in the handwriting of the vendee. This of itself was sufficient to avoid
the deed unless explained, and the onus of the explanation
was on the -vendee.
The following authorities were cited in addition, to show
that title to land in Texas did not pass to the assignee of. a
bankrupt under the laws of a foreign country:- Kirby, 313 ;
1 Har. & McHenry, 236; 2 lb. 463; 2 Hayw. 24; 4
McCord, 619; 1 Rep. Con. Ct. 283; 6 Binney, 353; 6 Pick.
286; Bee, 244; 5 Cranch, 302; 12 Wheaton, 361; 3 Wendell,
538; 2 Kent's Com., 1st edition, 330; 20 Johnson, 254; 4
Wheaton, 213; 2 Story, 360 and 630; 1 Metcalf and Perkins's
Dig. 400,.pl. 123, 124; 1 U. States Dig. (Supplement), 270,
pl. 93, 94.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of error to the District Court of the United States
for Texas brings this case before us.
Under the forms of procedure in Texas, an action was commenced by petition, on the 25th of January, 1847, by the plaintiff, for the recovery of a house and lot in the city of Galveston, Texas, described in the plan of said city, number thirteen,
in block six hundred and eighty-one. The plaintiff gave in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

43

Oakey v. Bennett et aL

evidence a deed from the proprietors of the city for the lot in
controversy to James S. Holman, dated 1st June, 1840. The
same lot, on the 3d of April, 1843, was conveyed to William
Hall, by Snydor, the attorney of Holman. The purchase was
made by Hall, some time before the deed was executed, and
he entered into the possession of the lot, made improvements
thereon, and continued to occupy it until his death. The defendant lilies has been in possession of the lot since the death
of Hail.
On the 9th of February, 1843, William Hall (" late of Galveston, Texas") filed his petition for the benefit of the bankrupt law, in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and on the 10th of March following he was declared a bankrupt. A schedule of his assets was
filed, among which was the lot now in controversy. Francis
B. Conrad, of the city of New Orleans, was appointed his assignee, who gave bond as required. The assignee, on application to the District Court, obtained an order for the sale of the
house and lot, and they were sold, in pursuance of such order,
to Oakey, the plaintiff, on the 18th f June, 184, to whom a
deed was executed on the same day by the assignee.
Before the commencement of the suit, in 1844, Hall died,
and Bennett, the defendant, was appointed his administrator
in Texas. Process was issued against him, and also against
Ilies, the person in pbssession, who refused to recognize the
right of the plaintiff.
In his answer Bennett avers, that the petition and the matters and things therein set forth are not sufficient in law, &c.,
and he prays judgment, &c. And for further answer he states,
that Hall departed this life before the annexation of. Texas to
the United States, and that administration of his estate was
duly granted to the defendant. That he proceeded in the discharge of his duties, and he exhibits accounts against the estate of Hall, by himself and other citizens of Texas, which
were allowed by the Probate Court, amounting to-the sum of
$ 1,811, before any conveyance of the house and lot, by the assignee of Hall was set up or registered in Galveston County,
as the law required. And hWavers that there is no property to
satisfy the debts of the estate, except the house and lot in controversy.
Many points were raised, on which bills of exception were
taken to the rulings of the court, in the progress of the trial,
but the validity of the deed of the assignee to the plaintiff is
the great question in the case.
There can be no doubt, the proceedings in bankruptcy being
regular and bont fide, that the property of the bankrupt, within

44

SUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

the appropriate jurisdiction, became vested by the act of Congress in his assignee. At the time of the decree of bankruptcy, and until a short time before the sale and conveyance of the
property in question to the plaintiff, Texas was an independent
republic, and in every respect a foreign state to the government of the United States.
In this country there is some diversity of opinion among the
State courts, whether a bankrupt law, in regard to personal
property, has an extra-territorial operation. That it has such
operation is a doctrine which seems to be well settled in England by numerous decisions, and particularly in the Royal
Bank of Scotland v. Cuthbert, (1 Rose's Bankrupt Cases, Appendix, 462, and 2 Rose's Cases, 291,) in which Lord Eldon
said: "IOne thing is quite clear, that there is not in any book
any dictum or authority that would authorize me to deny,
at least in this place, that an English commission passes, as
with respect to the bankrupt and his creditors in England,
the personal property he has in Scotland or in any foreign
country."
It is held in England, that an assignment of personal property under the bankrupt law of a foreign country passes all
such property and debts owing in England; that an attachment of such property by an English creditor, with or without
notice, after such an assignment, is invalid. And the doctrine
is there established, that an assignmaent under the English
bankrupt law transfers the personal effects of the bankrupt in
foreign countries. But an attachment by a foreign creditor,
not subject to British laws, under the local laws of a foreign
country, is held valid. The principle on which this doctrine
rests is, that the personal estate is held as situate in that country where the bankrupt has his domicle.
A statutable conveyance of property cannot strictly operate
beyond the local jurisdiction. Aniy effect which may be given
to it beyond this does not depend upon international lav, but
the principle of comity; and national comity does not require
any government to give effect to such assignment, when it
shall impair the remedies or lessen the securities of its own
citizens. And this is the prevailing doctrine in this country.
A proceeding in rem against the property of a foreign bankrupt, under our local laws, may be maintained by creditors,
notwithstanding the foreign assignment
But it is an admitted principle in all countries where the
common law prevails, whatever views may be entertained in
regard to personal property, that real estate can be donveyed
only under the territorial law. The rule is laid down clearly
and concisely by Sir William Grant,, in Curtis v. Hutton,-14

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

45

Oakey v. Bennett et al.

Ves. 537, 541, where he says, " The validity of every disposition
of real estate must*depend upon the law of the country in
which that estate is situated." The same rule prevails generally in the civil law. Boullenois, John Voet, Christinmus, and
others, (cited in Story, Conflict of Laws, 359, 360,) say, "As
a general rule, movable property is governed by the law of the
domicile, and real property by the law of the situs rei."
This doctrine has been uniformly recognized by the courts
of the United States, and by the courts of the respective States.
The form of conveyance adopted by each State for the transfer of real property nmust be observed. This is a regulation
which belongs to the local sovereignty.
It is argued that the entire interest in the property in dispute passed, under the bankruptcy, to the assignee, of Hall;
and that, it being sold under the order of the District Court
to the plaintiff, the title is vested in him, the same as if the
conveyance had been executed by Hall.
On the appointment and qualification of the assignee, the
property of the bankrupt, under the act of Congress, became
vested in him, for the benefit of the creditors of the bankrupt.
But there was no assignment in fact made by Hall. He
made application for relief under the law, and may be said to
be a voluntary bankrupt; but there was no other assignment
of his effects than that which resulted fioma the operation of
the law. As, under the Constitution, Congress exercised an
exclusive jurisdiction over the subject of bankruptcy, the same
rule of procedure extended throughout the Tjnion. But the
act of Congress could have no extra-territorial effect. Texas
was an independent republic at the time of the decree in bankruptcy, and consequently no claim under it, even as regards
personal property, in that republic, could be made, except on
the ground of comity. And on our own principles this could
not be done, to the injury of local creditors.
Hall in his lifetime might have conveyed this property by
observing the -forms adopted by Texas. But the assignee took
no legal estate in the. premises under the bankrupt law; and
consequently he could not convey such aif estate to- the plaintiff. No proposition would 'eem to be clearer of doubt than
this. It is believed that no sovereignty has, at any time, assumed thu power, by legislation or otherwise, to regulate the
distribution or conveyance of real estate in a foreign governnient. There is no pretence that this government, through the
agency~of a bankrupt law, could subject the real property in
Texas, or in any other foreign government, to the payment of
debts. This can only be done by the laws of the sovereignty
where'such property may be situated.

46

SUPREME COURT.
Oakey v. Bennett et al.

It is said that Texas, by an act of the 17th of March, 1841,
has recognized the validity of foreign bankrupt laws. There
is nothing in that act which can affect the queation now under
consideration. It merely provides, that where relief has been
given under any foreign bankrupt or insolvent law to an individual who has surrendered his property, and who afterwards
shall become a citizen of Texas, he shall be considered as discharged from his debts, unless fraud be shown.
But if the assignee had power to convey the property, there
would be two fatal objections to the title of the plaintiff. The
deed is not executed according to the form required by the
laws of Texas for the conveyance of real estate. Under such
an instrument the fee does not pass. And in the second place,
if the deed were operative to convey the fee, the property would
be subject to satisfy the claims of the Texas creditors of Hall.
Administration of his estate was granted -to Bennett, whc
took upon himself the trust, and made returns to the court of
the debts of Hall, amounting, as above stated, to thg sum of
eighteen hundred dollars, before he had any notice of the bankrupt proceeding. And it is averred that these creditors trusted
Hall, knowing he possessed the property in controversy. Bennett, it is insisted, represents only the rights of the deceased,
and, the right to this property having become divested by the
decree in bankruptcy, he can set up no objection to the plaintiff's title. This position is not sustainable. The administrator represents the rights of creditors, and as regards this controversy must be considered as standing in their stead. He is
responsible to the court for the faithful administration oT all
the assets of the deceased within the jurisdiction under which
he acts. The creditors who have substantiated their claims
were not subject to the decree of bankruptcy. From the property which Hall was known to possess in Texas, it is alleged
they gave him credit, and a conveyance of the property, under
the circumstances, could only be held valid by a disregard of
the rights of the Texas creditors. This, we 'suppose, could
not receive the sanction of the courts of that State. Whether
advantage could be taken of this in the present procedure, if
the deed to the plaintiff conveyed the fee, it is unnecessary
to determine.
The annexation of Texas to the United States long after the
decree of bankruptcy, and a short time before the deed by the
assignee was made to the plaintiff, does not affect the question.
At the time the decree- in bankruptcy was pronounced, there
was no jurisdiction over this property;. and the subsequent
annexation cannot enlarge that jurisdiction. The rights of
creditors were fixed by the decree.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

47

The United States v. Guillem.

We deem it unnecessary to examine the other excejiions, as
we are all of the opinion, that the title to the property in controversy did not pass to the assignee, under the decree in bankruptcy. The judgment of the District Court is, therefore, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

Tim

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,
oF ONE Box

v. BAITISTE
or SPECIE.

GUILLE,%i

CLAIIANT

A neutral leaving a belligerent country, in which he was domiciled at the commencement of the war; is entitled to the rights of a neutral in his person and property,
as soon as he sails from the hostile port.
The property he takes with him is not liable to condemnation for a breach of blockado by the vessel in which he embarks, when entering or departing from the
port, unless he know of the intention of the vessel to break it in going out.

Tnis was .an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Louisiana, sitting as a
prize court.
Baptiste Guillem, a French citizen, was domiciled in Mexico,
and had resided there about three years before the war with
the United States was declared. His occupation was that of
cook in a hotel, and he was engaged in it in Vera Cruz when
hostilities with this country commenced. He was not natural.
ized and had taken no steps to become a citizen of Mexico.
He continued in Vera Cruz, pursuing his ordinary business,
until he learned that an attack was about to be made on the
city, by sea and land, by the~forces of the United States. He
immediately prepared to leav the country and return to France,
with his family, carrying with him all the money he had saved.
He intended to embark in the British steamer, which .was
expected to arrive at Vera Cruz early in March, 1847, afid
obtained a passport from the French consul for that purpose.
But the steamship was wrecked on the island of Cuba, and'
iid not reach Vera Cruz, and Guillem was still in that city
when General Scott landed and closely besieged it.
The port of Vera Cruz had been blockaded by the naval

