IiECEMBER TERM, 1850,

131

McCoy'v. Rhodes* et al.
JAMEs McCoy, ArPPELLANT, V. ZACHARIAH RHODES AND HIS WIFE,
LUMINDA MONTGOMIERY.

Where a bill in chancery alleges that certain lands were entered in the name of A
third person, with a view to caver them from the creditors of the person who had
entered them, and this allegation is denied in the answer and not sustained by
proof, the bill pro tanro must be dismissed.
But where the party entered the lands in his own name, and afterwards conveyed
them to this third person, but the deed to the third person was not recorded until
after a judgment had been obtained by a creditor, and recorded it. the parish where
the land lies, against the party who made the entry, it will not be sufficient merely
to set up in the answgr that this third person furnished the money with which to
purchase the lands. The equity must be proved.
Byfeet
theagainst
laws of
Louisiana,
notarial
c 'nerning
immovable
property
efthird
persons no
until
it shell act
have
been recorded
in the office
of thehas
judge
of the parish where such property is situated. Therefore, where there was ajudg
ment against the holder of the legal title, rendered in the intermediate time between
the the
execution
of a recording
deed and of
its the
being
recorded,
andabrogate
the judgment
the
the lien
wasof first
deed
could not
subsequent
recored,
judgment.
The forty-seventh and forty-eighth rules of chancery practice explained.

THns was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the UJnited
as aand
court
of equity.
States
theile4
District
of Louisiana,
under
wife,
Rhodes
againstsitting
by My
It was for
a bill
the following circumstances.
On the 6th of December, 1839, Rhodes purchased in his
own name from the'ited States, under the preemption law of
1838, and entered at the land-office at Quachita Louisiana, the
following parcel of land: N. W. quarter of section 29, townacres; and
ship 10 north, range 10 east, containing 160e.
paid
the next"
sameday,emiz
$1.25 perthe
acre,
in the whole
200.95.
1839, $Rhodes
7thmaking
of December,
.Onforthe
executed a deed for the above' property -to Eli Montgomery,
a resident of the iui of Natchez, in the State of Mississippi.
The consideration stated in the deed was $1,500 cash. It was
executed before Lewis F. Lanney, parish judge and e officio
notary public of the parish of Concordia, in Louaisiana. This
deed, however, was -not recorded in the office of the judge of
the parish until the 10th of December, 1841.
On the 10th of December, 1839, Rhodes entered at the landoffice, in the name of Montgomery, the following pieces of
land, viz.: S. W. quarter and west half of N. E. q arter of
acres; S. E. quarter of section 30,s
sectiio 29, -24016euoe acres; N. w. quarter of section 32,- 160 acres.
These three parcelswere entered, as has just been remarkeis
in the name of Montgomery.
On the 24th of February, 1840, James 4. McCoy obtained a
Ojudgment against Za-chariah Rhodes in the Ninth District Court
in the parish of Concordia for 1546.27, with'interest thereon

182

SUPREME COURT.
MPCoy v. Rhodes et aL

at the rate of eight per cent. from the 26th of March, 1839,
till paid, and costs.
On the 7th of March, 1840, this judgment was duly recorded
-inthe office of the parish judge and ex officio recorder of mortgages in and for the parish of Cortcordia.
On the 10th of December, 1841, Montgomery recorded the
deed which had been executed to him by Rhodes on the 7th of
December, 1839, and on the same day executed a deed of the
three parcels of land which had been entered in his name, to
Thomas J. Ford of Adams County and State of Mississippi.
The consideration is stated in the deed to have been the following, viz. -" The sum of three thousand dollars cash, which
the said Eli Montgomery doth hereby acknowledge to have
received, and the eight promissory notes of the said Thomas
. Ford, of even date herewith, and payable to the order of the
said Eli Montgomery, for the amount and for the time as follows, viz.: First, a note'for the sum of eight hundred dollars;
second, a note for the sum of one thousand dollars; another
note for the same sum of one thousand dollars, and a note for
the sum of five hundred and thirty-three dollars thirty-three
and one third cents, all payable on the 1st day of January,
1843; -next, the two notes of the said Ford for the sum of one
thousand dollars each, and' also a note for the. sum of thirteen
hundred and thirty-three dollars thirty-three and one third
cents, payable on the 1st.day of January, 1844; and lastly,
the note of the said Ford for the sum of three thousand three
hundred and thirty three dollars thirty-three and one third
cents, payable- on the 1st day of January, 1845, all paraphed
by me, the said notary, ' Ne varietur,' to, identify them herewith, and payable at the office of the judge of" the parish of
Concordia."
The wife of Montgomery renounced all her rights of dower
and rights of every kind in and to the property, which stood
mortgaged for the payment of the notes.
On the 2d of November, 1842, Ford conveyed the property
to Mrs. Luminda Rhodes, for the consideration of ten thousand
dollars. Zachariah, the husband of Luminda, being present,
declared that he accepted this act for his said wife, and "duly
atithorizes and assists her herein."
On the 28th of January, 1845, James H. McCoy, a citizen
of the State of Mississippi, filed his bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana, against
Zachariah Rhodes and Luminda Montgomery his wife. It
averred -that Rhodes conspired with Montgomery to cheat and
defraud the complainant; that the conveyance of the 7th of
December, 1839, from Rhodes to Montgomery, was fraudulerit

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

133

McCoy v. Rhodes et al. "

and void; that the entry of the lands on the 10th of December, in the n-me of Montgomery, was fictitious and fraudulent,
and that the whole transaction was intended to benefit Rhodes
and defraud his creditors; that Luminda, the wife of Rhodesi
was the niece of Montgomery; that the recording of the judgment on the 7th of March, 1840, operate as a judicial mortgage upon all the lands; and prayed for a sale of the lands in
order to discharge the judgment.
On the 3d of December, 1845, Rhodes and wife answered
the bill. They admitted the entry of the lands, but averred
that They were paid for with money actually furnished by
Montgomery, and were intended to be his property; that
Montgomery afterwards sold the lands to Ford, and that, the
respondents had no interest or participation therein ; that after said sale was made, the notes' of the caidFord were paid
to this respondent, Luminda Montgomery, by the said Eli
Montgomery, for moneys due to her from the estate of her
deceased father, Joseph Montgomery, of whom the said Eli
Montgomery was executor, or administrator of his estate, and
that the said notes being secured by mortgage on all the said
lands, and the said Ford having become embarrassed, and unable to pay the same, the lands were taken by this respondent,
Luminda, in satisfaction of said notes, by agreement between
these respondents and said Ford, and the conveyance made
accordingly,
the sole use of this respondent, Luminda.
IThey thenfordenied
all fraud, combinations, deceptions, or
cheating, &c., &c.
A general replication was put in and depositions were taken.
On the 24th of January, 1848, the cause came on to be
heard on the bill, answers, exhlits, and proofs, when the Circuit Court decreed that the complainant's bill should be dismissed, with costs.
A petition for a rehearing was afterwards filed, alleging that
the decree was erroneous, in this amongst other things, that
the recording of McCoy's judgment wa.. prior in ,date to the
recording of the deed from Rhodes -to -gontgomery, by which
deed the land entered on the 6th of December was conveyed
to Montgomery; the judgment being recorded on the 7th of
March, 1840, and the deed on the 10th of December, 1841.
But the court overruled the application for a rehearing, upon which the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by 11r. Butterworth, for the appellant, no
counsel appearing for the appellees.
The points taken by the counsel for the appellant were the
following:VOL. xir.

12

134

SUPREME COURT.
McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

The claim of the plaintiff for a mortgage on the northwest
quarter of section 29, which was entered in the name of
Rhodes, has three distinct and separate foundations, any one
of which is sufficient to support it.
Even if the statement in the answer, that Rhodes entered it
as the agent of Eli Montgomery, &c., were trae; or if he had
transferred it, for a good and valuable consideration, to Montgomery, and in good faith; still, as the legal title did vest in
Rhodes, and it was not again divested, as to complainant,
by transfer ard record thereof, while the mortgage of complainant had, in the mean time, become fixed upon it; under
the laws of Louisiana, there is no question that the mortgagecreditor's claim prevails over that of the vendee. (See Act of
1810, in Bullard and Curry's Digest, p. 596, ยง 7, No. 37. See
Adelaide Mary v. Francois Lampr6, 6 Rob. 315; 2 La. R. 124;
Gradenigo v. Wallett, 9 Rob. 16;, Carraby v. Desmarre et al.,
7 Martin, N. S. 661; Duplessis v. Boutt4, 11 La. R. 346; Lee
v. Daramon and another, 3 Rob. 162.) But the case of Gravier et al. V. Baron et al., 4 La. R. 239, is among the earliest,
and is one of the most important, cases on the subject. In
that case, the land had been alienated in 1815; in 1824 a
judgment was obtained against the vendor, which was recorded in the parish of St. Mary's, where the land lies. The
public act of sale made in 1815 had not been recorded in St.
Mary's parish before the judgment was there recorded. The
claim of the creditor was, in that case, preferred to that of the
vendee.
The English law, we know, is otherwise; but the decisions
of our Supreme Court, on the construction of our statute law,
which is a local taw of property, must govern the case. The
inconvenience of two different constructiQns, diametrically opposite, of the same local law of property, has ever been appreciated by this court; and doubtless it will be regarded in this
case.
But the fact is, the assertion in the answer, that Rhodes was
the agent bf Eli Montgomery in making the entry of said
quarter-section, is absolutely false, as appears from the record.
He made that entry in virtue of the act of .Congress of the
22d of June, 1838, granting pregmption rights to actual settlers,
&c.
He was required, by the terms of the act of 1838, to swear
that he actually settled on the land, occupied, and entered
it for himself alone, and for no one else. (See 5 Statutes
at Large, 251.) The register and receiver swear that he did
enter the said quarter-section in virtue of his pre6mption right,
under said act of 1838.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

135

McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

The depositions of the register and receiver, &c., taken in
connection with the requirements of said act, are conclusive
against yielding any credit whatever to the answer of defendants. We must beg leave to remark, however, that, if false
statements are made in the answer, no perjury is thereby committed by Mrs. Luminda Montgomery, as she has not sworr
to her answer at all. It was sworn to only by Rhodes, the
other defendant.
It being established, then, that this land was entered by
Rhodes for himself, in virtue of his pregmption right, under the
act of 1838, of course there can be no pretence for insisting on
the validity of the transfer of said quarter-section by Rhodes
to Eli Montgomery. The answer says it was made in pursuance of a previous agreement to that effect. If any such previous agreement existed, and yet the land was entered according to law, the agreement was corrupt, and in-violbtion of law,
and the conveyance made in pursuance thereof is void to all
intents and purposes.
Any thing done in violation of a prohibitory law (says our
Louisiana Code, Art. 10) is null.
The same thing has ever been maintained in the courts of
England and in this court. See Bank of United States v.
Owens,, 2 Peters, 538.
That no value passed from Montgomery to Rhodes for this
transfer is too apparent, from all the circumastances of the case,
to admit of a doubt.
The deed says, it is true, that the consideration of the transfer was $ 1,500 cash, in hand paid; but the answer negatives
the existence of any such thing,; it says, the entry was made
by Rhodes, as the agent of Montgomery, and the transfer was
made in pursuance of. a previous- agreement, without stating
what was the consideration of the previous agreement; while
the depositions of the register and receiver, and the documents
attached to them, prove conclusively that Rhodes was entitled
to enter said quarter-section in virtue of the pregmption granted him by the act of 1838, and that he did so enter it.
All this certainly proves, that no consideration ever passed
from Montgomery to Rhodes, for said sale and transfer of said
northwest quarter of section No. 29, T. 10, R. 10.
It must be apparent, then, that the said quarter-section, by
the entry thereof in the name of Rhodes, on the 6th of December, 1839, in virtue of his pregmption right under the act of
1838, vested in him all the title, both legal and equitable, to
said tract of land. It is also equally apparent, that no consideration was given by Eli Montgomery for the transfer thereof to
him, in December, 1839; and also, that, even if said transfer

13G

SUPREME COURT.
McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

had been made for a good, adequate, and valuable consideration, and in good faith, yet, under the law of Louisiana, in
consequence of the failure to record the deed in Concordia until
long after the judgment of complainant had been there recorded, it was .of-po validity whatever as to the rights of complainant, as to whom the said sale is the same as if it had never
been made. See 6 Robinson, 315.
What has been said above is peculiar to the lot or quartersection of land entered in the name of Rhodes.
We have some things still to say, which are alike applicable
to'all the lands on which complainant claims a mortgage.
In the answer, it is stated that the notes of Ford were paid
by Eli Montgomery to Luminda Montgomery, in satisfaction
of moneys due her from her father's estate, &c. ; and that these
notes were given by her to Ford, as the price of the transfer
from him to her of the lands mentioned in the bill.
No proof whatever has been offered in support of the allegation of the answer, that the notes were paid by Eli Montgomery to Luminda, in satisfaction of moneys due her from her
father's estate. The truth of the answer was put in issue by
the replication; and therefore this allegation of the answer requires proof. See opinion of Chancellor Kent, in Hart v. Ten
Eydk, 2 Johns. Ch. 89, 90, and authorities there referred to:" When the answer is put in issue, the defendant must support by proof all the facts upon which he means to insist,
while the plaintiff may rely upon every fact admitted, which
he conceives material, without being bound to the admission
of any others. But when the answer is offered in evidence at
law, n6 part of it is immediately in issue. It is only parcel of
the evidence, and if one side introduce it, the other may insist
upon the whole being read; and if read, it does not necessarily follow that it must be wholly admitted as true, or wholly
rejected as false. The credit of any and every part is left to
the jury, who are not bound to believe equally the whole answer, but may believe what makes against, without believing
what mak~s for, the party who swears in the answer. This
rule is applicable to every kind of evidence, and has leen often
acknowledged by the judges at law."
/
1 The distinction, therefore," as Evans says, "is nbt between
courts of law and equity, but between pleadings a d evidence.
'If an answer is introduced collaterally, it ought o be treated
precisely as in a court of law," &c.
Here it is admitted by the answer, that the notes were given
to Luminda Montgomery; and though stated to be in payment, &c., yet no proof is administered of the indebtedness of
Eli Montgomery, and therefore, under all the circumstances of
the case, the allegations of fraud seem to be fully proven.

DECEMBERh TERM, 1850.

137

McCoy .v. Rhodes et aL

As the matter stands, it is clear that Luminda Montgomery
gave no consideration for the notes; and by consequence it is
also true that Eli Montgomery gave no consideration for the
land.
The conclusion deduced from this rule of evidence, as applicable to this case, is much strengthened by the fact, that an
important part of the answer has been disproved by two credible Witnesses, and by documents; and therefore the rule applies to the whole answer, that, if a witness is prdven to have
wilfully sworn falsely in one particular, his whole testimony is
discredited.
The truth is, the lands were always, in fact, the property of
Zachariah Rhodes, except while the title was in Ford, during
which time he held the notes of Ford for the unpaid price.
These notes were finally given up to Ford in consideration of
a transfer of the'lahd, &c.
But even if it were true, as is stated in the answer, that the
notes of Ford were given by Eli Montgomery to Luminda in
satisfaction of a just debt due her for moneys coming from her
father's estate, still it would form no ground for dismissing the
complainant's bill; because the lands were acquired on the 7th
of November, 1842, during the existence of the community between the defendants; and although the deed is taken in the
name of the wife, and even if the price was paid with the
proper funds or effects of the wife, they are still the property of
the community. (See Civil Code of Louisiana, Art. 2371 : see
also 10 La. Rep. 148; lb. 181.)
If the defendant Luminda Montgomery has applied her
proper effects in the purchase of the lands, (which is denied by
complainant,) she has a tacit mortgage on all the immovable
property of her husband, and on the immovables. of the community (which includes these lands), for the satisfaction thereof. This claim she must set up against the complainant (after
suit instituted against her husband for separation of property)
by original or cross bill, &c.
She has not set it up, nor could she be heard to set it up in
an answer.
We think it fully established, then, that, even if the acquisition of the lands was made with the funds of Luminda Montgomery, and the deed taken in her own name, as it was, still
she cannot lawfully oppose the foreclosure of complainant's
mortgage.
But it is not true that the lands were acquired with her
funds or effects. In any form of action against her husband,
his heirs, or his creditors, it is indispensably necessary for her
to establish, by proof, that the property was acquired with her
12*

138

SgPREME COURT.
McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

funds or effects. This has not been done in this case, nor could
it be done, because it is not true.
In 'the answer it is stated that the debt due complainant
was contracted by Zachariah Rhodes prior-to his intermarriage with Luminda Montgomery, which took place on the
28th of December, 1834; and that therefore it cannot be satisfled out of the effects of the corrimunity.
The record shows, that the judgment of McCoy against
Rhodes was rendered on the 24th day of February, 1840, with
interest thereon from the 26th day of March, 1839. If the
debt was contracted prior to the 26th of March, 1839, it does
not appear by any evidence in the record; and the presumption of law is, that that is the date of its origin.
If the fact was otherwise, the respondents.should show it by
evidence. The answer, as above said, cannot establish the
fact.
Since the above was written, we find, on inspection of the
papers in the case, in the Circuit Court, that a copy of the
record of the suit of McCoy v. Rhodes, in the State -court, is
on file, and we suppose it was offered in evidence. If this is
true, it appears by that record that the debt was contracted
by Rhodes on the 12th of August, 1838.
We therefore rely on the following propositions ps established :1. The land which is designated as the northwest quarter of
section 29, in township 10 of range 10, was entered at the
land-office, and purchased by Zachariah Rhodes in his own
name, and for his own use, from the United States, on the 6th
day of December, 1839, in virtue of a 8ettlement thereon, and
preemption right granted him under the act of Congress of
1838, granting pregmption rights, &c.
2. That said quarter-section of land, though nominally conveyed, by public act dated on the 7th day of December, 1839,
from Zachariah Rhodes to Eli Montgomery, was, because the
conveyance to Montgomery was fraudulent, still actually the
property of Rhodes, until the 10th of December, 1841,'when it
-was, at the instance of said Rhodes, conveyed by Eli Montgomery to Thomas'J. Ford.
3. That the said transfer to Montgomery did not have any
effect as against complainant; because the said conveyance
was made without any lawful considerati6p, and with intention of defrauding creditors; and also because the deed of
transfer was not recorded in the conveyance office of the parish of Concordia, until long after the judgment of complain.
ant- had been recorded in the mortgage office of said parish,
within whose limits, at that time, the land lay.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

139

McCoy v. Rhodes et aL
NOTE.- Since the recording of the judgment of complainant, and since the recording of the conveyance of Rhodes to
Montgomery, that part of the then pariah of Concordia in
which the land lies has been stricken off from Concordia, and it
now forms a part of the parish of Tensas.
4. That the entry of the other lands in the name of Fli
Montgomery, made by Rhodes on the 10th day of December,
1839, dt the land-office at Monroe, was, in truth, an entry and
purchase of said lands by said Rhodes for his own use and
benefit; and that the use of the name of the said Montgomery was intended as, and was, a fraud upon the creditors of
Rhodes; and consequently -said lands, from the date of the
purchase until the 10th day of December, 1841, (when they
were conveyed and sold by Eli Montgomery, at the instance
of said Rhodes, to Thomas J. Ford,) remained and continued
to be the property of Zachariah Rhodes. That consequently,
the judgment of complainant operated as a mortgage on all
said lands from the date of its record in the mortgage office of
Concordia, to wit, 7th March, 1840.
5. That from the 2d day of November, 1842, when all said
lands mentioned in the bill were conveyed by Thomas J. Ford
to Luminda Montgomery, the lands all became the property
of the community existing between said Zachariah Rhodes
and Luminda Montgomery, his wife; and as such, (even if
not, before that time, subject to the debt due complainant,) became affected -with the mortgage claim set up in the bill.
NOTE. - The division of the parish of Concordia did not
take place tihl 17th March, 1843. See Session Acts of 1843,
page 35.
(The judgment of complainant was recorded in Concordia
on the 7th of March, 1840.)
6, That the judicial mortgage of complainant attached to,
and became fixed on, all the lands mentioned in the bill, from
and after the 7th day of March, 1840, the date on which it
was recorded.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
McCoy recovered ajudgrlent against Rhodes, in a State court
of Louisiana, for the sum of $1,546, on the 24th of February,
1840; and on the 7th of March following this judgment was
recorded in the mortgage office of Concordia parish. The bill
seeks to subject certain lands in possession of Rhodes to patisfy the judgment Three of the tracts were entered as United
States lands, in the name of Eli Montgomery, but which the
bill alleges were the property of Rhodes, and covered by Montgomery's title to prevent Rhodes's creditors from reaching

140

SUPREME COURT.
McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

them. This is directly denied by the answer, and, there being
no proof to the contrary, complainant must fail as respects
these three parcels. The bill also seeks to subject a fourth
tract, entered by Rhodes (December 6, 1839) in his own name,
and conveyed to Montgomery next day, December 7, 1839.
This deed was first recorded, in the proper office of Concordia4
December 10, 1841; and is for the northwest quarter of section
No. 29, T. 10, R. 10 east, containing 160 2 acres.
On the 10th of December, 1841, Montgomery~conveyed the
four. tracts to Thomas j.Ford, who afterwards (November 2,
1842) rescinded the contract of purchase, and conveyed to J4minda Montgomery Rhodes, wife of Zachariah Rhodes. Rhodes
and wife are the only defendants. In regard to the northwest
quarter of section No. 29, they jointly answer and say "True it is that this respondent, Zachariah Rhodes, did,
on the 6th day of December, 1839, enter at the land-office at
Ouachita, Louisiana, the northwest quarter of section No. 29,
in township No. 10 of range 10 east, and that he took a receipt for two hundred dollars and twenty-five cents, the price
thereof under the laws of the United States; but these respondents aver that the entry aforesaid was made by this respondent, Rhodes, for Eli Montgomery, of the State of Mississippi; that the said Eli Montgomery did furnish the money
to pay for the same, and the same was actually paid for out of
the moneys so furnished by the said Montgomery; and that
the conveyance of the same to the said Montgomery by this
cde as set forth in the said complainant's bill,
responden
was made to compiete the legal title in his, said Montgomery's
name, according to, the original intent of all parties, and as
equity and justice required; this respondent, Z. RhQdes, having only acted as the agent of the said Montgomery, and for
his use, in making said entry, and paying the said money; and
not with any view to cheat, defraud, or wrong the said plaintiff, as is falsely charge& in said plaintiff's bill."
Respdndents admit that the entry was made in Rhodes's
own name, and was, when made, primd facie liable to be
seized on execution as his property;. but then,, in avoidance of
this admitted liability, they allege that Montgomery't money
was paid into the land-office, and that this was done in fulfilment of some previous agreement between Rhodes and Montgomery, by which an equity existed in the latter to have tile
benefit of Rhodes's 'preemption right of entry, as an actual
settler.
There is no proof in the cause of the facts above set forth by
the answer.' That Montgomery furnished the money paid,
and that the land was .entered for his use under a previops

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

141

McCoy v. Rhodes et al.

agreement, are facts within the peculiar knowledge of'respondents; they are not responsive to charges made by the bill, but
set up as an independent defence. In such case the rule is,
"that a discharge set up in avoidance, coupled with an admitted liability, if the answer be replied t9 , (as here it is,) must be
proved by the defendant."
This is the settled rule. Hart v. Ten Eyck, 2 Johns. Ch.88;.
Napier v. Elam, 6 Yerger) 112.
As the respondents cannot make evidence for themselves,
and thereby establish an equity in Montgomery, it follows that
te defence must fail so far as the equity set forth is relied on.
Having disposed of this part of the controversy on the pleadings and want of proof, it becomes unnecessary to examine
what bearing the act of July 22, 1838, c. 119, (5 Stateat Large,
251,) has on the foregoing facts.
The next ground of defence relied on is the conveyance
made by Rhodes to Montgomery of the 7th of December, 1839.
It was recorded December 10, 1841. According to the statute law of Louisiana, no notarial act concerning immovable
property has effect against third persons, until the same shall
have been recorded in the office of the judge of the parish
where such property is situated. In relation to third persons,
the act of sale not recorded is considered as void.
For an exposition of the Louisiana statute we refer to the
case of Gravier v. Baron (4 Louisiana R. 239), and which his
been since followed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. The"
deed from Rhodes to Montgomery being a notarial act, it took
effect on the 10th of December, 1841, against McCoy, the judgment creditor; and as the lien of the judgment, or judicial
mortgage, attached the 24th of Februgry, 1840, when the title
was in Rhodes the debtor, this deed is of no force as against
the judgment, nor are the subsequent deeds founded on it; and
therefore McCoy has a right to have the northwest quarter df
section No. 29 sold.
Some supposed difficulty exists on the head of jurisdiction
for want of parties, Eli Montgomery not being before the
court. We do not deemn him a necessary larty to this suit; he
has no interest in the land,:and no right to contest the validity of the judgment against Rhodes. And, in the next place,
we are of opinion that all necessary parties were before the
Circuit CQurt according to the forty-seventh and forty-eighth
rules of chancery practice published by us in 1842, as the bill
alleges that Eli Montgomery permanently resided beyond the
jurisdiction of the court; which was not contested by plea, nor
was any objection made below against proceeding to a final
decree for want of parties.

142

SUPREME COURT.
McGill v. Armour.

For the reasons stated, it is ordered that the decree dismissing the bill be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to
the Circuit Court, there to be proceeded in according to this
opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be beard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was a-gued by counsel. Oh consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
cour, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the
opinion of this court.

PENELOPE MCGILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JoSEPHINE

H. AumouR.

Where a creditor brought an action against an executrix in the Circuit Court of the
United States for Louisiana, and the petition only averred that the petitioner was

shown to be a creditor by the accounts in the State court which bad jurisdiction

over the estates of deceased persons, and then proceeded to charge the executrix
with a devastavit, and exceptions were taken to the petition as insufficient, these
exceptions must be sustained.

The petition should have gone on to allege farther proceedings in the Itate court
analogous to a judgment at common law, as a foundation of a claim for a judg-

ment against the executrix de bonis propriis suggesting a devastavit."
The laws of Louisiana provide for compelling go executrix to file a tableau of distribution, which is a necesgary and preliminary step towards holding the executrix
personally responsible.

The petition, not having averred this, was defective, and

the exceptions must be sustained.

THIS case was brought .up, by writ ot error, from the Circuit
Court of the -United States for the District of Louisiana.
As the decision turned upon a question of pleading, it is
proper to insert the petition, and. the exceptions which were
taken to it, by way of demurrer.
The petition was as follows.
"To the Honorable the Judges ,of the Circuit Court 'of the
United States, held in and for the District of Louisiana,
the petition of Penelope McGill respectfully shows:
"That she is a resident and citizen of the State of Mississippi.
" That Josephine Hurd Armour is a citizen of the State of
Louisiana, resident in New Orleans.

