DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

375

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

Order.
This cause came on to be'heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of 'Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgmaent of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

AnSALO1I

FOWLER AND NOAH

H.

BADGETT, APPELLANTS, V. AYRES

P. MERRILL.
The act of Congress passed on the 24th of September, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 88,
89), provides that ex parte depositions may be taken before a judge of a County
Court.
Where a Probate Court is organized for each county in a State, is a court of record,
and has a seal, it is sufficient if a deposition under that act be taken before a judge
of the Probate Court.
Although the day when a mortgage was executed was not stated, yet where it bore a
date in its commencement, and its acknowledgment and date of record were both
given, and both of them preceded a sheriff's sale of the mortgaged property, it was
certain that the mortgage was executed before the sale under execution.
Although, when the mortgage was recorded, the laws of the State did not make the
mere recording cosvey the title when the personal property thus mortgaged remained in the possession of the mortgagor, yet they sanctioned the mortgage unless it was made without good consideration, and opposed by a bondfi*d subsequent
purchaser, who had no notice of its existence.
But the fact of recording the mortgage tended to give notice of its existence, and in
the present case the evidence shows that the purchasers at the sheriff's sale had
notice of the mortgage.
Such purchasers must allege that their want of notice continued up to the time of
making actual payment; a want of notice merely extending to the time of making
the purchase is not enough. Payment might have been refused, and then they
would not have been injured.
Moreover, between the time when the mortgage was in fact recorded and the time
of the sheriff's sale, the State passed a law making such recorded mortgages
valid.
The increase or offspring of slaves belong to the owner ofthe mother.
The decree of the Circuit Court being that the purchasers at the sheriff's sale
should either surrender the property to, the prior mortgagee, or pay the value
thereof, such value was properly computed as it was at the time of rendering the
decree.

,The hire of the slaves was properly charged as commencing when the prior mortC
gagee filed his bill for a foreclosure.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas, sitting as a court of
equity.
It was a: bill .filed by Merrill, the appellee, against Fowler

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al v. Merrill.

and Badgett and other persons, under the following circumstances.
In April and June, 1837, N. L. Williams made the fbllowing
notes: -

11,428 =2o.
Natchez, 1st April, 1837.
"Two years after date, I promise to pay J. L. Dawson, or
order, the sum of eleven thousand four hundred and twentyeight dollars and twenty-two cents, value received. Negotiable
and payable at the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, Natchez.
"$

(Signed,)

N. L. WILLIAMS."

Natchez, 1st June, 1837.
"Twelve months after date, I promise to pay J. L. Dawson,
or order, eleven hundred and ffty dollars, value received, negotiable and payable at the Planters' Bank of Mississippi,
Natchez.
N. L. WILLIAMS."
(Signed,)
" 1,150.

Making together the sum of $ 12,578.22.
These notes, indorsed by Dawson, were also indorsed by
Merrill, and discounted for Dawson's use by the Planters' Bank
of Mississippi at Natchez.
In order to secure Merrill, Dawson executed a mortgage to
him of certain negroes then on the plantation of Dawson, in
Arkansas. There were nine negro men, six women, and three
boys included in the mortgage. As this mortgage was much
discussed in the argument, it is proper to give its commencement and'acknowledgment: "This indenture, made this 25th day of November, in the
year of our Lord 1837, between James L. Dawson, of the
county of Jefferson, State of Arkansas, of the one part, and
A. P. Merrill, of the city of Natchez, State of Mississippi, of
the, other part, witnesseth: That the said James L. Dawson, in
consideration of the debt to be secured, hereinafter mentioned,
and of one dollar to him in hand paid by the said A. P. Merrill,
the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, doth give, grant,
bargain, sell, and convey unto the said A. P. Merrill, the following-described negroes, now on the plantation of the said
James L. Dawson, known by the name of Woodstock, lying in
the county of Jefferson, State of Arkansas, viz." &c., &c.
"To have and to hold the said negroes unto the said A. P.
Merrill, his heirs and assigns, to the only proper use of the said
A. P. Merrill, his heirs and assigns for ever." Provided, that if
the said James L. Dawson, his executors and administrators,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

877

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

or either of them, do pay, or cause to be paid, unto the said
A. P. Mferrill, his executors, administrators, or assigns, the just
and full sum of $ 12,578.22, as mentioned in, two certain notes
of the following tenor, viz. No. 1, drawn by N. L. Williams,
dated 1st April, 1837, at t,.ro years, for $11,428.22; 2 do. do.,
1st June, 1837, twelve months, $ 1,150, indorsed by J. L. Dawson and A. P. Merrill, and payable at the Planter's Bank of
Mississippi, Natchez, then these presents to be void; and the
said James L. Dawson doth covenant with the said A. P. Merrill, that he, the said James L. Dawson, his executors, administrators, or assigns, shall and will pay, or cause to be paid, to
the said A. P. Merrill, his executors, administrators, or assigns,
the said sum of $12,578.22, as aforesaid, on the day above
limited for the payment thereof.
"In testimony whereof, the said James L. Dawson has hereunto set his hand and seal, thie day and'yeqr above written.
(Signed,)
J.&aEs L. DAwsoN.
"Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of"State of Alississippi, Adams County.
"Personally came before me, Judge of the Probate Court in
and for the county aforesaid, the within-named James L. Dawson, who acknowledged that he signed, sealed, and delivered
the within instrument in writing, as his act and deedi for the
purposes and intents, and on the day and year, therein: mentioned.
" Given under my hand and seal, this 24th day of November, A. D. 1837.
"C. RAwLINGS, Judge of-Probate.".
On the 29th of December, 1837, "thismortgage was recorded
in Arkansas.
On the 12th of March, 1841, the President and Directors
and Company of the Commercial Railroad Bank at Vicksburg,
suing for the use of William W. Frazier, Thomas E. Robbins, and William S. Bodley, obtained a judgment against
Dawson in the Circuit Court of Pulaski County (State court
of Arkansas). The amount of the judgment was, Debt, .
Damages,
Costs,

.

..

.
.

.

.

.
.

.

..
.

.

.
.

.

$9,688.00
1,065.00
8.95

$10,761.95
On the 24th of April, 1841, afri
32*

fdcias was issued upon

378

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

this judgment, and levied upon certain lands and eleven of the
negroes mentioned in the mortgage.
After an alias writ, the property was exposed to sale on the
11th of October, 1841. Fowler became the purchaser of some
of the negroes, and on the next day the sheriff executed a deed
to him, reciting the judgment and execution, and concluding
thus:" Now, know all men by these presents, that I, John . Hammett, as such sheriff as aforesaid, for and in consideration of
the premises, and for and in consideration of the said aggregate sum of $ 2,966.66§, to him, the said John J. Hammett, as
such sheriff, in hand paid by the said Absalom Fowler, the receipt whereof is hereby acknbwledged, have granted, bargained,
sold, and delivered, and do hereby grant, bargain, sell, and deliver, all of said slaves above described to the said Absalom
Fowler, hereby conveying to him, and to his heirs and assigns
for ever, all of the right, title, estate, interest, claim, and demand of the said James L. Dawson, of, in, and to the same.
Not making myself hereby responsible for the itle of said
slaves, but oily conveying, as such sheriff, the title -of the said
James L. Dawson in and to the same.
" Signed, sealed, and delivered, this 12th day. of October,
A. D. 1841. Interlined on second and third pages before
signed.

" JOHN J.
HAMMETT,

Sheriff of .Tefferson County, Arkansas."
Badgett subsequently purchased some of these slaves from
Fowler, and other persons, who were made defendants, in the
bill filed by Merrill, were purchasers at the sale.
On the 4th of March, 1842, Merrill paid the notes of WilJiams, which had been discounted for Dawson's use by the
Planters' Bank of Mississippi.
On the 7th of September, 1842, Merrill filed his bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Arkansas, against
the following persons; viz. "James L. Dawson, who is a
citizen of the State of Arkansas, but now temporarily residing
in the Indiani country vest of the State of Arkansas, James
Smith of Arkansas County, William Dawson of Jefferson
County, Samuel C. Roane of Jefferson County, Samuel Taylor of Jefferson County,-Nathaniel H. Fish of Jefferson County,
Garland Hardwick of Jefferson County, Absalom Fowler of
Pulaski County, Noah H. Badgett of Pulaski County, and all
of-whom arecitizens of the State-of Arkansas, and Sophia M.
Ba'ylor, who is a citizen of the State of Arkansas, but now

379

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Fowler et aL v. Merrill.

temporarily residing at Fort Gibson, in the Indian country,
west of the State of Arkansas."
The bill stated the circumstances mentioned above, and then
averred that the defendants purchased the slaves with notice of
the mortgage. It then specially interrogated Fowler and Badgett, among other things, as to whether they ever had actual
notice of the mortgage, and if so, when; and- also as to the
value of the slaves at the time they came into their possession,
and their value at the time of filing the bill; and as to the
worth of their services or hire after they came into defendants'
possession; and whether Jackson and other children were the
issue of the mortgaged slaves; and also as to the identity of
the slaves themselves.
Defendants answered, setting up a bong fide purchase, without notice, at the sheriff's sale, and denying, as far as they
knew or believed, all of the material allegations of the bill, and
.alleging that the mortgage was fraudulent; that Dawson had
remained continuously in possession of the slaves, contrary to
the terms of the deed; that they did not know whether the
slaves were the same, and denied positively that Jackson was
the issue of any one of the mortgaged slaves. In response to
the interrogatories as to the value, hire, &c., Fowler' answered,
that Eliza, one purchased by him, and sold to Badgett, died
before the commencement'of the suit; that, at the time he
purchased them, they were worth about what he gave for them,
to wit : Tom, $ 533.331; Phoebe and Jackson, $ 666.66 ;
Mary and Henry, $500; Maria and her child, $ 600; Eliza,
$ 466.662 ; and that, since the sale, the value of slaves generally, and these also, had depreciated at least one fourth; and
that their hire, deducting necessary expenses, was worth, per
annum, for Tom $ 70, Maria $ 60, M'vary $ 40, Phoebe $ 40;
and for the others, nothing. Badgett answers, also, that
Phoebe was worth $ 400, Eliza $ 350, Jackson $ 65, and that
Eliza had died, &c., and that their hire was not worth more
than $ 40 per annum.
The valuation preparatory to the sheriff's sale was as follows Tom,
.
.
Phoebe and Jackson,
Mary and Henry,
Maria and her child,
.
Eliza ,

.

.

.

Sold for

$800

$533.33

1,000
760

.
.

Valued at

.

700
700

666.66

600.00
600.00
466.66'

It is not necessary to trace the progress of the suit through

380

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

its various steps. Many depositions were taken under a commission, and otherwise, and exceptions to their, admissibility
filed. One of them, which is the subject of a part of the opinion of this court, will be particularly mentioned for that reason.
The point, as raised and decided in the Circuit Court was as
follows : -"The fourth exception is, ' that the deposition of Henry D.
Mandeville, taken at Natchez, on the 8th of March, 1845, was
taken without any sufficient notice having been served on said
defendants of the time and place of taking the same.'
" The answer to this exception is, that where a deposition is
taken, according to the acts of Congress, at greater distance
from the place of trial than one hundred miles, no notice is required. By the certificate of the magistrate before whom the
deposition was taken, it appears that the witness lives more
than one hundred miles from this place; that his certijcate is
competent evidence of the fact, is established by the adjudication of the Supreme Court in the case cf the ]k.tapsco Insurance Company v. Southgate, 9 Peters, 617. £he court say:
'It was sufficientLy sho~Vn, at least primin facie, that the witness lived at a greater distance than one hundred miles from
the place of trial. This is a fact proper for the inquiry of the
officer who took the deposition, and he has certified that such
is the residence of the witness. 'In the case of Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 356, it is decided that the certificate of the magistrate is good evidence of the facts therein stated, so as to entitle the deposition to be read to the jury.' This exception is
overruled.
"The fifth exception is to the competency of the evidence
contained in the deposition of Mandeville. 'The decision of
this exception will be reserved to the final hearing.
"The sixth exception is to the authority of the magistrate
before whom Mandeville's deposition was taken. It was taken
before Thomas Fletcher, judge of the Probate Court within and
for the county of Adams, and State of Mississippi, and the inquiry is, wh~ether he is authorized by the acts of Congress to
take depositions. By the 30th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, depositions de bene esse may be taken before any judge
of a county court of any of the United States. Is Thomaa
Fletcher a judge of a county court of any of the United
States? In order to decide this question,,ve must look into
the laws of the State of Mississippi. That this court is bound
to take notice of the laws of Mississippi is clearly settled by
the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Owings
v. Hull, 9 Peters, 625. The court say, that the laws of all the
Sfttes in the Union are to be judicially taken notice of, in the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

381

:Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

same nanner as the laws of the United States are to be taken
notice of, by the Circuit Courts of the United States. Looking, then, into the laws of Mississippi, we find a Court of Probates established in each county of the State, with jurisdiction
in all matters testamentary, and of administration of orphans'
business; in the allotment of dower; in cases of idiocy and
lunacy, and of persons non compos mentis (see § 18 of the
4th artile of the Constitution, and the acts of the legislature
of 1833, law 444). By the fourth section of the act it is provided, that the Court of Probate in each county shall procure
a seal for said court, thereby constituting it a court of record.
" The question then is, Is this a county court? It is a court
of record established in each county in the State, and styled
' the Probate Court of the County of
' I Lm clearly
of opinion, that it is such a county court as is contemplated by
the act of Congress, and that depositions may be taken before
-the judge thereof. The deposition of Mandeville is a deposition taken de bene esse, and may be read on the final hearing,
unless the defendant shall show that the witness has removed
within the reach of a subpcena after the deposition was taken,
and that fact was known to the party, according to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of the Patapsco Insurance Company v. Southgate, 5 Peters, 617. This exception is
therefore overruled."
Roane and others of the defendants made a compromise
with Merrill, which was sanctioned by the court, and the bill
was dismissed as to Sophia M. Bayl6r.
On the 23d of August, 1847, the Circuit Court made a
long explanatory decree, of which the following is the conclusion: " This cause came on to be heard at this term, and was argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof,
it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows, to wit: That
the bill, as to the defendant, Sophia M. Baylor, be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed, with her costs, to be paid by her to
the said complainant. And it is further ordered and decreed,
that unless the sum of $ 18,934 shall be paid or tendered to the
said complainant, or his solicitor, by the remaining defendants,
or any or either of them, on or before the first day of the next
term of this court, they, the said defendants, are from thenceforth to stand absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and from
all right, title, interest, and equity of redemption of, in, and to
the said mortgagcd property in the bill mentioned, and a sale
of said mortgaged property decreed, if a sale thereof shall be
deemed expedient by thi court. And the question of hire of
the mortgaged properhy, of costs, and all other questions in the

382

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. Herrilr

cause not now decided, are reserved to the further decree of
this court.
"And it is.further ordered, that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, continued until the next term of this court.
"At the next term of the court a final decree was passed, fixin'g the value of the slaves and their hire, sanctioning the compromise made by some of the defendants, ordering a restitution
of the slaves held by the rest, or, in case of neglect or refusal to
restore, holding them responsible for the assessed value of such
slaves."
Fowler and Badgctt appealed from this decree to this court
It was argued by lr. Lawrence, for the appellants, and .Ur.
Addison, for the appellee.
The points made for the appellants were the following.
The appellants insist that the deposition of Mandeville,
taken on the 8th of March, 1845, ought to have been suppressed on their exceptions.
It was taken before a judge of the Probate Court of Mississippi, an officer wholly unauthorized by sect. 30 of the act
of September 24th, 1789, to take depositions .ex parte, or by
any other act of. Congress. See 1 Stat. at Large, pp. 88, 89,
§ 30.
And the argument of the court below, that, because in that
State there is a Probate Court established in each county, it is
necessarily a county court, within the meaning of the act of
Congress, is conceived to be wholly inconclusive and untenable. Upon the same reasoning, a court would be bound to infer that the Circuit Court, or Board of Police, established there
in each county, is a county court. And if inferences of this
kind be indulged, what may not be inferred? (See Const. of
Miss., art. 4.)
Indeed, this Board of Police, which is entirely distinct from
the Probate Court, is the substitute and legitimate successor
of an abolished county court, inheriting nearly all of its powers. See Const. of Miss., art. 4; Hutchinson's Miss. Code
(A. P. 1848), p. 710.
And if there be 'no county court there, either in fact or in
name, by what authority could the Circuit Court for the District of Arkansas presume one into existence? And especially
under a statute (Act of 1789, § 30) which admits of no presumptions whatever; and under which depositions taken must
always strictly and rigidly conform to its words, or, keep closely
within their :iteral meaning. Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 351
et seq,." 1 Cond. R.-95; U. States v. Smith, 4 Day, 127.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850
Fowlor et al. v.

383

Mferrill.

And if it be insisted that the deposition was taken on interrogatories, it wag equally inadmissible; because, in such
case, the court must always name the commissioners. See
Rule 67 of this court, regulating practice in equity.
And this deposition, as also his third and last deposition,
ought to have been suppressed, for the incompetency of the
matter contained in them. As to matters taken from the books
of the Bank, the statement as to the protest, a letter of Dawson, &c., &c.; because he n0ther produced the originals and
identified them, nor deposed that he knew the matters to be
true, otherwise than that they were so on the books, &c. See
State v. Rawls, 2 Nott & McCord, 332; Peake's Ev. 190; Doe
v. Perkins, 3 Durnf. & East, 754; 1 Phil. Ev. (by Cowen and
Hill), 289.
The depositions taken by Merrill, of Trapnall, Dotris, Walker, White, Bogy, aiad Hammett, ought to have been suppressed. They were to be taken on thirty-five interrogatories;
only. a part of which were propounded to each witness.
And the law is well settled, as it seems, that each and every
interrogatory must be put to each and every witness, and
answered by him, or the depositions cannot be read. Richardson v. Golden, 3 Wash. 0. C. 109; Bell v. Davidson, 3 Ib.332
et seq.; Dodge-v. Israel, 4 Tb. 323; Kimball v. Davis, 19 Wend.
439; Brown v. Kimball, 25 lb. 265; Withers v. Gillespy, 7
Serg., & Rawle, 16; Ketland v. Bissett, 1 Wash. C. C. 144;
Winthrop v. The Union Ins. Co., 2 lb. 12.
And upon the exclusion of the depositions excepted to, or
only Mandeville's, Merrill has nothing remaining upon which
his decree can stand; he has no case at all.
An absolute sale of chattels, where the possession remains
with the vendor, is void as to his creditors. Sturtevant v. Ballard, 9 Johns. 337 et seq.; Meeker v. Wilson, 1 Gallis. C. C.422;
Ryal v. Rowles, 1 Ves. sen. 359 ; 2 Kent's Comm. 406-410;
Hamilton v. Russell, 1 Craneh, 309; Clow v. Woods, 5 Serg.
& Rawle, 278; Cunningham v. Neville 10 Ib.201.
Even a stipulation in the deed of sale, for the retention, unless satisfactory to the court, does not form an exception to the
rule. 9 Johns. 337 et seq.; 2 Kent's Comm. 412; 5 Serg. &
Rawle, 279; Divner v. McLaughlin, 2 Wend. 599.
And does not the same rule apply to mortgages of personal
property, both at common law and under the statutes of
frauds? 2 Kent's Comm. 406-412; Ryall v. Rolle, 1 Atk.
167; Worsley v. De Mattos, 1 Burr. 467; 5. Serg. & Rawle,
278; Fuller v. Acker, 1 Hill, (N. Y.) 475; 9 Johns. 340 et seq.;
Smith v. Acker, 23 Wend. 653; 1 Gallis. C. C.423 ; Look v.
Comstock, 15 Wend. 246; Muray v. Bartis, Tb. 212; 4 Yerg.

384

SUPiEME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

.541; 7 lb. 445; Powell on Mortg. 23,24; Cadogan v. Kennett,
Cowp. 434; Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., I Peters, 449;' Barrow
v. Paxton, 5 Johns. 261; Thornton v. Davenport, 1 Scam. 299;
2 Wend. 599; 13 Serg. & Rawle, 131.
This is an absolute mortgage, on its face, containing
no stipulation whatever that Dawson should retain possession.
And as such, it is a conveyance executed, and passed the legal title to the slaves to Merrill. Powell on Mortg. 23, 24; 1
Peters, 441; 1 Ves. sen. 359; 5 Serg. & Rawle, 283 et seq.;
20,Wend. 262.
And immediately on the execution of the mortgage, Merrill
was entitled to the possession of the slaves, and to maintain a
suit for them. Doe v. Grimes, 7 Blackf. 1; Rockwell v. Bradley, 2 Conn. 4; 14 Peters, 28; 12 Serg. & Rawle, 241; 3 Johns.
Cas. 326; 2 Conn. 447; Newall v. Wright, 3 Mass. 152; 1
Freem. Ch. 473; H6bart v. Sanborn, 13 N. Hamp. (1st vol.
2d series), 227.
At any rate, as so6n as the first note fell due, in 1838, Merrll's title became absolute at law, and he had a right to immediate possession. Spalding v. Scanland, 4 B. Monroe, 365;
12 Wend. 62; Robinson v. Campbell, 8 Missouri, 366, 616; 10
Johns. 481; Dexter v. Harris, 2 Mason, C. C. 531; 5 Cond. Rep.
655; 20 Wend. 262; 1 Branch, 270; 1 Hill, (N. Y.) 475; 7
Cow. 292; 6 Paige, Ch. 587,596; Lansing v. Capron, 1 Johns.
Ch. 617; Adams v. Essex, I Bibb, 150; Estabrook v. Moulton, 9 Mass. 258; Hopkins v. Thompson, 2 Porter, 435.
And his permitting Dawson to remain in possession, after
such failure to pay the note first due, without disturbance, and
without a stipulation in the deed to that effect, makes the
whole fraudulent and void as to Dawson's creditors. Goder v.
Standifer, 7 Monroe, 488 ; 2 Kent's Comm. 407-413; 1 Burr,
475; 4 Mass. 637; 15 Verm. (1 Slade) 135 ; Gardner v. Adams,
12 Wend. 298; Thornton v. Davenport, 1 Scam. 299; Semple
v. Burd, 7 Serg. & Rawle, 288; 13 lb. 131,-169.
Conveyances of slaves, at the time of the alleged execution
of this mortgage, were required to be acknowledged or proved
before the clerk of the Superior Court, of a Circuit Court, a
justice of the peace, or other competent authority, within the
county where one of the parties resided, and there recorded.
Steele & McCampb. Ark. Dig. 267..
The conclusion of the court below, that it may be lawfully
recorded without probate, is based on error; for the same act
of October 1, 1804, upon which the conclusion was founded,
places the prolate before the record; and it is consequently a
prerequisite. Steele & McCampb. - Dig., p. 132, § 2, p. 454,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

8s

Fowler et al. v. Merrill

§ 1; Geyer's Digest of Laws of Missouri Territory, p. 127, § 2,

p. 330, § 1.
And the mortgage being acknowledged before a judge of
probate of the State of Mississippi, who was wholly unauthorized by any legislative act of Arkansas, such acknowledgment
is a mere nullity, and so is the pretended registry. Richardson
v. Randolph, 5 Mason, C. C. 116; Coale v. Harringtoi, 7 Har.
& Johns. 155; Miller v. Henshaw, 4 Dana, 330; Eastland v.
Jordan, 3 Bibb, 187; Shultz v. Moore, 1 McLean, C. C. 527;
Johnston v. Haines, 2 Ham. 55.
And if it be such an instrument as was not by law required
to be recorded, its registry gives it no validity. 1 Story's Eq.
Jurisp. § 404; 5 Mason, C. C. 265; 1 Gilman, 331.
And, if not duly registered, it is void, as to Dawson's creditors, though they had notice of its existence. 4 Rand. 212;
4 English, (Ark.) 116,'&c.; 5 Litt. 244; 1 Johns. Ch. 300;
4 Bibb, 79.
And a purchaser, under the creditor's judgment, occupies the
same position as the creditor himself. Sands v. Hildreth,
14 Johns. 497; 4 Rand. 212; Hildreth v. Sands, 2 Johns. Ch,
35 et seq.; 7 Blackf. 68; 1 McLean, C. C. 39; 4 Wash. C. C.
137; 1 Paige, Ch. 508; 11 Missouri, 544; 2 Wend. 601.
Aid if improperly recorded, or the statute does not make
the record notice, as it does not in this case, such registry is
not constructive notice to purchasers. 1 Story's Eq. Jurisp.
§ 404; 5 Mason, C. C. 115, 265; Moore v. Hunter, 1 Gilman,
331; 1 McLean, C. C. 527; McIver v. Robertson, 3 Yerg. 84;
Heister v. Fortner, 2 Binn. 44; 4 Dana, 330; Gann v. Chester,
5 Yerg. 208; 12 Smedes & Mar~h. 266; Main v. Alexander,
4 English, (Ark.) 116; 1 Dana, 168.
Again, there is no legitimate proof in the record to show
when the mortgage was executed. It nust, therefore, be presumed to be included in the category and class of deeds men.
tioned in the following paragraph, under the act of 1838.. And
'the only proof of the execution of the mortgage being the mere
signature of Dawson,'the legal presumption must be that it
had no valid existence until the filing of the bill, and after de.
fendants? rights accrued.
This mortgage, placing it in the strongest possible view in
Merrill's favor, being unrecorded, fixed no lien in his favor as
against Dawson's creditors, who had no notice of it. This is
unquestionable. Soon after the alleged execution of the mortgage, to wit, on the 20th of February, 1838, the legislature
of Arkansas passed an act, declaring that " all mortgages "for
personal property" should "be acknowledged before some person authorized by law to take the acknowledgment of deeds "
33
voL. xi.

'586

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. MerrilL

and recorded in the county where "the mortgagor resides."
And that such mortgage, when so filed for record, "and not
before," should be a lien on the property. And that the recorder should "note, in the record, the precise time such mortgage was filed for record." See Rev. Stat. of Arkansas (A.
D. 1838), p. 578, ch. 101.
Was it not incumbent on Merrill so to have this mortgage
recorded? And was it not expressly embraced in this act by
its general phraseology? If so, he having utterly failed to
comply with it, this case comes directly within the decision of
the Supreme Court of Arkansas in Main v. Alexander, 4 English, 116.
And the decisions of a State court, on its own, statutes, is
the rule for the United States courts. 13 Peters, 21, 63, 328;
2 McLean, C. C.433; 1 Tb. 36; 6 Peters, 297; 5 lb. 401.
Was .actual notice proved?
Fowler positively denies notice in his answer; and this can
only be-overturned by one positive witness, and corroborating
circumstances equal to another. 2 Stor. Eq. Jur. § 1428;
Flagg v. Mann, 2 Sumn. C. C. 550; 5 Mason, C. C. 267,268;
1 Greenl. Ev. § 260; Simpson v. Feltz, 1 McCord, Ch.218;
Hart v. Ten Eyck, 2 Johns. Ch. 92; Gres. Eq. (ed. of 1837),
156; 9 Cranch, 160; 20 Pick. 34; 10 Johns. 640; 5 Cond. R.
136; 1 Mason, C. C. 515; 1 Call, 280; 5 Peters, 111; Sug. on
Vend. 550 ; 2 Wash. C. C. 199; 1 Cow. 703.
And it is submitted to the court, whether there is any witness at all, who has sworn positively to such notice; and if
not., can a court infer it from the circumstances alone, however strong they may be, against the answer's positive denial '
The respondent speaks of a mater within his own knowledge;
the witnesses from their impressions, and belief from other
mere circumstances, without-any pretence of'actual know!.
edge. And the answer, as evidence, must have the same
weight as disinterested witnesses. Sturtevant m Waterbury,
1 Edw. Ch. 444; Sug. on Vend. 550; Clarke's Ex. v. Van'
Reimsdyk, 9 Cranch, 160; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 260; 10 Johns. 542;
1 Cow. 743.
The only evidences of-actual notice to Fowler, even at the
sale, are, that he was in the crowd when Trapnall forbade the
sale, and during the progress of the sale purchased some of
the slaves ; the beliefs of the testy Frenchman,. Bogy; the
thoughts and beliefs of White; the beliefs of Walker; and the
impressions of Trapnall; none of whom testify positively, or
with any degree of certainty.'
Appellants insist, that such evidence does not even make a
p!in?4 facie case of notice; much less is it sufficient to over.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

387

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

whelm the positive negative of the answer. Because the rule'
of law is, that, where witnesses state facts to the best of their
knowledge and belief, impressions, thoughts, or understanding,
without detailing the facts upon which they are based, or from
which they were induced or derived, they do not even amount
to negative evidence; they are not evidence at all. Woodcock v. Bennett, 1 Cow. 748 et seq.; Clason v. Morris, 10 Johns.
531; Bright v. Haggin, Hardin, 537; Van Dyne v. Tharpe,
19 Wend. 165; Smith v. Frost, 2 J. J. Marsh. 426; Andrews
& Bros. v. Jones, 10 Ala. Rep. (New Series), 470; Ventress v.
Smith, 10 Peters, 171; 1 McCord, Ch. 218; 4 Ala. Rep. (New
Series), 48; 2 Comstock, 515; 5 Porter, 343; 1 Dana, 163.
Notice in fact must be such as to affect the subsequent purchaser with fraud. Curtis v. Lunn, 6 Munf. 44; 1 Stor. Eq.
Jur. § 404; Dey v. Dunham, 2 Johns. Ch. 190; Grinstone v.
Carter, 3 Paige, Ch. 423.
And the proof of it must be clear, undoubted, direct, and
conclusive. 6 Munf. 44; 1 Stor. Eq. Jur. § 406; McNeill v.
McGee, 5 Mason, C. C. 265; 2 Sumn. C. C. 550; Sug. on
Vend. 730; 2 Pow. on Mort. 560, 562; Martin v. Dryden, 1
Gilman, 208; McMeechan v. Griffing, 3 Pick. 154.
Mere presumptions of notice, from rumors, &c., in Dawson's
neighborhood, cannot attach to Fowler, who resided in a different county. 2 Sumn. C. C. 55.
The witnesses even disagree about whose encumbrance it
was that Trapnall gave notice bf; whether Merrill's, William
Dawson's, or some other.
Even if the indefinite impressions, beliefs, and discrepances
in the recollections of the witnesses, so manifest in their depositions, be deemed sufficient to fix notice in fact upon Fowler,
at the sale; and there is no pretence that he had any until
then; and the record shows that he resided in a different
county, and could not, therefore, be affected by rumors in Dawson's neighborhood; such notice is utterly inoperative.
Because notice to a judgmenf-creditor, or a purchaser uiider
his judgment, of a prior assignment, or mortgage, of the debtor's property, where possession has not been taken under it,
cannot affect the right of either. 1 Gallis. C. C. 419; Russell v. Fillmore, 15 Verm. 135; 4 Eng. (Ark.) 116; Warden v.
Adams, 15 Mass. 236; 7 Serg. & Rawle, 288 et seq.; 13 Ib.
131, 169.
And such creditor, or purchaser under his judgment, although
he receive actual notice at the sale under execution, will hold
the legal title, whether of land or personalty, in preference to
an unrecorded deed, br mortgage, executed prior to the judgment, or execution lien. Guerrant v. Anderson, 4 Rand. 212;

388

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. MerrilL

5 Yerg. 208; Hill v. Paul, 8 Missouri, 480; Reed v. Austin's
Heirs, 9 Missouri, 729; Frothingham v. Stacker, 11 Missouri,
78; Garnett v. Stockton, 7 Humph. 85; Bingaman v. Hyatt,
1 Smedes & Marsh. Ch. 444; Martin v. Dryden, 1 Gilman,
218; McGowan v. Hoy, 5 Litt. 245; Helm v. Logan, 4 Bibb,
79; Farnesworth v. Childs, 4 Mass.' 637; Main et al. v. Alexander, 4 Eng. (Ark.) 117; Semple v. Burd, 7 Serg. &
Rawle, 289 et seq.; Stow v. Mesevve, 13 N. Hamp. (1st vol.
2d series), 49; 15 Mass. 236; Coffin v. Ray, 1 Metcalf, 213;
1 Dana, 168; 13 Serg. & Rawle, 169.
A principle settled in the foregoing cases is, that where a
bond fide creditor, without notice of a prior unregistered conveyance, obtains a lien by virtue of a judgment, attachment,
or execution, subsequent notice, whether before or at the sale,
cannot affect the purchaser or creditor, but he must in equity,
as well as at law, hold the property against the former unregistered deed.
In this case, the lien was fixed when the execution was delivered to the sheriff. See Rev. Stat. of Ark., A. D. 1838, ch.
60, p. 378, § 24.
The court below appears to have thought that the answer
did not contain a sufficient averment as to the payment of the
purchase-money before notice, &c., and therefore no proof of
notice was necessary. Fowler's answer does make substantially and fully such denial and averment.
And even if the answer were technically defective in this
particular, it should have been ex6epted to, and a more perfect response obtained; but being replied to, the defect, if
any existed, is waived. 1 Freem. Ch. 547; 5 Mason, C. C.
266.
The value of the slaves, and of their hire, decreed by the
court below, is excessive beyond all reason, and in direct violation of both the law and the evidence.
The value ought to -have been estimated as at the time of
the decree, and their reasonable hire from the filing of the bill
until that time. See 1 Brockenb. (Chief Justice Marshall)
515, Backhouses Ad. v. Jetts Ad.
And in estimating the hire, all reasonable charges and expenses, such as taxes, medical attendance, clothing, raising of
the children, &c., &c., ought to have been deducted. Mims v.
Mims, 3 J. J. Marsh. 109; 1 Dana, 286.
These equitable rules were disregarded.
To arrive at a correct conclusion on this point, the answers
must be looked to; and they, indeed, according to the wellsettled rules of evidence in equity, furnish the only guide for
the decree, as to value and hire.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

389

Fowler et al. v. Merril.

The bill expressly interrogates both Fowler and Badgett as
to their value when purchased, their value when suit was
commenced, and of their continued hire. They answer expressly these interrogatories.
And there can be no question that their answers are responsive to the bill; and, as such, conclusive evidence in their favor, unless overturned by two witnesses, or one positive witness, with strong corroborating circumstances. See the authorities above referred to on this point; the elementary works
and reports on equity passinz; and especially the following
cases: Woodcock v. Bennett, 1 Cowen, 7,42; 2 Sumner, 506;
Mills v. Gore, 20 Pick. 34; 2 Story, Eq. Jur. § 1528; 9 Cranch,
160; Allen v. Mower, 17 Verm. (2 vol. N. S.) 68; Christie
v. Bishop, 1 Barb. Ch. 115; Oakey v. Rabb, 1 Freem. Ch. 547;
Pierson v. Clayer, 15 Verm. (1 Slade), 104; Russell v. Moffitt,
6 How. (Miss.) 309.
- The answers, responding to these direct interrogatories, declare that the purchase-money paid by Fowler was "then the
full value of the slaves, and that their value had greatly depreciated since, at least one fourth, with the general decline in the
price of slaves, and that their profits or hire had necessarily
declined also; and further state the net value of their hire, after deducting the proper charges, expenses, &c. Have the answers been set aside by the necessary witnesses? The iecord
will be sought for them in vain. None of the witnesses pretend to speak of their value after the sale; and those who
speak of hire mention it in gross, without 'deducting the
proper charges and expenses.
White says they sold for about what they were worth, and
were appraised too high, fully sugtaining the answers.
Bogy says, at the time they were valued, he thinks they
were worth what they were appraised at; but cannot say what
the precise value of either of them was.
The answer, then, fully sustained by White, equal to three
witnesses, cannot be overturned by the solitary testimony of
Bogy. Even if Hammett's evidence should not be suppressed,
it is only two witnesses against the answer and White; and
the latter must even then prevail, because the former lacks the
strong corroborating circumstances. And there is no evidence
at all militating against the answers as to the depreciation in
value after the s-le. Rowton v. Rowton, 1 Hen. & Munf. 101.
And the appraisement list cannot be brought in aid of
Bogy. For it is not evidence. Lawson v. The State, 5 Eng.
(Ark.) 36.
The answers, then, must be taken as true, and conclusively
so, as to the value and hire; and the decree being for about.
33*

390

SUPREME CO UR.T.
Fowler et al. v. Merrill

or more than twice as much as the answers diiclose, must be
reversed on that ground, if on no other, that a correct account
may be taken.
The decree against Badgett is also erroneous, because it decrees him to pay the value of Jackson, without any proof that
he was the issue of one of the mortgaged slaves, against the
denials of the answers. And because it decrees him to pay
the value of Eliza, who died before the institution of the suit.
1 Brockenb. 515.
And even if notice be fixed upon Badgett, it.cannot affect
him, if Fowler was a bond fide purchaser. Mitf. Pl. 224; 1
Atk. 571; 2 Bro. Ch. 66; 1 Stor. Eq. Jur. § 409; 6 Munf. 44;
Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 209; 3 Ala. (N. S.) 475."
The points raised by the counsel for the appellee were the
following.
1. That the mortgage was executed by Dawson and received by Merrill in gbod faith, to secure the latter from loss
on account of indorsements made by him for Dawson's accommodation.
2. That the notes were protested, and notice duly given
and the notes paid by Merrill. Brandon v. Loftus, 4 Howard,
128.
3. That the laws of Arkansas in force in November, 1837,
did not require mortgages of personal property to be recorded.
4. That under these circumstances the mortgage would be
good, even against subsequent bond fide purchasers without
notice, notwithstanding the mortgagor's continuing in possession of the mortgaged goods. Powell on Mortg. 42-44; Edwards v. Harben, 2 Term Rep. 587; Hamilton v. Russell, 1
Crarich, 817, 318; U. States v. Hooe et al., 3 Cranch, 73; Bank
of Georgia v. Higginbottom, 9 Peters, 60; Shirra v. Caig and
Mitchell, 7 Cranch, 34; Stone v. Grubham, Bulstrode, 225;
Meggott v. Mills, 1 Ld. Raym. 287; Brooks v. Marbury, 11
Wheat. 78.
And notwithstanding the appellee did not take p6ssession
of the negroes immediately on the notes being protested.
Lady Lambert's case, Sheppard's Touchstone, 67; 1 J. 3.
Marshall, 227; 2 Dana, 204; 8 Pdiers, 32, 33; 3 Cowen, 189;
2 Wendell, '600.
5. That the laws of Arkansas, in force in 1837, although
they did not require, yet allowed the recording of this mortgage, and such .recording operated as notice to all the world.
Steele & McCampbell's 'Digest of Laws of Arkansas, titles
" AOrtgage," Recorder." See District .Judge's Opinion in

this case, pp. 188, 189.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

391

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

6. That the appellants had actual notice at-the time of their
purchase of the existence of this mortgage, and their purchasT
ing with such notice is fraudulent against the appellee, and
they can derive no rights against the appellee through such
purchase. Le Neve v. Le Neve, 3 Atk. 646; 1 Story's Eq.
395, 397; Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 449.
7. That at all events the appellants had sufficient notice, to
put them on inquiry, which, if they failed to make, they cannot
claim the rights appertaining to bon.ftde subsequent purchasers without notice. 1 Story's Eq. § 400, note 4, § 400 a.
8. That the answers of the appellants-do not allege that they
had no notice of the mortgage before the payment by them of
the purchase-money, and such allegation is indispensable to a
valid defence by subsequent purchasers. Frost v. Beekman,
1 Johns. Ch. 300; 2 Daniell's Chancery Practice, 814; Jewett
v. Palmerf 7 Johns. Ch. 68; Harrison v. Southgate, 1 Atk. 538;
Story v. Ld. Windsor, 2 Atk. 630; Wigg v. Wigg, 1 Atk.
384; Tourville v. Naish, 3 P. Wims. 306; Jones v. Thomas, 3
P. Wins. 244; Hardingham v. Nicolls, 3 Atk. 304; Wormley
v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 449.
9. That after hearing it is too late to apply for leave to
amend the answer in this respect. Story's Eq. Pl. 896, 901.
And there is nothing in the record from which it may be inferred that they coulZ amend, or that they wanted leave to
do so.
10. That Fowler only purchased Dawson's equity of redemption. 4 Randolph, 212.
The counsel for the appellants insists upon the following
exceptions.
i11andeville's Deposition, 8th March, 1845.
1. Because no notice of its caption was given.
The appellee contended that none was necessary, because
it was taken more than one hundred miles from the residence
of the appellants. Act of 1789, ch. 20, § 30 (1 Stat. at Large,

89).
2. Because it was taken before a Probate Court.
The appellee contended, that it was a court within the
meaning of the act of 1789, ch. 20, § 30. (See opinion of the
district judge in this case, and the constitution and laws of
Mississippi as there cited.) But even if it ought to have been
suppressed, the same facts are sufficiently proven in his deposition taken before the Mayor of Natchez.
Depositions taken at Pine Bluffs.
1. Because the name of one of the defendants, J. L. Dawson, does not appear in the certificate of the commissioners.

392

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

The appellee contended, that the cause in whith it was
taken sufficiently appears. Keene v. Meade, 3 Peters, 1; Jordan v. Hazard, 10 Ala. 224.
2. (a.) Because sufficient notice was not given of the filing
of the interrogatories.
The appellee will rely on the 13th Rule of Practice for the
Equity Courts of the United States.
(b.) Because sufficient notice was not given of the time and
place of taking the depositions.
The appellee contended, that, the commission being ex parte,
notice was unnecessary. 1 Newland's Ch. Prac. 262; Harr.
Ch. Prac., ed. 1808, p. 244; 1 Smith's Ch. Prac. 365.
3. Because each interrogatory was not propounded to each
of the witnesses.
The appellee contended that this Was unnecessary, and that
it would have been irregular to have done so. Daniell's Ch.
Practice, 1052, 1061; Gresley's Eq. Ev. 67, 104; 1 Turner's
Ch. 32 (Introduction) ; 1 Smith's Ch. Prac. 368.
And the appellee contended, that, if the depositions taken at
Pine Bluffs ought to have been suppressed, still without them
there is in the appellants' commission, and in the other evidence, sufficient proof to entitle him to the decree as passed.
The appellants object, that the court improperly dismissed
the bill against Mrs. Baylor.
The appellee contended, 1. That there was not sufficient evidence to warrant a decree
against her.
2. But that if the court did err in that respect, it operated
no prejudice to the appellants, as the value of the negroes held
by her, and their hire, would not, together with the several
sums decreed against all the other defendants, be equal to the
mortgage debt.
Mr. Justice WO ODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Arkansas.
The decree was in favor of Merrill, on a bill in chancery to
foreclose a mortgage of certain negroes, described therein and
executed to'him, November 25, 18377 to secure him for indorsing two notes niade in April and June, 1837, the first payable
in one year and the other in two years, for $12,578.42 inithe
aggregate. These notes run to F. L. Dawson or order, and
were by him indorsed to the plaintiff, Merrill, and by him to
the Planters' Bank for Dawson, who obtained the money
thereon for himself. This mortgage was recorded December
29, 1837.

DECEMBER TERM. 1850.

893

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

The notes not being taken up by Dawson, Merrill was compelled to pay their amount and interest, on the 4th of March)
1842.
The bill then proceeded to aver, that the defendants below,
viz. James L. Dawson, James Smith, William Dawson, and
others, had since got possession of these negroes, some of one
portion of them and some of another. And that, although
they were bought with full notice of Merrill's prior rights to
them under the above mortgage, yet the respondents all refuse
to deliver them to him, or pay their value and hire towards the
discharge of the mortgage. Whereupon he prayed that each
of them be required to deliver up the negroes in his possession,
and account for their hire or to pay their value.
The court below decided, that $ 18,934 be paid to Merrill
by the respondents, excepting Mrs. Bayler, and, on failure to
do it, that the redemption of them be barred, and other proceedings had, so as eventually to restore the slaves or their
value to the mortgagee.
Several objections to this decree and other rulings below
were made, which will be considered in the order in which they
were presented.
Some of the depositions which were offered to prove important facts had been taken before "a judge of the Probate
Court" in Mississippi, when the act of Congress allows it in
such cases before "a judge of a county court." 1 Stat. at
Large, 88, 89.
But we think, for such a purpose, a judge of probate is
usually very competent, and is a county judge within the description of the .law.
In Mississippi, where these depositions were taken, a Probate Court is organized for each county, and is a court of record, having a seal. Hutch. Dig. 719, 721. "Under these circumstances, were the competency of a probate judge more
doubtful, the objection is waived by the depositions having been taken over again in substance before the Mayor 'f
Natchez.
The other objections to the depositions are in part overruled
by the cases of Bell v. Morris'on et al., 1 Peters, 356,.and Patapsco Ins. Co. v. Southgate et al., 5 Peters, 617.
On the rest of them not so settled, we are satisfied-with the
views expressed below, without going into further details.
The next exception for our consideration is,that the time of
the execution of the mortgage is not shown, 4ud hence that
it may have been after the rights of the respondents commenced.
But it must be presumed to have been executed at its date

894

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler et aLv. Merrill.

till the contrary is shown; and its date was long before. Besides this, it was acknowledged probably the same day, being
certified as done the 24th of November, 1837. And though
this was done out of the State, yet, if not good for some purposes, it tends to establish the true time of executing the mortgage. It must also have been executed before recorded, and.
that was December 29th of the same year, and long before the
sale in October, 1841, under which the respondents claim.
The objection, that the handwriting of the record is Dawson's, does not impair this fact, or the legality of the record as
a record, it having doubtless been allowed by the register and
being in the appropriate place in the book of records.
It is next insisted, that, as the negroes were left in the possession of Dawson after the mortgage, and were seized and
sold to the respondents in October, 1841, to pay a debt due
from Dawson to the Commercial Bank of Vicksburg, and as
the respondents were innocent purchasers, and without notice
of the mortgage, the latter was consequently void. This is
the substance of several of the answers. Now, whether a sale
or mortgage, without changing the possession of the property,
is in most cases only primafacie evidence of fraud, or is per se
fraud, whether in England or in some of the States, or in Arkansas where this mortgage and the sale took place, may not
be fully settled in some of them, though it is clear enough in
others. (See cases cited in 2 Kent's Com. 406-412.) So
whether a sound distinction may not exist at times between a
mortgage and a sale, need not be examined, though it is more
customary in all mortgages for the mortgager honestly to retain the possession, than to pass it to the mortgagee. U. States
v. Hoe, 3 Cranch, 88; Haven v. Low, 2 N. Hamp, 15. See
1 Smith's Leading Cases, 48, note; Brooks v. Marbury, 11
Wheat. 82, 83; Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom, 9 Pet. 60;
Hawkins v. Ingolls, 4 Blackf. 35. And in conditional sales,
especially on a condition precedent bon4 fide, the vendor, it is
usually considered, ought not to part with the possession till
the condition is fulfilled.
See in 9 Johns. 337, 340;. 2
Wend. 599. See most of the cases collected in 2 Kent's Com.
406.
But it is unnecessary to decide any of these points here, as,
in order to prevent any injury or fraud by the possession not
being changed, a record of the mortgage ip in most of the
States required, and was made here withi four or five weeks
of the date of the mortgage, whereas the seizufe and sale of
the negroes*,to the respondents did not take place till nearly
four years after.
Yet it is urged in answer-to this, thatfthe statute of Arkan-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

395

Fowler et aL v. Merrill.

sas, making a mortgage, acknowledged and-recorded, good,
without any change of possession of the articles, did not take
effect till March 11th, 1839, over a year after this record.
Such a registry, however, still tended to give publicity and
notice of the mortgage, and to prevent as well as repel fraud,
and it would, under the statute of frauds in Arkansas, make
the sale valid if bond fide and for a good consideration, unless
against subsequent purchasers without notice. Rev. Statutes,
ch. 65, § 7, p. 415.
There -is no sufficient proof here of actual fraud, or mala
fides, or want of a full and valuable consideration. And hence
the objection is reduced to the mere question of the want of
notice in the respondents. In relation to that fact, beside
what has already been stated, evidence was offered to show,
that the existence of the mortgage was known and talked of
in the neighborhood, and proclaimed publicly at the sale.
Indeed, some of the evidence goes so far as to state, that,
after the notice of the mortgage at the sale, the sheriff pro.
ceeded to sell only the equity of redemption, or to sell the
negroes subject to any encumbrances. His own deed--says expressly, " hereby conveying all of the right, title, estate, interest,
claim, and demand of the said James L. Dawson, of, in, and to
the same, not making myself hereby responsible for the title of
said slaves, but only conveying, as such sheriff, the title of said
James L. Dawson in and to the same."
The proof likewise brings this actual notice hQnm to each of
the respondents, before the purchase, independent of the public
record of the mortgage and the public declaration forbidding
the sale at the time, on the ground that the moftgage existed
and was in full force.
According to some cases, this conduct of theirs under such
circumstances would seem more fraudulent. than any by Merrill. Le Neve v. Le Neve, 3 Atk. 646; 1 Stor, Eq. 395; 8
Wheat. 449. Beside this, the answer should have averred the
want of notice, not only before the sale, but before the payment
of the purchase-money. Till the-actual payment the buyer is
not injured, and it is voluntq.y to go on or not when informed
.that the title is in another. Wormiey v. Wornley, 8 Wheat.
449; Hardingham v. Nicholls, 3 Atk. 304; Jewett v. Palmer et
al., 7 Johns. Ch. 68. See Le Neve v. Le Neve, 3 Atk. 651.
There is another view of this transaction, which, if necessary
to revert to, would probably sustain this present mortgage.
The Arkansas law to make a mortgage valid if recorded,
passed February 20th, 1838 (Rev. Stat. p. 580). This mortgage
was on record then, and since- and had been from December,
1837, thus covering both the time when the law took effect

396

SUPREME COURT
Fowler et aL v. MerrilL

and when the respondents purchased. It was also acknowledged- then, and though not before a magistrate in Arkansas,
yet before one in Mississippi; and in most States, the acknowledgment may be before a magistrate out of the- State as
well as in, if he is authorized to take acknowledgments of such
instruments.
Nothing appears in the record here against his power to do
this. Some complaint is next made of the delay by Merrill to
enforce his mortgage against Dawson.
But it will be seen on examining the evidence, that he was
not compelled to pay Dawson's notes to the bank till March
4th, 1842, and that these negroeswere sold to the respondents
and removed some months before, viz. October 11th, 1841, so
that no delay whatever occurred on his part to mislead the respondents.
It was next objected, that two or three children, born since
the mortgage, should not be accounted for, and one woman,
who is supposed to have died after the sale and before this bill
in chancery.
But it seems to accord with principle, that the increase or
offspring should belong to the owner of the mother (2 Bl. Corn.
404; Backhouse's Admr. v. Jetts's Admr., 1 Brock. C. C. 511);
and the evidence is so uncertain whether the death of Eliza
occurred after this bill or before, that the doubt must operate
against the respondents, --hose duty it was to prove satisfactorily that it happened before, in order to be exonerated:
It is argued further against the decree, that the respondents
were made to account below for a boy, not proved clearly to
have been born of one of the mortgaged women. But there
seem circumstances in the case from which it might be inferred that he was so born. He was brought up among them,
he was under the care chiefly of one, and no other person is
shown to have been his parent.
We do not see enough, therefore, to justify us in differing
from the judge below on this point.
The rules adopted in the Circuit Court for fixing the valuc
to be paid for the negroes are also objected to, but seem to us
proper. 1 Brock. C. C. 500.
'The mortgaged pr6perty is given up or taken possessibn of
by the mortgagee usually at the time of the decree; and if not
surrendered then, its value at that time, instead of the specific
property mortgaged, must be and was regarded as the rule of
damages.
The injury is in not giving it up when called for then, or in
not then paying the mortgage, and not in receiving it somo
years before, and piot paying its value at that time.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

397

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

This is not trover or trespass for the taking ofit originally,
but a bill in chancery to foreclose the redemption of it by a decree, and hence its value at the time of the decree is the test
of what the mortgagee loses, if the property is not then surrendered.
There is another exception to the estimate made of the value
of the hire of the slaves. Their hire or use was charged only
from the institution of this bill -in chancery. This surely does
not go back too far. 1 Brock. 0. C. 515.And some analogies would carry it back further, and in a
case like this charge it from the period of their going into the
possession of the respondents. But they object to the hire
allowed; because, it is said, that clothing, medicine, &c., during this time should have been deducted. 1 Dana, 286; -3 3.
J. Marshall, 109.
We entertain no doubt, however, that in fact the hire here
was estimated as the net rather than gross hire, and all proper
deduction made. It is only a hundred dollars in one case, and
seventy in others, which manifestly might not equal their gross
earnings, while nothing is charged for the children. Testimony, too, was put in as to the proper amount for hire, and
the judge as well as witnesses belonging to the country, and
being acquainted with its usages, doubtless made all suitable
deductions.
There is no evidence whatever to the contrary.
And on the whole case, we think the judgment below should
be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Arkansas, and was. argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

VOL. Xl.

