OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO. ET AL.
NO.

7.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES
APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

COURT

OF

Argued November 10, 1948.-Decided January 3, 1949.
1. All of the claims of Jungersen Patent No. 2,118,468, for a "method
of casting articles of intricate design and a product thereof," held
invalid for want of invention. Pp. 561-568.
2. An examination of the prior art as it existed at the time of this
alleged invention reveals that every step in the Jungersen method
was anticipated; and it appears that Jungersen's combination of
these steps was, in its essential features, also well known in the
art. Pp. 563-564.
3. Where centrifugal force was common as a means of introducing
molten metal into a secondary mould, its use in an intermediate
step to force molten wax into a primary mould was not an exemplification of inventive genius such as is necessary to render a
patent valid. Pp. 564-567.
4. It is not sufficient to say that jewelry casting is a separate and

distinct art where the patent is not restricted to the casting of
jewelry and the prior improvements in the art of casting were so

obviously applicable to the casting of jewelry that the patentee
was bound by knowledge'of them. P. 567.
5. Where invention is plainly lacking, the fact that a process has
enjoyed considerable commercial success does not render a patent
on it valid. Pp. 567-568.
163 F. 2d 312, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
166 F. 2d 807, affirmed.

Nos. 7 and 8. In a suit for a declaratory judgment that
a patent was invalid and not infringed, defendant counterclaimed, alleging infringement and seeking an injunction.
The District Court held certain claims valid but not
*Together with No. 8, Ostby & Barton Co. et al. v. Jungersen,
on certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, and No. 48, Jungersen v. Baden et al., on certiorari to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

561

Opinion of the Court.

infringed and certain other claims invalid. 65 F. Supp.
652. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 163 F. 2d 312.
This Court denied petitions of both parties for certiorari,
332 U. S. 851, 852; but, after a conflicting decision in
another circuit in No. 48, vacated those orders and granted
certiorari.- 334 U. S. 835. No. 7 affirmed and No. 8
reversed, p. 568.
No. 48. In a suit for damages, profits and injunctive
relief for alleged infringement of a patent, the District
Court held all claims of the patent invalid. 69 F. Supp.
922. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 166 F. 2d 807.
This Court granted certiorari. 334 U. S. 835. Affirmed,
p. 568.
William. H. Davis argued the cause for Jungersen.
With him on the brief was George E. Faithfull.
John Vaughan Groner argued the cause for Ostby &
Barton Co. et al. With him on. the brief was Edward
Winsor.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The issue here is the validity of United States Patent
No. 2,118,468 which covers a "method of casting articles
of intricate design and a product thereof."
The patent was granted to Jungersen on May 24,
1938. In 1941s Ostby and Barton Company instituted
in the United States District Court for the District of
New Jersey an action for a declaratory judgment that
the patent was invalid and not infringed. Jungersen, by
counterclaim,' alleged infringement and sought an injunction. The District Court held Claims 1-4 valid but not
*infringed and Claims 5-6 invalid because too broad. 65
F. Supp. 652. The United States Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit affirmed on the reasoning of the District.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U.S.

Court. 163 F. 2d 312. We denied petitions by both
parties for certiorari. 332 U. S. 851, 852.
In 1944, Jungersen filed suit against Baden in the
United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York, in which he alleged infringement of the
patent and sought damages,' profits, and injunctive relief.
That court held all the claims invalid. 69 F. Supp. 922.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. 166 F. 2d 807..
Vacating the prior orders which denied it in the Ostby
and Barton proceeding, we granted certiorari in both cases
in order to settle the conflict. 334 U. S. 835.' Since
the parties do not assert error in those portions of the
lower courts' decisions which concern infringement, the
sole issue before us is the validity of the patent.
The method described in the Jungersen patent, Claims
1-4, consists of the following steps: (1) the production
'of a model of the article to be cast, (2) the formation
around this model of a "primary mould" of plastic material "such as rubber" which is "capable of assuming
intimate contact with the intricate, designs of the model"
and which will "retain a lasting shape through subse-'
quent treatrqent," (3): -the casting in this mould of a
pattern consisting of, molten wax or -other material of
a low melting point which ismade to assume the minute,
configurations of the mould by means of centrifugal f'rqe,
(4) the removal of this pattern (which has become. solld
upon cooling) from the primary mould, and the formation around it of a "secondary mould" of refractory
material, such as plaster -of Paris, which "'will assume
all the contours of its intricate design," (5) the removal
No. 7 we are asked to consider the decisioo of the Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit as to claims 5 and 6; in No. 8, the
,decision of that court as to claims 1 through 4; and in No. 48, the
decision of the Court of Appeals for the Second"Circuit as to all the
claim3 of thQ patent.
1 In

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

563

Opinion of the Court.

of the wax or similar material from the secondary mould,
or ."investment" as it is called, by the application, of
heat, thus melting it out, and finally (6) the casting
of the desired molten metal into the cavity in the investment by the application of centrifugal force as in (3),
above.
This method is capable of producing "small metal
articles, particularly articles of intricate detail such as
jewelry which frequently are designed with hollows, undercut portions and perforations, so that they will have
a smooth clean surface faithful in detail to the original
and free from imperfections or holes, and to enable such
result being accomplished with the minimum of expense."
The patentee claims that it made possible the accurate
reproduction of intricate designs in far less time than
had previously been required.
Claim 5 describes in more general terms the formation
of a primary mould around the original' pattern, the
removal of the pattern from the mould, the introduction
of molten wax into the mould -"by force sufficient to
deposit the material into the depression or depressions
of the primary mould" and the employment'of the- wax
pattern for the manufacture of a casting mould. Claim,6
covers "an article of jewelry" of.intricate design made
by the process disclosed by Claim 5. .It describes the
article of jewelry only by reference to the process by
which it is manufactured. Obviously if the first four
claims 'are invalid, the last two must likewise fall.
An examination of the prior art as it existed at the
time of this alleged invention -reveals that every step
in the Jungersen method was anticipated. We think
that his combination of these steps was, in its essential
features, also well 'known in the art.
Jungersen's process is nothing more than a refinement
of a method known as the "cire perdue" or "lost wax"
use as early as- the sixteenth cenprocess, which was in,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

tury.2 The Treatises of Benvenuto Cellini on Goldsmithing and Sculpture, pp. 87-89, reveals a process which
consists of filling a primary mould with molten wax,
building a secondary mould around the wax model thus
obtained, melting the wax from this' mould and pouring
the desired metal in the secondary mould. In 1904
United States Patent No. 748,996, issued to Spencer, degcribed a substantially identical process in which the primary mould was made, as in the pat.ent here involved,
by vulcanizing rubber around the original model or pattern. In England a process similar to Spencer's had
been the basis of, a patent issued to Jaseltine in 1875.1
The above-described developments in the prior art suggested no limitation of their applicability to any particular type of casting. Spencer stated that the purpose
of his process was to produce accurate replicas of the
original pattern, which could be of "intricate form" and
which could "have any number of sides or surfaces or
undercut or projecting parts." Haseltine described his
object as the production of "a casting in metal from a
given pattern, which casting will be a perfect copy of
such pattern without requiring m.ch, if any, after finishing or chiselling work."
The patentee claims that the invention in his combination lies in the use, in conjunction with the "lost wax"
process, of centrifugal force. Ldng before the issuance
of this patent, hqwever, those skilled in the art recognized and disclosed the necessity for the application of
force in order to make molten materials fit snugly the
220
3

Encyclopaedia Britannica (1948), p. 229.

British Patent No. 2467.
A French publication by Verleye entitled "La Gravure, etc.",
. (1924) describes in detail all of the' elements of Jungersen's process
except the use of centrifugal force.

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

565

Opinion of the Court.

intricate details of the mould. Haseltine applied pressure of about twenty pounds per square inch to cause
the molten metal "to lie to the dense mould -and produce
a sharp and well defined casting." He accomplished this
by introducing the metal into the mould through a pipe
about six feet in height.' United States Patent No.
1,238,789 issued to Kralund in 1917 teaches the application of pressure to the wax and the molten metal by
means of an ordinary pressure die casting apparatus.
Whether these types of pressure are the equivalent
of centrifugal force we need not decide since it is evident from patents and publications that the use of the
latter was well known in the art. In 1923 McManus
patented a casting machine which was adapted "to the
casting of jewelry, such as gold rings, small trinkets,
etc., where metal or other dies or moulds may be . . .
filled by centrifugal casting methods." United States
Patent No. 1,457,040. He claimed "a means for transferring fused material from the furnace [in which the
material was melted] to the mould under the action of
centrifugal force." In a paper on current casting methods which he presented to the Institute of Metals in
England in 1926, one George Mortimer, with reference
to the difficulty in filling a mould by gravity, stated:
"It was natural, therefore, that engineers should
early turn their attention to some form of artificial
pressure, whereby the mould could be filled by force,
and soundness and clean definition seemingly
assured.
"The simplest form of artificial pressure is that of
centrifugal force ....
"
""La Gravure, etc.," supra, note 3, advocates the use of steam
I
pressure.
535 Journal of the Institute of Metals, 371, 377.
798176 0-40----41

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Centrifugal force was commonly used in dental casting
prior to 1938.'
Thus it is clear that the "lost wax" process, the use
of a flexible primary mould, and the use of centrifugal
force were all old in the art of casting. The patentee
claims that the centrifugal forcing oi wax into the primary
mould had never before been combined with the other
features of his process. ,We think this fact is of no legal
significance. Where centrifugal force was common as a
means of introducing molten metal into the secondary
mould, its use in an intermediate step to force molten
wax into the primary mould was not an exemplification
of inventive genius such as is necessary to render the
paint valid. Cf. Lincoln Engineering Co. v. StewartWarner Corp., 303 U. S. 545; Cuno Engineering Corp.
v. 4utomatic Devices Corp., 314 U. S. 84. The patentee
himself admitted that the same principle was employed
in both steps.' Thus Jungersen employed in his claimed
invention well-known skills and practices in a manner and
6 "Dental-casting methods employ four distinct principles; namely,
gravity, centrifugal, vacuum, and pressure ...
"The centrifugal method has the advantage of great simplicity,
and fills the mold by the force exerted in throwing the metal off on
a tangent while being revolved about a center." Stern, Die-casting
Practice (1st ed., 1930), p. 10.
7 An excerpt from the testimony follows:

"Q. And when the machine is revolved, when.it is centrifuged,
it makes no difference whether it be molten wax or molten metal,
does it, in the fact that it throws out the molten material into the
gate? A. It would throw out anything of weight if it is made free
to leave."Q.. And that applies to wax as well as metal, does it not? A. It
applies- to wax and metal, but in a greater amount to the metal than
to the wax.
"Q. But they both operate in the sane way under the influence
of the centrifugal machine? A. The same principle is used, yes.
"Q. And the molten material in both cases ig introduced into the
mold? A. Yes."

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

567

Opinion of the Court.

for a purpose long familiar in the field of casting. His
claimed improvement is therefore not patentable.
The patentee contends, however, that jewelry casting
is a separate and distinct art; that consequently the
advancements in other types of casting mentioned above
cannot be viewed as the prior art in reference to this
patent. The answer to this is twofold. In the first
place, this patent is not restricted to the casting of
jewelry. Its stated object is to "facilitate the casting
of small metal articles, particularly articles of intricate
" Secondly we think that the
detail such as jewelry ....
improvements in the art of casting which were disclosed
by the patents and publications discussed above were so
obviously applicable to the type of casting sought to
be effected by Jungersen that he was bound by knowledge of them. Mandel Bros. v. Wallace, 335 U. S. 291,
295-96.
Numerous licenses under the patent were issued in
the United States and other countries. The fact that
this process has enjoyed considerable commercial success,
however, does not render the patent valid. It is true
that in cases where the question of patentable invention
is a close one, such success has weight in tipping the
scales of judgment toward patentability. Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Co. v. Ray-O-Vac Co., 321 U. S. 275, 279,
and cases cited in footnote 5 thereof. Where, as here,
however, invention is plainly lacking, commercial success
cannot fill the void. Dow Chemical Co. v. Halliburton
Co., 324 U. S. 320, 330; Toledo Pressed Steel Co. v.
Standard Parts, Inc., 307 U. S. 350, 356-57; Textile
Machine Works v. Hirsch Co., 302 U. S. 490, 498-99;
1 Walker, Patents (Deller, 1937) ยง 44. Little profit
would come from detailed examination of the cases cited
above or those indicated by reference. Commercial success is really a makeweight where the patentability question is close.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

Increased popular demand for jewelry or alertness in
exploitation of the process may well have played an
important part in the wide use of the patent. We cannot attribute Jungersen's success solely or even" largely
to the novelty of his process.
We hold all the claims of the patent invalid for want
of invention.
Nos. 7 and 48 affirmed.
No. 8 reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
BURTON

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

joins, dissenting.

This is not one of those patent controversies that carry
serious consequences for an important industry and
thereby for the general public. The case 6oe,however,
raise basic issues regarding the judiciary's role in our
existing patent system. These issues were stated by
Judge Learned Hand when the litigation was before the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Since this
Court's opinion has not, to my mind, met the questions
which he raised, and since I cannot improve upon what
Judge, Learned Hand wrote, I adopt his opinion as mine.
"In Jungersen's British patent, as my brothers
truly say, he based his invention solely upon forcing
the wax and the metal into completely intimate contact with every crevice of the mould, and for this
he 'disclosed a centrifuge as the means. Moreover,
it had already been known by other moulders of fine
patterns that the metal might not fill all the spaces
necessary for perfect reproduction. For example, in
1873 Haseltine disclosed a device which set up a
pressure of twenty pounds to the square inch; and
this too in a 'lost wax' process; True, he did not
disclose using similar pressure for the wax, and he
did not use a centrifuge; but McManus used a cen-

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

FRANKFURTER,

569

J., dissenting.

trifuge to force fusible metal into all the crevices
of the mould, and that too in a 'lost wax' process,
the knowledge of which he appears to have assumed,
for he does not disclose how to make the wax model.
Kralund also showed a pressure die-casting process,
as applied to the 'lost wax' method; and he used
pressure to force his wax into intimate connection
with the first die as well as upon the molten metal
of the final casting: but his original die was of steel
and he does not describe its manufacture.
"Nevertheless, in spite of all these approaches, and
of the fact that all the elements of the disclosure
were to be found in the prior art, it remains true
that Jungersen's process in its entirety had never
been assembled before no one had ever thought of
combining all those steps in a single sequence. True,
had the combination not been new in this objective
sense, it could not have been patented merely by
turning it to a new use; and that would have been
so, although it might have taken as much originality
to see that it could be put to the new use, as it takes
to make an outstanding invention. It would have
been a final answer that Congress has never seen fit
to extend its constitutional power to 'discoveries' as
such, and has limited patents to an 'art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter,'" as we have
often said-the last time in Old Town Ribbon &
Carbon Co., Inc., v. Columbia Ribbon & Carbon
Manufacturing Co.' My point is that, if there is
a new combination, however trifling the physical
change may be, nothing more is required than that,
to take the step or steps, added 'invention,' is needed;
and 'invention,' whatever else it may be, is within
Sยง 31, Title 35 U. S. C. A.
2 2 Cir., 159 F. 2d 379, 382.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

the category of mental activities and of those alone.
In the case at bar the answer must therefore depend
upon how we shall appraise the departure from what
had gone before in terms of creative imagination;
indeed, I do not understand what other test could
be relevant.
"If that be the test, I submit that Jungersen's
process meets it. From time immemorial jewelry
had been manufactured by the earlier processes; so
that the need, if need there was, had' existed for
years. Moreover, two of those earlier processes'cuttlefish casting and sand-casting'--have now become 'of little commercial significance'; 'die-stamping' and Jungersen's process 'are the only substantial
methods now commercially used'; and in the manufacture of a hundred rings or less 'die-stamping' is
more expensive. Had some technological advance
held up the change, and had Jungersen made it only
a short time after the obstacle had been removed,
I should agree that the inference of outstanding
originality would have been greatly weakened; but
that was not the fact. Indeed, it is the very basis
of the defence that for years all the elements lay
open and available, and that nothing was needed
but the paltry modification which has proved so
fruitful. To that I make the answer on which courts
in the past used to ring the changes with wearisome
iteration. If all the information was at hand, why
was the new combination so long delayed? What
better test of invention can one ask than the detection of that which others had all along had a strong
incentive to discover, but had failed to see, though
all the while it lay beneath their eyes? True, the
whole approach to the subject has suffered a shift
within the last decade or so, which I recognize that

JUNGERSEN v. OSTBY & BARTON CO.
560

JACKSON,

571

J., dissenting.

we should accept as authoritative. Moreover, I am
not aware of the slightest bias in favor of the present
system; I should accept with equanimity a new system or no system. However, I confess myself baffled
to know how to proceed, if we are at once to profess
to apply the system as it is, and yet in every concrete
instance we are to decide as though it did not exist
as it is. In the case at bar, I can only say that, so
far as I have been able to comprehend those factors
which have been held to determine invention, and
to which at least lip service continues to be paid,
the combination in suit has every hall-mark of a
valid patent."
Judge Hand's opinion is reported at 166 F. 2d 811.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I think this patent meets the patent statute's every
requirement. And confronted by this record an industry
heretofore galled by futility and frustration may well be
amazed at the ourt's dismissal of Jungersen's ingenious
and successful efforts.
Of course, commercial success will not fill any void in
an invalid patent. But it may fill the foid in our understanding of what the invention has meant to those whose
livelihood, unlike our own, depends upon their knowledge
of the art. Concededly, in this high-pressure age sales
volume may reflect only powerful promotion or marketing magic, and its significance as an index of novelty
cr utility may rightly be suspected. But Jungersen's
success was grounded not in the gullibility of the public
but in the hard-headed judgment of a highly competitive
and critical if not hostile industry. Knowing well its
need for and its failure to achieve improvements on available processes, that industry discarded them, adopted this
outsider's invention, and made it a commercial success.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

It would take a singular self-assurance on the part of
one who knows as little of this art as I do, or as I can
learn in the few hours that can be given to consideration
of this case, to ignore the judgment of these competitors
who grew up in the industry and say that they did not
know something new and useful when they saw it. And
if Benvenuto Cellini's age-old writings are so revealing
to us laymen of the appellate Bench, it is hard to see why
this practical-minded industry which the Court says was
following Cellini failed through all the years to get his
message.
It would not be difficult to cite many instances of patents that have been granted, improperly I think, and
without adequate tests of invention by the Patent Office.
But I doubt that the remedy for such Patent Office passion for granting patents is an equally strong passion in
this Court for striking them down so that the only patent
that is valid is one which this Court has not been able
to get its hands on.
I agree with the opinion of Judge Learned Hand below.

