OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS, DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF
IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 723.

Argued May 3-4, 1948.-Decided June 21, 1948.'

Under authority of the Alien Enemy Act of 1798, wh:ch empowers the
President, whenever there is a "declared war" between the United
States and any foreign country, to provide for the removal of
alien enemies from the United States, the President, on Jily 14,
1945, directed the removal of all alien enemies "deemed by the
Attorney General to be dangerous" to the public safety. The
Attorney General, on January 18, 1946, ordered removal of petitioner, a German national, from the United States. Challenging
the validity of the removal, order, petitioner instituted habeas
corpus proceedings in the Federal District Court to secure his
release from detention under the order. Held:
1. The Alien.Enemy Act i retludes judicial review of the removal
order. Pp. 163-166.
2. Int the circumstances of relations between the United States
and Germany, there exists a "declared war" notwithstanding the
cessation of actual hostilities, and the order is enforceable. Pp:
166-170.'
3. The Alien Enemy Act, construed as permitting resort to the
courts only to challenge its validity and construction, and to raise
questions of the existence of a "declared war" and of alien enemy
status, does not violate the Bill of Rights of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 170-171.
4. The fact that hearings are utilized by the Executive to secure
an informed basis for the exercise of the summary power conferred
by the Act does not empower the courts to retry such hearings,
nor does it make the withholding of such power from the courts a
denial of due process. Pp. 171-172.
163 F. 2d 143, affirmed.

Petitioner, in custody under an order of the Attorney
General for his removal from the United States under the
Alien Enemy Act, applied to the District Court for a writ
of habeas corpus for release from detention under the

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

Opinion of the Court.

order.

The District Court's denial of the writ was af-

firmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 163 F. 2d 143.
This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 865.. Affirmed,
p. 173.
Petitioner argued the cause and filed a brief pro se.
Stanley M. Silverberg argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Morison, Samuel D. Slade and
Melvin Richter.
George C. Dix filed a brief for unnamed enemy aliens,
as amici curiae, in support of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Fifth Congress committed to the President these
powers:
"Whenever there is a declared war between the
United States and any foreign nation or government,
or any invasion or predatory incursion is perpetrated,
attempted, or threatened against the territory of the
United States by any foreign nation or government,
and the President makes public proclamation of the
event, all natives, citizens, denizens, or subjects of the
hostile nation or government, being of the age of
fourteen years and upward, who shall be within the
United States and not actually naturalized, shall be
liable to be apprehended, restrained, secured, and
removed as alien enemies. The President is authorized, in any such event, by his proclamation
thereof, or other public act, to direct the conduct to
be observed, on the part of the United States, toward
the aliens who become so liable; the manner and
degree of the-restraint to which they shall be sub-

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

ject and in what cases, and upon what security their
residence shall be permitted, and to provide for the
removal of those who, not being permitted to reside
within the United States, refuse or neglect to depart
therefrom; and to establish any other regulations
which are found necessary in the premises and for the
public safety." (Act of July 6, 1798, 1 Stat. 577,
R. S. § 4067, as amended, 40 Stat. 531, 50 U. S. C.
§ 21.)
This Alien Enemy Act has remained the law of the land,
virtually unchanged since 1798.' Throughout these one
hundred and fifty years executive interpretation and decisions of lower courts have found in the Act an authority
for the President which is now questioned, and the further claim is made that, if what the President did comes
within the Act, the Congress could not give him such
power.' Obviously these are issues which properly
brought the case here. 333 U. S. 865.
Petitioner, a German alien enemy,3 was arrested on De1 There have been a few minor changes in .wording. We have
duly considered these in light of an argument in the brief of the
amici curiae and deem them without significance.
2 We are advised that there are 530 alien enemies, ordered to
depart from the United States, whose disposition awaits the outcome
of this case.
3 The district court found that:
"The petitioner was born in Berlin, Germany, on February 5,
1890. He was out of Germany for most of the period of 1923 to
March 1933. He returned to Germany in March 1933 and became
a-member of the Nazi party. Later he had sdme disagreements
with other members and as a result he was sent to a German concentration camp, from which he escaped March 1, 1934, after being
confined for over eight months. Sometime- thereafter he came to
this country and published a book, 'I Knew Hitler' ['The Story of
a Nazi Who Escaped The Blood Purge'-'In memory of Captain
Ernst Roehm and Gregor Strasser and many other Nazis who were
betrayed, murdered, and traduced in their graves'], in 1937. His

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

Opinion of the Court.

cember 8, 1941, and, after proceedings before an Alien
Enemy Hearing Board on January 16, 1942, was interned
by order of the Attorney General, dated February 9,
1942.' Under authority of the Act of 1798, the President,
on July 14, 1945, directed the removal from the United
States of all alien enemies "who shall be deemed by the
Attorney General to be dangerous to the public peace and
safety of the United States." Proclamation 2655, 10 Fed.
Reg. 8947. Accordipily, the Attorney General, on Ja.i,ary 18, 1946, ordoed petitioner's removal.' Denial of a
writ of habeas corpus for release from detention under
this order was affirmed by the court below. 163 F. 2d
143.
As Congress explicitly recognized in the recent Administrative Procedure Act, some statutes "preclude judicial
review." Act of June 11, 1946, § 10, 60 Stat. 237, 243.
Barring questions of interpretation and constitutionality,
petition for naturalization as an American citizen was denied December 18, 1939."
The petitioner's attitude was thus expressed in his brief before
the district court:
"Fundamentally, it matters not where I live, for I can strive to
live the right life.-and be of service where ever I am. Besides, it
may well be a better thing to do the best I can while I can in the midst
of a defeated people suffering in body and soul, than to be a futil and
frustrated something in the midst of a triumphant people breathing
the foul air of self-complacency, hypocrisy, and self-deceit."
4 No question has been raised as to the validity of these administrative actions taken pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 2526,
dated December 7, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 6321, 6323, issued'under the
authority of the Alien Enemy Act.
5 The order recited that the petitioner was deemed dangerous on
the basis of the evidence adduced at hearings before the-Alien Enemy
Hearing Board on January 16, 1942, and the Repatriation Hearing
Board on December 17, 1945. The district court which examined
these proceedings found that petitioner had notice and a fair hearing
and that the evidence was substantial. See also note 8, iniira.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

the Alien Enemy Act of 1798 is such a statute. Its
terms, purpose, and construction leave no doubt. The
language employed by the Fifth Congress could hardly
be made clearer, or be rendered doubtful, by the incomplete and not always dependable accounts we have of
debates in the early years of Congress.6 That such was
the scope of the Act is established by controlling contemporaneous construction. "The act concerning alien
enemies, which confers on the president very great discretionary powers respecting their persons," Marshall, C.
J., in Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch 110, 126, "appears
to me to be as unlimited as the legislature could make it."
Washington, J., in Lockington v. Smith, 15 Fed. Cas. No.
8448 at p. 760. The very nature of the President's power
to order the removal of all enemy aliens rejects the notion
that courts may pass judgment upon the exercise of his
discretion.! This view was expressed by Mr. Justice
Iredell shortly after the Act was passed, Case of Fries, 9
Fed. Cas. No. 5126, and every judge before whom the question has since come has held that the statute barred judi6See, however, United States ex tel. Kessler v. Watkins, 163 F. 2d
140; Citizens Protective League v. Clark, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 116, 155
F. 2d 290.

7"Such a construction would, in my opinion, be at variance with,
the spirit as well as with the letter of the law, the great object of which
was to provide for the public safety, by imposing such restraints
upon alien enemies, as the chief executive magistrate of the United
States might think necessary, and of which his particular situation
enabled him best to judge. . . . I do not feel myself authorised
to impose limits to the authority of the executive magistrate which
congress, in the exercise of its constitutional powers, has not seen
fit to impose. Nothing in short, can be more clear to my mind,
from an attentive consideration of the act in all its parts, than that
congress intended to make the judiciary auxiliary to the executive,
in effecting the great objects of the law; and that each department
was intended to act independently of the other, except that the
former was to make the ordinances of the lat"
the rule of its
decisions." Lockington v. Smith, supra,at p. 761.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

165

Opinion of the Court.

cial review.' We would so read the Act if it came before
us without the impressive gloss of history.
The power with which Congress vested the President
had to be executed by him through others. He provided
for the removal of such enemy aliens as were "deemed
by the Attorney General" to be dangerous.' But such
a finding, at the President's behest, was likewise not to
be subjected to the scrutiny of courts. For one thing,
removal was contingent not upon a finding that in fact
an alien was "dangerous." The President was careful to
call for the removal of aliens "deemed by the Attorney
General to be dangerous." But the short answer is that
8 Citizens Protective League v. Clark, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 116, 155
F. 2d 290; United States ex rel. Schlueter v. Watkins, 158 F. 2d 853;
United States ex rel. Hack v. Clark, 159 F. 2d 552; United States ex
rel. Kessler v. Watkins, 163 F. 2d 140; United States ex rel. Von Ascheberg v. Watkins, 163 F. 2d 1021; Minotto v. Bradley, 252 F. 600; see
Lockington's Case, Brightly (Pa.) 269, 280; Lockington v. Smith, 15
F. Cas. No. 8448, at p. 758; Ex parte Graber,247 F. 882; De Lacey
v. United States, 249 F. 625; Ex parte Fronklin, 253 F. 984; Grahl
v. United States, 261 F. 487; cf. Banning v. Penrose, 255 F. 159;
Ex parte Risse, 257 F. 102; Ex parte Gilroy, 25T F. 110; United
States ex rel. De Cicco v. Longo, 46 F. Supp. 170; United States
ex rel. Schwarzkopf v. Uhl, 137 F. 2d 898; United States ex rel.
D'Esquiva v. Uhl, 137 F. 2d 903; United States ex rel. Knauer v.
Jordan, 158 F. 2d 337. The one exception is the initial view taken
by the district court in this case. It rejected the "contention that
the only question that the Court may consider in this habeas corpus
proceeding is the petitioner's alien enemy status, although there are
cases which give suppport to that view," but held the petitioner had
had a fair hearing before the Repatriation Board and that there was
substantial evidence to support the Attorney General's determination
that petitioner was "dangerous." On rehearing, the court noted that
the Schlueter case, supra, foreclosed the issue.
9 If the President had not added this express qualification, bui had
conformed his proclamation to the statutory language, presuaably
the Attorney General would not have acted arbitrarily but ,would
have utilized some such implied standard as "dangerous" 'in his
exercise of the delegated power.
798176 0-49----16

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

the Attorney General was the President's voice and conscience. A war power of the President not subject to
judicial review is not transmuted into a judicially reviewable action because the President chooses to have that
power exercised within narrower limits than Congress
authorized.
And so we reach the claim that while the President
had summary power under the Act, it did not survive
cessation of actual hostilities."° This claim in effect nullifies the power to deport alien enemies, for such deportations are hardly practicable during the pendency of what
is colloquially known as the shooting war."

Nor does law

10"The cessation of hostilities does not necessarily end the war

power. It was stated in Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & W.
Co., 251 U. S. 146, 161, that the war power includes the power 'to
remedy the evils which have arisen from its rise and progress' and
continues during that emergency. Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493,
507. Whatever may be the reach of that power, it is plainly adequate
to deal with problems of law enforcement which arise during the
period of hostilities but do not cease with them. No more is involved here." Fleming v. Mohawk Wrecking & Lumber Co., 331
U.S. 111, 116.

11The claim is said to be supported by the legislative history of the
Act. We do not believe that the paraphrased expressions of a few
members of the Fifth Congress could properly sanction at this late
date a judicial reading of the statutory phrase "declared war" to mean
"state of actual hostilities." See p. 3, supra. Nothing needs to be
added to the consideration which this point received from the court
below in the Kessler case. Circuit Judge Augustus Hand, in this case
speaking for himself and Circuit Judges L. Hand and Swan, said:
"Appellants' counsel argues that the Congressional debates preceding the enactment of the Alien Law of 1798 by Gallatin, Otis and
others, show that Congress intended that 'war' as used in the Alien
Enemy Act should be war in fact. We cannot agree that the discussions had such an effect. Gallatin argued that Section 9 of Art. I
of the Constitution allowing to the states the free 'Migration or Importation' of aliens until 1808 might stand in the way of the Act as

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

167

Opinion of the Court.

lag behind common sense. War does not cease with a
cease-fire order, and power to be exercised by the President such as that conferred by the Act of 1798 is a process
which begins when war is declared but is not exhausted
when the shooting stops." See United States v. Anderproposed if it was not limited to a 'state of actual hostilities.' It however was not so limited in the text of the act and it is hard to see
how the failure to limit it in words indicated a disposition- on the
part of Congress to limit it by implication. Otis objected to limiting
the exercise of the power to a state of declared war because he
thought that the President should have power to deal with enemy
aliens in the case of hostilities short of war and in cases where a war
was not declared. That Otis wished to add 'hostilities' to the words
'declared war,' and failed in his attempt, does not show that Congress
meant that when war was declared active hostilities must exist in
order to justify the exercise of the power. The questions raised
which were dealt with in the act as finally passed were not how long
the power should last when properly invoked, but the conditions upon
which it might be invoked. Those conditions were fully met in the
present case and no question is raised by appellants' counsel as to
the propriety of the President's Proclamation of War. There is no
indication in the debates or in the terms of the statute that the
exercise of the power, when properly invoked, should cease until
peace was made, and peace has not been made in the present case.
If the construction of the statute contended for by appellants' counsel
were adopted, the Executive would be powerless to carry out internment or deportation which was not exercised during active war and
might be obliged to leave the country unprotected from aliens dangerous either because of secrets which they possessed or because of
potential inimical activities. It seems quite necessary to suppose
that the President could not carry out prior to the official termination
of the declared state of war, deportations which the Executive regarded as necessary for the safety of the country but which could not
be carried out during active warfare because of the danger to the
aliens themselves or the interference with the effective conduct of
military operations." (United States ex rel. Kessler v. Watkins, 163
F. 2d at 142-43.)
12 It is suggested that a joint letter to the Chairman of a congressional committee by Attorney General Gregory and the Secretary of

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

son, 9 Wall. 56,' 70; The Protector, 12 Wall. 700; McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, 438; Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 167. "The
state of war" may be terminated by treaty or legislation
or Presidential proclamation. Whatever the mode, its
Labor in the Wilson administration reflects a contrary interpretation
of this Act. But, as the Kessler opinion pointed out: "The letter of
Attorney General Gregory referred to by appellants' counsel does not
affect our conclusions. When he said that there was no law to
exclude aliens he was, in our opinion, plainly referring to conditions
after the ratification ofthe peace treaty, and not to prior conditions."
Ibid. The text of the letter (dated Feb. 5, 1919) supports that
observation: "There is no law now on the statute books under which
these persons can be excluded from the country, nor under which
they can be detained in custody after the ratification of the peace
treaty. Unless the bill introduqed by you, or one similar in character, is passe& it will become necessary on the ratification of peace to
set free all of these highly dangerous persons." Hearings before the
House Comimittee on Immigration and Naturalization on H. R. 6750,
66th Cong., 1st Sess., 42-43. And Attorney General Palmer made
substantially the same statements to the Senate and House Committees
on Immigration. See S. Rep. No. 283, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., 2; H. R.
Rep. No. 143, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., 2.
But even if contradictory views were expressed by Attorney General Gregol:y, they plainly reflect political exigencies which from time
to time guide the desire of an administration to secure what in effect
is confirming legislation. The confusion of views is strikingly manifested by Attorney General Gregory's recognition that the Act
survived the cessation of actual hostilities so as to give authority to
apprehend, restrain, and secure enemy aliens. See, generally, World
War I cases cited note 8, supra. In any event, even if one view
expressed by Attorney General Gregory, as against another expressed
by him, could be claimed to indicate a deviation from an otherwise
uniformly accepted construction of the Act before us, it would hardly
touch the true meaning of the statute. As against the conflicting
views of one Attorney General we have not only the view but the
actions of the present Attorney General and of the President-and
their ratification by the present Congress. See note 19, infra.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

Opinion of the Court.

termination is a political act." Ibid. Whether and when
it would be open to this Court to find that a war though
merely formally kept alive had in fact ended, is a question
too fraught with gravity even to be adequately formulated when not compelled. Only a few months ago the
Court rejected the contention that the state of war in
relation to which the President has exercised the authority
now challenged was terminated. Woods v. Miller Co.,
333 U. S. 138. Nothing that has happened since calls
for a qualification of that view.' It is still true, as was
said in the opinion in that case which eyed the war power
most jealously, "We have armies abroad exercising our
war power and have made no peace terms with our allies,
not to mention our principal enemies." Woods v. Miller
Co., supra,at p. 147 (concurring opinion). The situation
today is strikingly similar to that of 1919, where this
Court observed: "In view of facts of public knowledge,
some of which have been referred to, that the treaty of
13 Of course, there are statutes which have provisions fixing the
date of the expiration of the war powers they confer upon the Executive. See, e. g., Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146,
167, n. 1 (collection of statutes providing that the authority terminates
upon ratification of treaty of peace or by Presidential proclamation).'
Congress can, of course, provide either by a day certain or a defined
event for the expiration of a statute. But when the life of a statute.
is defirie&by the existence of a war, Congress leaves the determination
of when a war is concluded to the usual political agencies of the
Government.
14 Cf., e. g., the President's address to Congress on March 17,
1948, recommending the enactment of the Eu '6oean recovery program, universal military training, and the temporary r~enactment of
selective service legislation. H. Doc. No. 569, 80th Cong., ,2d Sess.
On May 10, 1948, by Executive ,6rder 9957, 13 Fed. Reg. 2503, the
President exercised his authority "in'time of *ar, . . . through the
Secretary of War, to take possession and assume control of any
system or systems of transportation ....
"
(Act of August 29, 1916,
39 Stat. 619, 645, 10 U. S. C. § 1361.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

peace has not yet been concluded, that the railways are
still under national control by yirtue of the war powers,
that other war activities have not been brought to a close,
and that it can not even be said that the man power of
the nation has been restored to a peace footing, we are
unable to conclude that the act has ceased to be valid."
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. at 163.
The political branch of the Government has not
brought the war with Germany to an end. On the contrary, it has proclaimed that "a state of war still exists."
Presidential Proclamation 2714, 12 Fed. Reg. 1; see
Woods v. Miller Co., supra,at p. 140; Fleming v. Mohawk
Wrecking & Lumber Co., 331 U. S. 111, 116. The Court
would be assuming the functions of the political agencies
of the Government to yield to the suggestion that the
unconditional surrender of Germany and the disintegration of the Nazi Reich have left Germany without a government capable of negotiating a treaty of peace. It is
not for us to question a belief by the President that enemy
aliens who were justifiably deemed fit subjects for internment during active hostilites do not lose their potency for
mischief during the period of confusion and conflict which
is characteristic of a state of war even when the guns
are silent l6ut the peace of Peace has not come. 5 These
are matters of political judgment for which judges have
neither technical competence nor official responsibility.
This brings us to the final question. Is the statute
valid as we have construed it? The same considerations
of reason, authority, and history, that led us to reject
15 "Rapid changes are taking place in Europe which affect our
foreign policy and our national security. . . . Almost 3 years have
elapsed since the end of the greatest of all wars, but peace and stability
have not returned to the world." H. Doe. No. 569, supra, at p. 1.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

171

Opinion of the Court.

reading the statutory language "declared war" 1" to mean
"actual hostilities," support the validity of the statute.
The war power is the war power. If the war, as we have
held, has not in fact ended, so as to justify local rent
control, a fortiori, it validly supports the power given
to the President by the Act of 1798 in relation to alien
enemies. Nor does it require protracted argument to
find no defect in the Act because resort to the courts may
be had only' to challenge the construction and validity
of the statute and to question the existence of the "declared war," as has been done in this case. 7 The Act
is almost as old as the Constitution, and it would savor
of doctrinaire audacity now to find the statute offensive
to some emanation of the Bill of Rights. 8 The fact that
16 We should point out that it is conceded that a "state of war"
was "formally declared" against Germany. Act of December 11,
1941, 55 Stat. 796.
17 The additional question as to whether the person restrained
is

in fact an alien enemy fourteen years of age or older may also be
reviewed by the courts. See cases cited note 8, supra. This question is not raised in this case;
18 The Fifth Congress was also responsible for "An Act concerning
Aliens," approved June 25, 1798, 1 Stat. 570, and "An Act in addition to the act, entitled 'An act for the punishment of certain
crimes against the United States,' " approved July 14, 1798, 1 Stat.
596, as well as the instant "An Act respecting Alien Enemies,"
approved July 6, 1798. It is significant that while the former statutes-the Alien and Sedition Acts-were vigorously and contemporaneously attacked as unconstitutional, there was never any issue
raised as to the validity of the Alien Enemy Act. James Madison,
in his report on the Virginia Resolutions, carefully and caustically
differentiated between friendly and enemy alien legislation, as follows:
"The next observation to be made is, that much confusion and fallacy
have been thrown, into the question by blending the two cases of
aliens, members of a hostilei nation, and aliens, members oj friendly
nations. . . . With respect to alien enemies, no doubt has been
intimated as to the Federal authority over them; the Constitution
having expressly delegated to Congress the power to declare war

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

hearings are utilized by the Executive to secure an informed basis for the exercise of summary power does
not argue the right of courts to retry such hearings, nor
bespeak denial of due process to withhold such power
from the courts.
Such great war powers may be abused, no doubt, but
that is a bad reason for having judges supervise their
exercise, whatever the legal formulas within which such
supervision would nominally be confined. In relation to
the distribution of constitutional powers among the three
branches of the Government, the optimistic Eighteenth
Century language of Mr. Justice Iredell, speaking of this
very Act, is still pertinent:
"All systems of government suppose they are to be
administered by men of common sense and common
honesty. In our country, as all ultimately depends
on the voice of the people, they have it in their
power, and it is to be presumed they generally will
choose men of this description.; but if they will
not, the case, to be sure, is without remedy. If
they choose fools, they will have foolish laws. If
they choose knaves, they will have knavish ones.
But this can never be the case until they are generally fools or knaves themselves, which, thank
God, is not likely ever to become the character
of the American people." (Case of Fries, supra, at
p. 836.)
against any nation, and, of course, to treat it and all its members
as enemies." 6 Writings of James Madison (Hunt, Editor) 360-61.
Similarly, Thomas Jefferson, the author of the Kentucky Resolutions
of 1798 and 1799, was careful to point out that the Alien Act under
attack was the one "which assumes powers over alien friends."
8 Writings of Thomas Jefferson (Ford, Editor) 466. There was
never any questioning of the Alien Enemy Act of 1798 by either
Jefferson or Madison nor did either ever suggest its repeal.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Accordingly, we hold that full responsibility for the
just exercise of this great power may validly be left where
the Congress has constitutionally placed it-on the President of the United States. The Founders in their wisdom
made him not only the Commander-in-Chief but also the
guiding organ in the conduct of our foreign affairs. He
who was entrusted with such vast powers in relation
to the outside world was also entrusted by Congress,
almost throughout the whole life of the nation, with the
disposition of alien enemies during a state of war. Such
a page of history is Worth more than a volume of
rhetoric. 9
Judgment affirmed and stay order
entered February2, 1948, vacated.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR.JUSTICE MURPHY

with whom MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join,

dissenting.
The petition for habeas corpus in this case alleged that
petitioner, a legally admitted resident of the United States,
9

Itis suggested that Congress ought to do something about correcting today's decision. -But the present Congress has apparently
anticipated the decision. It has recognized that the President's powers under the Alien Enemy Act of 1798 were not terminated by the
cessation of actual hostilities by appropriating funds ". . . for all
necessary expenses, .incident to the maintenance, care, detention, surveillance, parole, and transportation of alien enemies and their wives
and dependent children, including transportation and other expenses
in the return of such persons to place of bona fide residence or to such
other place as may be authorized by the Attorney General . ..
61 Stat. 279, 292. "And the appropriation by Congress of funds
for the use of such agencies stands as confirmation and ratification
of the action of the Chief Executive. Brooks v. Dewar, 313 U. S.
354, 361." Fleming v. Mohawk Wrecking & Lumber Co., 331 U. S.
111, 116; see also Isbrandtsen-Moller Co. v. United' States, 300
U. S.139.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

was about to be deported from this country to Germany as
a "dangerous" alien enemy, without having been afforded
notice and a fair hearing to determine whether he was
"dangerous."

The Court now holds, as the Government

argued, that because of a presidential proclamation, petitioner can be deported by the Attorney General's order
without any judicial inquiry whatever into the truth of

his allegations.'

The Court goes further and holds, as I

understand its opinion, that the Attorney General can
deport him whether he is dangerous or not. The effect
of this holding is that any unnaturalized person, good or
bad, loyal or disloyal to this country, if he was a citizen

of Germany before coming here, can be summarily seized,
interned and deported from the United States by the At' The Court specifically holds that this petitioner is not entitled
to have this-Court or any other court determine whether petitioner
has had a fair hearing. The merits of the Attorney General's action
are therefore not subject to challenge by the petitioner. Nevertheless the Court in note 3 quotes out of context a short paragraph from
a written protest made by petitioner against the Att6rney General's
procedure. The only possible purpose of this quotation is to indicate
that, anyhow, the petitioner ought to be deported because of his views
stated in this paragraph of his protest against the Attorney General's
procedure. This is a strange kind of due process. The protest
pointed out that Hitler had kept petitioner in a concentration camp
for eight months for disloyalty to the Nazis and that this Government
had then kept him imprisoned for four years on the charge that he
was a Nazi. Immediately before the paragraph cited in the Court's
opinion, petitioner's .protest contained the following statement:
"Far be it from me, however, to thrust my goodwill upon anybody
and insist to stay on a community whose public servants of ill
will seek 'to remove me by pitiful procedures and illegal means.
Therefore, I propose that I leave'voluntarily as a free man, not as a
dangerous alien deportee, at the earliest opportunity provided I
shall be allowed sixty days to settle my affairs before sailing date."
Is it due judicial process to refuse to review the whole record to
determine whether there was a fair hearing and yet attempt to
bolster the Attorney General's deportation order by reference to two
sentences in a long record?

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

torney General, and that no court of the United States
has any power whatever to review, modify, vacate, reverse,
or in any manner affect the Attorney General's deportation
order. MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS has given reasons in his
dissenting opinion why he believes that deportation of
aliens, 'without notice and hearing, whether in peace or
war, would be a denial of due process of law. I agree

with MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS for many of the reasons he
gives' that deportation of petitioner without a fair hearing
as determined by judicial review is a denial of due process
of law.2 But I do not reach the question of power to deport aliens of countries with which we are at war while we
are at war, because I think the idea that we are still
at war with Germany in the sense contemplated by the
statute controlling here is a pure fiction. Furthermore,
I think there is no act of Congress which lends the slightest basis to the claim that after hostilities with a foreign
country have ended the President or the Attorney General, one or both, can deport aliens without a fair hearing
reviewable in the courts. On the contrary, when this vertv
question came before Congress after World War I in t14e
interval between the Armistice and the conclusion of
formal peace with Germany, Congress unequivocally required that enemy aliens be given a fair hearing before
they could be deported.
The Court relies on the Alien Enemy Act of 1798.
1 Stat. 577, 50 U. S. C. § 21-24. That Act did grant
extraordinarily broad powers to the President to restrain
and "to provide for the removal" of aliens who owe allegiance to a foreign government, but such action is authorized only "whenever there is a declared war between the
United States" and such foreign government, or in the
event that foreign government attempts or threatens the
United States with "any invasion or predatory incursion."
2 Compare Ex parte Endo, 323 U. S. 286; Korematsu v. United
States, 323 U. S. 214.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

The powers given to the President by this statute, I may
assume for my purposes, are sufficiently broad to have
authorized the President acting through the Attorney General to deport alien Germans from this country while the
"declared" second World War was actually going on, or
while there was real danger of invasion from Germany.
But this 1798 statute, unlike statutes passed in later years,
did not expressly prescribe the events which would for
statutory purposes mark the termination of the "declared"
war or threatened invasions. See Hamilton v. Kentucky
Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 165, n. 1. In such cases
we are called on to interpret a statute as best we can so
as to carry out the purpose of Congress in connection
with the particular right the statute was intended to protect, United States v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 69-70; The
Protector, 12 Wall. 700, 702, or the particular evil the
statute was intended to guard against. McElrath v.
United States, 102 U. S. 426, 437, 438. See Judicial Determination of the End of the War, 47 Col. L. Rev. 255.
The 1798 Act was passed at a time when there was
widespread hostility to France on the part of certain
groups in the United States. It was asserted by many
that France had infiltrated this country with spies preaching "subversive" ideas and activities. Mr. Otis, the chief
congressional spokesman for the measure, expressed his
fears of "...
a band of spies . . . spread through the
country, from one end of it to the other, who, in case
of the introduction of an enemy into our country" might
join the enemy "in their 'attack upon us, and in their
plunder of our property * . . ." Annals of Congress, Sth
.Cong., 2d Sess. 1791. Congressional discussions of this
particular measure appear at pp. 1573-1582, 1785-1796,
and 2034-2035, Annals of Congress, 5th Cong., 2d Sess.,'
8In addition to the above discussions of the Alien Enemy Act,
frequent references to the Act were made in the congressional debates

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
166

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

and show beyond any reasonable doubt that the Alien
Enemy Act of 1798 was intended to grant its extraordinary powers only to prevent alien enemies residing
in the United States from extending aid and comfort
to ai' enemy country while dangers from actual fighting
hostilities were imminently threatened. Indeed, Mr. Otis,
who was most persistent in his expressions of anti-French
sentiments and in his aggressive sponsorship of this and
its companion Alien and Sedition Acts, is recorded as
saying ".

.

. that in a time of tranquility, he should not

desire to'put a power like this into the hands of the Executive; but, in a time of war, the citizens of France ought to
'be considered and treated and watched in a very diff~rent
manner from citizens of our own country." Annals of
Congress, 5th Cong., 2d Sess. 1791. And just before the
bill was ordered to be read for its third time, Mr. Gallatin pointed out that the Alien Act had already made
it possible for the President to remove all aliens, Whether
riends or enemies; he interpreted the measure here under
consideration, 'aimed only at alien enemies, as providing
"in what manner they may be laid under certain restraints
by way of security." For this reason he supported this
bill. Annals of Congress, 5th Cong., 2d Sess. 2035.
German aliens could not now, if they would, aid the
German Government in war hostilities against the United
States. For as declared by the United States Department of State, June 5, 1945, the German armed forces on
land and sea had been completely subjugated and had
unconditionally surrendered. "There is no central Government or authority in Germany capable of accepting
responsibility for the maintenance of order, the adminon the Alien Act, 1 Stat. 570, and the Sedition Act, 1 Stat. 596,
both of which were passed within two weeks of the adoption of
the Alien Enema; Act. These references appear in many places in
the Annals of Congress, 5th Cong., 2d Sess. See e. g., 1973-2028.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

istration of the country and compliance with the requirements of the victorious Powers." And the State Department went on to declare that the United States, Russia,
Great Britain, and France had assumed "supreme authority with respect to Germany, including all the powers
possessed by the German Government, the High Command, and any state, municipal, or local government or
authority." 12 State Dept. Bull. 1051. And on March
17, 1948, the President of the United States told the
Congress that "Almost 3 years have elapsed since the
end . ." of the war with Germany. See Court opinion,
n. 15.
Of course it is nothing but a fiction to say that we
are now at war with Germany.4 Whatever else that
fiction might support, I refuse to agree that it affords
a basis for today's holding that our laws authorize the
peacetime banishment of any person on the judicially
unreviewable conclusion of a single individual. The 1798
Act did not grant its extraordinary and dangerous powers
to be used during the period of fictional wars. As previously pointed out, even Mr. Otis, with all of his fervent support of anti-French legislation, repudiated the
suggestion that the Act would vest the President with
such dangerous powers in peacetime. Consequently, the
Court today gives the 1798 Act a far broader meaning
4 The Court cites Woods v. Miller Co., 333 U. S. 138, as having
held that the war with Germany has not yet terminated. I find
no such holding in the opinion and no language that even suggests
such a holding. We there dealt with the constitutional war powers
of Congress, whether all those powers are necessarily non-existent
when there are no actual hostilities. Decision of that question has
hardly even a remote relevancy to the meaning of the 1798 Alien
Enemy Act. The Court today also seeks to support its judgment
by a quotation from a concurring opinion in the Woods case, supra.
But the concurring opinion cited was that of a single member of

the Court.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

than it was given by one of the most vociferous champions
of the 1798 series of anti-alien and anti-sedition laws.
Furthermore, the holding today 'represents an entirely new interpretation of the 1798 Act. For nearly
150 years after the 1798 Act there never came to this
Court any case in which the Government asked that the
Act be interpreted so as to allow the President or any
other person to deport alien enemies without allowing
them access to the courts. In fact, less than two months
after the end of the actual fighting in the first World
War, Attorney General Gregory informed the Congress
that, although there was power to continue the internment of alien enemies afterthe cessation of actual hostilities and until the ratification of a peace treaty, still
there was no statute under which they could then be
deported.' For this reason the Attorney General re5 In a letter addressed to the Chairman of the House Committee on
Immigration and Naturalization dated January 9, 1919, Attorney
General Gregory explained that a number of German subjects who
had "been interned pursuant to section 4067 of the Revised Statutes"
[section 1 of the Alien Enemy Act of 1798] were still held in custody.
He then stated:
"The authority given by the President to regulate the conduct of
enemy aliens during the existence of the war, in my opinion, could not
properly be used at this time to bring about the deportation of these
aliens. There is now, therefore, no law under which these persons
can be expelled from the country nor, if once out of it, prevented from
returning to this country. I have, therefore, caused to be prepared
the inclosed draft of a proposed bill, the provisions of which are selfexplanatory." (Italics added.) H. R. Rep. No. 1000, 65th Cong., 3d
Sess. 1-2. This position of the Attorney General that there-then was
no power under existing law to deport enemy aliens was reiterated by
representatives of the Attorney General in hearings before the House
Committee on Immigration and Naturalization on the bill enacted
into law. Hearings on H. R. 6750, 66th Cong., 1st Sess. 3-21. In
conformity with this interpretation of the 1798 Alien Enemy Act
the Wilson administration did ndt attempt to deport interned alien
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

quested Congress to enact new legislation to authorize
deportation of enemy aliens at that time. The bill
thereafter introduced was endorsed by both the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Labor in a joint letter in
which they asked that it be given "immediate consideration" in view of the "gravity of this situation." Hearings
before the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization on H. R. 6750, 66th Cong., 1st Sess. 42-43.
Several months later Attorney General Palmer submitted
substantially the same statements to the House and Senate Committees on Immigration. H. R. Rep. 143, 66th
Cong., lstSess. 2; S. Rep. 283, 66th Cong., 1st Sess. 2.
See also Report of the Attorney General, 1919, 25-28.
A bill to carry out the recommendations of the Wilson
administration was later passed, 41 Stat. 593 (1920), but
not until it had been amended on the floor of the House
of Representatives to require that all alien enemies be
given a fair hearing before their deportation. 58 Cong.
Rec. 3366. That a fair hearing was the command of
Congress is not only shown by the language of the Act
but by the text of the congressional hearings, by the
committee reports and by congressional debates on the
bill. In fact, the House was assured by the ranking member of the Committee reporting the bill that in hearings
to deport alien enemies under the bill "a man is entitled
to. have counsel present, entitled to subpoena witnesses
and summon them before him and have a full hearing,
at which the stenographer's minutes must be taken." 58
Cong. Rec. 3373. See also 3367 and 3372. Congress
therefore after the fighting war was over authorized the
deportation of interned alien enemies only if they were
enemies under the 1798 Act after the Armistice and before Congress by
statute expressly authorized such deportations as requested by the two
Attorney Generals. Report of the Attorney General 1919, 25-28.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

181

BLACK, J., dissenting.

"given full hearing,. as in all cases of deportation under
existing laws." H. R. Rep. No. 143, 66th Cong., 1st
Sess. 2.
This petitioner is in precisely the same status as were the
interned alien enemies of the first World War for whom
Congress specifically required a fair hearing with court
review as a prerequisite to their deportation. Yet the
Court today sanctions a procedure whereby petitioner
is to be deported without any determination of his charge
that he has been denied a fair hearing. The Court
can reach such a result only by rejecting the interpretation of the 1798 Act given by two Attorney Generals,
upon which Congress acted in 1920. It is held that
Congress and the two Attorney Generals of the Wilson administration were wrong in believing that the 1798
Act did not authorize deportation of interned enemy
aliens after hostilities and before a peace treaty. And in
making its novel interpretation of the 1798 Act the Court
today denies this petitioner and others the kind of fair
hearing that due process of law was intended to guarantee.
See The JapaneseImmigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86, 100-101,
read and explained on the floor of the House of Representatives at 58 Cong. Rec. 3373, read into the House
Committee hearings, supra at 19-20, and quoted in part
in note 2 of MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS' dissenting opinion.
The Court's opinion seems to fear that Germans if
now left in the United States might somehow have a
"potency for 'mischief" even after the complete subjugation and surrender of Germany, at least so long as the
"peace of Peace has not come." This "potency for mischief" can of course have no possible relation to apprehension of any invasion by or war with Germany. The
apprehension must therefore be based on fear that Germans now residing in the United States might emit ideas
dangerous to the "peace of Peace." But the First Amend798176 0-49--17

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
BLACE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

ment represents this nation's belief that the spread of
political ideas must not be suppressed. And the avowed
purpose of the Alien Enemy Act was not to stifle the
spread of ideas after hostilities had ended.' Others in
the series of Alien and Sedition Acts did provide for prison
punishment of people who had or at least who dared to
*As a justification for its interpretation of the 1798 Act the Court
appears to adopt the reasons advanced by the Second Circuit Court
of Appeals ir"United States ex rel. Kessler v. Watkins, 163 F. 2d 140,
decided in 1947. That Court emphasized the difficulty of deportation
of alien enemies during the time of actual hostility "because of the
danger to the aliens themselves or the interference with the effective
conduct of military operations." This reasoning would of course be
persuasive if the object of the 1798 statute had been punishment of
the alien enemies, but the whole legislative history shows that such was
not the purpose of the Act. Hence the Act cannot be construed to
authorize the deportation of an enemy alien after the war is over as
punishment. Furthermore, the purpose of deportation, so far as it
was authorized (if authorized) under the 1798 Act, was not to protect
the United States from ideas of aliens after a war or threatened invasion but to protect the United States against sabotage, etc., during a
war or threatened invasion. Nevertheless, the Circuit Court of Appeals thought that without its interpretation "the Executive would be
p6werless to carry out internment or deportation which was not exercised during active war and might be obliged to leave the country
unprotected from aliens dangerous either because -of secrets which
they possessed or because of potential inimical activities." But after
..A war is over the only "inimical activities" would relate to peacetime
governmental matters-not the type of conduct which concerned those
who passed the Alien Enemy Act. Moreover, it is difficult to see why
it would endanger this country to keep aliens here "because of secrets
which they possess." And of course the executive is not powerless to
send dangerous aliens out of this country, even if the 1798 Act
does not authorize their deportation, for there are other statutes
which give broad powers to deport aliens. There is this disadvautage to the Government, however, in connection with the other
deportation statutes-they require a hearing and the executive would
-not have arbitrary power to send them away with or without
reasons.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

express political ideas.7 I cannot now agree to an interpretation of the Alien Enemy Act which gives a new life
to the long repudiated anti-free speech and anti-free press
philosophy of the 1798 Alien and Sedition Acts. I would
not disinter that philosophy which the people have long
hoped Thomas Jefferson had permanently buried when he
pardoned the last person convicted for violation of the
Alien and Sedition Acts.
Finally, I wish to call attention to what was said by
Circuit Judge Augustus Hand in this case speaking for
himself and Circuit Judges Learned Hand and Swan,
before whom petitioner argued his own cause. Believing the deportation order before them was not subject to
judicial review, they saw no reason for discussing the
... nature or weight of the evidence before the Repatriation Hearing Board, or the finding of the Attorney
General . . . ." But they added: "However, on the face
of the record it is hard to see why the relator should now
be compelled to go back. Of course there may be much
not disclosed to justify the step; and it is of doubtful propriety for a court ever to express an opinion on a subject
over which it has no power. Therefore, we shall, and
should, say no more than to suggest that justice may
perhaps be better satisfied if a reconsideration be given
him in the light of the changed conditions, since the order
of removal was made eighteen months ago." 163 F. 2d
at 144.
It is not amiss, I think, to suggest my belief that because of today's opinion individual liberty will be less
secure tomorrow than it was yesterday. Certainly the
security of aliens is lessened, particularly if their ideas
happen to be out of harmony with those of the govern7 See Bowers, Jefferson and Hamilton, 1925, c. XVI, "Hysterics,"
and c. XVII, "The Reign of Terror"; 1 Morison, Life of Otis,
c. VIII, "A System of Terror."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

mental authorities of a'period. And there is removed a
segment of judicial power to protect individual liberty
from arbitrary action, at least until today's judgment is
corrected by Congress ' or by this Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur, dissenting.

I do not agree that the sole question open on habeas
corpus is whether the petitioner is in fact an alien enemy.'
That delimitation of the historic writ is a wholly arbitrary
one. I see no reason for a more narrow range of judicial
inquiry here than in habeas corpus arising out of any
other deportation proceeding.
It is undisputed that in peacetime an alien is protected
by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228. Federal
courts will then determine through habeas corpus whether
8 It is suggested in the Court's opinion that Congress by appropriating funds in 1947 to "return" alien enemies to their "bona fide
residence or to such other place as may be authorized by the Attorney
General" has already approved the Attorney General's interpretation
of the 1798 Act as authorizing the present deportation of alien
enemies without affording them a fair hearing. But no such strained
inference can be drawn. Congress did not there or elsewhere express
a purpose to deny these aliens a fair- hearing after the war was
over. Until it does so, I am unwilling to attribute to the Congress
any such attempted violation of the constitutional requirement for
due prbcess of law.
1See United States4 ex rel. Schlueter *v. tatkins, 67 F. Supp.
556, aff'd 158 F. 2d 853; United States v. Longo, 46 F. Supp. 170;
United States v. Uhl, 46 F. Supp. 688, rev'd on other grounds,
137 F. 2d 858; Ex parte Gilroy, 257 F. 110; Baning v. Penrose, 255
F. 159; Ex parte Fronklin, 253 F. 984; Minotto v. Bradley, 252 F.
600. Cf. Citizens Protective League v. Clark, 81 U. S. App. D. C.
116, 155 F. 2d 290; De Lacey v. United States, 249 F. 625. In the
Schlueter case it was held .that the Const.'ution and the statute do
not require a hearing and thus an alien enemy camf ot complain of
the character of the hearing he did receive. 67 F. Supp. at 565.

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

or not a deportation order is based upon procedures
affording due process of law. Vajtauer v. Commissioner,
273 U. S. 103, 106. In deportation proceedings due process requires reasonable notice (Tisi v. Tod, 264 U. S. 131,

134), a fair hearing (Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S. 135,156;
Chin Yow v. United States, 208 U. S. 8, 12; Low Wah
Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460), and an order supported
by some evidence (Vajtauer v. Commissioner, supra, p.
106; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272, 274). And see
Kwock Jan Fatv. White, 253 U. S. 454.
The rule of those cases is not restricted to instances
where Congress itself has provided for a hearing. The
Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86, decided in 1903,
so held. The Court in that case held that due process
required that deportation be had only after notice and
hearing even though there, as here, the. statute prescribed
no such procedure but entrusted the matter wholly to an
executive officer.2 Consistently with that principle we
held in Bridges v. Wixon, supra, that a violation of the
rules governing the hearing could be reached on habeas
corpus, even though the rules were prescribed not by Con2 The Court said, 189 U. S. p. 101: "...
no person shall be
deprived of his liberty without opportunity, at some time, to be
heard, before such officers, in respect of the matters upon which that
liberty depends-not necessarily an opportunity upon a regular, set
occasion, and according to the forms of judicial procedure, but one
that will secure the prompt, vigorous action contemplated by Congress, and at the same time be appropriate to the nature of the case
upon which such officers are required to act. Therefore, it is not
competent for the Secretary of the Treasury or any executive officer,
at any time within the year limited by the statute, arbitrarily to
cause an alien, who has entered the country, and has become. subject
in all respects to its jurisdiction, and a part of its population, although
alleged to be illegally here, to be taken .into custody and deported
without giving him all opportunity to be heard upon the questions
involving his right to be and remain in the United States. No such
arbitrary power can exist wher the principles invplved in due process
of law are recognized."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

gress but by the administrative agency in charge of the
deportation proceeding. We stated, p. 154:
"We are dealing here with procedural requirements
prescribed for the protection of the alien. Though
deportation is not technically a criminal proceeding,
it visits a great hardship on the individual and deprives him of the right to stay and live and work in
this land of freedom. That deportation is a penalty-at times a most serious one-cannot be
doubted. Meticulous care must be exercised lest the
procedure by which he is deprived of that liberty not
meet the essential standards of fairness."
The same principles are applicable here. The President has classified alien enemies by regulations of
general applicability and has authorized deportation only
of those deemed dangerous because they have adhered to
an enemy government, or the principles thereof. Petitioner was in fact given a hearing in 1945 before the
Repatriation Hearing Board in addition to one in 1942
before the Alien Enemy Hearing Board. The order for
his deportation recites that "upon consideration of the
evidence presented" before those Boards, the Attorney
General, in the words of the Proclamation, deems petitioner "to be dangerous to the public peace and safety
of the United States because he has adhered to a government with which the United States is at war or to
the principle thereof." Those findings and conclusions
and the procedure by which they were reached must
conform with the requirements of due process. And
habeas corpus is the time-honored procedure to put them
to the test.
The inquiry in this type of case need 'be no greater
an intrusion in the affairs of the Executive branch of
government than inquiries by habeas corpus in times of
peace into a determination that the alien is considered
to be an "undesirable resident of the United States." See

LUDECKE v. WATKINS.
160

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting,

Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32. Both involve only a determination that procedural due process is. satisfied, that
there be a fair hearing, and that the order be based upon
some evidence.
The needs of the hour may well require summary
apprehension and detention of alien enemies. A nation
at war need not be detained by time-consuming procedures while the enemy bores from within. But with an
alien enemy behind bars, that danger has passed. If he
is to be deported only after a hearing, our constitutional
requirements are that the hearing be a fair one. It is
foreign to our thought to defend a mock hearing on the
ground that in any event it was a mere gratuity. Hearings that are arbitrary and unfair are no hearings at all
under our system of government. Against them habeas
corpus provides in this case the only protection.
The notion that the discretion of any officer of government can override due process is foreign to our system.
Due process does not perish when war comes. It is well
established that the war power does not remove constitutional limitations safeguarding essential liberties. Home
Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 426.

