OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

MEMPHIS NATURAL GAS CO. v. STONE, CHAIRMAN, STATE TAX COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 94.

Argued December 8, 1947.-Decided June 21, 1948.

Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, owns and operates a natural gas
pipeline from Louisiana fields to Memphis, Tennessee. Approximately 135 miles of the line lie in Mississippi, and there are two
compressor stations in that State. In addition to ad valorem taxes,
Mississippi imposes a "franchise or excise" tax of $1.50 for each
$1,000 value of capital used, invested or employed within the State.
Petitioner, whose business in Mississippi was exclusively interstate,
challenged the validity of the latter tax under the Commerce
Clause of the Federal Constitution. As applied to petitioner,
the Mississippi Supreme Court sustained the tax as recompense to
the State for protection of "local activities in maintaining, keeping
in repair, and otherwise in manning" the 135 miles of line within
the State. Held: The judgment of the State Supreme Court is
affirmed. Pp. 80-83,96.
201 Miss. 670, 29 So. 2d 268, affirmed.

The validity under the Federal Constitution of a state
franchise tax imposed on petitioner was sustained by the
State Supreme Court. 201 Miss. 670, 29 So. 2d 268.
This Court granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 802. Affirmed,
p. 96.
Edward P. Russell argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was B. L. Tighe, Jr.
J. H. Sumrall argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED announced the judgment of the Court
and an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY join.

The Memphis Natural Gas Company is a Delaware
corporation which owns and operates a pipe line for the
transportation of natural gas. The line runs from the

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of

REED, J.

Monroe Gas Field in the State of Louisiana through the
states of Arkansas and Mississippi to Memphis and other
points in the State of Tennessee. Approximately 135
miles of the pipe line lie within Mississippi; at two points
within that state there are compressing stations. It is
stipulated that the Gas Company has never engaged in
any intrastate commerce in Mississippi; that it has only
one customer within the state, the Mississippi Power and
Light Company, to which it sells gas from its interstate
line at wholesale from several delivery points; that the
Gas Company has never qualified under the laws of Mississippi to do intrastate business within that state; that
it has no agent for the service of process and that it has
no office within the state; and that its only employees
and representatives in Mississippi are those necessary to
maintain the.,pipe line and its auxiliary appurtenances.
The Gas Company has paid all ad valorem taxes assessed against its property in Mississippi pursuant to the
state law. In addition to the ad valorem' taxes, Mississippi imposes a "franchise or excise tax" upon all corporations "doing business" within the state.1 For the
1 Miss. Code § 9313 (1942): "There is hereby imposed .. .a fran-

chise or excise tax upon every corporation .. .now existing in this

state, or hereafter organized, created or established, under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of Mississippi, equal to $1.50 for each
$1,000.00 or fraction thereof, of the value of the capital used, invested
or employed in the exercise of any power, privilege or right enjoyed by
such organization within this state, except as hereinafter provided.
It being the purpose of this section to require the payment to the
state of Mississippi, this tax for the right granted by the laws of
this state to exist as such organization, and enjoy, under the protection of the laws of this state, the powers, rights, privileges and immunities derived from the state by the form of such existence."
§ 9314: "For the year 1940 and annually thereafter, there shall
be and is hereby imposed, levied and assessed upon every corporation,
association or joint stock company, as hereinbefore defined, organized
and existing under and by virtue of the laws of some other state,
territory or country, or organized and existing without any specific

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

purpose of the Act, "doing business" is defined "[to]
mean and [to] include each ind every act, power or privilege exercised or enjoyed in this State, as an incident to,
or by virtue of the powers and privileges acquired by the
nature of such organization." 2 The tax is "equal to $1.50
of each $1,000.00 or fraction thereof of the value of
capital used, invested or employed" within the state.
The Gas Company filed a petition for review by the
State Tax Commission of Mississippi of the franchise tax
assessed against it for the years 1942, 1943 and 1944 by
the State Tax Commissioner. In this petition the Gas
Company argued that the imposition of the tax by the
state was an act prohibited by the Commerce Clause of
the Federal Constitution. From an order of the Tax
Commission approving the action of the Commissioner,
the Gas Company appealed to the Circuit Court of Hinds
County, Mississippi. That court reversed the Tax Commission, but was itself reversed by the Supreme Court of
Mississippi. The Supreme Court said that Mississippi
had made "no attempt to tax interstate commerce as
such, but the levy is an exaction which the State requires
as a recompense for its protection of lawful activities
carried on in this State by the corporation, foreign or
domestic, activities which are incidental to the powers
and privileges possessed by it by the nature of its organization-here the local activities in maintaining, keeping
in repair, and otherwise in manning the facilities of the
statutory authority, now, or hereafter doing business within this
state, as hereinbefore defined, a franchise or excise tax equal to $1.50
of each $1,000.00 br fraction thereof of the value of capital used,
invested or employed within this state, except as hereinafter provided. It being the purpose of this section to require the payment
of a tax by all organizations not organized under the laws of this
state, measured by the amount of capital or its equivalent, for which
such organization receives the benefit and protection of the government and laws of the state."
2Miss. Code § 9312 (1942).

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of

REED,

J.

system throughout the 135 miles of its line in this State."
201 Miss. 670, 674, 29 So. 2d 268, 270. It argued that the
state tax did not bear directly upon interstate commerce
and that any burden imposed upon that commerce was
remote and unsubstantial. It concluded that the local
tax was not unconstitutional and ordered that the taxes
in question, plus penalties, be paid by the Gas Company.
A petition for certiorari, under §237 (b), Judicial Code,
was- filed in this Court by the Gas Company on May 17,
1947. It presented the question as to whether the judgment violated the Commerce Clause by requiring a foreign undomesticated corporation, engaged in interstate
commerce, to pay the tax. That .petition was granted
June 16,1947. 331 U. S. 802.
The suggestion is made that by the stipulation of facts
in the trial court, Mississippi concedes the truth of an
allegation of the challenged petition before the State Tax
Commission reading as follows:
"To carry on interstate commerce is not a franchise
or a pri4ilege grpnted by the state; it is a right which
every citizen of the United States is entitled to exercise under the constitution and laws of the United
States; and the accession and possession of mere
corporate facilities, as a matter of convenience in
carrying on their business, cannot have the effect of
depriving it of such right, unless congress should
see fit to interpose some contrary regulation. Your
Petitioner obtains no protection from the State of
Mississippi and acquires no powers or privileges in its
interstate activity other than the protection afforded
your Petitioner by virtue of the payment of an ad
valorem tax on the property used by the Company
wholly in interstate commerce."
It is said that because of this concession Mississippi cannot exact a tax from petitioner as the state "affords nothing to this petitioner for which it could ask recompense

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

by way of a tax." The pertinent part of the stipulation
reads: "That all of the facts stated in said petition are
true and no proof of the same shall be required in this
cause." No contention as to the concession is presented
to us by the petition for certiorari, assignment of errors or
brief. Petitioner's contention is that the tax levied
against it is invalid under the Commerce Clause. Petitioner's failure to raise the question alone would justify a
refusal here to consider the contention. See Connecticut
R. Co. v. Palmer,305 U. S.493, 496; Kessler v. Strecker,
307 U. S. 22, 34. The answer to the suggestion, however,
seems to us clear. The argument is that the Supreme
Court of Mississippi must be reversed because the tax
before us "is a tax on the privilege of engaging in the
doing of interstate business within the State, and such
a tax is . . .invalid under the Commerce Clause." This
conclusion seems to be reached by the following analysis.
The stipulation between the Company and the State Tax
Commission is read as if the phrase "in its interstate
activity" modified only the words "powers" and "privileges" and not the word "protection." If that is a proper
construction of this stipulation, then the parties have
agreed that the Company has obtained by the tax "no
protection from the State . . . other than the protection
afforded . . .by virtue of the payment of an ad valorem
tax . . . ." The dissent then concludes that the imposition of the ad valorem taxes "exhausted" the state's taxing
power and, consequently, that the tax "is a tax on the
privilege of engaging in interstate business" and, as such,
"invalid under the Commerce Clause."
The state Supreme Court construed the tax as "an exaction . . .as a recompense for . . . protection of . . .

the local activities in maintaining, keeping in repair, and
otherwise in manning the facilities of the system throughout the 135 miles of its line in this State." As we are
bound by the construction of the state statute by the state

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of

REED, J.

court, it is idle to suggest that the tax is on "the privilege
of engaging in interstate business." Nor can this result
be changed by the suggestion 'that the tax cannot be on
any local incidents "because they have already been fully
taxed." The local incidents, spoken of by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, were not the taxable events selected
for the imposition of the ad valorem tax. These local
incidents were the basis for the franchise or excise tax now
in controversy. No reason is perceived why Mississippi
cannot exact this different tax for the same protection.
It is as though the ad valorem rate had been increased.
The power to levy such a new tax is not and could not
be questioned except as an interference' with commerce.
The legal question remains as to whether a state can
exact a tax on those activities under the Commerce
Clause.
The facts of this case present again the perennial
problem of the validity of a state tax for the privilege of carrying on, within a state, certain activities admittedly necessary to maintain or operate the interstate business of the
taxpayer. This transportation by pipe line with deliveries within the state at wholesale only is interstate
business. Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. Comm'n,
332 U. S. 507, 513, and cases cited. -Notwithstanding
the power granted to Congress by the Commerce Clause
to regulate the taxation of interstate commerce, if 'it
so desires,' that body generally has left the determination to -the courts of what state taxes on or affecting
commerce were permissible and what impermissible under
the Commerce Clause. The states have sought by taxation to collect from the instrumentalities of commerce
compensation for the protection and advantages rendered
to commerce by state governments. The federal courts
have sought over the years to determine the scope of
a state's power to tax in the light of the competing inter3

PrudentialIns. Co. v. Benjamin, 328 U. S. 408, 429.
798176 0-49---11

86'

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of REED, J.

335 U. S.

ests of interstate commerce, and of the states, with their
power to impose reasonable taxes upon incidents connected with that commerce.. See Gwin, White & Prince,
Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 441. We continue at
that task, characterized, long ago as an area of "nice
distinctions." Galveston, Harrisburg& S. A. R. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225.
There is no question here of Due Process. The Gas
Company's property is in the taxing state where the tax-

able incidents occurred. McLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322
U. S. 327, 329. See Nippert v. City of Richmond, 327
U. S. 416, 423. Nor is the measure used to calculate the
amount of the tax challenged. That measure is $1.50
on each thousand dollars of capital employed within
Mississippi. Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S.
148, 156, Third. The attack on the Mississippi statute
is that it violates the Commerce Clause by putting a tax
on the commerce itself.
The local incidents covered by the definition of doing
business hereinbefore set out, § 9312, Mississippi Code,
supra, were said by the Supreme Court in this case to be
"the local activities in maintaining, keeping in repair,
and otherwise in manning the facilities of the system"
in Mississippi. 201 Miss. 670, 674, 29 So. 2d 268, 270."
4 Such local incidents form a sound basis for taxation by a state of
foreign corporations doing interstate business. For example, we
have upheld state taxes on sales after completion of the interstate
transit, McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., 309 U. S.
33; on production of electricity for interstate commerce, Utah
Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, compare Fisher's.Blend Station, Inc. v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650, 655; a privilege tax on the
operation of machines for the production of electricity to drive gas in
interstate commerce, Coverdale v. Arkansas-LouisianaPipe Line Co.,
303 U. S. 604; a use tax on rails shipped interstate for immediate
incorporation into an interstate transportation system, Southern
Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 167.
We have upheld a franchise tax on a foreign corporation authorized
to do business and making sales in a state other than its actual or

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of REED, J.

The cases just cited in the note show that, from the viewpoint of the Commerce Clause, where 'the corporations
carry on a local activity sufficiently separate from the
interstate commerce, state taxes may be validly laid, even
though the exaction from the business of the taxpayer
is precisely the same as though the tax had been levied
upon the interstate business itself.' But the choice of
a local incident for the tax, without more, is not enough.
There are always convenient local incidents in every interstate operation. Nippert v. City of Richmond, supra, at
423. The incident selected should be one that does not
lend itself to repeated exactions in other states. Otherwise intrastate commerce may be preferred over interstate
commerce.' Again, where there is a state exaction for
some intrastate privilege that discriminates against interstate commerce, it is invalid even though it is sufficiently disconnected from the commerce to be taxable
otherwise.!
The Mississippi tax under consideration is not discriminatory. It is levied, in addition to ad valorem taxes, on
corporations created under Mississippi laws, those admitted to do business in Mississippi and those operating in
business domicile, Ford Motor Co. v. Beauchamp, 308 U. S. 331; a
privilege tax on a foreign corporation doing business in the state upon
a proportion of property in the taxing state that was computed by
using interstate commerce as an element, Hump Hairpin Co. v.
Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290; Western Cartridge Co. v. Emmerson, 281
U. S. 511; an excise on intrastate manufacturing, added to an ad*
valorem tax and measured by sales, including out of state, American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, and see Powell, 60 Harv. L. Rev.
501, 508 and 727, Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, 255; a license for
storing goods at rest in the state under a transit privilege, Independent Warehouses, Inc. v. Scheele, 331 U. S. 70.
5 See Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 254.
6 See Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 255.
7See Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454; Nippert v. City of
.Richmond, supra, at 431-32. Cf. Aero Mayflower Transit Co. v.
Boardof Railroad Comm'rs, 332 .U.S. 4)5, 501-502.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.,
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

the state without any authority from the state. See note
1, supra. Petitioner operated local compressor stations.
We have heretofore held that the generation of electric
energy for the operation of such stations was subject to
state taxation without violation of the Commerce Clause.
Coverdale v. Arkansas-LouisianaPipe Line Co., 303 U. S.
604. A glance at the activities, named above, listed by
the Supreme Court of Mississippi, shows that there is
no possibility of multiple taxation through the same exactions by other states. The amount of the tax is reasonable.' It is properly apportioned to the investment in
Mississippi.
However, a state tax upon a corporation doing only an
interstate business may be invalid under our decisions
because levied (1) upon the privilege of doing interstate
business within the state,"0 or (2) upon some local event
so much a part of interstate business as to be in effect a
"See Hump Hairpin Co.A. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290, 295, and
Western CartridgeCo. v. E nmerson, 281 U. S. 511, 514.
9See Southern Gas Corp.7 v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 156, Third,
and cases cited; Internati nal Harvester Co. v. Evatt, 329 U. S.416,
422-23; Aero Mayflower 4'iransit Co. v. Board of Railroad Comm'rs,
332 U. S. 495, 501-502.
10
This Court has held many times that a state has no power
to refuse or tax the privilege of doing interstate business. A foreign
corporation, seeking or requiring no privilege from a state such
as the power of eminent domain, the right to use public ways or
beds of streams, and without federal charter or other federal statutory
privilege, cannot be denied the right to enter a state, remain there
and operate a purely interstate business without a state franchise.
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47, 56; InternationalTextbook Co.
v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 107 (3); Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.282. See also Californiav. Pacific R. Co., 127 U. S.1;
Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525; Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 153, 164; State ex rel. Board v. Stanolind Pipe Line
Co.,216 Iowa 436, 445, 249 N. W. 366, 371.

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of

REED, J.

tax upon the interstate business itself." Petitioner asserts that the Mississippi statute so offends.
First. This Court has drawn the distinction in the field
of pipe line taxation between state statutes on the privilege of doing business where only interstate business was
done and those upon appropriate local incidents. In
Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, the
Ozark Pipe Line Corporation operated an oil pipe line
from Oklahoma, through Missouri to a point in Illinois.
Oil was neither received nor delivered in Missouri. This
was interstate transportation. Interstate Natural Gas
Co. v. Power Comm'n, 331 U. S. 682, 689, and cases
cited at note 12. It had its principal office in Missouri.
It had a license from Missouri authorizing it to engage
" 'exclusively in the business of transporting crude petroleum by pipe line.'" Page 561. The state tax was an
apportioned franchise tax. 2 It was construed by this
Court as a tax "upon the privilege or right to do
"Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, "because it taxes the very
process of interstate commerce" (p. 253), it is "a direct imposition
on that very freedom of commercial flow which for more than a
hundred and fifty years has been the ward of the Commerce Clause"
(p. 256); Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Co., 330 U. S. 422, "Stevedoring, we conclude, is essentially a part of the commerce itself and
therefore a tax . . . upon the privilege of conducting the, business
of stevedoring for interstate and foreign commerce, measured by
those gross receipts, is invalid" (p. 433); this follows "a line of
precedents outlawing taxes on the commerce itself" (p. 433). Galveston, Harrisburg& S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, supra at 224.
See Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 312, n. 11; see
comments on American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, n. 4, supra.
12 Mo. Rev. Stat. § 9836 (1919):
"... Every corporation, not organized under the laws of this
state, and engaged in business in this state, shall pay an annual
franchise tax to the state of Missouri equal to one-tenth of one per
cent. of the par value of its capital stock and surplus employed in
business in this state ...
"

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

business." Page 562. Virginia v. Imperial Coal Co.,
293 U. S. 15, 20. As such a tax upon a corporation
doing only an interstate business, it was held invalid
under the Commerce Clause."'
In State Tax Commission v. Interstate Natural Gas
Co., 284 U. S. 41, a pipe line ran from Louisiana, through
Mississippi and back to Louisiana. Two local Mississippi distributors took gas in that state from the re-opinion evoked a dissent by Justice Brandeis which pointed
out that: "The tax assailed is not laid upon the occupation . . .";
nor "upon the privilege of doing business." Pp. 567-68. The
Justice concluded that "a tax is not a direct burden merely because
it is laid upon an indispensable instrumentality of such commerce,"
but that the contrary is true "where it is upon property moving in
interstate commerce." P. 569. Compare Ozark with Atlantic Lumber Co. y. Comm'r, 298 U. S.553.
The Ozark rase has had a long history in this Court. Since 288
U. S., it has not been cited in a manner pertinent to our present issue,
except to be distinguished, sometimes narrowly. In Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, 249, and State Tax Commission v.
InterstateNatural Gas Co., 284 U. S. 41, 43, it was cited with approval
for the proposition that a state cannot lay a tax on the occupation or
the business of carrying on interstate commerce. In Anglo-Chilean
Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S.218, Ozark was relied upon
to hold unconstitutional a state tax upon a corporation which was
qualified to do intrastate business within the state but which in fact
did only an interstate business. Cardozo, J., joined by Brandeis, J.,
and Stone, J., dissented on the ground that the tax could be supported
as a tax laid upon the privilege to do intrastate business. Ozark was
next before the Court in Virginia v. Imperial Coal Co., supr, a
case involving a tax on tangible and intangible property situat-1
and used within the state to carry on an exclusively interstate business.
In that case it was distinguished on the ground that an ad valorem
property tax, and not a privilege tax, was before the Court. In
Atlantic Lumber Co. v. Comm'r, 298 U. S. 553, involving an excise
tax on corporations doing business within Massachusetts, Ozark was
again distinguished, this time on the ground that the Lumber Co. was
engaged in local activities within the state and, therefore, that the
burden imposed Upon its interstate commerce was remote and incidental. Again, in Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama,' 301 U. S. 148,
13 The

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of REED, J.

spondent. Mississippi sought t o- tax the respondent
under a privilege tax law that required the pipe line company to get a license to exercise the privilege desired, that
is, to operate an interstate pipe line.14 This Court held
that the entire business of the respondent was interstate
despite a claimed local activity by the reduction of pressure to deliver gas to the Mississippi distributors. It
followed that the state license for the privilege of engaging
in the business of operating a pipe line was an invalid
burden under the Commerce Clause. 5
Ozark was found to be inapposite because of factual differences.
Southern Gas ruled upon the constitutionality of a tax assessed on
the basis of the same tax that was before this Court in Anglo-Chilean
Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, supra. The state tax was held
constitutional by the Southern Gas case as a tax exacted for the
privilege of doing an intrastate business by a company in fact engaging in intrastate business in Alabama.
14 Miss. Gen. Laws (1930),
c. 88, § 3: "Every person desiring
to engage in any business, or exercise any privilege hereinafter specified, shall first, before commencing same, apply for, pay for, and
procure from the proper officer a privilege license authorizing him
to engage in the business, or exercis the privilege specified therein;
and the amount of tax shown in the following schedules is hereby
imposed for the privilege of engaging and/or continuing in the businesses set out therein."
Id., § 163: "Upon each person engaging and/or continuing in this
state in the business of operating a pipe line or transporting in or
through this state oil, or natural, or artificial gas, through pipes,
and/or conduits, a tax, as follows: [On each mile a varying tax that
.depended upon the diameter of the pipe] ."
15 The same rationale has led this Court at times to declare invalid
similar taxes on foreign corporations, admitted to do business in a
state and doing only an interstate business through activities within
the state. The leading decisions supporting this view (Cheney
Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147, and Alpha Portland
Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203) have been strictly limited. • Atlantic -Lumber Co. v. Commissioner, 298 U. S. 553; cf.
Southern Gas Corporationv. Alabama, aupra, at p. 156, and dissent
in Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218, 229,
at 237. In the Cheney case an excise tax for the privilege of doing

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of REED, J.

335 U. S.

On the other hand, in Interstate Natural Gas Co. v.
Stone, 308 U. S. 522, we affirmed per curiam a judgment
of the Fifth Circuit in Stone v. Interstate Natural
Gas Co., 103 F. 2d 544, on the authority of Southern Gas
Corporation v. Alabama, supra at 153, 156-57. The tax
in question in the 308 U. S. case was exacted by the
same Mississippi statute employed here. This differs
from the Mississippi statute in the Interstate case in 284
U. S. The Interstate case in 308 U. S. differed from
this present case, so far as is material, only in the fact
that the foreign corporation filed a copy of its charter
as a prerequisite to doing business in Mississippi and
appointed an agent for the service of process. The
page references in the Stone citation of the Southern
Gas case show that this Court considered the Mississippi
tax in the Stone case as one not on business but "'on the
privilege of exercising corporate functions within the State
and its employment of its capital in [Mississippi].'"
Southern Gas Corp. v. Alabama, supra, 153. In the
Southern Gas case, page 155, the company did intrabusiness in Massachusetts of an unapportioned percentage of its
authorized capital stock (Mass. Acts, 1909, c. 490, Part III, § 56) was
invalidated as being wholly on interstate commerce although it maintained "in Boston a selling office with one office salesman and four
other salesmen who travel through New England. The salesmen
solicit and take orders, subject to approval by the home office in
Connecticut, and it ships directly to the purchasers. No stock of
goods is kept in the Boston office, but only samples used in soliciting
and taking orders. Copies and records of orders are retained, but
no bookkeeping is done, and the office makes no collections. The
salesmen and the office rent are paid directly from Connecticut and
the other expenses of the office are paid from a small deposit kept
in Boston for the purpose. No other business is done in the State."
P. 153.
In the Alpha Portland case where, on the assumption that the taxpayer had obtained a right to do business in the state, under similar
circumstances an unapportioned excise on the privilege to do business
in Massachusetts was invalidated because a burden on commerce.

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion

of REED, J.

state business, but in the Stone case no intrastate business was done. Thus the local event of qualifying for
intrastate business, which occurred in both Southern Gas
and Stone, brought a different result from that in the
Ozark case and in Interstate,284 U. S., where the privilege
or right to do interstate business was protected. Mississippi, through its Supreme Court, has declared that there
is no attempt to tax the privilege of doing an interstate
business or to secure anything from the corporation by
this statute except compensation for the protection of
the enumerated local activities of "maintaining, keeping in repair, and otherwise in manning the facilities."
201 Miss. 674, 29 So. 2d 270. Under § 9314, quoted in
note 1, in the light of that statute's definition of "doing
business" set out on pp. 81-82, supra, this is a reasonable
meaning to give the taxing statute. We must accept the
state court's interpretation." We therefore conclude that
the Mississippi tax here involved is not upon the privilege of doing an interstate business.
Second. We come now to the second question. That is
whether the challenged excise for carrying on within the
state the aforementioned activities of maintenance, repair
and manning by a corporation engaged solely in interstate
commerce may be taxed. The answer on this point depends upon whether these activities are so much a part of
the interstate business as to be under the protection of
the Commerce Clause as this Court has construed it.17
In this case the local activities are those involved in the
maintenance of the pipe line. This tax is not an unapportioned tax on gross receipts from the commerce itself.
It is measured by a proportion of the capital employed
within the state. It cannot be duplicated in other states.
16 St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362; Southern
Gas Corp. v. Alabama, supra at 153, First; Skiriotes v. Florida,313
U. S. 69, 79; Caldarolav. Eckert, 332 U. S. 155, 158.
17 See note 11, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

335 U. S.

Compare Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250,
255. In Ozark Pipe Line v. Monier, supra, this Court,
at p. 565, spoke of such activities as set out below. 8 If
it was intended to say that such in-the-state activities
as there described could not be taxed, we disagree with
that conclusion. We are inclined to the view that the
fact that the tax there under consideration was considered
a tax "upon the privilege or right to do business," led
the Court to point out that as the local activities were
essential to that business, they were not taxable activities.
The pipe line itself and all appurtenances are essential,
9
yet sn ad valorem tax can be laid."
In taxation, we do not have the problems raised by
many decisions on state regulations alleged to impede

'8 This Court said, 266 U. S. at 565: "The business actually carried
on by appellant was exclusively in interstate commerce. The maintenance of an office, the purchase of supplies, employment of labor,
maintenance and operation of telephone and telegraph lines and
automobiles, and appellant's other acts within the State, were all
exclusively in furtherance of its interstate business; and the property
itself, however extensive or of whatever character, was likewise
devoted only to that end. They were the means and instrumentalities by which that business was done and in no proper sense constituted, or contributed to, the doing of a local business." See also
Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S.178, 185.
19 Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U.S.439, 445:
"The rule of property taxation is that the value of the property
is the basis of taxation. It does not mean a tax upon the earnings
which the property makes, nor for the privilege of using the property,
but rests solely upon the value. But the value of property results
from the use to which it is put and varies with the profitableness of
that use, present and prospective, actual and anticipated. There is
no pecuniary value outside of that which results from such use. The
amount and profitable character of such use determines the value, and
if property is taxed at its actual cash value it is taxed upon something
which is created by the uses to which it is put."
S e also Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.194; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U.S. 5O.

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

Opinion of

REED, J.

the free flow of commerce when not nationally uniform.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761. Regulations may be imposed by the state on commerct. Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
supra; Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan, 333 U. S.28.
When state taxation of activities or property within
a state is involved, different considerations control.
It is no longer a question of actual interruption of the
operation of commerce. Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S.
1, 14. Rather a prohibited tax exaction is one beyond
the power of the state because the taxable event is outside
its boundaries, McLeod v. Dilworth Co., supra, or for a
privilege the state cannot grant. See note 10, supra. Is
it bad because a tax on the commerce itself? We have
sustained a fee for the privilege of using state courts,
exacted by the state from a business licensed by the
United States to handle customs charges. Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202.20 Likewise a special
privilege tax upon an interstate automobile transportation company for the use of the state roads has been
approved. Aero Mayflower Trdnsit Co. v. Board of Railroad Comm'rs, 332 U. S.495.
The Mississippi excise has no more effect upon the commerce than any of the instances just recited. The events
giving rise to this tax were no more essential to the interstate commerce than those just mentioned or ad valorem
20In the Union Brokerage case.we dealt not with an annual tax
on franchises or licenses but with a state's single exaction from a
foreign corporation for the right to use the courts of the state. The
company was a customhouse broker engaged wholly in thus earning
fees by " 'charges upon the commerce itself,'" p. 209. There were
incidental activities in the state in furtherance of this main purpose,
p. 208: "Union's business is localized in Minnesota, it buys materials
and services from people in that State, it enters into business relationships, as this case, a suit against its former president, illustrates,
wholly outside of the arrangements it makes with importers or
exporters."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

taxes. We think that the state is within its constitutional rights in exacting compensation under this statute
for the protection it affords the activities within its borders. Of course, the interstate commerce could not be
copducted without these local activities. But that fact is
not conclusive. These are events apart from the flow of
commerce. This is a tax on activities for which the state,
not the United States, gives protection and the state is
entitled to compensation when its tax cannot be said to
be an unreasonable burden or a toll on the interstate
business.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the judgment.
MR.JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

In'accordance with views which I have heretofore expressed,' it is enough for me to sustain the tax imposed in
this case that it is one clearly within the state's power to
lay insofar as any limitation of due process or "jurisdiction
to tax" in that sense is voncerned; ' it is nondiscriminatory, that is, places no greater burden upon interstate
commerce than the state places upon competing intrastate commerce of like character; I is duly apportioned,

that is, does not undertake to tax any interstate activities
See 2I1cLeod v. Dilworth Co., 322 U. S. 327; General Trading Co.
v. Tax Comm'n, id. 335; Harvester Co. v. Dept. of Treasury, id.
340, separate opinion, id. 349; Freeman v.Hewit, 329 U. S. 249,

concurring opinion at 259.
2
See 322 U. S. at 352, 353; Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S.416,
423, 424.
3See Miss. Code § 9313 (1942), imposing a comparable tax, of
identical amount, upon companies organized under Mississippi laws.
Intrastate business done in the state obviously would be subject
to onq tax or the other, depending on whether the company doing
it were organized under the state's laws or those of another state.

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

carried on outside the state's borders;' and cannot be
repeated by any other state.'
In this view the tax is not different in any substantial
respect, for purposes of the commerce clause's prohibitive
application, from the apportioned tax upon gross receipts
from interstate transportation levied by New York and
sustained by the decision recently rendered in Central
Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, 334 U. S. 653.6 That tax is
nonetheless one upon the commerce, although it is apportioned. The apportionment, however, guards it from the
vice of taxing commerce done in other states and thus
also from multiplication by them.' In my view the same
consequence follows here, in practical effect, both for the
bearing of the tax and for saving its validity.
It may be that for the purposes of this case there is
little more than a verbal difference in so regarding the
4The statute, Miss. Code §§9313 and 9314 (1942), expressly
measures and limits the tax by an amount "equal to $1.50 of each
$1,000.00 or fraction thereof of the value of capital used, invested
or employed within this state . . . ." (Emphasis added.)
5 Cf. note 4. Apportionment in itself prevents taxation of extrastate "events" or portions of the business done, unless the apportionment is itself constitutionally invalid as not reflecting a sufficient
approximation to what the state may be entitled, on the facts, to
tax. Cf. Stone, C. J.,'dissenting in Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota,
322 U. S. 292, 315-316, and authorities cited.
I It is, of course, for New York to say whether its tax will be
applied upon the apportioned basis permitted'by the Court's opinion.
There would seem to be little doubt that such an application will
be made, in view of the state's alternative argument here for sustaining the tax to that extent in the event its unapportioned application should be found invalid.
See Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249,-266 (concurring opinion)
and authorities cited.
That the apportionment in the one case is made in relation to
mileage and in the other to the value of capital "used, invested or
employed within this state" is of no significance, since the states
have consilcralle latitude in the selection of fair methods of making
:pportionment. Cf. note 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

tax and in looking at it as one not "upon" the commerce,
although affecting it, but as being laid upon "incidents
of the commerce" or "taxable events" taking place in
Mississippi which are regarded as being "sufficiently separate from" the commerce, whether by reason of the
apportionment or otherwise, to sustain the tax. To the
extent that no greater difference is presently involved,
I accept the Court's conclusions and its reasoning.
But the difference conceivably may be of large, indeed
of controlling, importance for other cases. And, so far
as this may be true, I am unable to revert to rationalizations which make merely verbal formulae without reflection of differences in substantive effects controlling in
these matters.
The New York legs of the journey involved in the
Central Greyhound case, supra, are interstate commerce,
as much as those in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. They
do not lose that character merely because an apportioned
tax may be levied upon the gross receipts from them.
The incidence of that tax is flatly on the commerce,
though only on the local portion of it. So here I do not
think that the local activities for the protection of which
the Mississippi tax purports in terms to be laid become
separate from the interstate business which petitioner
conducts in Mississippi, either by reason of the apportionment or otherwise. But they are incidents of carrying on that business taking place in Mississippi and only
there, for which Mississippi affords protection received
from no other state or the United States. Nor can any
other state give that protection. For that portion of
th: business'and the protection given it, I think the state
is entitled to levy such a tax as has been placed here.
Nothing in the commerce clause or its great purposes
forbids such an exaction. Nor is the state limited -to
a single exaction for different or indeed like protections

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
80

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

afforded, so long as each is safeguarded against prohibited
effects upon commerce, as are those laid by Mississippi,
and their aggregate cannot be shown to contravene the
clause's purpose.
Accordingly, I concur in the Court's judgment.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

with whom THE CHIEF
and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

concur, dissenting.
This litigation began before the State Tax Commission
of Mississippi by a petition of the Memphis Natural Gas,
Company for a revision of the franchise tax assessed
against that Company under the Franchise Tax Law of
Mississippi. On judicial review of this administrative
denial, the parties stipulated that "all of the facts stated
in said petition are true and no proof of the same shall
be required in this cause." 1 The decision therefore must
be based on the undisputed allegations of the petition.
Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, owns and operates
a pipeline for the transportation of natural gas running
from the gas fields in Louisiana through Arkansas and
Mississippi into Tennessee. Petitioner has conducted no
intrastate business within Mississippi, nor is it qualified to
do so. The Company paid Mississippi an income tax
"upon that part of its net income fairly attributable to
activities in Mississippi." It also pays ad valorem taxes
to the six counties through which the. Mississippi portion
1 The second paragraph of the stiIulation, in full, is as follows:
"That all of the facts stated in said petition are true and no proof of
the same shall be required in this cause. The Stipulation that the
facts are true shall be imited to the facts stated in the petition and
the defendants shall not, by virtue of this Stipulation, be considered
or held to have agreed with any of the legal propositions and argumentg made by the Memphis Natural Gas Company in said petition
as the parties recognize that these legal questions and arguments are
for determination by the Court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

of its interstate pipeline-some 135 miles-runs. The
counties are: Washington, Bolivar, Sunflower, Coahoma,
Tunica, and De Soto. It also pays ad valorem property
taxes to the cities of Greenville (Washington), Indianola
(Sunflower), and Clarksdale (Coahoma). In addition
to these income and local ad valorem property taxes, not
here questioned, the State Tax Commission assessed the
franchise tax in controversy. This was done under an
enactment of 1940, which imposed on-all foreign corporations "doing business within this State" 2 a "franchise or
excise tax equal to $1.50 of each $1,000.00 or fraction
thereof of capital used, invested or employed withi this
state . . . ." Ch. 115 of the 1940 General Laws of Mississippi § 2; Miss. Code § 9314 (1942). The record is barren of any indication that "the taxing pnwer exerted by
the state bears fiscal relation to protection, opportunities
and benefits given by the state," Wisronsin v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435, 444, other than those for which
the State, through its subordinate taxing authorities, has
already made exaction, as contrasted with those which are
given not by the State but by the United States and for
which the State may not make exaction. Crutcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47. The record not only makes no
such affirmative showing; it denies the foundation for suggesti- that the State has given something for which it
can exact a return. For it was stipulated between the
Company and the State Tax Commission that
"Your Petitioner obtains no protection from the State
of Mississippi and acquires no powers or privileges
in its interstate activity other than the protection
The statute defined "doing business" to "mean and include each
and every act, power or privilege exercised or enjoyed in this State,
as an incident to, or by virtue of the powers and privileges acquired
by the nature of such organization, whether the form of existence
be corporate, associate, joint stock company or common law trust."
Miss. Code § 9312 (1942}.
2

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. STONE.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

80

afforded your Petitioner by virtue of the payment of
an ad valorem tax on the property used by the Coin
pany wholly in interstate commerce."
Even assuming therefore that, while Mississippi cannot iIpose a tax for the privilege of doing an exclusively
interstate business within the State, it can cast an ad
valorem property tax on the Mississippi portion of the
corpus of its interstate property in a form having all the

earmarks of a franchise tax, the assessment here challeniged on the record before us cannot stand. And for a
very siniple reason.
There would hardly be disagreement, I take it, that
Alabama could not constitutionally impose an ad valorem
tax on these 135 miles of pipeline in Mississippi. This
is so not because the pipeline does not traverse Alabamaconcededly the assailed tax cannot be sustained merely
because the pipeline travels through Mississippi-but because Alabama affords nothing to this petitioner for which
it could ask recompense by way of a tax. We cannot
know, unless we are instructed, how governmental powers
are distributed in Mississippi as between its State and
local governments. And the petitioner has no proof of
its allegations that the nine county and city taxing authorities to which the petitioner pays approximately
$85,000 a year in ad valorem taxes supply all the benefits
which it enjoys from the State and that the State in
seeking to enforce the franchise tax against the petitioner
3Particularly in the light of the substantial taxes paid by the
petitioner for such protection to the nine county and city taxing
authorities, where nothing else appears in the record except the
exaction, this uncontroverted allegation must control over the presumptive inference that might otherwise be drawn in favor of the
vdidity of the State's exaction. This Court, as the special guardian
of the Commerce Clause, ought not to indulge in casuistic assumptions
that the allegations left uncontroverted by the State do not correspond
to the realities of the Mississippi situation.
708176 ()--49-- -12

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

is asking something (approximately $3,500 a year) for
nothing. -But "no proof of the same shall be required
in this cause," according to the stipulation between the
parties, to which the State Tax Commission has set. its
name. See H. Hackfeld & Co. v. United State8, 197
U. S, 442, 446. In holding that Mississippi is "exacting compensation under this statute for the protection it
affords the activities within its borders" to this petitioner
the Court is flying in the face of the record. On the basis
of that record Mississippi can no more exact this tax
against this pipeline than could Alabama. For we are
all agreed that where the only "local incident" is the
fact of interstate commerce-that the interstate pipeline
goes through Mississippi-the tax is necessarily a tax upon
the privilege of doing interstate business. The Commerce Clause put an end to the power of the States to
charge for that privilege.
But it is suggested that we are barred from reaching
this conclusion, though the record compels it, because it
deals with an issue not before us. Let us see. The
petition for certiorari presented this question:
"Admittedly petitioner is engaged in Mississippi
solely in interstate commerce. It pays to Mississippi
ad valorem and income taxes and thus contributes
materially to the cost of local government. An undomesticated foreign corporation has the right to engage in Mississippi in interstate commerce without
paying for the privilege as the privilege flows from
the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution
and may not be directly burdened by the imposition
of a local 'franchise or excise tax.' "
By this statement the petitioner clearly asserted that
insofar as Mississippi has power to tax this interstate
business for the protection accorded the "local incidents"
of that business, the taxes levied by the State through its

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v' STONE.
80

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

local taxing authorities exhausted the power. To tax
beyond that is a bald tax on the privilege of doing interstate commerce. If we were precluded from deciding a
case otherwise than by the precise course of argument
presented by counsel, many of our opinions would have
to be deleted from the United States Reports.
The Court however attempts to deal with the contention. As I understand the Court's opinion, it argues that
even if it be true that this tax does not recompense the
State for the local protection accorded the petitioner's
activities, this is wholly immaterial as the Supreme Court
of Mississippi has given the tax a contrary interpretation. The opinion offers the extraordinary suggestion
that although the State Tax Commission on behalf of
the State conceded that the exaction as a matter of fact
afforded no protection, the State Supreme Court may
disregard such a concession of fact, having all the force
of proof, and hold as a matter of law that protection
beyond that for which taxes were already imposed was
enjoyed by the interstate business.
In the first place the Supreme Court of Mississippi purported to do no such thing. On the contrary, its opinion
concluded as follows:
"Does the franchise tax here demanded amount to
enough to have any substantial effect to block or
impede the free flow of commerce, or is it at all out
of reasonable proportion to the services and protection whiclh must be furnished by the State in and
about the stated local activities? The franchise
tax demanded is approximately $3,400 per annum,
whereas the ad valorem taxes are approximately
$82,000 a year, whence the obvious answer to
this last question must be in the negative." (201
Miss. 670, 676.)
Of course, a State tax on interstate commerce does not
become a valid one merely because "it's only a little

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
. FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

one." And even in these days, an unconstitutional exaction by a State of $3,400 is not de minimis.
But even if the State court's opinion were susceptible of
the construction accorded it by this Court, its ipse dixit in
applying the Commerce Clause would not be binding on
this Court. Of course the construction of a statute is for
-the State court. But the construction of the statute
which this Court now attributes, to the State Supreme
Court, whereby the tax is imposed not for any "local incidents"-because these have already been fully taxedmakes clear beyond peradventure that it is a tax on the
privilege of engaging in the doing of interstate business
within the State, and such a tax is, of course, invalid under
the Commerce Clause.
It is a novel abdication of this Court's function that
we are bound by a State court's views of the constitutional
significance of a State tax on interstate business, but are
not bound by an unambiguous stipulation by the State
that no protection was afforded by the State to the taxable local incidents of the interstate business beyond that
for which the State, through its local agencies, has already
levied the tax.
A State may of course increase the rate of a properly
apportioned ad valorem tax of an interstate business.
Compare Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S.66. But it can do
so only by increasing the rate. The mere fact that the
same number of dollars could have been exacted by the
State in a constitutional way cannot legalize every tax,
"as though the ad valorem rate had been increased." Because a State could obtain twice the amount of revenue
that it gets from an interstate business by increasing the
ad valorem rate does not constitutionally justify a tax
which, by virtue of a stipulation having the force of
truth, is not referable to any protection which the State
accords.

MEMPHIS GAS -CO. v. ST)NE.
80

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

These are not abstract objections against disregarding
the tax which the State has in fact levied and treating
it as though it levied some other tax. Practical considerations preclude such a patent endeavor to circumvent
the restrictions that the Commerce Clause places upon
the taxing powers of the States. A State legislature may
be ready to levy a tax for the privilege of doing interstate
business within the State-as legislatures have again and
again attempted to do-and not be prepared to increase
outright the ad valorem rate.
The suggestion that an otherwise unconstitutional tax
may be treated "as though the ad valorem rate had been
increased" is an easy way of sustaining almost every tax
that would otherwise fall under the ban of the Commerce
Clause by transmuting it into an assumed increase in the
rate of an ad valorem tax. The suggestion has the merit
of inventiveness. In the competition for revenue among
the States, it is an inventiveness that subjects the hitherto great boon of free trade across State lines to the bane
of multitudinous local tariffs.
The judgment should be reversed.

