HOINESS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

HOINESS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 20.

Argued October 21, 1948.--Decided November 8, 1948.

i. A District Court entered an order dismissing a libel and directing

that counsel for respondents submit findings of fact and conclusions of law. Subsequently, it fied findings of fact and conclusions
of law and a decree dismissing the libel. Libelant appealed
within three months from the date of the first order and what he
sought to have reviewed was plain; but he referred only to the
second order in his petition for appeal. The Court of Appeals
dismissed the appeal on the, ground that the first order was the
final one and that the second order was not appealable. Held:
It erred in doing so, since the defect resulting from a failure to
refer to the first order was of such a technical nature that the
Court of Appeals should have disregarded it in accordance with
the policy expressed by Congress in R. S. § 954, 28 U. S. C. (1946
ed.) § 777. Pp. 300-301.
2. A seaman on a vessel owned by the United States and operated
under an 'agreement between the War Shipping Administration
and a private shipping company was injured while the vessel was
docked at San Francisco and brought a libel in personam against
the United States under the Suits in Admiralty Act. The libel
did not allege that the seaman was a resident of the district where
suit was brought nor that the vessel was found there at the time
suit was filed. The United States did not appear specially but
answered to the merits. Raising the question sua sponte, the
District Court dismissed the libel for want of jurisdiction. Held:
It erred in doing so, since the provisions of § 2 of the Suits in
Admiralty Act directing where suits shall be brought relate not
to jurisdiction but to venue, which was waived by failure to object
before pleading to the merits. Pp. 301-302.
165 F. 2d 504, reversed.

A District Court dismissed for want of jurisdiction a
libel brought by a seaman against the United States and
others under the Suits in. Admiralty Act. 75 F. Supp. 289.
The Court of Appeals dismissed an appeal. 165 F. 2d 504.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

This Court granted certiorari.
p. 302.

333 U. S. 859.

335 U. S.

Reversed,

Herbert Resner argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Harry I. Rand argued the cause for the United States,
stating that the Government w*as not opposed to the reversal of the judgments below and a remand of the cause
to the District Court for a decision on the merits. With
Mr. Rand on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Morison, John R. Benney
and Alvin 0. West.
MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner was a seaman on the S. S. Escanaba Victory,
a vessel owned by the United States and operated under
an agreement between the War Shipping Administration 1
and the American-South African Line, Inc., the provisions
of which are unnecessary to relate here. He was injured
while the vessel was docked at the port of San Francisco,
California, and brought this suit in admiralty against
the United States' under the Suits in Admiralty Act.3
'The United States Maritime Commission now stands in its shoes.
See 60 Stat. 501.
2 Other parties were also sued but they were dismissed from the
case.

3Section 2 of that Act provides in part:
"That in cased where if such vessel were privately owned or operated, or if such cargo were privately owned and possessed, a pro-

ceeding in admiralty could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the action herein provided fort a libel in personam

may be brought against the United States or against such corporation,
as the case may be, provided that such vessel is employed as a merchant vessel or is a tug boat operated by such corporation. Such

suits shall be brouiht in the district court of the United States for

HOINESS v. UNITED STATES.
297

Opinion of the Court.

41 Stat. 525, 46 U. S. C. § 742. The libel alleged that
the United States maintains offices and principal places
of business in the Northern District of California where
the suit was brought, but it did not allege that.petitioner
was a resident of that district ' nor that the vessel was
found there at the time suit was filed. The United
States did not appear specially but answered to the
merits, leaving all questions of jurisdiction to the court.
The District Court raised the question of jurisdiction
sua sponte and, being of opinion that jurisdiction was
lacking, dismissed the libel. 75 F. Supp. 289.
Its opinion was dated August 5, 1946, and on the same
day it entered an order reading as follows:
"It is ordered:
"That the libel herein is dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction, and that respondents have judgment for
costs.
"Counsel for respondents will submit findings of
fact and conclusions of law in accordance with the
rules of court and the opinion filed herewith."
On October 14, 1946, it filed "Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law" and a decree. The decree after formal
recitals stated:
"Wherefore, by reason of the law and the evidence
and the premises, and the findings of fact and conclusions of law, as aforesaid, it is ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the above-entitled Court has no
jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action,
and that the libel be dismissed."
the district in which the parties so suing, or any of them, reside or
have their principal place of business in the United States, or in which
the vessel or cargo charged with liability is found ....
Upon application of either party the cause may , in the discretion of the
court, be transferred to any other district court of the United States."
4 The record shows the petitioner's residence was in Oregon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

On October 18, 1946, petitioner filed a petition for appeal
stating that he was "aggrieved by the rulings, findings,
judgment and decree made and entered herein on October
14, 1946." The appeal was allowed on the same day.
The Court of Appeals by a divided vote dismissed the
appeal, holding that the first order was the final one and
that the decree of October 14, 1946, was not appealable.
165 F. 2d 504. The case is here on certiorari.
I. We find it unnecessary to determine whether the
order of August 5 or that of October 14, 1946, was the
final decision' from which an appeal could be taken
within the meaning of § 128 of the Judicial Code, 36 Stat.
1133, 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 225; 62 Stat. 929, 28 U. S. C.
§ 1291. The appeal was taken within three months of
the earlier of the two and was therefore timely. 43 Stat.
940, 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 230. And although the petition for appeal referred solely to the second order and not
to the first, that defect was of such a technical nature
that the Court of Appeals should have disregarded it in
accordance with the policy expressed by Congress in R. S.
§ 954, 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 777V
Thd mandate of that statute is for a court to disregard
niceties of form and to give judgment as the right of the
5 This is the kind of problem which could'be appropriately handled
through the rule making authority of the Court of Appeals. Cf.
Commissioner v. Bedford, 325 U. S. 283, 288.
6 That section reads as follows:
"No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment, or other
proceedings in civil causes, in any court of the United States, shall
be abated, arrested, quashed, or reversed for any defect or want of
form; but such court shall proceed and give judgment according as
the right of the cause and matter in law shall appear to it, without
regarding any such defect, or want of form, except those which, in
cases of demurrer, the party demurring specially sets down, together
with his demurrer, as the cause thereof; and such court shall amend
every such defect and want of form, other than those which the

HOINESS v. UNITED STATES.
297

Opinion of the Court.

cause shall appear to it. It seems to us hypertechnical
to say that the appeal papers did not bring the sole issue
of the case fairly before the Court of Appeals. Thus
the assignments of error framed in the appeal attacked
the basis of the first order as well as the second. What
appellant sought to have reviewed was plain. The failure to use tl~e words August 5, 1946, if that be taken
as the date of the final decisiorn, was as insubstantial as
a misspelling of the words would have been, since the
words used identified the rulings which were challenged,
and in no way altered the scope of review. Cf. R. F. C.
v. Prudence Group, 311 U. S. 579, 582; Georgia Lumber
Co. v. Compania, 323 U. S. 334, 336.
II. The ruling of the District Court that the provisions of § 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act, directing where
suits shall, be brought,7 were jurisdictional was in our
view erroneous. Those provisions properly construed
relate to venue.
The section relates not to libels in rem but to libels
in personam. A similar provision in § 5 of the Tucker
Act (24 Stat. 506, 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 762, 28 U. S. C.
§ 1402), was held to prescribe venue and hence could be
and was waived by failure to object before pleading to
party demurring so expresses; and may at any time permit either
of the parties to amend any defect in the process or pleadings, upon

such conditions as it shall, in its discretion and by its rules, prescribe."
After the dismissal of the appeal in this case, the foregoing section
was repealed, effective September 1, 1948. 62 Stat. 992, § 39.
And see Revision of Title 28, U. S. Code, H. Rep. No. 308, 80th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. A 239. But the policy expressed in § 954 was
preserved as respects cases pending at the time of the repeal, since
the repealing statute provides that "Any rights or liabilities now
existing under such sections or parts thereof shall not be affected by
this repeal." And see Rules 1, 15, 61, and 81, Rules of Civil
Procedure.
I See note 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

the merits. United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1, 11:12;
Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v. United States, 237 U. S.
19, 24. An analogous provision in the Jones Act, 41
Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688, was construed the same
way. Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 384385. And we recently indicated that that was the correct
construction of comparable provisions of § 2 of the Public
Vessels Act, 43 Stat. 1112, 46 U. S. C. § 782 (Canadian
Aviator, Ltd. v. United States, 324 U. S. 21.5, 224), an act
which is similiar in purpose and design to the present
one. See American Stevedores v. Porello, 330 U. S. 446,
452-453.
Congress, by describing the district where the suit was
to be brought, was not investing the federal courts "with
a general jurisdiction expressed in terms applicable alike
to all of them." See Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, supra,
p. 384. It was dealing with the convenience of the
parties in suing or being sued at the designated places.
The purpose of the Act was to grant seamen relief against
the United States in its own courts. The concepts of
residence and principal place of business obviously can
have no relevance when applied to the United States.
It is ubiquitous throughout the land and, unlike private
parties, is not centered at one particular place. The residence or principal place of business of the libelant and
the place where the vessel or cargo is found may be the
best measure of the convenience of the parties. But if
the United States is willing to defend in a different place,
we find nothing in the Act to prevent it.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.

