410

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 98.

Argued November 12, 1948.-Decided December 13, 1948.

Arrested on suspicion without a warrant, petiticner confessed 30
hours later, while being held without having been taken before
a committing magistrate as required by Rule 5 (a) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure. The only reason given by the
arresting officer for the delay in his arraignment was that there
was not enough evidence to hold him and the police wished to
question him further. At his trial in a federal court, the confession was admitted in evidence over his objection and the jury
found that it was voluntary. Held: The confession was inadmissible and a conviction based thereon is reversed. McNabb v.
United States, 318 U. S. 332, followed. United States v. Mitchell,
322 U. S. 65, distinguished. Pp. 410-414.
83 U. S. App. D. C. 207, 168 F. 2d 167, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted of grand larceny in a federal
district court. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 83 V. S.
App. D. C. 207, 168 F. 2d 167. This Court . granted
certiorari. 334 U. S' 842. Reversed, p. 414.
Joel D. Blackwell argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was James T. Wright.
Robert S. Erdahl argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman and Beatrice Rosenberg.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner was convicted of grand larceny in the
United States District Court for the District of Cdlumbia
and sentenced to serve sixteen months to four years in
prison. Pre-trial confessions of guilt without which peti-

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

Opinion of the Court.

tioner could not have been convicted, were admitted in
evidence against his objection that they had been illegally
obtained. The confessions had been made during a 30hour period while petitioner was held a prisoner after
the police had arrested him on suspicion and without a
warrant.
Petitioner's objection to the admissibility of the confessions rested on Rule 5 (a) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure and our holding in McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332. Rule 5 (a) provides that "An
officer making an arrest . . . shall take the arrested per-

son without unnecessary delay before the nearest available" committing magistrate and when the arrested person
appears before the magistrate "a complaint shall be filed
forthwith." Petitioner contended that the officers had
violated this rule in detaining him as they did without
taking him before a committing magistrate. In the McNabb case we held that confessions had been improperly
admitted where they were the plain result of holding and
interrogating persons without carrying them "forthwith"
before a committing magistrate as the law commands.
In this case the District Court thought that the
McNabb ruling did not apply because the detention of
petitioner "was not unreasonable under the circumstances
as a matter of law." Consequently, that court held
the confessions admissible. On appeal to the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, the
United States Attorney and his assistants detailed the
circumstances of petitioner's arrest and detention and
After the evidence was all in, the trial judge stated that without
the confessions there was "nothing left, in the case." The trial
judge instructed the jury to qcquit if they found that the petitioner
had not confessed "voluntarily'but because he was beaten." On this
issue of physical violence the.jury found against the petitioner, and
therefore this issue is not involved in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

confessed error. They concluded from these detailed
circumstances that the "delay" in carrying petitioner before a committing magistrate "was unreasonable and the
purpose of it, as stated by the officers themselves, was only
to furnish an opportunity for further interrogation.".
Under these circumstances, the district attorney thought
that the McNabb rule made the confessions inadmissible
without regard to whether they were "voluntary" in the
legal sense. The delay in taking petitioner before a judicial officer. was thought, in the words of the district attornty, to have been "for purposes inimical to the letter
and .spirit of the rule requiring prompt arraignment."
The Court of Appeals rejected this confession of error,
*one judge dissenting. 83 U. S. App. D. C. 207, 168 F. 2d
167. It read the McNabb case as explained in United
Statei v. Mitchell, 322 U. S. 65, as holding that "A confession voluntarily given is admissible in evidence". while
conversely "a confession involuntarily made is inadmissible." 83 U. S. App. D. C. 207, 168F. 2d 167. That
court thought the McNabb case did no more than
extend the meaning of 'involuntary" confessions to proscribe confessions induced by psychological coercion as
well as those brought. about by physical brutality. Finding no psychological coercion in the facts of this case, the
court concluded that the confessions were not the "fruit
'of the illegal detention." The court also laid stress on
the fact that the petitioner's detention unlike McNabb's,
"was not aggravated by continuous questioning .for many
hours by numerous officers."
We hold, that this case falls squarely within the McNabb ruling and is not taken out of it by what was
.decided in the Mitchell case. In the McNabb case we
held .that the plain purpose of the requirement that
prisoners should promptly be taken before committing
magistrates was to check resort' by officers to "secret
interrogation of persons accused of crime." We then

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

Opinion of the Court.

pointed out the circumstances under which petitioners
were interrogated and confessed. This was done to show
that the record left no doubt that the McNabbs were
not promptly taken before a judicial office'r as the law
required, but instead were held for secret questioning,
and "that the questioning of the petitioners took place
while they were in the custody of the arresting officers and
before any order of commitment was made.", The McNabb confessions were thus held inadmissible because the
McNabbs were questioned while held in "plain disregard
of the duty enjoined by Congress upon federal law, officers"
promptly to take them before a judicial officer. In the
McNabb case there were confessions "induced by'illegal
detention," United States v. Mitchell, supra at 70, a fact
which this Court found did not exist in the Mitchell
case.
Ih the Mitchell case although the defendant was illegally held eight days, the court accepted the record as
showing that Mitchell promptly and spontaneously admitted his guilt within a few. minutes after his arrival
at the police station. Mitchell's confessions therefore
were found to have been made before any illegal detention had occurred. This Court then stated in the Mitchell opinion that "the illegality. of Mitchell's detention
does not retroaotively change the circumstances -under
which he made the disclosures." Thus the holding in
the Mitchell case*was only that Mitchell's subsequent
illegal detention did not render inadmissible his prior confessions. They were held not to involve "use by the
Government of the .fruits of wrongdoing by its officers.'
The Mitchell case at p. 68, however, reaffirms the McNabb rule that a confession is inadmissible if made during
illegal detention due to failure promptly to carry a prisoner before a committing magistrate, whether or not
the* "confession is the result- of torture, physical or
psychological . .. ."

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

In this case we are left in no doubt as to why this
petitioner was not brought promptly before a committing
magistrate. The arresting officer himself stated that petitioner was not carried before a magistrate on Friday
or Saturday morning after his arrest on Friday at 2 a. in.,
because the officer thought there was not "a sufficient
case" for the court to hold him, adding that even "if the
Police Court didhold him we would lose custody of him
and I no longer would be able to question him." Thus
the arresting officer in effect conceded that the confessions
here were "the fruits of wrongdoing" by the police officers.
He conceded more: He admitted that petitioner was
illegally detained for at least thirty hours for the very
purpose of securing these challenged confessions. He
thereby refutes any possibility of an argument that after
arrest hewas carried before a magistrate "without unnecessary delay."
The argument was made to the trial court that this
method of arresting, holding, and questioning people on
mere suspicion was in accordance with the "usual police
procedure of questioning a suspect . . . ." However
usual this practice, it is in violation of law, and confessions thus obtained are inadmissible under the McNabb rule. We adhere to that rule.2
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED,

MR. JUSTICE JAOKSON

with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
,and ,MlR. JUSTICE BURTON join,

dissenting.
When not inconsistent with a statute, or the Constitutior), there is no doubt of the power of this Court to institute, on its own -initiative, reforms in the federal practice
2 Our holding is not placed on constitutional grounds.
Since the
McNdbb rule bars admission of confessions we need not and do not
consider whether their admission was a violation of any of the
provisions of the Fifth Amendment.

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES:
410

REED,

J,, dissenting.

as to the admissibility of evidence, in criminal trials in
federal courts.! This power of reform, which existed at
the time, March 1, 1943, McNabb v. United States, 318
U. S. 332, was decided, is not, I believe, restricted by the
language of Rule 26 of "the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, effective March 21, 1946. Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure No. 59; 91 Cong. Rec. 12,545. The
admissibility of evidence, Jike the competency of'witnesses, is "governed by common law principles as interpreted and applied by the federal courts in the light of
reason and experience." Wolfle v. United States, 291
U. S. 7, 12.2 While judicial innovations explicitly expanding or contracting admissibility of evidence are rare,
1 54

Stat. 688, 18 U. S. C. § 687.

Rules of Criminal Procedure for the District Courts of the United
States, together with Notes to the Rules, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., S. Doe.
No. 175.
* No change was made in the law by P. L. 772, 80th Cong., effective
September 1, 1948, § 20, 62 Stat. 683, 862. 18 U. S. C. § 595 is not
in effect but has been superseded by Rule 5 (a) of the Rules df
Criminal Procedure for the District Courts of the United States:
"5 (a) APPEARANCE BEFORE THE COMMISSIONER. An officer making an arrest under a warrant issued upon a complaint or any person
making an arrest without a warrani shall take the arrested person
without unnecessary delay before the nearest available commissioner
or before any other nearby officer empowered to commit persons
charged with offenses against the laws of the United States. When a
person arrested without a warrant is brought before a commissioner
or other officer, a complaint shall be filed forthwith."
2 Funk v. United States, 290 U. S. 371, 383:
"The final question to which we are thus brought is not that of
the power of the federal courts to amend or repeal any given rule
or principle of-the common law, for they neither have nor claim that
power, but it is the question of the power of these courts, in the
complete absence of congressional legislation on the subject, to declare and effectuate, upon common law principles, what is the present
rule upon a given subject in the light of fundamentally altered conditions, without regard to what has previously been declared and
practiced."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

there have been sufficient occasions to establish by precedent and legislative acceptance that the power exists.
McNabb v. United States, supra, 341V
Such power should be used to change the established
rules of evidence, however, only when "fundamentally
altered conditions," note 2, supra, call for such a change
in the interests of justice. Otherwise the bad results from
a change of well-established rules are quite likely to outweigh the good. The lack of any. necessity for changing
the rules of evidence to protect an accused led me to
dissent in the McNabb case, a murder case where an
assumed failure to commit the prisoners apparently was
relied upon as a partial basis for denying admissibility
to certain confessions.
My objection to this Court's action of today in what
seems to me an extension of the scope of nonadmissibility
of confessions in the federal courts is not to its power
so to act but to the advisability of such an additional
step. Unless Congress or a majority of this Court modifies the McNabb rule, I feel bound to follow my understanding of its meaning in similar cases that may arise,
but that duty does not impose upon me the obligation
to accept this ruling as to Upshaw which seems to me
to compound certain unfortunate results of the McNabb
decision by extending it to circumstances beyond the scope
of the McNabb ruling. This attitude leads me (I) to
analyze the McNabb case and its offspring, (I) to point
out why I think the present decision goes beyond the
holding in McNabb and (III) to point out why McNabb
should not be extended.
3 Of the cases cited, only United States v. Wood, -14 Pet. 430,
and-Funk v. United States, 290 U. S. 371, involve a change by this
Court of a rule of evidence which hd become -firmly entrenched in
our federal jurisprudence. The other cases involve a choice between
conflicting rules or the establishment of a rule where none had

theretofore existed.

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

The judicial approach to the problem, of course, must
be in a spirit of cooperation with the police officials in
the administration of justice. They are directly charged
with the responsibility for the maintenance of law and
order and are under the same obligation as the judicial
arm to discharge their duties in a manner consistent with
the Constitution and statutes. ' The prevention and punishment of crime is a difficult and dangerous task, for
the most part performed by security and prosecuting personnel in a spirit of public" service to the community.
Only by the maintenance of order may the rights of thecriminal and the law-abiding elements of the population
be protected. As has been pointed out by this Court
in the McNabb and Mitchell, cases, United States v.
Mitchell, 322 U. S. 65, there is no constitutional problem
involved in deciding whether a voluntary confession given
by a prisoner prior to commitment by a magistrate should
be admitted in evidence. A prisoner's constitutional
rights against self-incrimination or to due process are protected by the rule that no involuntary confession may be
admitted. McNabb v. United States, supra, pp. 339-40
and cases cited; Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596; Malinski
v. New York, 324 U. S. 401; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322
U. S. 143.
I.
Our first inquiry, then, is as to the legal doctrine behind
the McNabb decision.
A. Were the McNabb confessions barred as a punishment or penalty against the police officers because they
were thought to have disobeyed the command of a
statute?
B. Were they barred because unlawful imprisonment
is so apt to be followed by an involuntary confession as
to justify the exclusion of all confessions received before
judicial commitment after a prisoner is kept in custody

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

more than a reasonable time without being taken before
a committing magistrate?
C. Were they barred because the particular circumstances under which the confessions were made were so
likely to produce involuntaTy confessions as to justify
exclusion?
A. As the McNabb decision was a sudden departure
from the former federal rule as to the admissibility of
confessions 4 initiated by the Court, without the benefit
of brief or argument and without knowledge of the actual
facts as to commitment,5 it can hardly be expected that
318 U. S. 338-39:
"... Relying upon the guarantees of the Fifth Amendment that.no
person 'shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without -due
process of law,' the petitioners contend that the Constitution itself
forbade the use of this evidence against them. The Government
counters by urging that the Constitution proscribes only 'involuntary'
confessions, and that judged by appropriate criteria of 'voluntariness'
the petitioners' admissions were voluntary and hence admissible."
The Court was establishing what it thought were "civilized standards of procedure and evidence." P. 340.
5As no question was raised by the defendants in the McNabb case
because of prolonged police detention before commitment, the record
did not show when they were committed. Dissent McNabb v. United
States at p. 349. The Court assumed that detention without commitment lasted for Freeman and Raymond McNabb from between
one and two o'clock Thursday morning, when they were arrested
twelve miles from Chattanooga, until the completion of the questioning about two o'clock Saturday morning, forty-eight hours later.
One cannot tell from the opinion when Freeman and Raymond confessed or to what. A third McNabb, Benjamin, was not taken into
custody until between eight and nine o'clock Friday morning. He
confessed after five or six hours. The Court assumed that he had
not been committed prior to confession. McNabb v. United States,
supra, pp. 334-38.
So far as the ruling in the McNabb case is concerned, the Court's
understanding of the facts, as stated in the opinion, is the basis for
the decision. Apparently Freeman aiid Raymond were by .10:30
4

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

it could have the desirable eiplicitness of a trite rule of
evidence. Consequently confusion immediately arose as.
to its meaning. The dissent interpreted the opinion.
a direction. to exclude the confessions "because in addition
to questioning the petitioners, the arresting officers failed
promptly to. take them before a committing magistrate."
It concluded: "The officers of the Alcohol Tax Unit
should not be disciplined by overturning this conviction."
McNabb v. United States, supra, p. 349' Soihe courts
thought that any confession obtained before commitment.
was inadmissible. United States v. Hoffman, 137 F. 2d
416, 421; Mitchell v. United States, 78 U. S. App. D. C.
171, 172, 138 F. 2d 426, 427. Others have understood the
case to determine admissibility of confessions by a coercion test.' Varying impressions as to the rule that the
McNabb case announced appear in the cases
The Spea. m. of the morning of their arrest committed for operating an illicit

till, another crime than, though connected with, the'murder for
which they were convicted. Benjamin was commit-ed for murder
within four hours of his surrender. Petition for Rehearing, pp. 3-5.
See new trial, McNabb v. UnitedStates, 142 F. 2d 904. This
commitment for a different crime was a sufficient compliance with
the commitment statute to justify the admission of the confessions
in the second McNabb trial, in the view of the Circuit Court of.
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
6
Brnegar v. United States, 165 F. 2d 512, 515; Ruhl v. United
States; 148 F. 2d 173, 175; Paddy v. United States, 143 F.. 2d 847,
852; United States v. Grote, 140 F. 2d 413, 414-15; United States v.
Klee, 50 F. Supp. 679.
7The following statements have been made concerning McNa~b:
"The court then held the confessions obtained by third degree methods
wer6 inadmissible . .'..." State v. Behler, 65 Idaho 464, 469, 146
P. 2d 338, 340. "The courts are not concerned with the practices of
the police except in so far as they may be asked to use. evidence,
thereby obtained against tie will of the'accused." People v. Fox,
148 P. 2d 424,'431 (Calif.).

".

.

. the new doctrine of constitutiona.

rights under the due process clause announced by the Supreme Court
of the United States in McNabb v. United States . . .' ."

Thompson

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

cial Committee on the Bill of Rights of the American
Bar' Association under date of May 15, 1944, advised
Subcommittee No. 2 of the Committee on the Judiciary
of the House of Representatives that before the McNabb
case "there was no effective penalty in operation ...
"Then came the McNabb case which did impose
a drastic penalty. The seven majority Justices held
that unlawful detention shut out .the confession.
The decision made the speedy production statutes
really mean something. The police were no longer
left free to enforce the law by disobeying the law."
P.v.

Five members of the Special Committee, apparently
under the Chairmanship of Professor Zechariah Chafee,
Jr., also submitted a Memorandum which said, "The
McNabb rule excluding confessions obtained during unlawful detention is an effective penalty for violation of
the Acts of Congress." P. 19. It added:
"Congress should be very reluctant to take away
the only effective penalty now existing for violation
of the fundamental right to have the continuance
of custody determined by a magistrate and not by
the uncontrolled will of the police, however able and
devoted they may be." P. 25.8
Notwithstanding that some did gain the impression
from the McNabb case that it was intended as a discipline
of police officers for-the violation of the commitment statv. Harris, 107 Utah 99, 112, 152 P. 2d 91, 97. To the same effect
are Cavazos v. State, 146 Tex. Cr. Rep. 144, 149, 172 S. W. 2d 348,
351, People v. Goldblatt, 383 Il.176, 188, 49 N. E. 2d 36, 41; Royse,
J., dissenting, in Scoopmire v. Taflinger, 114 Ind. App. 419, 434, 52
N. E. 2d 728, 733.
8See also the statement of Hon. Francis Biddle, Attorney General,
Hearings before Subcommittee No. 2 of the Committee of the Judiciary,. House of Representatives, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R.
3690, p. 27.

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

utes, a reading of McNabb as later explained by United
States v. Mitchell, supra, negatives such a conclusion.
It is true that there are phrases in the McNabb opinion
that condemn the assumed failure to take the accused
promptly before a magistrate.' Further Benjamin's confession was barred even though it was given within "five
or six hours" of questioning, and without the slightest suggestion of force, after his voluntary surrender because he
had heard the officers were looking f him. Perhaps
the strongest indication that the McNabb decision may
have been intended as a penalty for police misconduct
occurs in another case decided the same day as McNabb,
Anderson v. United States, 318 U. S. 350. There a man
was.arrested Sunday night and confessed after two hours'
questioning on Monday morning. Nevertheless his confession was held inadmissible under authority of McNabb.
P. 355.
However, United States v. Mitchell, supra, made it
clear that the purpose of McNabb was not to enforce
a penalty for police misconduct. 10 In the Mitchell case
a suspect was arrested and taken to the police station.
He confessed within a few minutes of his arrival. He
was illegally detained for eight days before being taken
before a committing magistrate. "The police explanation of this illegality is that Mitchell was kept in such
9 E. g.: "For in their treatment of the petitioners the arresting

officers assumed functions which Congress has explicitly denied them.
They subjected the accused to the pressures of a procedure which
is wholly incompatible with the vital but very restricted duties of
the investigating and arresting officers of the Government and which
tends to undermine the integrity of the criminal proceeding." Pp.
341-42. "A democratic society, in which respect for the dignity of
all men is central, naturally -guards against the misuse of the law enforcement process ....

Experience has therefore counseled that

safeguards must be prbvided against the dangers of the overzealous
as well as the despotic." P. 343.
10 See The NcNabb Rule Transformed, 47 Col. L. Rev. 1214.
798176 0-49-19

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

custody without protest through a desire to aid the police
This Court
"
in clearing up thirty housebreakings ....
then pronounced this statement as to the exclusion of the
confessions as evidence, "These, we have seen, were not
elicited through illegality. Their admission, therefore,
would not be use by the Government of the fruits of
wrongdoing by its officers. Being relevant, they could
be excluded only as a punitive measure against unrelated
wrongdoing by the police. Our duty in shaping rules
of evidence relates to the propriety of admitting evidence.
This power is not to be used as an indirect mode of disciplining misconduct." Pp. 70-71. The Mitchell explanation of McNabb seems correct. It is not the function
of courts to provide penalties and sanctions for acts forbidden by statutes where neither statutes nor the common law nor equity procedure have established them.
For the above reasons, I reach the conclusion that the
McNabb case was not intended as a penalty or sanction
for violation of the commitment statute.
B. The Court bases its decision of today on the theory
that "a confession is inadmissible if made during illegal detention due to failure promptly to carry a prisoner before
a committing magistrate, whether or not the 'confession is
'"
the result of torture, physical or psychological . ....
The Court holds that this was the McNabb rule and
adheres to it. I do not think this was the McNabb rule
and I do think the rule as now stated is an unwarranted
extension of the rule taught by the McNabb case. My
reasons follow.
There is no legal theory expressed 4n McNabb that
supports the idea that every confession after unnecessary
delay and before commitment is inadmissible. There are
a few isolated sentences that do lend credence to such
an explanation of the legal theory behind the case, but
when read in context, I think it is clear that they do

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

423

J., dissenting.

not expound such a rule.1 The physical conditions of
the restraint 'are emphasized, pp. 335-38 and 344-45.
Attention is called to the examination, when stripped,
of one man. P. 337."2 The Mitchell case, supra, p. 67,
removes all my doubts as to the true McNabb rule. It
says: "Inexcusable detention for the purpose of illegally
extracting evidence from an accused, and the successful
extraction of such inculpatory statements by continuous
questioning for many hours under psychological pressure,
were the decisive features in the McNabb case which
led us to rule that a conviction on such evidence could
not stand." 13
" Cf.: "For
in their treatment of the petitioners the arresting
officers assumed functions which Congress has explicitly denied them."
Pp. 341-42. "Plainly, a conviction resting on evidence secured
through such a flagrant disregard Of the procedure which Congress
has commanded cannot be allowed to stand without making the
courts themselves accomplices in willful disobedience of law." P. 345.
"And the effective administration of criminal justice hardly requires
disregard of fair procedures imposed by law." P. 347. On the other
hand, there are repeated expressions such as "the evidence elicited
• .. in the circumstances disclosed here," p. 341; "evidence secured
under the circumstances revealed here," p. 347, which point the other
way.
12Apparently such an examination is considered effective coercion.
See Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401.
13 See also the statement in Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596, 606:.
"Legislation throughout the country reflects a similar -belief that
detention for purposes of eliciting confessions through secret, persistent, long-continued interrogation violates sentiments deeply embedded in the feelings of our people. See McNabb v. United States,
318 U. S. 332,342-43."
In discussing the effect of the Mitchell case, a note in 38 Journal
of Criminal Law and Criminology 136, says at p. 137: "There the
Court phrased the rule of the McNabb case to stand for-the proposition that the illegal detention of an accused person will invalidate
his confession only when the detention itself acts as an inducement in
the procuring of the confession."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

During detention in violation of the federal commitment statute is the likelihood that police officials will
use coercion for the extraction of an involuntary confession so strong as to justify the exclusion by this Court
of all confessions to the police obtained after their failure
to conform to the requirement of prompt production of
the accused before a magistrate? I think not. It must
be admitted that a prompt hearing gives an accused an
opportunity to obtain a lawyer'; "4to secure from him advice as to maintaining an absolute silence to all questions,
no matter how apparently innocuous; to gain complete
freedom from police interrogation in all bailable offenses; '5 and that these privileges are more valuable to
the illiterate and inexperienced than to the educated and
well-briefed accused. Proper protection of the ignorant
is of course desirable, but the rule now announced forces
exclusion of all confessions given during illegal restraint.
It will shift the inquiry to the legality of the arrest and
restraint, rather than to whether the confession was voluntary. Such exclusion becomes automatic on proof of
detention in violation of the commitment statute, followed by a confession to police officials before commitment. It is now made analogous to the exclusion of
evidence obtained in violation of the Bill of Rights
through unreasonable search and seizure or through compulsion or by denial of due process. I do not think this
is the doctrine of the McNabb case or that it should now
be made an explicit rule of federal law.
The rule as to the inadmissibility of evidence in federal
courts obtained in violation of the Bill of Rights, Fourth
and Fifth Amendments is, it seems to me, inapplicable
14 Rules of Criminal Procedure, Nos. 5 (b) and 44.

15 18 U. S. C. §§ 3041, 3141; Rules of Criminal Procedure, No.

46 (a)(1).

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

as an analogy to a situation such as existed in the McNabb case and here.16 By assumption of this Court, in
the McNabb case the McNabb confessions were obtained
without "disregard of liberties deemed fundamental by
the Constitution," McNabb v. United States, supra, 339,
i. e., without violation of the Bill of Rights. I take it the
same assumption applies as to Upshaw. Under this assumption, the McNabb confessions would have been
admissible if the Court had not believed there was a
failure to follow the statute on commitments. Confessions, of course, are also inadmissible when coerced in
violation of constitutional due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S.
401, 404; Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596. When other
evidence is the direct result of an unconstitutional act
such as a violation of the Fourth Amendment, this Court
has said, in federal cases, that to permit its use would
impair the protection of this major guaranty of a free
Amendment: "The right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation,
and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons
or things to be seized."
Fifth Amendment: "No person shall be held to answer for a
capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or
indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or
naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War
or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence
to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall
private propePty be taken for public use, without just compensation."
See Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383; Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S.
385; Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298; Harris v. United States,
331 U.S. 145, 150.
16Fourth

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

country." When, as in the McNabb case, there are confessions after failure to observe statutory directions not
shown to have coerced the confessions the rule as to
evidence extracted in defiance of the -Constitution does
not apply. 8
17 Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 393: "If letters and
private documents can thus be seized and held and used in evidence
against a citizen accused of an offense, the protection of the Fourth
Amendment declaring his right to be secure, against such searches
and seizures is of no value, and, so far as those thus placed are concerned, might as well be stricken from the Constitution. The efforts
of the courts and their officials to bring the guilty to punishment,
praiseworthy as they are, are not to be aided by the sacrifice of those
great principles established by years of endeavor and suffering which
have resulted in their embodiment in the fundamental law of the
land."
18Compare the statement of Chief Justice Taft:
"Nor can we, without the sanction of congressional enactment, subscribe to the suggestion that the courts have a discretion to exclude
evidence, the admission of which is not unconstitutional, because
unethically secured. This would be at variance with the common
law doctrine generally supported by authority. There is no case
that sustains, nor any recognized text book that gives color to such
a view. Our general experience shows that much evidence has always
been 'receivable although not obtained by conformity to the highest
ethics. The history of criminal trials shows numerous cases of prosecutions of oath-bound conspiracies for murder, robbery, and other
crimes, where officers of the law have disguised themselves and joined
the organizations, taken the oaths and given themselves every appearance of active members engaged in the promotion of crime, for
the purpose of securing evidence. Evidence secured by such means
has always been received.
"A standard which would forbid the reception of evidence if obtained by other than nice ethical conduct by government officials
would make society suffer and give criminals greater immunity than
has been known heretofore. In the absence of controlling legislation
by Congress, those who realize the difficulties in bringing offenders to
justice may well deem it wise that the exclusion of evidence should
be confined to cases where rights under the Constitution would be
violated by admitting it." Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S.
438, 468.

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES,
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

This Court by decision has excluded evidence obtained
by unreasonable search and seizure under the Fourth
Amendment or by coercion to a degree that violates the
Fifth or the Fourteenth Amendments because the admission of such evidence would imperil the efficacy of
those constitutional rights. If confessions obtained during unlawful detention are not excluded by the fact of
unlawful detention alone, the onstitutionally guaranteed
rights of the accused are nevertheless protected by the
rule that no involuntary confession is admissible. It is
therefore unnecessary for constitutional reasons to extend
this protection to evidence obtained through violation of
a statute or a rule of criminal procedure by those to whom
the confession is made. In criminal trials, the method of
obtaining evidence has never been a reasorl for barring its
use except where constitutional rights were violated.1 9
The prohibition of wiretapping in § 605 of the Federal
Communications Act is not the basis for the exclusion in
prosecutions of evidence so obtained. The exclusion of
such evidence is based on an explicit direction of the
section that information so obtained should not be divulged." Congress could, of course, pass such a statute
to prohibit the use of a confession as evidence, if obtained
during an unlawful detention. The rule of the Olmstead
19 E.' g., Proceedings Against Bishop Atterbury, 16 How. St. Tr.
323, 495, 629-30 (1723); Sylvester Thornton's Case, 1 Lewin C. C.
49 (1824); Rex v. Derrington, 2 C. & P. 418 (1826); Reg. v. Granatelli, 7 State Tr. N. S. 979, 987 (1849); Hart v. United States, 76
U. S. App. D. C. 193; 130 F. 2d 456 (C. A. D:C. 1942).
"It is necessary in this connection to distinguish between evidence
illegally procured and evidence procured by unconstitutional search
and seizure." Hart v. United States, supra, at p. 459.
The English exception to this rule for confessions obtained by
police questioning was rejected by this Court, after careful consideration, in Brain v. United States, 168 U. . 532, 556-58.
20 Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, 382; Goldstein v. United
States, 316 U. S. 114, 118.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

case, 277 U. S. 438, 466, derived from the common law
that the admissibility of-evidence is not affected by conduct of investigators where there is no violation of a
constitutional guaranty, stands unimpaired.
If this judicial rule of exclusion of all confessions secured after illegal detention is adhered to, it must mean
that this Court thinks illegal detention is so likely to
result in "third degree" that it should be outlawed per se.
There is a reference to "third degree" in McNabb, p. 344,
but, as indicated above, p. 425, no reliance upon the detention as coercive in the due process sense.2 If illegal
detention, per se, is believed sufficiently likely to produce a coerced confession as to justify exclus'ion of such
confessions as evidence, it does not require this extension
of the McNabb rule to make such evidence inadmissible.
A court never knows whether a corifession is or is not voluntary. It bars confessions on uncontroverted proof of
facts which as a matter of law are deemed so coercive
as to be likely to produce an involuntary confession.
Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 238-39; Malinski v.
New York, 324 U. S. 401,-404. If illegal detention alone
were deemed that coercive, the confessions would be
barred as a matter of due process in both state and federal
courts.22 So here if illegal detention alone is the decisive
21Others have viewed the exclusion of confessions in the McNabb
case as based on their extraction by near third-degree measures.
Hearings before Subcommittee No. 2 of the Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 3690,
p. 92:
"The McNabb decision does not even prevent the use of the man's
own confession against him. What it does do is prevent the use
against him of a confession obtained by third degree means or by
means akin to third degree in the form of the secret detention and
failure to bring him promptly to the committing officer."
22 Cf. Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596, 599, where this Court said in
stronger language than it had ever used before, "If the undisputed
evidence suggests that force or coercion was used to exact the con-

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

factor, the rule of exclusion surely will apply to both
state and federal trials as violative of the Due Process
Clause. But the McNabb rule does not apply to trials in
state courts.23 It is because illegal detention was not
thought to be per se coercive that it was necessary to create the McNabb rule of exclusion.
For the foregoing reasons, I conclude that detention
alone, even for the purpose of obtaining information,
should not be sufficient to justify the exclusion of a confession to police officers obtained after unnecessary delay
and before commitment.
C. This brings me to a statement of the true rule of
the McNabb case, as I understand it. This rule is that
purposeful, unlawful detention illegally to extract evidence and the successful extraction of confessions under
psychological pressure, other than mere detention for
limited periods, makes confessions so obtained inadmissible. This statement is a paraphrase of the Mitchell
interpretation referred to in the preceding subdivision. It
means that pressure short of coercion but beyond mere
detention makes confessions inadmissible. Obviously
there is a wide range of discretion as to how much psychological pressure is necessary. If any material amount
is sufficient, the rule differs little from one denying
admissibility if obtained during illegal restraint. If almost coercion is required, the rule will differ little from
that excluding an involuntary confession. Under-this interpretation of McNabb, I suppose, as in coerced confessions, it should be left to a jury to decide whether
there was enough evidence of pressure where the admitted
facts do not-show improper pressare as a matter of law.
fession, we will not permit the judgment of conviction to stand, even
though without the confession there might have been sufficient evi-

dence for submission to the jury."
23 Townsend v. Burke, 334 U. S:736, 738.

430

43OCTOBER
REED,

TERM, 1948.

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

II.
The Court now says that illegal detention alone is
sufficient to bar from evidence a confession to the police
during that unlawful detention. As I think thh is an
improper extension of the McNabb rule, I proceed to
state the application of the McNabb rule, as I understand
it, to Upshaw's situation. - Perhaps Upshaw's arrest Without a warrant was also without reasonable cause on the
part of the arresting officer to believe he had committed
a felony. This unlawful arrest is not relied upon in
the opinion. So far as the admissibility of the confession
is concerned, it makes no difference that it may have been
obtained as the result of an illegal arrest or an unlawful
detention. I think there was less psychological pressure
upon Upshaw than there was upon the McNabbs. That
precedent, therefore, if the true McNabb rule is properly
stated in Part I, subdivision C, above, does not require me
to declare Upshaw's confession inadmissible. In the McNabbs' case, the facts of their illegal detention that caused
this Court's action appear from the opinion as set out'
below.24 As for Upshaw the facts are detailed in the foot318 U. S. at 334-38:
"Immediately upon arrest, Freeman, Raymond, and Emuil were
taken directly to the Federal Building at Chattanooga.' They were
not brought before a United States commissioner or a judge. Instead, they were placed in a detention room (where there was nothing they could sit or lie down on, except the floor), and kept there
for about fourteen hours, from three o'clock Thursday morning until
five o'clock that afternoon. They were given some sandwiches. They
were not permitted to see relatives and friends who attempted to
visit them. They had no lawyer. There is no evidence that they
requested the assistance of counsel, or that they were told that they
were entitled to such assistance.
"Barney McNabb, who had been arrested early Thursday morning
by the local police, was handed over to the federal authorities about
nine or ten o'clock that morning. He was twenty-eight.years old;
like the other McNabbs he had spent his entire life in the Settlement,
24

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

431

J., dissenting.

Footnote 24-Continued.
had never gone beyond Jasper, and his schooling stopped at the
third grade. Barney was placed in a separate room in the Federal
Building where he was questioned for a short period. The officers
then took him to the scene of the killing, brought him back to the
Federal Building, questioned him further for about an hour, and
finally removed him to the county jail three blocks away.
"In the meantime, direction of the investigation had been assumed
by H. B. Taylor, district supervisor of the Alcohol Tax Unit, with
headquarters at Louisville, Kentucky. Taylor was the Government's
chief witness on the central issue of the admissibility of the statements made by the McNabbs. Arriving, in Chattanooga early Thursday morning, he spent the day in study of the case before beginning
his interrogation of the prisoners. Freeman, Raymond, and Emuil,
who had been taken to the county jail about five o'clock Thursday
afternoon, were brought back to the Federal Building early that
evening. According to Taylor, his questioning of them began at
nine o'clock. Other officers set the hour earlier.
"Throughout the questioning, most of which was done by Taylor,
at least six officers were present. At no time during its course was
a lawyer or any relative or friend of the defendants present. Taylor
began by telling.'each of them before they were questioned that we
were Government officers, what we were investigating, and advised
them that they did not have to make a statement, -that they need
not fear force, and that any statement made by them would be used
against them, and that they need not answer any questions asked
unless they desired to do so."
"The men were questioned singly and together. As described by
one of the officers, 'They would be brought in, be questioned possibly
at various times, some of them half an hour, or maybe an hour, or
maybe two hours.' Taylor testified that the questioning continued
until one o'clock in the- morning, when the defendants were taken
back to the county jail.
"The questioning was resumed Friday morning, probably sometime
between nine and ten o'clock. 'They were brought down from the
jail several times, how many I don't know. They were questioned
one at a time, as we would finish one he would be sent back and we
would try to reconcile the facts they told, connect up the statements
they made, and then we would get two of them together. I think
at one time we probably had all five together trying to reconcile their
statements . . . When I knew "the truth I told the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

Footnote 24-Continued.
what I knew. I never called them damned liars, but I did say they
were lying to me. . . . It would be impossible to tell all the motions
I made with my hands during the two days of questioning, however,
I didn't threaten anyone. None of the officers were prejudiced towards these defendants nor bitter toward them. We were only trying
to find out who killed our fellow officer.'
"Benjamin McNabb, the third of the petitioners, came to the office
of the Alcohol Tax Unit about eight or nine o'clock Friday morning
and voluntarily surrendered. Benjamin was twenty years old, had
never been arrested before, had lived in the McNabb Settlement all
his life, and had not got beyond the fourth grade in school. He
told the officers that he had heard that they were looking for him
but that he was entirely innocent of any connection with the crime.
The officers made him take his clothes off for a few minutes because,
so he testified, 'they wanted to look at me. This scared me pretty
much.' He was not taken before a United States Commissioner or a
judge. Instead, the officers questioned him for about five or six
hours. When fi'nally in the afternoon he was confronted with the
statement that the others accused him of having fired both shots,
Benjamin said, 'If they are going to accuse me of that, I will tell
the whole truth; you may get your pencil and paper and write it
down.' He then confessed that he had fired the first shot, but denied
that he had also fired the second.
"Because there were 'certain discrepancies in their stories, and we
were anxious to straighten them out,' the defendants were brought
to the Federal Building from the jail between nine and ten o'clock
Friday night. .They were again questioned, sometimes separately,
sometimes together. Taylor testified that 'We had Freeman McNabb on the night of the second [Friday] for about three and onehalf hours. I don't remember the time but I remember him particularly because he certainly was hard to get any-thing out of. He
would admit he lied before, and then tell it all over aain. I knew
some of the things about the whole truth and it took about three amd
one-half hours, before he would say it was the truth, and I finally got
him to tell a story which he said was true and which certainly fit better
with the physical facts and circumstances than any other story he
had told. It took me three and one-half hours to get a story that
was satisfactory or that I believed was nearer the truth than when we
started.'
"The questioning of the defendants continued until about two
o'clock Saturday morning, when the officers finally 'got all the dis-

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.'
410

REED,

433

J., dissenting.

note. 5 The time between confession and commitment is
not significant. United States v. Mitchell, supra. The indications of pressure on the McNabbs that lead me to
crepancies straightened out.' Benjamin did not change his story
that he had fired only the first shot. Freeman and Raymond, admitted that they were present when the shooting occurred, but denied
Benjamin's charge that they had urged him to shoot. Barney and
Emuil, who were acquitted at the direction of the trial court, made
no incriminating admissions." [Footnotes omitted.]
In appraising the severity of the McNabb pressure for confessions
in compaiison with that exerted in the Upshaw detention, it should
also be borne in mind that in the Anderson case, 318 U. S. at 355, a
confession was excluded that resulted from two hours' questioning. I
have no explanation for this exclusion. If it was intended to make
two hours' questioning a bar to a confession, the later-Mitchell case
is inconsistent with such a conclusion. See the quotation preceding
note 13, supra. Thb opinion does not rely upon it and it seems to me
obviously within permissible limits unless we are to use the penalty
theory. See p. 421, supra.
25 Upshaw, a Negro man able to read and write who had completed one year of high school, was Arrested at his room by
Detectives Furr and Culpepper on a charge of larceny of a wrist
watch at about 2 a. m., Friday, June 6. He was taken to No. 10
precinct and questioned for about 30 minutes. Furr testified that
petitioner was under the influence of alcohol at the time. Upshaw
denied this. He was coughing sporadically at the time of his arrest
and subsequently. until his commitment. At approximately 10 a. m.,'
Jine 6, he was questioned again by Furr, at which time he denied
guilt. Culpepper questioned-him through the bars in the cell block
at 11 a. m. and ajain at 5:30 p. m. on June 6. Furr questioned
him again for approximately 30 minutes at 7.:30 p. m. on the same
day. At 9 a. m., June 7, Upshaw confessed, and at 9:30 a. m. he
signed a statement which he identified as. his statement at 2 p. m.,
June 7. Thus some 31 lours intervened between the. arrest and the
confession. At 9 p. m. that night Upshaw was taken to the home of
the complaining witness where he repeated his confession to her.
The petitioner was taken before a magistrate for commitment on
Monday, June 9. The officers testifie&that they had not had him
committed sooner because they did not have a sufficient case againstf
him to cause the Police Court to hold him and because they wanted
to continue their investigation.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

conclude that the Court should hold Upshaw's confession
admissible under my understanding of the McNabb rule
before this present holding are the lack of experience of
the McNabbs, the "breaking" of Benjamin by confrontation of charges of his guilt by his relatives and confederates, the greater number of officers questioning them, and
the longer time the McNabb group was interrogated."8
III.
I do not agree that we should now extend the McNabb
rule by saying that every confession obtained by police
after unnecessary delay in arraignment for commitment
and before magisterial commitment must be barred from
the trial. Those most concerned with a proper administration of the criminal law are against any extension.
(1) The departure of the McNabb and Anderson cases
from well-establishedmethods for protection against coercion has been condemned by the House of Representatives and not acted upon by the Senate."
(2) Officers charged with enforcement of the criminal
law have objected for the reason .that fear of the application of its drastic penalties deterred officers from questioning during reasonable delays in commitment. 8
(3) State courts under similar laws and conditions
have refused to follow the McNabb example. 9
26

See 47 Col. L. Rev. 1214, 1217, The McNabb Rule Transformed.

2793 Cong. Rec. 1392; H. R. Rep. No. 29, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.
28 International Association of Chiefs of Police, Hearings, supra,

43; National Sheriffs' Association, Hearings, supra, 26; Attorney Geperal of the United States, H. R. Rep. No. 29, supra.
2
1Fry v. State, 78 Okla. Cr. 299, 313, 147 P. 2d 803, 810-11; State
v. Folkes, 174 Ore. 568, 588, 150 P. 2d 17, 25; State v. Smith, 158
Kan. 645, 651,.149 P. 2d 600, 604; People v. Malinski, 292 N. Y. 360,
370-372, 387, 55 N. E. 2d 353, 357, 365; State v. Collett, 58 N. E.
2d 417, 426-27 (Ohio); State v. Nagel, 75 N. D. 495, 28 N. W. 2d 665,

UPSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
410

REED,

J., dissenting.

(4) Law Review comment generally condemns the
rule."
In the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Preliminary Draft, submitted May 3, 1943, to this Court, there
was included a § 5 (b) which purported to codify the
McNabb rule.3 In response to widespread opposition to
such a codification, 3 this section of Rule 5 was omitted
from the final draft. These rules were drawn by a representative committee of the bench and bar with wide
participation beyond the membership by interested parties from both groups. They were transmitted on December 26, 1944, by this Court to the Attorney General to be
reported to Congress, more than a year after the McNabb
case and after the hearings on the House bill to nullify.
the McNabb rule. Neither this Court nor the Congress
restored the rejected proposal.
Instead of an extension of the McNabb rule, I feel that
it should be left, as I think it originally was, a rule that
barred a confession extradted under psychological pressure of the degree used in the McNabb case.
Such condemnation of even the restricted McNabb rule
by those immediately responsible for the enactment and
679; State v. Ellis, 354 Mo. .998, 1005, 193 S. W. 2d 31, 34; Finley v.
State, 153 Fla. 394, 14 So. 2d. 844; State v. Browning, 206 Ark. 791,
793-798, 178 S. W. 2d 77, 78-80; Russell v. State, 196 Ga. 275, 285,
26 S. E. 2d 528, 534.
30 Inbau, The Corifession Dilemma in the United States Supreme
Court, 43 Ill. L. Rev. 442; 42 Mich. L. Rev. 679; 56 Harv. L. Rev.
1008; 47 Col. L. Rev. 1214. See Statement of Special Committee
on the Bill of Rights of the American Bar Association, p. vi, which
advocates maintenance of McNabb rule until a better system for
dealing With confessions to police can be devised.
31 "5 (b) ExCLUSION OF -STATEME1NT SECURED IN VIOLATION OF
RULE.
No statement made by a defendant in response to interrogation by an officer or agent of the government shall be admissible in
evidence against him if the interrogation occurs while the defendant
is held in custody in violation of this rule."
32 Holtzoff, Institute on Federal Criminal Rules, 29 A. B. A. J. 603.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948. •
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

administration of our criminal laws should make this
Court, so far removed from the actualities of crime prevention, hesitate long before pushing farther by judicial
legislation its conception of the proprieties in criminal
investigation. It takes this step in the belief that thereby
it strengthens criminal administration by protecting a
prisoner. A prisoner should have protection but it is well
to remember that lak and order is an essential prerequisite to the protection of the security of all. Today's decision puts another Weapon in the hand of the criminal
world. Apparently the Court intends to make the rule
of commitment "without unnecessary delay" 4' an iron
rule without, flexibility to meet the emergencies of conspiracies, search for confederates, or examining into the
ramifications of criminality- The Court does this by failing to distinguish between necessary and unnecessary delay in commitment. It uses words like "forthwith" and
"promptly" and thus destroys the leeway given by the
Rule to police investigations. All, I think, without any
need for such action since every coerced confession has
been inadmissible for generations. The position stated
in this dissent does not envisage a surrender to evils in
the handling of criminals. If there is a prevalent abuse
of the right to question prisoners, the sounder remedy
lies in police discipline, in statutory punishment of offending officials, in vigorous judicial protection against
unconstitutional pressures for confessions, and in legisla33Rule

5 (a), Rules of Criminal Procedure. The language of the
Rule was adopted to allow desirable flexibility in the time of commitment. See Notes to Rules of Criminal Procedure, as prepared
under the direction of the Advisory Committee; Hearings, supra,
pp. 36, 39. In Memorandum on the Detention of Arrested Persons,
supra, it is stated at p. 30 with reference to the phrase "within a
reasonable time6": "This phrase would have the advantage of saving
confessions where the delay in committal was brief and reasonably
explained; here the existing tendency of lower courts to apply the
McNabb rule rigidly is pretty harsh on the government."

UVEGES v. PENNSYLVANIA.
410

Syllabus.

tive enactments for inquiries into circumstances surrounding crimes by methods that protect both the public and
suspects-for exarpple, an inquiry before a magistrate
with sealed evidence
I would affirm tlis conviction in reliance upon the verdict of the properly instructed jury that this was a
voluntary, confession.

UVEGES v. PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PEN4NSYLVANIA.

No. 75.

Argued November 15-16,1948.-Decided December 13, 1948.

1. Without being advised of his right to counsel or being offered
counsel at any time between arrest and conviction, a 17-year-old
youth charged, in a Pennsylvania state court under four indictments with four separate burglaries, for which he could have been
given maximum, sentences aggregating 80 years, pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to from -five to ten years on each indictment,
the sentences to run conisecutively. The record showed no attempt
on the part of the court to make him understand the conseqaences
of his plea. Held: He was denied due process of law contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 438-442.
2. The due process clauseof the Fifth or the Fourteenth Amendment
requires counsel for all persons charged with serious crimes, when
necessary for their adequate defense, in order that such persons
may be advised-how to conduct their trials. P. 441.
3. The iecord before this Court adequately raised the federal constitutional question as to denhl of the right to counsel. Pp. 438-439.
4. Since it appears. that.in.pennsylvania habeas corpus is available
to an accused-whose constjt tional right to counsel has been denied,
and since the state does not suggest. that it bars a remedy by
habeas corpus in the circumstances of this ease because no appeal
was taken from the original conviction, this Court decides this
case on its merits. P. 440.
161 Pa. Super. 58, 53 A. 2d 984, reversed.

Without a hearing, a Pennsylvania court of common
pleas dismissed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to
798176 0-49--33

