HENSLEE v. UNION PLANTERS BANK.

595

Opinion of the Court.

HENSLEE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. UNION PLANTERS NATIONAL BANK &
TRUST CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued December 14, 1948.-Decided January 3, 1949.

Under a will the testator's entire estate was left in trust for his 85year-old mother during her lifetime, after which certain specific
bequests were made and the residue of the estate was to be divided
equally among four named charities. The trustees were directed
to pay the mother a stated monthly income, even if it should
become necessary to invade the corpus of the trust, were further
authorized to utilize any portion of the corpus for her "pleasure,
comfort and welfare" and were admonished that the "first object
to be accomplished" was to provide for her "in such manner as
she -may desire." She died three years later without invading
the corpus of the trust. Held.: Under § 812 (d) of the Internal
Revenue Code, the charitable -bequests were not deductible from
the gross estate for estate tax purposes. Merchants Bank v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 256. Pp. 595-600.
166 F. 2d 993, reversed.

A federal district court dismissed a suit for refund of
federal estate taxes. 74 F. Supp. 113. The Court of
Appeals reversed. 166 F. 2d 993. This Court granted
certiorari. 335 U. S. 811. Reversed, p. 600.
Arnold Raum argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor GeneralPerlman,Assistant
Attorney General Caudle, Ellis N. Slack, Lee A. Jackson
and HarryBaum.
Sam Polk Walker argued the cause for rdspondents.
With him on the brief was Roane Waring.
PER CURIAM.

Respondents

are the executors and trustees of the

-estate of William Bate Williams.

They brought this

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

action for refund, with interest, of $35,899.12 of federal
estate taxes and interest paid under protest. The relevant facts, set forth in respondents' complaint and
admitted by the Collector's motion to dismiss, are as
follows:
William Bate Williams died in 1943. Under the terms
of his will, the entire gross estate of $508,411.17 was bequeathed to respondents to hold in trust for the testator's
"beloved mother, Elizabeth Bate Williams, for and
during her natural life, with the full power and
authority herein conferred.
"I hereby direct both my executors and my trustees
to pay to my mother the sum of Seven Hundred Fifty
(750.00) Dollars a month to be used by her as she
sees fit. In the event the income from my estate
is not sufficient to pay the said Seven Hundred Fifty
($750.00) Dollars each month, then my executors and
trustees are hereby empowered, authorized and directed to encroach on the corpus of the estate to
pay said amount and to sell any of my property,
real or personal, for this purpose.
"In addition to this amount my said executors and
trustees are authorized and empowered to use and
expend in their discretion any portion of my estate,
either income or principal, for the pleasure, comfort
and welfare of my mother.
"The first object to be accomplished in the administration and management of my estate and this trust
is to take care of and provide for my mother in such
manner as she may desire and my executors and
trustees are fully authorized and likewise directed
to manage my estate primarily for this purpose."
The will went on to provide for distribution of the
corpus of the estate remaining at the mother's death.
Twenty-five per cent of the. total remaining estate was
bequeathed to the testator's cousin, and stated sums in

HENSLEE v. UNION PLANTERS BANK.
595

597

Opinion of the Court.

cash were left to other named legatees. After these legacies, the balance of the estate was directed to be paid over
to four named charities, in equal shares.
At the time 6f the testator's death the estate was earning a net income of approximately $15,000 per year,
$6,000 more than the amount directed to be paid, at
$750 per month, to the testator's mother. The mother
at that time was eighty-five years old, lived on substantially less than $750 per month, and had independent
investments worth approximately $100,000 which netted
her an income of about $300 per month. A woman of
moderate needs and without dependents, she died three
years later without having requested respondents to
invade the trust corpus in her behalf.
The disputed estate tax liability resulted from respondents' attempt to deduct from the gross estate the portion bequeathed to the four charities, in reliance on
the charitable deduction provision of § 812 (d) of the
Internal Revenue Code.' The Commissioner denied the
deduction. The Collector here resists the refund claim,
on the ground that the pqssibility of invasion of the
corpus on behalf of the testator's mother prevented the
ultimate charitable interest, at the testator's death, from
being "presently ascertainable, and hence severable from
the interest in favor of the private use," within the
meaning of the applicable Treasury Regulation.'
'26 U. S. C. § 812 (d), 53 Stat. 124-125, as amended by Revenue
Act of 1942, §408 (a), 56 Stat. 949, and Revenue Act of 1943,.
§ 511 (a), 58 Stat. 74-75.
2 "If a trust is created for both a charitable and a private purpose,
deduction may be taken of the value of the beneficial interest in
favor of the former only insofar as such interest is presently ascertainable, and hence severable from the interest in favor of the
private use. . . ." U. S. Treas. Reg. 105 § 81.44 (1942). Cf. id.
at § 81.46: "If the legatee, devisee, donee, or trustee is empowered
to divert the property or fund, in whole or in part, to a use or
purpose which would have rendered it, to the extent that it is subject
798176 0-49---43

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

:335 U. S.

On the authority of Merchants Bank v. Commissioner,
320 U. S. 256, the District Court granted the Collector's
motion to dismiss. 74 F. Supp. 113. The Court of
Appeals reversed. 166 F. 2d 993. It held that, notwithstanding the language of the testamentary provision
for the "pleasure, comfort and welfare" of the mother,
the complaint's allegations of the mother's great age,
independent means and modest tastes raised a triable
issue of fact as to whether the trust corpus was threatened
with invasion and the charitable interest hence subject
to depletion in favor of the testator's moth.er.
We agree with the District Court tbat this case is
governed by the decision in the Merchants Bank case
and that the suit should be dismissed. It is apparent
on the face of the complaint that this testator's-will
did not limit the trustees' disbursements to conformity
with some ready standard-as where', for example, trustees are to provide the prime beneficiary with such sums
as "may be necessary to suitably maintain her in as much
comfort as she now enjoys." Ithaca Trust Co. v. United
States, 279 U. S. 151, 154. The stated income here directed to be paid to the mother was "to be used by her
as she sees fit." Beyond this the trustees were empowered to invade or wholly utilize the corpus of the estate
for the mother's "pleasure, comfort and welfare," bearing
in mind the testator's injunction that "The first object
to be accomplished . . .is to take care of and provide for
my mother in such manner as she may desire . ...'"
to such power, not deductible had it been directly so bequeathed,
devised, or given by the decedent, deduction will be limited to that
portion, if any, of the property or fund which is exempt from an
exercise of such power."
I In view of the express priority accorded the mother's wishes,
respondents' fiduciary duty to the ultimate beneficiaries, private and
charitable, was ineffective to guarantee preservation of any predictable fraction of the corpus for disposition after the mother's

HENSLEE v. UNION PLANTERS BANK.
595

599

Opinion of the Court.

As in the Merchants Bank case, where the trustees had
discretion to disburse sums for the "comfort, support,
maintenance, and/or happiness" of the prime beneficiary,
so here we think it the "salient fact.. . . that the purposes for which the widow could, and might wish to have
the funds spent do not lend themselves to reliable prediction." 320 U. S. 256, 258, 262.
We do not overlook the unlikelihood that a woman of
the mother's age and circumstances would abandon her
customary frugality and squander her son's wealth. But,
though there may have been little chance of that extravagance which would waste a part or consume the whole of
the charitable interest, that chance remained. What
common experience might regard as remote in the generality 'of cases may nonetheless be beyond the realm of
precise prediction in the single instance. The contingency which would have diminished or destroyed the
charitable interest here considered might well have been
insured against, but such an arithmetic generalization of
experience would not have made this charitable interest
"presently ascertainable." ' "Rough guesses, approximadeath. The testator, indeed, made the gifts to charity subordinate
not only to his mother's interest but to that of all the private beneficiaries, stating in his will that the charitable interest "is a residuary
bequest . . . and is not to infringe on any of the other legacies hereinbefore provided."
4'1...
[T]he fundamental question in the case at bar, is not
whether this contingent interest can be insured against or its value
guessed at, but what construction shall be given to a statute. Did
Congress in providing for the determination of the net estate taxablk,
intend that a deduction should be made for a contingency, the actual
value of which cannot be determined from any known data? Neither
taxpayer, nor revenue officer-even if equipped with all the aid
which the actuarial art can supply-could do m'ore than guess at
the value of this contingency. It is clear that Congress did. not
intend that a deduction should be made for a contingent gift of that
character." Humes v. United States, 276 U. S. 487, 494.

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

tions, or even the relatively accurate valuations on which
the market place might be willing to act are not sufficient."
Merchants Bank v. Commissioner, supra at 261..
Nor do we think it significant that the trust corpus
was intact at the mother's death, for the test of present
ascertainability of the ultimate charitable interest is applied, "at the death of the testator." Ibid. The charitable deduction is a matter of congressional grace, and
it is for Congress to determine the advisability of permitting amendment of estate tax returns at such time
'as the probable vesting of the charitable interest has
reduced itself to unalterable fact.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissent upon the grounds stated in dissent :inMerchants
Bank v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 256, at 263.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

Wisdom too often never comes, and so one ought not
to reject it merely because it comes late. Since I now
realize that I should have joined the dissenters in the
Merchants Bank case, 320 U. S.256, I shall not compound
error by pushing that decision still farther. I would
affirm the judgment, subitantially for the reasons given
below. 166 F. 2d 993.

