OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL
ORGANIZATIONS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 695.

Argued April 28-29, 1948.-Decided June 21, 1948.

A labor organization and its president were indicted for violations
of § 313 of the Corrupt Practices Act of 1925, as amended by § 304
of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, which prohibits
contributions or expenditures by corporations and labor organizations in connection with federal elections. The indictment charged
that the labor organization made, and its president consented to,
expenditures for the publication of a weekly periodical, in a certain
issue of which appeared an article by its president urging members to vote for a particular candidate in a forthcoming congressional election; and that it made expenditures for the publication
and distribution of extra copies of -that issue in connection with
the election; but it did not charge that free copies were distributed
to nonsubscribers, nonpurchasers or persons not entitled to receive
copies as members of the union. The District Court sustained a
motion to dismiss on the ground that the. Act, so far as it related
to expenditures by labor organizations in connection with federal
elections, violated the First Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The Government appealed directly to this Court under the
Criminal Appeals Act. Held:
1. The indictment does not state an offense under § 313 of the
Act. Pp. 107-110,120-124.
2. The interpretation here placed on § 313 is supported by the
history, the language, and the purpose of the section, and by the
fact that grave doubt as to its constitutionality would arise were
it construed as applicable to the acts charged in the indictment.
Pp.113-122.
3. On review under the Criminal Appeals Act, this Court is not
required to pass upon the constitutionality of § 313 when the
indictment does not state an offense unde" it. P. 110.
77 F. Supp. 355, affirmed.

Respondents, a labor organization and an officer thereof,
were indicted for violations of § 313 of the Corrupt Practices Act, as amended by § 304 of the Labor Management

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

Relations Act of 1947. The District Court dismissed the
indictment on the ground of unconstitutionality of the
challenged provision of the Act. 77 F. Supp. 355. The
Government appealed directly to this Court under the
Criminal Appeals Act. Affirmed on another ground,
p. 124.
Jesse Climenko argued the cause for the United. States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Quinn, Robert S. Erdahl and
Beatrice Rosenberg.
.CharlesJ. Margiottiand Lee Pressmanargued the cause
for appellees. With them on the brief was Frank
Donner.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by
J. Albert Woll, Herbert S. Thatcher and James A. Glenn
for the American Federation of Labor; Jerome Y. Sturm
for the International Association of Machinists; Osmond
K. Fraenkel, Arthur Garfield Hays and Burton A. Zorn
for the American Civil Liberties Union; and Irving R. M.
Panzer for the American Veterans Committee.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal presents a problem as. to the constitutionality of § 313 of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act of 1925,
as amended by § 304 of the Labor Management Relations
Act of 1947. Section 313 of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act now reads as stated in the margin.
1

§ 304, Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 61 Stat. 159, en-

acted June 23, 1947:'
"'SEC. 313. It is unlawful for any national bank, or any corporation
organized by authority of any law of Congress, to make a contribution or expenditure in. connection with any election to any political
office, or in connection with any primary election or political convention or caucus held to select candidates for any political office,
or for any .orporation whatever, or any labor organization to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

An indictment was returned at the January 1948 term
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia on two counts tharging in count I the Congress of Industrial Organizations and in count II' its
President, Philip Murray, with violation of § 313 of the
Federal Corrupt Practices Act because of the publication
and distribution in the District of Columbia of an issue,
Vol. 10, No. 28, under date of July 14,1947, of "The CIO
News," a weekly periodical owned and published by the
CIO at the expense and from the funds of the'CIO and
with the consent of its President, Mr. Murray. The number of "The CIO News" in question carried upon its front
page a statement by Mr. Murray as President of the CIO,
urging all members of the CIO to vote for Judge Ed Garmatz, then a candidate for Congress in Maryland at a
special election to be held July 15, 1947. The statement
said it was made despite § 313 in the belief that the section
was unconstitutional because it abridged rights of free
a contribution or expenditure in connection with any election at which
Presidential and Vice Presidential electors or a Senator or Represent-

ative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to Congress are
to be voted for, or in connection with any primary election or political
convention or caucus held to select candidates for amny of the foregoing offices, or for any candidate, political committee, or other person to accept or receive any contribution prohibited by this section.
Every corporation or labor organization which makes any contribution or expenditure in violation of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000; and every officer or director of my corporation, or
officer of any labor organization, who consents to any contribution
or expenditure by the corporation or labor organization, as the case

may be, in violation of this section shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. For the purposes
of this section "labor organization" means any organization of any
kind, or any agency or employee representation committee or plan,
in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in
whole or in part, of dealing writh employers concerning grievtances,
labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conlditions of work.' "
The additions of 1947 are italicized.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

speech, free press and free assemblage, guaranteed by the
Bill of Rights.
The defendants moved to dismiss the indictment on the
ground that § 313 as construed and applied and upon its
face abridged as to the CIO and its members and Mr.
Murray freedom of speech, press and assembly and the
right to petition the Government for a redress of grievances in violation of the Constitution; that the classification of labor organizations was arbitrary and the provisions vague in contravention of the Bill of Rights; and
that the terms of the section were an invasion of the rights
of defendants, protected by the Ninth and Tenth Amendments. The District Court sustained the motion to dismiss on the ground that as "no clear and present danger
to the public interest can be found in the circumstances
surrounding the enactment of this legislation" the asserted abridgment of the freedoms of the First Amendment was unjustified.2 77 F. Supp. 355. In the order
granting the motion to dismiss, the District Court defined
its ruling as follows:
that that portion of Section 313 of the Corrupt
Practices Act, as amended by Section 304 of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, which prohibits expenditures by any labor organization in connection with any election at which Presidential and
Vice Presidential electors or a Senator or Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to
Congress are to be voted for, or in connection with
any primary election or political convention or caucus held to select candidates for any of the foregoing
offices, is unconstitutional."
We accepted jurisdiction of the Government's appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act. 18 U. S. C. § 682.
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; West Virginia State Board
of Education v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, and Thomas v. Collins,
323 U. S. 516, were cited.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

The briefs and arguments submitted to us support and
attack the constitutionality of § 313 of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act on its face-at least so far as unconstitutionality is declared in the above order. We do not
admit any duty in this Court to pass upon such a contention on an appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act except
in cases of logical necessity. United States v. Petrillo,
332 U. S. 1. Although the case turned below on the constitutionality of the provision, the Criminal Appeals Act
does not require us to pass upon the constitutionality of
a federal statute where the indictment does not state an
offense under its terms. United States v. L. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, 88, 97. Compare United States v.
Carbone, 327 U. S. 633. Our first obligation is to decide
whether the indictment states an offense under § 313. As
we hereafter conclude that this indictment does not charge
acts embraced within its scope, this opinion is limited to
that issue.
Indictment.-The presently essential parts of the indictment are set out in the margin.' It will be noted
3 "(3)
That at all the times hereinafter mentioned, the said defendant CIO owned, composed, edited, and published a weekly periodical known as 'The CIO News', and the said defendant CIO paid
all of the costs, and made all of the expenditures necessary and incidental to the publication and distribution of said periodical, 'The
CIO News', from the funds of the said defendant CIO, including
the salaries of the editors and contributors and other writers of
texts set forth in said periodical including also the cost of the printing of the said periodical and the cost of the distribution of the said
periodical, and all such payments and expenditures, including those
representing the cost and distribution of the issue of said 'The CIO
News' under date of July 14, 1947, and designated as Volume 10,
No. 28, were made by said defendant CIO at Washington, in the
District of Columbia, and within the jurisdiction of this, Court."
(6) "(b) That the defendant CIO also caused one thousand copies
of the issue of the publication, 'The CIO News', dated July 14, 1947,
and designated as the issue known as Volume 10, No. 28, to be specially moved and transported from Washington, District of Columbia,
into the Third Congressional District of the State of Maryland, by

UNITED STATES v. C.I[
106

111

Opinion of the Court.

that paragraph (3) does not allege the source of the CIO
funds. The paragraph indicates on its face that "The
CIO News" was a regularly published weekly periodical
of which the challenged issue was Vol. 10, No. 28. The
funds used may have been obtained from subscriptions
of its readers or from portions of CIO membership dues,
directly allocated by the members to pay for the "News,"
or from other general or special receipts.
We do not read the indictment as charging an expenditure by the CIO in circulating free copies to nonsubscribers, nonpurchasers or among citizens not entitled to receive copies of "The CIO News," as members of the union.
The indictment, count I, paragraph (3), charged the CIO
with making expenditures from its funds for "the cost of
distribution" of the paper, in paragraph (6) (a), with
paying approximately $100 for postal charges for the challenged issue and "causing said article to be distributed
in the Third Congressional District of the State of Maryland 'and elsewhere in connection with the special election
held in that Congressional District on the fifteenth day
of July 1947." In paragraph (6) (b) there are allegations
about certain extra copies. These are set out in the marginal note 3 supra. The extras we assume were published pursuant to the order of Mr. Murray in the article.'
We conclude that the indictment charges nothing more
as to the extras" than that extra, copies of. the "News"
mailing the said one thousand extra copies to the Regional CIO Director at Baltimore, Maryland, and caused the funds of the said
defendant CIO to be expended in. printing, packaging and transportation of said extra copies of the periodical, 'The CIO News', in
connection with the aforesaid special election.'!
4 The direction was in this form: "I therefore have directed and
'requested the editor of the CIO News to publish this statement, including the following paragraphs, and to' give to this issue of the
CIO News proper circulation among the members of CIO unions
in the City of Baltimore and, particularly, within the Congressional
District in which this election is scheduled to take place."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

were published for distribution and were distributed in
regular course to members or purchasers and that no allegation has been made of expenditures for "free" distribution of the paper to those not regularly entitled to
receive it.

Scope of Section 313.-The construction of this section
as applied to this indictment turns on the range of the
word "expenditure," added to the section by § 304 of the
Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as indicated
in note 1, supra. "Expenditure" as here used is not a
word of art. It has no definitely defined meaning and
the applicability of the word to prohibition of particular
acts must be determined from the circumstances surrounding its employment. The reach of its meaning
raised questions during congressional consideration of the
bill when it contained the present text of the section.
Did it cover comments upon political personages and
events in a corporately owned newspaper? 93 Cong. Rec.
6438. Could unincorporated trade associations make expenditures? Id., 6439. Could a union-owned radio station give time for a political speech? Id., 6439. What
of comments by a radio commentator? Id., 6439. Is it
an expenditure only when A is running against B or is
free, favorable publicity for prospective candidates illegal? Id., 6440. What of corporately owned religious
papers supporting a candidate on moral grounds? The
Anti-Saloon League? Id., 6440.
The purpose of Congress is a dominant factor in determining meaning.' There is no better key to a difficult
problem of statutory construction than the law from which
the challenged statute emerged. Remedial laws are to
5 United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486-87; Hawaii v. Mankichi,
190 U. S. 197, 211; Fort Smith & Western R. Co. v. Mills, 253 U. S.
206, 209; United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 359; United States v.
Guaranty Trust Co., 280 U. S. 478, 485; Keifer & Keifer v. R. F. C.,
306 U. S. 381, 391, n. 4; United States v. American Trucking Assns.,
310 U. S. 534, 544.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

be interpreted in the light of previous experience and
prior enactments.' Nor, where doubt exists, should we
disregard informed congressional discussion.!
Section 304 of the Labor Management Relations Act
of 1947 is not a section without a history. Its earliest
legislative antecedent was the Act of January 26, 1907,
which provided:
"That it shall be unlawful for any national bank,
or any corporation organized by authority of any
laws of Congress, to make a money contribution in
connection with any election to any political office.
It shall also be unlawful for any corporation whatever to make a money contribution in connection
with any election at which Presidential and VicePresidential electors or a Representative in Congress
is to be voted for or any election by any State legislature of a United States Senator. . . ." 34 Stat.
864-65.
This legislation seems to have been motivated by two considerations. First, the necessity for destroying the influence over elections which corporations exercised through
financial contribution.8 Second, the feeling that corporate officials had no moral right to use corporate funds
for contribution to political parties without the consent
9
of the stockholders.
The next important legislation was the Federal Corrupt Practices Act, 1925. This statute was the legislative
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 108; Boston Sand Co. v. United
States, 278 U. S. 41.
Harrisonv. Northern Trust Co., 317 U. S. 476, 479.
8 See 40 Cong. Rec. 96; 41 Cong. Rec. 22.
"See Hearings before the House Committee on the Election of the
President, 59th Cong., 1st Sess. 76 (1906) ; 40 Cong. Rec. 96.
In 1909 the Criminal Code of the United States, which codified,
revised and amended the penal laws of the country, was passed.
35 Stat. 1088. The Act of 1907 was reenacted as § 83. 35 Stat.

1103.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

response to the decision of this Cpurt in Newberry v.
United States, 256 U. S. 232. Cf. United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299. The Newberry case held that federal
limitation upon expenditures by candidates was unconstitutional as applied to expenditures made in the course
of a primary election for the Senate." While that case
did not directly concern itself with the Act of 1907, it
was widely construed to have invalidated all federal corrupt practices legislation relating to nominations. Therefore, the 1925 Act reenacted the earlier prohibitions
against corporate contributions for political purposes with
two significant changes. The phrase "money contribution" of 1907 was changed to read "contribution," 11 and
primaries and conventions were expressly excluded from
the scope of the legislation. 2
The statute immediately preceding § 304 in time was
the War Labor Disputes Act of 1943.1" This Act extended, for the duration of the war,"' the prohibitions of

10 36 Stat. 822, as amended
1143 Stat. 1074.

by 37 Stat. 25.
"Contribution" was defined to include "a gift,

subscription, loan, advance, or deposit, of money, or anything of
value, and includes a contract, promise, or agreement, whether or not
legally enforceable, to make a contribution." 43 Stat. 1071.
12

43 Stat. 1070.

Stat. 167. "It is unlawful for any . . . labor organization to
make a contribution in connection with any election at which Presidential and Vice Presidential electors or a Senator or Representative
in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to Congress are to be
voted for, or for any candidate, political committee, or other person to
accept or receive any contribution prohibited by this section."
14 57 Stat. 168. "Except as to offenses committed prior to such
date, the provisions of this Act and the amendments made by this
'Act shall cease to be effective at the end of six months following
the termination of hostilities in the present war, as proclaimed by
the President, or upon the date (prior to the date of such procla-,
mation) of the passage of a concurrent resolution of the two Houses
of Congress stating that such provisions and amendments shall
cease to be effective."
A3 57

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

the Act of 1925 to labor organizations. Its legislative
history indicates congressional belief that labor unions
should then be put under the same restraints as had been
imposed upon corporations. It was felt that the influence
which labor unions exercised over elections through monetary expenditures should be minimized,"1 and that it was
unfair to individual union members to permit the union
leadership to make contributions from general union
funds to a political party which the individual member
might oppose."6
When Congress began to consider the Labor -Management Relations Act of 1947 it had as a guide the 1944
presidential election, an election which had been conducted under the above amendment to the Act of 1925.
In analyzing the experience of that election, a serious
defect was found in the wording of the Act of 1925. The
difficulty was that the word "contribution" was read narrowly by various pecial congressional committees investigating the 1944 and 1946 campaigns." The concept
of "contribution" was thought to be confined to direct
gifts or direct payments.18 Since it was obvious that the
statute as construed could easily be circumvented through
indirect contributions, § 304 extended the prohibition of
§ 313 to "expenditures." 19
The Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 was the
subject of extensive debates in Congress. Embracing as
15 See Hearings liefore a Subcommittee of the Committee on Labor
on H. R. 804, and H. R. 1483, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. 2, 4; S.Rep.
No. 101, 79th Cong., lst Sess. 24.
16 See Hearings on H. R. 804 and H. R. 1483, supra, n. 15, 117-18,
133; 89 Cong. Rec. 5334, 5792; 93 Cong. Rec. 6440.
,7See H. R. Rep. No. 2093, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. .11; S.Rep. No.
101, supra, n. 15, 57-59; H. R. Rep. No. 2739, 79th Cong., 2d Sess.
39-40; S.Rep. No. 1, Part 2, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.37, 38-39.
18 See note 17, supra.
' 9 This point was repeatedly emphasized in the Senate debates. See
93 Cong. Ree.-6436-39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

it did a number of controversial issues, the discussion
necessarily covered a wide range. It is not surprising,
therefore, to find congressional explanation of the intended scope of the specific provision of § 304, in issue
here, scanty and indecisive. We find, however, in the
Senate debates definite indication that Congress did not
intend to include within the coverage of the section as
an expenditure the costs of -the publication described in
the indictment. As we have stated above, there are
numerous suppositional instances of acts by corporations
or unions that approach the border line of the expenditures that are declared unlawful by § 313 of the Corrupt
Practices Act. As we are .dealing on. this appeal with
the scope of § 313 as applied to an indictment that charges
certain allegedly illegal acts, we propose to confine our
examination of legislative history to the statements that
tend to show whether the congressional purpose was to
forbid the challenged publication. For example, Senator
Taft, the Chairman of the Committee on Labor and
Public Welfare, and one of the conferees for the Senate,
answered inquiries as follows (93 Cong. Rec. 6437, 6438,
6440):

"Mr.

BARKLEY.

Suppose the particular publication

referred to by the Senator from Florida is published
and paid for by subscriptions paid to the publication
by the membership of that railway labor organization?
"Mr. TAFT. That will be perfectly lawful. That
is the way it should be done.

. "Mr.

BARKLEY.

And suppose it is not paid for

by union funds collected from the various labor
unions?
"Mr. TAFT. That will be perfectly proper.

"Mr. BARKLEY. The Senator from Ohio referred to
the law prohibiting the making of direct or indirect

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

contributions by corporations as a justification for
making the. same provision in the case of labor
unions. Let us consider the publication of a corporation which, day after day, takes a position
against one candidate and in favor of another candidate, and does so in its editorials. The editorials
occupy space in that newspaper or publication, and
the space costs a certain amount of money. Is that
a direct or an indirect contribution to a campaign;
and if it is neither, what is it?
"Mr. TAFT. I would say that is the operation of
the newspaper itself.
"Mr. BARKLEY. That is true; it is the operation
of the newspaper. But I gathered the impression
that in referring to the present law prohibiting the
making of contributions, directly or indirectly by corporations, the Senator inferred that if a corporation
publishes a newspaper-as most of them do-and
uses the editorials in that publication in advocacy
of or opposition to any candidate, at least that is
a direct contribution to the campaign. It could not
be anything else.
"Mr. TAFT. I do not think it is either a direct or
an indirect contribution. I do not think it is an
expenditure of the sort prohibited, because it seems
to me it is simply the ordinary operation of the
particular corporation's business.
"Mr. BARKLEY. Mr. President, let me ask the Senator this question: Let us suppose'a labor organization publishes a newspaper for the information and
benefit of its members, and let us uppose that it
is published regularly, whether daily or weekly or
monthly, and is paid for from a fund created by
the payment of dues into the organization it represents. Let us assume that the newspaper is not sold
798176 0-49--13

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

on the streets, and let us assume further that a
certain subscription by the month or by the year
is not charged for the newspaper. Does the Senator
from Ohio advise us that under this measure such
a newspaper could not take an editorial position with
respect to any candidate for public office, without
violating this measure?
"Mr. TAFT. If it is supported by union' funds, I
do not think it could. If the newspaper is prepared
and distributed and circulated by means of the expenditure of union funds, then how could a line be
drawn between that and political literature or pamphlets or publications of that nature? It is perfectly
easy for a labor union to publish lawfully a bona
fide newspaper and to charge subscriptions for that
newspaper, either by itself or as a corporation.
"Mr. BALL. In the case of most union papers, as
I understand, the subscriptions from the union members are collected along with the dues, but they are
an earmarked portion of the dues which the union
collects and rem its to the paper in the form of subscriptions. I take it that would be in a different
category from the case where the union makes a
blanket subscription and an appropriation out of
union dues.
"Mr. TAFT. I think if the paper is, so to speak, a
going concern, it can -take whatever position it
wants to.
"Mr. MAGNUSON. Teamsters' unions publish newspapers dealing with matters in which such unions
are interested. The same is true of many other
unions. If the pending measure becomes a law, from
now on such unions will be prohibited from advo-

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

cating in their newspapers the support of any political candidates.
"Mr. TAFT. That is correct, unless they sell the
papers they publish to their members, if the members
desire to buy them. In such a case there would be
no expenditure for such a purpose of union funds.
"Mr. MAGNUSON. Mr. President, if the Senator
will yield, let me ask him another question. All the
funds of labor unions come from dues paid by their
members. All the activities of the unions are based
upon expenditure of funds provided by dues. That
money is in the union's treasury. If the pending
bill should become law it would mean that all labor
organs which are now in existence would, from now
on, be prohibited from participating in a campaign,
favoring a candidate, mentioning his name, or endorsing him for public office?
"Mr. TAFT. No; I do not think it means that. The
union can issue a newspaper, and can charge the
members for the newspaper, that is, the members
who buy copies of the newspaper, and the union can
put such matters in the newspaper if it wants to.
The union can separate the payment of dues from the
payment for a newspaper if its members are willing
to do so, that is, if the members are willing to subscribe to that kind of a newspaper. I presume the
members would be willing to do so. A union can
publish such a newspaper, or unions can do as was
done last.year, organize something like the PAC, a
political organization, and receive direct contributions, just so long as members of the union know
what they are contributing to, and the dues-which
they pay into the union treasury are not used for
such purpose."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Senator Ellender, also one of the conferees, made this
statement:
"May I say to the Senator from Florida it is only
in the event that union funds are used for political
contributions that a union becomes liable. Mr.
Green can talk all he wants to, if he pays for his own
time or if the members of the union desire to make
individual contributions for such a purpose. For
another thing, most unions operate and manage newspapers, and the most of them are maintained by advertisements or by subscriptions from members of
the union and from other sources. The proceeds
from such newspapers are not union funds. In such
cases these newspapers can print anything they desire, and they will not violate the law, so long as
union funds are not used to pay for the operation
of those newspapers for political purposes." 93
Cong. Rec. 6522.
Application.-With this summary of the development
of and quotation of excerpts from discussion in Congress
concerning § 313, we turn to its interpretation and a determination as to whether it covers the circumstances
charged in the indictment. Some members of the Court,
joining in this opinion, do not place the reliance upon
legislative history that this opinion evidences, but reach
the same conclusion without consideration of that history.
From what we have previously noted, it is clear that Congress was keenly aware of the constitutional limitations
on legislation and of the danger of the invalidation by the
courts of any enactment that threatened abridgment of
the freedoms of the First Amendment. , It did not want to
pass any legislation that would threaten interferences with
the privileges of speech or press or that would undertake
to supersede the Constitution. The obligation rests also
upon this Court in construing congressional enactments to

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.'

take care to interpret them so as to avoid a danger of
20
unconstitutionality.
If § 313 were construed to prohibit the publication, by
corporations and unions in the regular course of conducting their affairs, of periodicals advising their members,
stockholders or customers of danger or advantage to their
interests from the adoption of measures, or the election to
office of men espousing such measures, the gravest doubt
would arise in our minds as to its constitutionality.21 In
so far as -some of the many statements made on the floor
of Congress may indicate the thought, at the time, by
certain members of Congress that the language of § 313
20 United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,
407-408:
"It is elementary when the constitutionality of a statute is assailed,
if the statute be reasonably susceptible of .two interpretations, by
one of which it would be unconstitutional and by the other valid,
it is our plain duty to adopt that construction which will save the
statute from constitutional infirmity. Knights Templars Indemnity
Co. v. Jarman,187 U. S. 197, 205. And unless this rule be considered
as meaning that our duty is to first decide that a statute is unconstitutional and then proceed to hold that such ruling was unnecessary
because the statute is susceptible of a meaning, which causes it not
to be repugnant to the Constitution, the rule plainly must mean
that where a statute is susceptible of two constructions, by one of
which grave and doubtful constitutional questions arise and by the
other of which such questions are avoided, our duty is to adopt the
latter. Harriman v. Interstate Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407."
Federal Trade Comm'n v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298,
307; Missouri P. R. Co. v. Boone, 270 U. S. 466, 471-72; cf. Blodgett
v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142,147.
21 Compare "Free discussion of the problems of society is a cardinal
principle of Americanism-a principle which all are zealous to preserve." Pennekamp v. Florida, 328 U. S. 331,346.
"The case confronts us again with the duty our system places on
this Court to say where the individual's freedom ends and the State's
power begins. Choice on that border, now as always delicate, is
perhaps more so where the .usual presumptiw; supporting legislation
is balanced by the preferred place given in our scheme to the great,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the COurt.

335 U. S.

carried a restrictive meaning in conflict with that which
we have adopted, we hold that the language itself, coupled
with the dangers of unconstitutionality, supports the
interpretation'which we have placed upon it.
When Congress coupled the word "expenditure" with
the word "contribution," it did so because the practical
operation of § 313 in previous elections showed the need
to strengthen the bars against the misuse of aggregated
funds gathered into the control of a single organization
from many individual sources. Apparently "expenditure" was added to eradicate the doubt that had been
raised as to the reach of "contribution," not to extend
greatly the c6verage of the section.22 One can find indications in. the exchanges between participants in the de-,
bates that' informed proponents and opponents thought
that § 313 went so far as to forbid periodicals in the regular course of publication from taking part in pending elections where there was not segregated subscription, advertising or sales moneys adequate for its support.

Of

course, a periolical financed by a corporation or labor
union for the purpose of advocating legislation advantageous to the sponsor or supporting candidates whose
views are believed to coincide generally with those deemed
advantageous to such organization is on a different level
from newspapers devt)ted solely to the dissemination of
news but the line separating the t,o classes is not clear.
In the absence of definite statutory demarcation, the location of that line must await the full development of facts
in individual cases. It is one thing to say that trade or
the indispensable democratic freedoms secured by the First Amendment." Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 529-30.
"For the Fifst Amendment does not speak equivocally. It prohibits any law 'abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press.' It
must be taken as a command of the broadest scope that explicit
language, read in the context of a liberty-loving society, will allow."
Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252,263.
22 9P Cong. Rec. 6436, 6437, 6439.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Opinion of the Court.

labor union periodicals published regularly for.members,
stockholders or purchasers are allowable under § 313 and
quite another to say that in connection with an election
occasional pamphlets or dodgers or free copies widely
scattered are forbidden. $enator Taft stated on the Senate floor that funds voluntarily contributed for election
purposes might be used without violating the section and
papers supported by subscriptions and sales might likewise be published. 3 Members of unions paying dues and
* stockholders of corporations know of the practice of their
respective organizations in regularly publishing periodicals. It would require explicit words in an act to convince us that Congress intended to bar a trade journal,
a house organ or a newspaper, published by a corporation,
from expressing views on candidates or political proposals
in the regular course of its publication. It is unduly
stretching language to say that the members or stockholders are .unwilling participants in such normal organizational activities, including the advocacy thereby of
governmental policies affecting their interests, and the
support thereby of candidates thought to be favorable
to their interests.
It is our conclusion that this indictment charges only
that the CIO and its president published with union funds
a regular periodical for the furtherance of its aims, that
President Murray authorized the use of those funds for
distribution of this issue in regular course to those accustomed to receive copies of the periodical and that the
issue with the statement described at the beginning of this
opinion violated § 313 of the Corrupt Practices Act.
We are unwilling to say that Congress by its prohibition
against corporations or labor organizations making an
"expenditure in connection with any election" of candidates for federal office intended to outlaw such a publica23

See 93 Cong. Rec. 6437-40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

tion. We do not think § 313 reaches such a use of corporate or labor organization funds. We express no
opinion as to the scope of this section where different
circumstances exist and none upon the constitutionality
of the section.
Our conclusion leads us to affirm the order of dismissal
upon the ground herein announced.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

In a government operating under constitutional limitations there are obvious advantages in knowing at once
the legal powers of the government. The desire to secure
these advantages explains the strong efforts of some of
the ablest mdmbers of the Philadelphia Convention to
associate the judiciary through a Council of Revision in
the legislative process.' The efforts failed, because the
disadvantages of such a role by the judiciary were deemed
greater than the advantages. And it cannot be too often
recalled that the first Chief Justice and his Associates felt
constrained to withhold even from the Father of his
Country answers to questions regarding which Washington was most anxious to have illumination from the Supreme Court, pertaining as they did to the President's
powers during the Napoleonic conflict. See 3 Johnston,
Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay (1891)
486-89, and 10 Sparks, Writings of Washington (1847)
542-45; and see Thayer, Legal Essays (1908) 53-54.
Accordingly, the fact that it would be convenient to the
parties and the public to know promptly whether a statute is valid, has not affected "rigid insistence" on limiting adjudication to actual "caSes" and "controversies."
To that end the Court has developed "for its own gov•1See 1 Farrand, The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787
(1911) 21, 28, 94, 97 et seq., 105, 107, 109, 110, 11- et seq., 131, 138,
141,144-45; 2 id. 71, 73 et seq., 294-95, 298 et seq.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

ernance in the cases confessedly within its jurisdiction, a
series of rules under which it has avoided passing upon
a large part of all the constitutional questions pressed
upon it for decision." Mr. Justice Brandeis, concurring,
in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S.
288, 345, 346. See also, more recently, Alabama State
Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S.450; Alma
Motor Co. v. Timken-Detroit Axle Co., 329 U. S. 129;
United Public Workers of America v. Mitchell, 330 U. S.
75; Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S.549.
A case or controversy in the sense of a litigation ripe
and right for constitutional adjudication by this Court
implies a real contest-an active clash of views, based
upon an adequate formulation of issues, so as to bring a
challenge to that which Congress has enacted inescapably
before the Court. The matter was thus put by an authoritative commentator: "The determination of constitutional questions has been associated with the strictly judicial function and so far as possible has been removed from
the contentions of politics. These questions have been
decided after full argument in contested cases and it is
only with the light afforded by a real contest that opinions
on questions of the highest importance can safely be rendered." Charles Evans Hughes, The Supreme Court of
the United States (1928) 32. Time has not lessened the
force of the reason for this requirement of abstention
as indicated by Chief Justice Marshall: "No questions
can be brought before a judicial tribunal of greater delicacy than those which involve the constitutionality of
a legislative act. If they become indispensably necessary
to the case, the court must meet and decide them; but
if the case may be determined on other points, a just
respect for the legislature requires, that the obligation of
its laws should not be unnecessarily and wantonly assailed." Ex parte Randolph, 20 Fed. Cas. No. 11,558 at
254, 2 Brock. 447, 478-79 (C. C. D. Va. 1833).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

In order that a contest may fairly invite adjudication
it il not necessary that the parties should be personally
in4ical to one another. On the other hand, the fact
that the outward form of a litigation has not been contrived by pre-arrangement of the parties does not preclude
want of a real contest which is essential to this Court's
exercise of its function, one of "great gravity and delicacy," in passing upon the validity of an act of Congress.
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, supra, at 345
and cases cited in footnote 3. This prerequisite may be
lacking though there be entire disinterestedness on both
sides in their desire to secure at the earliest possible moment an adjudication on constitutional power. It may
be lacking precisely because the issues were formulated
so broadly as to bring gratuitously before the Court that
for which there is no necessity for decision, or because
they invite formulation of a rule of constitutional law
broader than is required by the precise facts of the situation or the terms of the assailed legislation. See Liverpool, N. Y. and Phila.S. S. Co. v. Commissioners of Emigration, 113 U. S.33, 39; see also, Statement of the United
States of America as Amicus Curiae, in Burco, Inc. v.
Whitworth, 297 U. S.724; Government's Brief in Landis
v. North American Co., 299 U. S.248.
We are concerned here not with derogatory implications of collusion, nor have we a case of mootness with
its technical meaning of a non-existent controversy.
The circumstances bring the present record within those
considerations which have led this Court in the past
"for its own governance in the cases con'fessedly within its
jurisdiction" to avoid passing on grave constitutional
questions because the questions involving the power of
Congress come here not so shaped by the record and
by the proceedings below as to bring those powers before
this Court as leanly and as sharply as judicial judgment upop an exercise of congressional power requires.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

This case is here under the unique jurisdiction of the
Criminal Appeals Act of 1907, as ame'nded, whereby decisions of District Courts raise almost abstract questions
of law regarding the invalidity or construction of criminal
statutes, in that they do not come here in the setting
of normal adjudications on the merits of a controversy.
Compare United States v. Petrillo, 332 U. S. 1, with the
subsequent adjudication on the merits in United States
v. Petrillo, 75 F. Supp. 176. It is most important that
such a decision result from due weighing of the considerations which alone can justify the invalidation of
an Act of Congress. This implies that there be presented to a District Court the most effective and the
least misapprehending legal grounds for supporting what
Congress has enacted, while at the same time constitutional adjudication is sedulously resisted by presenting
to the District Court alternative constructions of what
Congress has written so as to avoid, if fairly possible,
invalidation of, the statute. The decision of the District
Court in this case comes to us wanting in both respects.
According to the District Court, the Government conceded that § 304 of the Taft-Hartley Act is an abridgment of "rights guaranteed by the First Amendment"
but contended that "Congress has power under Article I,
Section 4, of the Constitution to abridge First Amendment rights if it considers such a course necessary in
maintaining the purity and freedom of elections." This
representation of the Government's argument below is
made in the opinion of the District Court not once, not
twice, but thrice.2 At the bar of this Court it was urged
on behalf of the Government that the District Court misconceived the arguments of the Government, that what
2

1. "The government concedes that rights guaranteed by the First

Amendment are abridged by the prohibition against expenditures by
labor organizations in connection with elections; but it says that
Congress has power under Article I, Section 4, of the Constitutl=

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

the District Court attributed to the Government is not
what the Government argued below. But ordinary English words Jbave lost all meaning if the District Judge does
not say unequivocally and three times that that is what
the Government has argued. It cannot be whistled away
as a gauche manner of saying that inasmuch as utterance
may under certain circumstances be restricted, § 304 is not
in violation of the First Amendment. That may have
been the argument put to the court below, but plainly
enough that court did not so understand it. Who is to
say how the lower court would have dealt with the problem of constitutionality before it, if the argument had
been pitched differently than in the way in which it
reached the court, or if the court's misapprehension had
been corrected? No effort was made, by the familiar
process of a petition for rehearing or for a clarification of
the court's opinion, to see to it that the lower court manifested an understanding of the Government's contentions
by not attributing an erroneous position to the Government. (See, for instance, petition for rehearing in Morgan v. UnitedStates, 304 U. S. 1, 23.)
Again, the defendants did not urge below, as is ordinarily the way of defendants, a construction of the statute
to abridge First Amendment rights if it considers such a course
necessary in maintaining the purity and freedom of elections."
"Thus the Court is confronted with the necessity of passing on the
validity of Section 304 of the Act, insofar as it relates to expenditures
by labor organizations in connection with federal elections."
2. "It is insisted by the government that Congress could abridge
the freedoms guaranteed by the First Amendment (which the govetn-

ment concedes was done here) because of its constitutional control
over the manner of holding elections, and its consequent power to
prevent corruption therein, and to secure clean elections."
3. "In support of its argument that congressional control over
elections may be exercised in abridgment of rights protected by the
First Amendment, the government points to the case of United Public Workers v. Mitchell, 330 U. S. 75."

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

which would afford them the rights they claim-but
would secure those rights not by declaring an Act of
Congress unconstitutional but by, an appropriate restriction of its scope. On its own motion, this Court now
gives a construction to the statute which takes the conduct for which defendants were indicted out of the scope
of the statute without bringing the Court into conflict
with Congress. Who can be confident that such a construction, which salvages the statute and at the same time
safeguards the constitutional rights of the defendants,
might not have commended itself to the Diitrict Court
and eventually brought a different case, if any, before
this Court for review?
I cannot escape the conclusion that in a natural
eagerness to elicit from this Court a decision at the earliest
possible moment, each side was at least unwittingly the
ally of the other in bringing before this Court far-reaching questions of constitutionality under circumstances
which all the best teachings of this Court admonish us
not to entertain.
But since my brethren find that the case calls for
adjudication, I join in the Court's opinion. I do so
because of another rule of constitutional adjudication
which requires us to give a statute an allowable construction that fairly avoids a constitutional issue. See my
dissentikig opinion in Shapiro v. United States, ante, p.
36, decided this day.

whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join,

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, with
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and

concurring in the result.
If § 313 as amended 1 can be taken to cover the costs of
any political publication by a labor union, I think it com'Section 313 of the Corrupt Practices Act, as amended by § 3047of
the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 159.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

prehends the "expenditures" made in this case. By reading them out of the section, in order not to pass upon its
validity, .the Court in effect abdicates its function in the.
guise of applying the policy against deciding questions of
I adhere to that policy.
constitutionality unnecessarily.
But I do not think it justifies invasion of the legislative function by rewriting or emasculating the statute.
This in my judgment is what has, been done in this
instance. Accordingly I dissent from the construction
given to the statute and from the misapplication of the
policy. I also think the statute patently invalid as
applied in these circumstances.
I.
The Court's interpretation of the section and the indictment are not entirely clear to me. But, as I undkrstand
the ruling, it is only that § 313 does not forbid labor
unions to take part in pending elections 3 by publishing
and circulating newspapers in regular course among their
membership, although the costs of publication are paid
from the union's general funds regardless of their source,
i. e., whether from subscriptions, advertising revenues and
returns from per copy sales, or from union dues and Other
sources.
The line of coverage is marked without reference to
the source from which the union derives the funds so
2

Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S. 549; Ashwander v.

Valley Authority, 297 U. S.288, concurring opinion of Mr. Justice
Brandeis at 346-348; Federation of Labor v. McA.dory, 325 U. S.
450; United Public Workers v. Mitchell, 330 U. S. 75:
3
The statutory wording is: ". . . expenditure in connection with
any election at which Presidential and Vice Presidential electors or a
Senator or Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner
to Congress are 'to be voted for, or in connection with any primary
election or political convention or caucus held to select candidates for
any of the foregoing offices ... "

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

expended,4

but by whether others than members of the
union 'receive free copies of the publication; and by
whether the publication is "'in regular course" or only
'incasual or occasional distributions. Apparently, in the
latter event, circulation limited to the membership would
fall within the prohibition as well aa free (and perhaps
also paid) distribution outside that circle.
. The construction therefore comes down to finding that
Congress did not intend to forbid these expenditures,
though made from union funds, since they were made:
(1) to sustain the publication of the union's political
views; (2) in the regular course of publishing and distributng a.union newspaper; (3) with distribution limited substantially I to union members and not including
outsiders. It is because applying § 313 to this type of
expenditure would raise "the gravest .doubt" of the section's constitutionality that the Court holds the section
inapplicable.

If such an interpretation were tenably supportable on
any other basis, I should be in accord with this happy
solution. But neither the language of the section nor
its history affords such a basis, unless indeed it may-be
4The indictment explicitly charges that "The CIO News" was
regularly (weekly) published by the C. I. 0. and costs of publication
and distribution, including the issue in question, were paid from the
union's funds. There was no allegation concerning their source,
whether from revenues not connected with or earmarked for receipt
of the paper or from sources specifically so connected. The Court's
opinion does not, nor could it fairly, assume that the allegations were
limited to expenditure of funds derived from subscriptions, advertising revenues or returns from per copy sales. The opinion explicitly
holds that source of the.Ninds is immaterial under § 313 for coverage
of the type of publication and circulation here involved.
5By the opinion's phrase, "in regular course to those accustomed
to receive copies," p. 123, a'nte (emphasis added), room seems to be
left for the inference that insubstantial distribution outside the membership would not tend to bring the case within the section's terms.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

that the wording is so broad, comprehensive, and indefinite that any possible construction which would apply
to a union's publication of its political views would be
subject to equally grave constitutional doubt, and therefore was not intended to be covered.
I Indeed, so far as the present opinion concludes, that
may be the case. For it does not hold that distribution
outside the circle of membership, even in regular course,
is forbidden or, if so, the prohibition would be constitutionally permissible. Neither does it rule that either
consequence would follow from casual or occasional distribution within or without that circle. At the most
it is indicated that the section more probably or possibly
covers those situations than the one now eliminated. But
there seems to be no corresponding intimation that the
section would be valid in such coverage.
In fact the opinion points to no situation, relating to a
union's expression of political views, which certainly could
be taken as included and validly so. This, of course,
comes down to excluding the present circumstances, not
to save the statute because there are other applications
clearly and validly covered, but because there are such
applications which may or may not be covered and which,
if covered, may be equally or nearly as doubtful constitutionally. Such a course of construction, if followed in each
instance of indictment on particular facts, would mean
that the section could not apply in any instance of publication, because each would present "the gravest doubt"
of constitutionality and therefore would be excluded.
,The language of § 313, as amended, is sweepingly comprehensive. Insofar as presently pertinent it forbids
labor unions as well as corporations ". . . to make a contribution or expenditure in connection with any election at
which . . . [the designated federal officers] I are to be
6See note 3. The section as presently effective is quoted in full
at note 1 of the Court's opiniQn.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0..
106

RUTLEDGE,

133

J., concurring.

voted for," including primaries, conventions or caucuses
held to select such candidates. (Emphasis added.)
The crucial words are "expenditure" and "in connection
with." Literally they cover any expenditure whatever
relating at any rate to a pending election, and possibly
to prospective elections or elections already held. The
broad dictionary meaning of the word "expenditure"
takes added color from its context with "contribution."
The legislative history is clear that it was added by the
1947 amendment expressly to cover situations not previously included within the accepted legislative interpretation of "contribution." ' The coloration added is therefore not restrictive; it is expansive. See note 9. And in
the absence of any indication of restriction, light on
7 "Contribution" had been construed by legislative committees investigating campaign expenditures prior to 1947, see notes 9 and 10,
though not always unanimously, not to cover expenditures made by
labor unions in publishing their political views during campaigns or at
other times. See H. R. Rep. No. 2093, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. 10-11;
Sen. Rep.. No. 101, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. 57-59, 83-84; H. R. Rep. No.
2739, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. 39-40, 46; Sen. Rep. No. 1, Part 2, 80th
Cong., 1st Sess. 37, 38-39. It is not necessary to summarize the
differing viewpoints expressed in the 1947 debates concerning the
validity of this construction. Whether valid or not would make
only the difference between extending the statute's scope by adding
to its terms or by "plugging a loophole," albeit a large one, created
by misconstruction. In either event a large addition to the section's
coverage was made. See, e. g., 93 Cong:.Rec. 6438-6440.
The Federal Corrupt Practices Act of 1925, 43 Stat. 1070, amended
the preexisting legislation forbidding a corporate "money contribution" by changing that term to "contribution" and defining this to
ificlude "a gift, subscription, loan, advance, or" deposit, of money,
or anything of value, and includes a contract, promise, or agreement,
whether or not legally enforceable, to make a contribution . ..."
Since "expenditure" was intended to broaden "contribution" in
the 1947 amendment of § 313, it would seem that its scope could
hardly be less broad than was given by the 1925 Act's definition to
"contribution," although the Government does not appear to urge
tlldt "expenditure" incorporates that definition.
798176 0-49-----14

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

the scope of coverage can be found only in the legislative

history.
When one turns to that source, he finds a veritable fog,
of contradictions relating to specific possible applications,8
contradictions necessarily bred among both proponents
and opponents of the amendment from the breadth and
indefiniteness of the literal scope of the language used.
But in one important respect the history again is clear,
namely, that the sponsors and proponents had in mind
three principal objectives.
These were: (1) To reduce what had come to be regarded in the light of recent experience as the undue and
disproportionate influence of labor unions upon federal
elections; (2) to preserve the purity of such elections and
of official conduct ensuing from the choices made in them
against the use of aggregated wealth by union as well as

corporate entities; and (3) to protect union members
holding political views contrary to those supported by
the union from use of funds contributed by them to pro-

mote acceptance of those opposing views.'

Shortly,

8See 93 Cong: Rec. 6436-6441, 6446-6448, and excerpts quoted
in the Court's opinion and the appendix to this one. Cf. also notes
11, 12, 13.
"These were the objects of the prohibition against "contributions"
by labor unions, which first appeared on a temporary basis in 1943
in the War Labor Disputes Act, which by its terms was to expire
six months following the termination of hostilities. Act of June 25,
1943, c. 144, § 9, 57 Stat. 167. See Hearings before a Subcommittee
of the Committee on Labor on H. R. 804 and H. R. 1483, 78th Cong.,
1st Sess. 2, 4, 117, 118, 133. Cf. 89 Cong. Rec. 5328, 5334, 5792. The
Government's brief states that the legislative history of the 1943
Act shows that the principal basis of the extension to labor unions,
like that of the same and earlier acts applying to corporations,
"was the securing of elections in accordance with the will of the
people through removing disproportionate influences exerted by
means of large aggregations of money." Since the 1947 amendment to § 313 was designed to make permanent the prohibitions of the 1943 Act, H. R. Rep. No. 245, 80th
Cong., 1st Sess. 46; H. R. Rep. No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 67-68

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

these objects may be designated as the "undue influence,"
"purity of elections," and "minority protection" objectives. They are obviously interrelated, but not identical.
And the differences as well as their combination become
important for deciding the scope of the section's coverage
and its validity in specific application.
With those objects in mind as throwing light on the
section's coverage under the broad language employed,
we turn to the legislative history on that subject. The
Government centers the discussion, both on coverage and
on constitutionality, around the "minority protection"
objective. And the legislative discussion, taking place
almost exclusively in the Senate and dominated largely
by the Labor Management Act's sponsor in that body,
also took this purpose as the central theme."0
The discussion ranged around a great variety of possible
specific applications," with concentration upon both
(Conference report to accompany H. R. 3020), and to expand
them by adding "expenditures," the objects of the 1943 Act necessarily were carried forward into the 1947 amendment. Ibid. See
also 93 Cong. Rec. 3428.
10 Congressional committees investigating campaign expenditures in
1946 and 1947 had recommended that "expenditures" be added to
the prohibition of § 313. See H. R. Rep. No. 2739, 79th Cong.,
2d Sess. 39-40, 46; Sen. Rep. No. 1, Part 2, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.
37, 38-39. The so-called Taft-Hartley Bill as introduced in the
House contained the prohibition, H. R. 3020, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.,
§ 304, while the Senate version did not. S.1126, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.
There was apparently little discussion in either body on the matter
until the conference report incorporating the provision was made.
H. R. Rep. No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. Then lengthy discussion
ensued in the Senate, from which excerpts are quoted in the Court's
opinion and in the appendix to this one. See 93 Cong. Rec. 64366441,6445-6448, 6522-6524, 6530.
11 Some of the more important instances included whether the section applies to forbid political comment or information "in connection
with" elections by corporately owned newspapers and periodicals,
in regular course of distribution, 93 Cong. Rec. 6436, or in special
editions, ibid.; by "house organs," id. 6440, or like publications put

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

the scope and the validity of the provision. The Senate
sponsor responded to a flood of inquiries with candor
and so far as possible with precision and certainty concerning particular situations under his view of the section's criterion, 2 although in numerous instances he was
equally candid in stating doubt or disability to give positive opinions, at times in the absence of further facts."
out by corporations engaging primarily in other business than publishing; by religious, ibid., and charitable corporations; by organizations
like the Anti-Saloon League, ibid.; by radio commentators sponsored by commercial corporations, id. 6439, 6447; by trade associations, such as the National Association of Manufacturers, which
receive funds from constituent corporations, id. 6438.
These inquiries generally proceeded with analogous ones relating
to comparable activities of unions and comparable responses, touching
for example P. A. C. activities; labor publications, regular or special;
sponsored broadcasts, etc. Illustrative responses are set forth in
note 12.
12
E. g., the regular corporately owned press was considered not
covered as to its ordinary circulation, because "that is the operation
of the newspaper itself," 93 Cong. Rec. 6437. The same exemption
from coverage, however, was thought not to extend to regularly
published union or labor papers, since members' dues could not
be so used without specific earmarking or designation by each
for such use, even though from previous practice they might know
such use would be made. Id. 6440. -On the other hand, neither
the regular press, corporately owned, nor union papers could publish
special editions or distribute them with or without charge. Nor
could house organs, union or corporate, comment politically, or
religious organizations, if incorporated; neither could associations
like the National Association of Manufacturers, which receive funds
from corporations and by such expenditures would be making "contributions" indirectly. Problems involving organizations like the
Anti-Saloon League and sponsored radio broadcasts, whether by
unions or corporations, as well as guest appeararces of candidates
and others supporting them on sponsored radio programs, raised
matters of greater difficulty. See the various pertinent citations
in note 11. Cf. notes 13 and 14.
13 The problems raised in connection with radio discussions presented particularly dubious situations, frequently admitted to call

UNITED STATES v. C. I.- 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

What is most significant for the question of coverage,
however, and for the Court's construction in this case,
is the fact that in making his responses to the numerous
and varied inquiries he tested coverage invariably or
nearly so by applying the very criterion the Court now
discards, namely, the source of the funds received and
expended in making the political publication.
That is, in his view that the primary purpose of the
amendment was "minority protection," the line drawn
by the section was between expenditure of funds received
by the union expressly for the purpose of the publication
and earmarked for that purpose and, on the other hand,
expending funds not so limited by the person or source
supplying them. 4 There was strong opposition to the
for further facts, to present questions of fact, and to require fine
lines of distinction. See, e. g., 93 Cong. Rec. 6439, 6440.
Difficulty arose and doubt was expressed also over what would
constitute political comment, e. g., publishing an incumbent candidate's voting record, id. 6438, 6446, 6447, an instance in which the
Senate sponsor at first disagreed with Senator Ball, but later apparently though somewhat equivocally agreed with him that publication
of the record without comment further than "merely a bare statement
of actual facts and simply direct quotations of what the man had
said in the course of certain speeches on certain subjects" would
not be forbidden, id. 6447; corporate broadcasts not for or against
a candidate, but for a party or relating to issues in the election,
said to be "again, a question of fact" and to depend on "how close
it is to the election." Ibid. These instances are illustrative only, not
comprehensive. Cf. note 29.
14 This rubric turned the answers to the inquiries and situations
mentioned in notes 11, 12 and 13, as indeed to all others. If the
funds used for the publication came to the corporate or union
treasury without securing the contributor's express consent for that
use, the organization could not so apply them; if so contributed,
they could be thus employed. Except in the case of the regular
corporate press which presumably was not covered as to ordinary
circulation, cf. note 12 supra, expenditure of any corporate or union
funds not derived from operation of the publication, e.g., from adver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

335 U. S.

provision and spirited exchange between proponents and
critics of the measure concerning its wisdom and its constitutionality. But there was no disagreement among
them that the sponsor's test was the intended criterion.
Indeed the legislative discussion was stated explicitly to
be for the purpose of making plain beyond any question
that this was so. 5 Although there were many differences
over whether specified types of activity would fall Under
the criterion's ban and doubts concerning others, the
purpose succeeded. There was no divergence from the
view that political comment by a union paper or other
instrumentality using nonsegregated funds was within the
section's coverage. When this was the source of the
expenditure it violated the intended prohibition of the
section whether or not the publication was in regular
course and whether or not it went to others than members
and persons accustomed to receive it.
If therefore the sponsor's steadfast view can have
weight to determine the coverage of a statute indefinite
in its terms, Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440;
United States v. Dickerson, 310 U. S. 554; United States
v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534; United States
v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., 315 U. S. 110, this case is
brought squarely within the prohibition of § 313. This
is conclusively established by the excerpts from the legislative discussion quoted in the Court's opinion. Others
to the same effect are added to this one as an appendix.
Moreover in his message vetoing the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 the President stated that
§ 313 "would ptevent the ordinary union newspaper from
commenting favorably or unfavorably upon candidates
or issues in national elections." H. R. Doc. No. 334, 80th
tising revenues or returns from per copy sales, or funds received from
individuals without individual and explicit authorization for the purpose of the publication was forbidden.
15 See the appendix to this opinion, post, p. 156.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

Cong., 1st Sess. 9. In the debate preliminary to the
overriding of the veto, none of the legislators in charge
of the measure gave any indication that they differed
with the President's interpretation. Nor could.they have
differed, for the statement in the veto message gave effect
to their clearly expressed views as to the section's coverage in the specific instance stated.
Thus, in the face of the legislative judgment, reiterated
after veto, and of the Chief Executive's in making his veto,
this Court sets aside the one clearly intended feature of
the statute apart from its general objectives. I doubt
that upon any matter of construction the Court has
heretofore so far presumed to override the plainly and
incontrovertibly stated judgment of all participants in
the legislative process with its own tortuously fashioned
view. This is not construction under the doctrine of
strict necessity. It is invasion of the legislative process
by emasculation of the statute. The only justification
for this is to avoid deciding the question of validity.
II.
We are concerned in this case with the constitutionality
of § 313 as amended only, insofar as it may be applied in
restriction or abridgment of the rights of freedom of
speech, press and assembly secured by the First Amendment."6 Other applications are not in question. There
can be little doubt of Congress' power to regulate the
making of political contributions 'and expenditures by
iabor unions, as well as by other organizations and individuals, in the interest of free and pure elections and the
prevention of official corruption, by appropriate measures
not trenching on those basic rights. But when regulation
' 8 Since the statute in my judgment abridges those freedoms here,

it is unnecessary to consider other groundings urged for its invalidation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

or prohibition touches them, this Court is duty bound to
examine the restrictions and to decide in its own independent judgment whether they are abridged within the
Amendment's meaning." That office cannot be surrendered to legislative judgment, however weighty, although
such judgment is always entitled to respect.
. As the Court has declared repeatedly, that judgment
does not bear the same weight and is not entitled to
the same presumption of validity, when the legislation
on its face or in specific application restricts the rights
of conscience, expression and assembly protected by the
Amendment, as are given to other regulations having
no such tendency. 8 The presumption rather is against
the legislative intrusion into these domains. For, while
not absolute, the enforced surrender of those rights must
be justified by the existence and immediate impendency
of dangers to the public interest which clearly and not
dubiously outweigh those involved in the restrictions
upon the very foundation of democratic institutions,
grounded as those institutions are in the freedoms of
religion, conscience, expression and assembly. Hence
doubtful intrusions cannot be allowed to stand consistently with the Amendment's command and purpose, 9
nor therefore can the usual presumptions of constitutional validity, deriving from the weight of legislative
opinion in other matters more largely within the legislative province and special competence, obtain. It is in
the light and spirit of these principles that the validity
17 Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 531; Board of Education V.
Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 639; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 96;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161.
18 Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 530; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310
U. S. 88, 95; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161; cf. United States
v. Carolene ProductsCo., 304 U. S. 144, 152, n. 4.
19 Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 530; and cf. other cases cited
in note 17.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

of § 313 as claimed to be applicable here must be
determined.
At the outset the Government admits that § 313, in
prohibiting expenditures in connection with any federal'
election, does "bring into play" the rights of freedom of
speech, press and assembly. This is a necessary consequence of its construction of the section and the presently
attempted application. But it is claimed no unconstitutional abridgment is involved. This, because it is said
Congress has power to act to preserve the freedom and
purity of federal elections under Art. I, §.4, of the Constitution," and of official action. Thus it is claimed the
First Amendment's guaranties are balanced by this other
constitutional provision; and Congress' exercise of the
authority granted by it is entitled to the same weight
and presumptive validity in placing limits upon the freedoms as attaches in their favor in other connections.
Accordingly, the usual preeminence accorded to the First
Amendment liberties disappears, it is said, and the legislative judgment, having rational basis in fact and policy,
becomes controlling.
Apart from the question whether the same argument
might not be applicable to all other powers granted to
Congress by the Constitution, to destroy the principles
stated for securing the preferential status of the First
Amendment freedoms, the argument ignores other equally
settled corollary principles. These are that statutes restrictive of or purporting to place limits to those freedoms
must be narrowly drawn to meet the precise evil the legislature seeks to curb, Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S.
"The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators
and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter
such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators. ' See also U. S. Const., Art. I, § 2, clause 1, § 8, clause 18. Cf.
as to Congress' power over the electoral process, Ex parte Yarbrough,
110O1. ,. 651: Uvitrd States v. Classic, 21" U. q. 299.
20

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S

296; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Schneider "v.
State, 308 U. S. 147; De Jonge v. Oregon, :299 U. S. 353;
Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558,. and that the conduct
proscribed must be defined specifically so that the person
or persons affected remain secure and unrestrained in
their rights to engage in activities not encompassed by
the legislation. Blurred signposts to criminality will
not suffice to create it. Cantwell v. Connecticut, supra;
Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359; cf. Thomas v.
Collins, 323 U. S. 516; Winters v. New York, 333 U. S.
507.
Section 313 falls far short of meeting these requirements, both in its terms and as infused with meaning from
the legislative history. This is true whether the section
is considered in relation to one or another of the evils
said to be its targets or with reference to all of them taken
together.
If the evil is taken to be the corruption of national
elections and federal officials by the expenditure of large
masses of aggregated wealth'in their behalf, the statute
is neither so phrased nor so limited, even in its legislative
construction. Indeed the Government does not explicitly
argue corruption per se arising from union expenditures
for publication in the same sense as gave rise to the original and later legislation against corporate contributions
down to the War Labor Disputes Act of 1943. And very
little in the legislative history directly suggests this evil,
although there are inferences implicit in some statements
that it was not entirely out of mind. 1 So also with the
Government's argument."
21 As has been noted, .the Senate debate went largely on the "minority protection" basis of justification with only inferential or incidental
reference to corrupting influence and occasional suggestions of "undue
influence." See, however, the statements of Representative Hoffman,
93 Cong. Rec. 3428; and of Senator Taft, id. 6437.
22 The brief, however, includes among the reasons for the prohibition of § 313 "A distrust of the use of large contributions, not

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

The Government stresses the "undue influence" of
unions in making expenditures by way of publication in
support of or against candidates and political issues involved in the campaign rather than corruption in the gross
sense. It maintains that large expenditures by unions in
publicizing their official political views bring about an
undue, that is supposedly a disproportionate, sway of electoral sentiment and official attitudes. In short, the "bloc"
power of unions has become too great, in influencing
both the electorate and public officials, to permit further
expenditure of their funds in directly and openly publicizing their political views. And the asserted evil is to be
uprooted by prohibition of union expenditures as such,
not by regulation specifically drawn to meet it.
There are, of course, obvious differences between such
evils and those arising from the grosser forms of assistance
more usually associated with secrecy, bribery and corruption, direct or subtle. But it is not necessary to stop to
point these out or discuss them, except to say that any
asserted beneficial tendency of restrictions upon expenditures for publicizing political views, whether of a group
or of an individual, is certainly counterbalanced to some
extent by the loss for democratic processes resulting from
the restrictions upon free and full public discussion. The
claimed evil is not one unmixed with good. And its
suppression destroys the good with the bad unless precise
measures are taken to prevent this.
The expression of bloc sentiment is and always has been
an integral part of our democratic electoral and legislative
processes. They could hardly go on without it. Moreover, to an extent not necessary now to attempt delimiting, that right is secured by the guaranty of freedom of
because these prove corruption, but because the large single contributions imply resulting obligations and, therefore, can breed corruption"; and goes on to state that'"there is no practical difference
* between a contribution and an expenditure so far as the effect of
the use of money for campaign purposes is concerned."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

assembly, a liberty essentially coordinate with the freedoms of speech, the press, and conscience. Cf. Bowe v.
Secretary of the Commonwealth, 320 Mass. 230, 251-252.
It is not by accident, it is by explicit design, as was
said in Thomas v. Collins, supra at 530, that these freedoms are coupled together in the First Amendment's assurance. They involve the right to hear as well as to
speakand any restriction upon either attenuates both.
There is therefore an effect in restricting expenditures
for the publicizing of political views not inherently present in restricting other types of expenditure, namely, that
it necessarily deprives the electorate, the persons entitled
to hear, as well as the author of the utterance, whether
an individual or a group, of the advantage of free and full
discussion and of the right of free assembly for that
purpose.
The most complete exercise of those rights is essential
to the full, fair and untrammeled operation of the electoral process. To the extent they are curtailed the electorate is deprived of information, knowledge and opinion
vital to its function. To say that labor unions as such
have nothing of value to contribute to that process and
no vital or legitimate interest in it is to ignore the obvious facts of political and economic life and of their increasing interrelationship in modern society. Cf. DeMille
v. American Federation of Radio Artists, 31 Cal. 2d 137.
That ostrichlike conception, if enforced by law, would
deny those values both to unions and thus to that extent
to their members, as also to the voting public in general.
To compare restrictions necessarily resulting in this loss
for the public good to others not creating it is to identify
essentially different things. The cases are not identical.
The loss inherent in restrictions upon expenditures for
publicizing views is not necessarily involved in other
expenditures.
It is this very difference, of course, which brings into
play the First Amendment's prohibitions and the prin-

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

ciples giving them presumptive weight against intrusions
or encroachments upon the area the Amendment reserves
against legislative annexation. It is this difference, the
very fact that the restriction seeks to contract the boundaries of expression and the right to hear previously considered open, which forces upon its authors the burden
of justifying the contraction by demonstrating indubitable public advantage arising from the restriction outweighing all disadvantages, thus reversing the direction
of presumptive weight in other cases.
If therefore it is an evil for organized groups to have
unrestricted freedom to make expenditures for directly
and openly publicizing their political views and information supporting them, but cf. Bowe v. Secretary of the
Commonwealth, supra at 252, it does not follow that it is
one which requires complete prohibition of the right.
Ibid. That is neither consistent with the Amendment's
spirit and purpose, ibid., nor essential to correction of the
evil, whether it be considered corruptive influence or
merely influence of undue or disproportionate political
weight.
It is not necessary now to consider whether restricting
the rights of individuals, singly or in organized relationships, to publicize their political views, rights often
essential to their survival and always to their well-being,
can be accommodated, in some instances, with the
Amendment's puirpose or justified because in legislative
judgment those persons, unless restricted, acquire "undue
influence" in the electoral process. For "undue influence"
in this connection may represent no more than convincing
weight of argument fully presented, which is the very
thing the Amendment and the electoral process it protects were intended to bring out. And one may question
how far legislators may go in accurately assessing undue
or disproportionate weight as distinguished from making
substantially accurate findings and conclusions concerning corruption.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

But even if the right to sway others by persuasion is
assumed to be subject to some curtailment, in the interest
of preventing grossly unbalanced presentations, that right
cannot be wholly denied, Bowe v. Secretary of the Commonwealth, supra at 252; nor can it be restricted beyond
what is reasonably and clearly necessary to correct an
evil so gross and immediate that the correction indubitably outweighs the loss to the public interest resulting
from the restriction.
Here the restriction in practical effect is prohibition,
not regulation, when it is considered with respect to the
objects of suppressing corruption and "undue influence."
It is not a limitation, it is a prohibition upon expenditure
of union funds in connection with a federal election.
Unions can act and speak today only by spending money,
as indeed is true of nearly every organization and even
of individuals if their action is to be effective. As was
said in the course of the Senate debates, the interdiction
applies to "a dollar, or 50 cents, or $500 or $1,000." 93
Cong. Rec. 6438. There is no showing, legislative or
otherwise, of corruption so widespread or of "undue influence" so dominating as could possibly justify so absolute
a denial of these basic rights. The statute, whether in
terms or as given meaning by the legislative history, is
not narrowly drawn to meet the precise evils of corruption
or "undue influence," if these were the controlling objects
of the legislation. Nor, as will appear, were the restrictions specifically defined, if they can be considered to
have been defined at all, so as to leave the union secure
and unrestrained in the right to engage in activities within
the region of the First Amendment's coverage but not
encompassed by the legislation.
As has been stated, it was the "minority protection"
idea which became the dominantly stressed one in the
Senate debates, although at the most § 313 on its face
gave only slight suggestion of this purpose. Nor was

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

there indication in the section's terms that its prohibition
turns on the source from which the funds expended
were derived. The language bearing on this was "expenditure in connection with an election" and no more.
Literally all union expenditures in that connection were
outlawed. There is not a word to suggest that unions
could spend their funds in that manner if contributed expressly for the purpose or derived from such
sources as advertising revenues, subscriptions, etc., received in connection with publication of a paper in regular
course or otherwise. The limitation of the prohibition
to funds received generally, i. e., without specific designa.tion for use in political publicity, is almost wholly a
construction of the Senate sponsor, so far as appears
from the legislative history.
Notwithstanding accepted canons of statutory construction, it certainly would be going far to expect laymen,
or even lawyers, to read a statute so lacking in, specificity
concerning its basic criterion with any semblance of
understanding of its limitations.
The lawyer might indeed read the Congressional Record and conclude that the source of the funds used was
the crux. nut even he would be left in broad and deep
doubt whether it would turn multitudinous situations
one way or the other. - If the section is taken nevertheless to have been intended to draw the sponsor's line
of distinction, the restriction it makes remains a drastic
one. The effect is not merely one of minority protection.
It is also one of majority prohibition. Cf. DeMille v.
American *Federationof Radio Artists, supra. Under
the section as construed, the accepted principle of majority rule which has become a bulwark, indeed perhaps
the leading characteristic, of collective activities is rejected in favor of atomized individual rule and action in
matters of political advocacy. Ibid. Union activities in
political publicity are confined to the use of funds received

OCTOBER TERM, 1947RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

from members with their explicit designation given in
advance for the purpose.23 Funds so received from members can be thus expended and no others. Even if all or
the large majority of the members had paid dues with the
general understanding that they or portions of them
would be so used, but had not given explicit authorization,
the funds could notbe so employed.24 And this would be
true even if all or the large majority were in complete
sympathy with the political views expressed by -the union
or on its behalf with any expenditure of money, however
small.
.It is true that the union could ask and in many instances
secure the required explicit assents. It seems to be suggested that this might be done by expressly designating a
specific portion of the dues for political uses, possibly
though not at all clearly by by-law or constitutional provision, possibly by earmarking upon statements of dues
payable. But it is not made clear whether the member could refuse to pay the earmarked portion and
retain membership or would have to pay it to remain
in that status. If the latter is true, the section affords
little real "minority protection"; if the former, the dissentient is given all the benefit derived from the union's
political publicity without having to pay any part of
its cost. This is but another of the important dnd highly
doubtful questions raised on the section's wording and
construction.
23Apparently the Senate sponsor considered that revenues derived
from the operation of union newspapers, such as advertising revenues,
etc., are available for political publicity, although they are union
funds in which politically dissentient members have interests proportionally with concurring ones and, it seems, do not give explicit
consent to such use. The situation, like the case of the regular
incorporated press, would seem to be exceptional in permitting the
union (or corporation) to use its own funds for political publicity.
See note 12 upra.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

The section does not merely deprive the union of the
principle of majority rule in political expression.2 Cf.
DeMille v. American Federationof Radio Arti8ts, supra.
It rests upon the presumption that the majority are
out of accord with their elected officials in political
viewpoint and its expression and, where that presumption
is not applicable, it casts the burden of ascertaining
minority or individual dissent not upon the dissenters
but upon the union and its officials. The former situation
may arise, indeed in one notable instance has done so.
But that instance hardly can be taken to be a normal
or usual case. Unions too most often operate under the
electoral process and the principle of majority rule. Nor
in the latter situation does it seem reasonable to presume
dissent from mere absence of explicit assent, especially
in view of long-established union practice.
If merely "minority or dissenter protection" were intended, it would be sufficient for securing this to permit
the dissenting members to carry the burden of making
known their position and to relieve them of any duty to
pay dues or portions of them to be applied to the forbidden uses without jeopardy to their rights as members.
This would be clearly sufficient, it would seem, to protect
dissenting members against use of funds contributed by
them for purposes they disapprove, but would not deprive
the union of the right to use the funds of concurring
members, more often than otherwise a majority, without
securing their express consent in advance of the use. 8
25It would even seem questionable whether union funds, not individually earmarked for the purpose, could be used for calling union
meetings to discuss and determine official political policies or to hear
candidates or others expressing their views on campaign issues. Cf.
note 30 infra.
268This difference is minimized, though noted, in the Government's
comparison of § 313 with the British legislation and experience. Cf.
Trade Union Act of 1913, 2 & 3 Geo. V, c. 30; Trade Disputes and
Trade Unions Act of 1927, 17 & 18 Geo. V, c. 22, repealed by
798176 0-49--15

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

335 U. S.

Again, in view of these facts, the section is more broadly
drawn than is necessary to reach the intended evil. Moreover, this demonstrates, in my opinion, that "minority
protection" was not the only, or perhaps the dominant
object of its enactment. That object was rather to force
unions as such entirely out of political life and activity,
including for presently pertinent purposes the expression
of organized viewpoint concerning matters affecting their
vital interests at the most-crucial point where the expression would become effective. Cf. Thomas v. Collins,
supra at 536-537; Board of Education v. Barnette, 319
U. S. 624, 642; Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252, 269.
And so we come back to the conjunction of objectives
which; taken together, are claimed to sustain the section's
validity.
It would be a very great infringement of individual as
well as group freedoms, affecting vast numbers of our
citizens, if labor unions could be deprived of all right of
expression upon pending political matters affecting their
interests. But we need not now decide whether § 313
has gone so far.
For if we assume that the objects said to
have been the
motivation for enacting § 313 can sustain substantial limitations upon the rights of free expression and assembly,
Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act of 1946, 9 & 10 Geo. VI;
c. 52. The legislation was not intended to prevent expenditures for
union newspapers. See Rothschild, Government Regulation of Trade
Unions in Great Britain: II, 38 Col. L. Rev. 1335, 1364. And see
further regarding the British legislation's effect, DeMille v. American
Federation of Radio Artists, 31 Cal. 2d 137, 148, distinguishing
Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants v. Osborne, [1910]
A, C.87.
27 Cf.: "It is perfectly clear that union funds are not to be used to
.interfere in ..political campaigns and with political candidates, either
in favor of ,one candidate or against another candidate." 93 Cong.
Rec. 6437. "Labor unions are supposed to keep out of politics in the
same way that corporations ape supposed -to keep out of politics."
Id. 6440.

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

they cannot support the sweeping and highly indefinite
restrictions placed upon them, whether by the section as
drawn, as legislatively construed, or as sought to be applied. It is difficult to conceive a statute affecting those
rights more lacking in precision, more broad in the scope

of doubt and uncertainty of its reach.
We have only the broad and indefinite words "expenditure in connection with any election." Apart from the
literal sweep of "expenditure" and the large area of doubt
created by efforts to confine it, what is "in connection
with"?
What is a forbidden because a political comment? 29 What sorts of union activities outside of publishing a newspaper with unsegregated funds would fall
under the ban?
28When

30

does the connection begin? Obviously not with the date
of the election, primary, convention or caucus. How long beforehand,
with the announcement of candidacies or with earlier though not
always public efforts to induce persons to run? When does the
connection etid? With the selection of candidates in the one case
and the election of officers in the other or does it extend to activities
relating to these events taking place later?
29The publication of bare facts, e. g., voting records, of quotations
from speeches and addresses, their reproduction in full? Cf. note 13.
And does accuracy or inaccuracy of the quotation make the difference
between criminality and legality? Coula a president's speech in the
course of a campaign for reelection be reproduced in a union newspaper published with unsegregated funds, whether designedly and
clearly political or purporting not to be so? Where to draw the
line between facts and comment, or comment and advocacy or
opposition?
30A summary from appellees' brief indicates the scope and variety
of questions which would arise:
"This measure thus on its face would prevent a labor organization from holding a meeting for the purpose of advocating the election
or defeat of a particular political candidate. It would preclude
a labor organization from organizing a public gathering to advocate
the election of a candidate pledged to the defeat of such a measure
as Section 304. [§ 313 as amended.]
"A labor organization under this statute could not place at the

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

335 U. S.

The catalogue of doubt and uncertainty need not be
extended. Throughout the preoeding discussion, both of,
coverage nd of validity, instances have been noted which
demonstrate its encyclopedic scope. The case is not one
where a hard core of certain prohibition has been formed,.
with only a fringe of doubt narrow in scope at its outer
boundary. Indeed the difference between the view now
disposal of a candidate its own hall. It could not engage radio
time to denounce a candidate who had identified himself with interests
fVndamentally opposed to those basic to the interests of the defendants. Nor could it pay the salary or expenses of -an individual for
the purpose of permitting him to participate in a political campaign.
"Handbills, placards or union newspapers advising the union membership of the voting records of public officials could not be published
or distributed at election time to advocate either the election of
labor's friends or the defeat of labor's enemies. Paid advertisements
and radio publications for the same purposes would be likewise
proscribed.
"No matter how dangerous the threat presented by a candidate
to the fundamental interests of a labor organization, it is powerlkss
under this law to speak and to inform the people of its views. It
could not send to a singl6 rMember a penny postcard dealing with,
such a candidate. It could not even send a delegate or observer
to a political convention.
"It could oppose bad laws but not 'in connection with any election'.
It could endorse good laws but at all times both its opposition and
its endorsement would be undertaken at the peril of crossing the
line at which such opposition or endorsement or advocacy could be
regarded as being 'in connection with any election'.
"Moreover, a labor organization could not sponsor a public meeting
in connection with an election for the purpose of hearing the views
of candidates of various political parties with respect to issues of
importance to its membership since such a meeting would inevitably
require expenditures.
"The traditional campaigns on the part of labor organizations
prior to federal elections to 'get out the vote' would, since they
require expenditurbs, be proscribed by the statute. And the publication of voting guides and analyses of the voting records of candidates would likewise be condemned."

UNITED STATES. v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

taken by the Court and that taken by the Senate and presumably by the House shows that even the core is soft.
To the gambles of the statute itself are added those of
guessing not only at its perimeter but at its very center.
Nor have these been lessened by today's decision other
than by eliminating the one application the legislative
discussion had sought to make clear.
Vagueness and uncertainty so vast and all-pervasive
seeking to restrict or delimit First Amendment freedoms
are wholly at war with the long-established constitutional
principles surrounding their delimitation. They ineasure up neither to the requirement of narrow drafting to
meet the precise evil sought to be curbed nor to the one
that conduct proscribed must be defined with sufficient
specificity not to blanket large areas of unforbidden conduct with doubt and uncertainty of coverage. In this
respect the Amendment's policy adds its own force to
that of due process in the definition of crime to forbid
such consequences. Cf. Winters v. New York, supra.
If the statute outlaws all union expenditures for expression of political views, it is a bludgeon ill-designed
for curbing the evils said to justify its enactment, without
also curbing the rights. If .the section does less, the
exact thing forbidden is too loosely defined and the consequent cloud cast over the things not proscribed but
within the Amendment's bearing is far too great. . In this
aspect and in view of the criminal sanctions imposed, the
section serves as a prior restraint upon the freedoms of
expressiontand of assembly the Amendment was designed
to secure. Only a master, if any, could walk the perilous
wire strung by the section's. criteria.
The force of these considerations is vastly multiplied
when it i4 recalled that, unless they were effective to nullify the section in its application -to publicizing activities,
the broadly prohibitive and blanketing consequences

154.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

335 U. S.

would be applicable also to all similar corporate political
expressions, possibly not excepting even those of the regularly conducted corporate press." This would be true, for
instance, if the Senate sponsor's contrary view should
meet the same fate in this Court that his view of the section's application to the presently involved situation has
met. Moreover, in the sponsor's view special editions and
apparently free distribution by such corporate publishers,
containing political items, would appear to fall under the
ban
rL'he argument for applying and sustaining the section
in its presently attempted application has gone largely
upon the assumption that it would be valid as applied to
similar corporate publications, excepting possibly the
regular. press. The assumption is one not justified by
any decision of this Court, which has the final voice in
such matters. There are of course important legal and
economic differences remaining between corporations and
unincorporated associations, including labor unions, which
justify large distinctions between them in legal treatment.
But to whatever extent this may be true, it does not follow
that the broadside and blanketing prohibitions here attempted in restriction of freedom of expression and assembly would be valid in their corporate applications. CorCf. the President's view, stated in his veto message as follows:
"Furthermore, this provision can be interpreted as going far beyond
its apparent objectives, and as interfering with necessary business
activities. It provides no exemption for corporations whose business
is the publication of newspapers or the operation of radio stations.
It makes no distinctions between expenditures made by such corporations for the purpose of influencing the results of an election, and
other expenditures made by them in the normal course of their business 'inconnection with' an election. Thus it would raise a host of
troublesome questions concerning the legality of many practices
ordinarily engaged in by newspapers and radio stations." H. R. Doc.
No..3.34,80th Cong., 1st Bss. 9-10.
31

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

porations have been held within the First Amendment's
protection against restrictions upon the circulation of
their media of expression. Grosjean v. American Press
Co.,' 297 U. S. 233. It cannot therefore be taken, merely
upon legislative assumption, practice or judgment, that
restrictions upon freedoms of expression by corporations
are valid. Again, those matters cannot be settled finally
until this Court has spoken.
Finally, if § 313 is taken in the Court's construction,
in my opinion its constitutionality stands in no better
case. For I know of nothing in the Amendment's policy
or history which turns or permits turning the applicability of its protections upon the diffeirence between regular and merely casual or occasional distributions. Indeed
pamphleteering was a common mode of exercising freedom of the press before and at the time of the Amendment's adoption. It cannot have been intended to tolerate exclusion of this form of exercising that freedom. Nor
does making the difference between distribution to duespaying members only and distribution to outsiders or the
public, whether with or without price, make a constitutional difference. The Amendment did not make its
protections turn on whether the hearer or reader pays,
or can pay, for the publication or the privilege of hearing
the oral or written pronouncement. Neither freedom of
speech and the press nor the right of peaceable assembly
is restricted to persons who can and do pay.
A statute which, in the claimed interest of free and
honest electiQns, curtails the very freedoms that make possible exercise of the franchise by an informed and thinking
electorate, and does this by indiscriminate blanketing of
every expenditure made in connection with an elecuion,
serving as a prior restraint upon expression not in fact
forbidden as well as upon what is, cannot be squared
with the First Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Appendix to Opinion of

RUTLEIGE,

J.

335 U. S.

APPENDIX.
"Mr.

PEPPER ...

"I wish to ask the Senator, if I may, this question:
Would the newspaper called Labor, which is published
by the Railway Labor Executives, be permitted tQ put
out a special edition of the paper, for example, in support of President Truman, if he should be the Democratic candidate for the Presidency next year, and in
opposition to the Senator from Ohio, if he should be the
Republican nominee- for the Presidency, stating that
President Truman was a friend of labor and that the
Senator from Ohio was not friendly to labor? Would
that be called a political expenditure on the part of the
labor organization?
"Mr. TAFT. If it were supported by union funds contributed by union members as union dues it would be a
violation of the law, yes. It is exactly as if a railroad
itself, using its stockholders' funds, published such an
-advertisement in the newspaper supporting one candidate as against another. If the paper called Labor is
operated independently, if it derives its money. from its
subscribers, then of course there would be no violation.
The prohibition is against a labor organization using its
funds either as a contribution to a political campaign
or as a direct expenditure of funds on its own behalf."
(93 Cong. Rec. 6436.)
'Mr.

Yet the, Senator from Ohio says
that the newspaper Labor, published by the 21 railway
labor executives, would not be permitted to publish a
statement saying that it supported President Truman
and opposed Candidate Taft, or vice versa. I say that
would be a deprivation of the freedom of the press.
'Mr. 'TAFT. No; I said that union funds could not
be used for that purpose. They could conduct a newsPEPPER. . . .

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Appendix to Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

paper ii they wanted to, just as a corporation can conduct a newspaper. But why should a labor organization
be able to publish pamphlets or special newspapers
against one candidate or in favor of another candidate,
using funds which that organization collected from the
union members?" (Id. 6436-6437.)
"Mr. PEPPER. Mr. President, I call the attention of
the Senator from Ohio to the following practice of the
railway labor executives in the past: If a certain candidate was unfriendly to the interests of labor, they would
publish a special edition of their paper and would put
that special edition into circulation in the area where
that candidate was running for office, and would place
it in the hands of labor-union members and also in the
hands of the public generally.
"Mr. TAFT. That is exactly what they should not be
allowed to do.'
"Mr. PEPPER. Very well; I want it definitely understood that the Senator from Ohio intends to outlaw that
privilege on the part of labor. Now that I have that
clear"Mr. TAFT. It is perfectly clear. It is perfectly clear
that union funds are not to be used to interfere in political campaigns and with political candidates, either in
favor of one candidate or against another candidate. . ....
(Id. 6437.)

"Mr. BARKLEY. So if there is a labor organization
which is publishing a newspaper-not as a political newspaper, but for the benefit of its members-and if the expenses of that publication and distribution are paid from
,-the funds raised by means of the payment of dues, and
if all members of the union understand that a certain
portion of their dues goes to the publication of that news-

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Appendix to Opinion of

RUTLEGE, J.

335 U. S.

*paper, then in order for that newspaper to take any position with respect to any candidate, it would have to
charge a subscription by the month or by the year, in
order that. it might express its views in that respect; is
that so?
"Mr. TAFT. I am inclined to think so, just as a corporation gets out regular house organs to its members,
and if that corporation interferes in a political election
through one of those house organs it violates the Corrupt Practices Act...."

(Id. 6437-6438.)

"Mr. MAGNUSON. In order to determine the meaning
of that, let us assume a concrete example. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters have a newspaper,
which tley have published for many years. It has a circulation of probably 200,000. It is distributed to members. On the newsstand, no price appears on it. No
advertisements are accepted. Under this prohibition,
would they be prohibited in the future from mentioning
"n their editorial columns, for their regular circulation,
vithout adding anything additional, the support of a cerain candidate or a certain political party?
"Mr. TAFT. We discussed that. We discussed the
question of whether or not that newspaper was supported
in effect by contributions of corporations or labor organizations, or was paid for by the people who received it.
If the latter, I do not think it was an expenditure of
union funds or contributions, but if the union simply
takes the union funds and publishes a newspaper and
uses it as a political organ in an effort to elect or to defeat
one man that is prohibited." (Id. 6439-6440.)
"Mr. MAGNUSON. . . . If the pending bill should become law it would mean that all labor organs which are

UNITED STATES v. C. I. 0.
106

Appendix to Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

now in existence would, from now on, be prohibited from
participating in a campaign, favoring a candidate, mentioning his name, or endorsing him for public office?
"Mr. TAFT. No; I do not think it means that. The
union can issue a newspaper, and can charge the members for the newspaper, that is, the members who buy
copies of the newspaper, and the union can put such matters in the newspaper if it wants to. The union can
separate the payment of dues from the payment for a
newspaper if its members are willing to do so, that is,
if the members are willing to subscribe to that kind of
a newspaper. I presume the members would be willing
to do so. A union can publish such a newspaper, or
unions can do as was done last year, organize something
like the PAC, a political organization, and receive direct contributions, just so long as members of the union
know what they are contributing to, and the dues which
they pay into the union treasury are not used for such
purpose." (Id. 6440.)

