ECKENRODE v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.

329

Opinion of the Court.

ECKENRODE, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 28.

Argued October 22, 1948.-Decided November 15, 1948.

In a suit for damages under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
for the death of a railroad employee, held that there was no evidence in the record, nor any inference which reasonably could be
drawn from the evidence, when viewed in a light most favorable
to plaintiff, which could sustain a recovery. P. 330.
164 F. 2d 996, affirmed.

In a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the District Court set aside a verdict for the plaintiff
and entered judgment for the defendant. 71 F. Supp.
764. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 164 F. 2d 996.
This.Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 866. Affirmed,
p. 330.
B. Nathaniel Richter, by special leave of Court, pro
hac vice, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on
the brief was John H. Hoffman.
Owen B. Rhoads argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Philip Price and H. Francis
DeLone.
PER CURIAM.

This was a suit in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in which the petitioner claimed damages under the Federal Empluyers' Liability Act' and the Boiler Inspection Act 2 for the death
of her husband while in the respondent's employ as a
brakeman.
1 35
2 36

Stat. 65, 53 Stat. 1404,45 U. S. C. ยง 51.
Stat. 913, as amended, 45 U. S. C. ยง 23.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

In response to specific interrogatories, the jury absolved
the respondent of liability under the Boiler Inspection
Act, but found that there had been such negligence as to
create liability under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act. It returned a verdict for petitioner. Judgment was
entered upon the verdict.
The respondent moved the Court to set aside the verdict and the judgment entered thereon in accordance with
its motion for directed verdict under Rule 50 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The judgment was vacated; the verdict set aside, and judgment entered in
favor of the respondent. The District Court was of the
opinion that there was no evidence upon which a finding
of negligence could be predicated, and that, in any event,
there was no evidence of a causal relation between the
claimed negligence and the accident. 71 F. Supp. 764.
Upon appeal to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, the judgment was affirmed. A rehearing was granted, and there was an affirmance with
one judge dissenting. 164 F. 2d 996.
There is a single question presented to us: Was there
any evidence in the riecord upon which the jury could
have found negligence on the part of the respondent which
contributed, in whole or in part,' to Eckenrode's death?
Upon consideration of the record, the Court is of the opinion that there is no evidence, nor any inference which
reasonably may be drawn from the evidence, when viewed
in a light most favorable to the petitioner, which can
sustain a recovery for her.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.

845 U. S. C. ยง 51.

