AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.

573

Syllabus.

AYRSHIRE COLLIERIES CORP.
STATES

ET AL. V. UNITED

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 25. Argued November 12, 15, 1948.-Decided January 3, 1949.
Two proceedings under § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act
involved rail rates on bituminous coal between producing areas
long grouped for rate-making purposes in Indiana, Illinois and
western Kentucky, and destinations in northern Illinois and Beloit,
Wis. One resulted from a proposal of certain carriers to increase
rates between certain points. The other was an investigation instituted by the Commission into existing intrastate rates between
certain points in Illinois, to determine whether they were discriminatory, preferential and prejudicial against interstate commerce and in favor of intrastate commerce. After hearing and
considering both proceedings together on the same record, the
Commission found that certain existing and proposed rates would
result in unjust discrimination and undue preference and prejudice
in violation of §§ 2 and 3 of the Act. It issued an order in which
it disapproved a dual basis of rates, specified rates which it approved, and -ruled that the proposed rates would be unreasonable
to the extent that they exceeded the approved rates. Held:
1. In these proceedings, the Commission had authority to determine the lawfulness of existing rates as well as the proposed new
rates. Pp. 581-583.
2. The Commission was justified in concluding that the present
and proposed system of dual rates, under which single-line rates
from certain points in a group to certain destinations were substantially lower than joint-line rates from other points in the
same group to the same destinations, was an unjust discrimination
within the meaning of § 2 and would create an undue preferer.
and prejudice as between different points in the same :group.,
in violation of §3 (1) of the Act. Pp. 583-587.
(a) The preferential treatment of shippers at some points in
a group as against shippers at other points in the same group was
an unjust discrimination within the meaning of § 2. Pp. 585-587.
(b) In view of the fact tlhat the whole systemof rate making
on a group basis was not challenged in these proceedings, the Coin-

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Statement of the Case.

335 U. S.

mission's conclusions that the establishment of a dual basis of
rates for this coal-mining region defeats the system of grouping
by unjustly discriminating against some shippers and in favor of
others in the same group and that this unjust discrimination can
be avoided only by the establishment and maintenance- of a single
rate*lbasis cannot be challenged successfully on this record. P. 587.
3. The Commission was justified in finding that the differentials
maintained by certain carriers as between certain of the Indiana
groups 'constituted an undue preference and prejudice in violation
of § 3 (1) of the Act and in prescribing fair and reaqonable differ.entials between the Indiana groups and the Illinois groups. Pp.
'588-593.
(a) In the circumstances of this case, the Commission was
justified in using averages as a measure of the relationship between
the rates of the Indiana groups on the one hand and the Illinois
groups on the Ither, even though the resulting differentials were
not based strictly upon the factor of distance. Pp. 588-591.
(b) In considering these rates, the Commission was justified
in taking into consideration the element of competition. P. 592.
(c) It also has the consun~r interest to safeguard as well
as that of producers and carriers., P. 592.
(d) In fashioning a differentially related and finely balanced
rate structure in this complex situation, the Commission has a
broad discretion in accommodating the factors of transportation
conditions, distance and competition, so long as no statutory re-quirement is overlooked. P. 593.
4. Having undertaken to curb unlawful practices by prescribing
just and reasonable rates pursuant to §§ 15 (1) and 15 (7), the
Commission did not exceed its authority by failing to afford the
carriers alternative methods of lemoving the discrimination which
was found to exist. Pp. 593-594.
5. Having found a forbidden discrimination or preference in
rates, the Commission could remove it without finding that the
preferential rates were noncompensatory. P. 594.
Affirmed.

Having found that certain existing and proposed rail
rates on shipments of bituminous coal would result in
unjust discrimination and undue preference and prejudice, the Interstate Commerce Commission issued an

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

575

Opinion of the Court.

order in which it disapproved a dual basis of rates, specified rates which it approved, and ruled that the proposed
rates would be unreasonable to the extent that they
exceeded the approved rates. 263 I. C. C. 179. A threejudge District Court dismissed two complaints seeking
to set this order aside. On appeal to this Court, affirmed,
p. 594.
Earl B. Wilkinson argued the cause for Ayrshire Collieries Corp. et al., appellants. With him on the brief
was J. Alfred Moran.
Carson L. Taylor argued the cause for the Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Co., appellant.
With him on the brief were A. N. Whitlock and M. L.
Bluhm.
Daniel W. Knowlton argued the cause for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Bergson and Edward
Dumbauld.
Erle J. Zoll, Jr.argued the cause for the Alton Railroad
Co. et al., appellees. With him on the brief were A. E.
Funk, Attorney General of Kentucky, M. B. Holifield,
Assistant Attorney General, Charles W. Stadell and J. E.
Marks. Richard F. Wood was of counsel for Belleville
Fuels, Inc. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal, 38 Stat. 219, 220, 28 U. S. C. §§ 45
and 47a, 43 Stat. 938, 28 1T. S. C. § 345 (4), from a decree
of a three-judge District Court, which dismissed as with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

out merit two complaints seeking to set aside a rate order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission.'
Bituminous coal is produced in great quantities in Indiana, Illinois and western Kentucky. In each State
there are producing areas that have long been grouped
for rate-making purposes. These groups or districts are
the Brazil-Clinton, the Linton-Sullivan, the PrincetonAyrshire, and the Boonville in Indiana; the Northern
Illinois, the Fulton-Peoria, the Springfield, the Belleville,
and the Southern in Illinois; and the Western in Kentucky. Group rates have been established by the carriers so that all mines within each producing area are accorded the same rates to the same consuming destinations.' The result is that comparative distances of the
mines in one producing area from a particular consuming
destination are commonly disregarded in fixing the group
rate. But the Commission has long concluded that such
a system of rate making for coal and other natural resources encourages competitive production and a more
even development of an area.3
The present litigation involves group rates for carload
lots from the foregoing groups in Indiana, Illinois, and
'A prior decree sustaining this order of the Commission was reversed by the Court because one member of the three-judge District
Court had not participated in the decision. Ayrshire Corp. v. United
States, 331 U. S. 132.
2 Another characteristic of coal rate structures has been the rate
differentials. For example, Brazil is the base group in Indiana on
coal traffic to the Illinois and Wisconsin destinations involved in this
litigation. Hence the rates, expressed in cents per ton, from the
other Indiana groups are stated in terms of differences from the
Brazil group rate.
3 See Hitchman Coal & Cbke Co. v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 16
I. C. C. 512, 520; Waukesha Lime & Stone Co. v. Chicago, M. &
St. P. R. Co., 26 I. C. C. 515, 518; Wisconsin &-Arkansas Lbr. Co. v.
St,-touis, I. M. & S. R. Co., 33 I. C. C. 33, 37-38; Public Utilities

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

577

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky to Rockford, Freeport, Dixon and other points
in northern Illinois and to Beloit, Wisconsin.
The order under attack in this case resulted from two
proceedings before the Commission which were heard and
considered together on the same record. One was an
investigation in which carriers proposed certain increases
in rates for carload lots of bituminous coal from some of
the Indiana groups to Beloit, Wisconsin, and from all
of the Indiana groups to designated Illinois destinations.
Like increases in the Illinois intrastate rates to the same
Illinois destinations were also sought. These proposed
increases have been suspended until disposition of the
proceeding. The other proceeding was an investigation
instituted by the Commission, on complaint, into the
intrastate carload rates from the Illinois groups to the
same Illinois destinations to determine whether they were
discriminatory, prqferential, and prejudicial against interstate commerce and in favor of intrastate commerce.
These proceedings are only a recent chapter in. the
problem of adjustment of the coal rates for this region.
The Illinois Commerce Commission ordered a reduction
of the intrastate r'ates in 1930. This resulted in a reduction of certain interstate rates from Indiana and western
Kentucky to Rockford and other northern Illinois points.
The Interstate Commerce Commission refused to require
an increase in intrastate rates to the important Illinois
destinations involved here unless the rates from the Indiana groups to the same destinations were increased.
Commission V. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 33 I. C. C. 103, 106;
Southwestern Interstate Coal Operators'Assn. v. Arkansas W. R. Co.,
89 I. C. C. 73, 84-85. And see New York Harbor Case, 47 I. C. C.
643, 712; Illinois Commerce Commission v. United States, 292 U. S.
474,486.
4 See Intrastate Rates on Bituminous Coal in Illinois, 182 I. C. C.
537, 549-550.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Subsequently the Commission found that the rates from
the Illinois, Indiana and western Kentucky groups to
Beloit, Wisconsin, were in the main not unreasonable
but that they were unduly prejudicial to Beloit and unduly preferential to Rockford, if they exceeded the rates
from the same origins to Rockford by more than 25 cents.
The Commission also found on further hearing that the
rates from certain of the Illinois groups to Beloit, Wisconsin, were not unreasonable but that they were unduly
prejudicial to Beloit and unduly preferential to Rockford
to the extent that they exceeded the Rockford rates by
more than 15 cents. The Commission allowed the carriers to increase the rates to Rockford or to reduce the
rates to Beloit, or both, in order to relate the rates to
Beloit 15 cents over Rockford. But the intrastate rates
to Rockford had been prescribed as a maximum by the
Illinois Commission and therefore could not, be increased.
Also to increase the interstate rates without similar increases from the Illinois groups would be disruptive of
the rate structure built on the group basis. Accordingly
the rates to Beloit were reduced.'
The carriers subsequently proposed increases in the
rates from the Indiana groups and the Illinois groups to
Rockford and other Illinois points and, with certain exceptions, from the Indiana groups to Beloit, Wisconsin.
These increases conformed to the 15-cent relation be5The history of this rate problem is briefly summarized by the
Commission in its report on the present case7." 263 I. C. C. 179. For
earlier aspects of it see Intrastate Rates on Bituminous Coal in
Illinois, 182 I. C. C. 537; Fairbanks-Morse & Co. v. Alton &
S. R., 195 I. C. C. 365, 251 I. C. C. 181; -Illinois.Coal Traffic Bureau
*v. Ahnapee & W. R. Co., 204 I. C. C. 225; Coal to Illinois and Wis•consin, 232 I. C. C. 151. And see Coal from Indiana to Illinois,
.197 I. C. C. 245, 200 I. C. C. 609, the order in which, as we discuss
hereafter in the opinion, was held invalid by U ited States v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co , 294 U. S. 499.

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

579

Opinion of the Court.

tween Rockford and Beloit but placed the rates (both
interstate and intrastate) more nearly at the general
level of interstate rates in that territory.
One other fact must be mentioned if the present posture
of this rate problem is to be understood. After the Illinois intrastate rates were reduced in 1930 and after the
carriers' unsuccessful effort to have the earlier ones reestablished, the Milwaukee road proposed to reduce its
single-line rates from mines in the Brazil and Linton
groups which it serves to Rockford, Freeport and other
intermediate Illinois points by the amount of the Illinois
intrastate reduction. The Commissi6n ordered the proposed rate to be cancelled. The Court affirmed a decree
of a District Court which permanently enjoined the order
of the Commission. United States v. Chicago, M., St.
P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499.
Since that time the rates of the Milwaukee from origins
on its line in the Brazil and Linton groups to Rockford
and other intermediate points in Illinois have been lower
than the contemporaneous rates of carriers serving other
origins in these respective groups to the same destinations, with the exception of the Illinois Central which in
1936 published rates from the Linton group to Rockford
and other intermediate Illinois points on its lines on the
same basis as the Milwaukee's single-line rates.
The Milwaukee and the Illinois Central serve only a
part of the mines in the Brazil and Linton groups. But
they carry coal from other mines in those groups even
though theirlines do not reach them, since they are either
connecting carriers of lines that do or destination carriers.
They are therefore parties to many joint imp..
But the
joint rates do not reflect reductions which th Mitwaukee
and Illinois Central made in their single -Iic ,ates. And
the rate increases proposed, and suspeiwec' oy the Coinmission on the present proceedings, cont'naed that previ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

ous relationship. Moreover the.proposed dual basis of
rates to Rockford and other Illinois destinations reached
by the Milwaukee was proposed to be extended to Beloit,
which previously had enjoyed the same rates from all the
mines in the Brazil and Linton groups.
As we have noted, the new proposed rates respected
the 15-cent differential of Beloit over Rockford. The
result was a substantial increase in the joint-line rates
from the Brazil and Linton groups to B~loit as well as
to Rockford. But Milwaukee's single-line rates were increased 15 cents to Rockford and none to Beloit. The
result would be to accoid to mines in the Brazil and
Linton groups that were on the Milwaukee lines rates
lower to Beloit by 17 and 12 cents, respectively, than,
accorded the other mines in the two groups. Furthermore the new proposed rates would establish a dual basis
of rates to Beloit from the Princeton group as well.
The Commission disapproved the dual basis of rates.
It considered what would be the fair and reasonable rate
relations as between the respective origins in the several
groups and as between the groups themselves. It found
that present and proposed rates of the Milwaukee and
Illinois Central from Indiana to the northern Illinois
destinations would result in unjust discrimination as between shippers and receivers of coal and undue preference
and prejudice as between the origins in the Brazil and
Linton groups and as between the respective Indiana
groups. It made the same findings as respects the Milwaukee's proposed rates from the Brazil, Linton and
Princeton groups to Beloit; and in that connection it also
found that those rates would result in undue preference
and privilege as between the Indiana groups on the one
hand and the Illinois groups on the other. The Commission went on to specify rates which it approved. It
ruled that the proposed rates would be unreasonable to

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.

581

Opinion of the Court.

573

the extent that they were above the approved rates.' 263
I. C. C. 179.
We agree with the District Court that the complaints
must be dismissed.
First. It is contended that the Commission in this proceeding had authority to determine the lawfulness only
of the proposed rates, not of the present rates.
This proceeding is an investigation and suspension proceeding under § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act,
44 Stat. 1447, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7). That section, which
gives the Commission broad authority upon complaint or
its own initiative to investigate and determine the lawfulness of any new rate,7 provides that "after full hearing,
whether completed before or after the rate . . . goes into
effect, the commission may make such order with reforder entered by the Commission in'the proceeding to determine whether the intrastate rates were unjustly discriminatory
against interstate commerce is not under attack here. It required
the carriers to desist from practices which the Commission found
to be discriminatory and to establish and maintain, for the intrastate
transportation of coal, rates no lower than the approved rates.
7 "Whenever there shall be filed with the commission any schedule
stating a new individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or any new
individual or joint classification, or any new individual or joint
regulation or practice affecting any rate, fare, or charge, the commission shall have, and it is hereby given, authority, either upon
complaint or upon its own initiative without complaint, at once,
and if it so orders without answer or other formal pleading by the
interested carrier or carriers, but upon reasonable notice, to enter
upon a hearing concerning the lawfulness of such rate, fare, charge,
classification, regulation, or practice; and pending such hearing and
the decision thereon the commission, upon filing with such schedule
and delivering to the carri er or carriers affected thereby a statement
in writing of its reasons for such suspension, may from time to time
suspend the operation of such schedule and defer the use of such
rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice, but not for
a longer period than seven months beyond the time when it would
6 The

798176 0-49----42

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

erence thereto as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after it had become effective."
The power of the Commission to deal with the situation as if the proposed new rates had become effective
is necessarily a comprehensive one. It seems too plain
for argument that such broad authority is ample for the
modification of either proposed or existing rates or both.
The power granted the Commission under § 15 (1) to deal
with rate schedules already effective supports that view.'
For once the Commission finds the rate to be unjust or
otherwise go into effect; and after full hearing, whether completed
before or after the rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or
practice goes into effect, the commission may make such order with
reference thereto as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after
it had become effective."
8 "That whenever, after full hearing, upon a complaint made as
provided in section 13 of this part, or after full hearing under an
order for investigation and hearing made by the Commission on
its own initiative, either in extension of any pending complaint or
without any complaint whatever, the Commission shall be of opinion
that any individual or joint rate, fare, or charge whatsoever demanded, charged, or collected by any common carrier or carriers
subject to this part for the transportation of persons or property
as defined in the first section of this part, or that any individual
or joint classification, regulation, or practice whatsoever of such
carrier or carriers subject to the provisions of this part, is or will
be unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly
preferential or prejudicial, or otherwise in violation of any of the
provisions of this part, the Commission is hereby authorized and
empowered to determine and prescribe what will be the just and
reasonable individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or rates, fares,
or charges, to be thereafter observed in such case, or the maximum
or minimum, or maximum and minimum, to be charged, and what
individual or joint classification, regulation, or practice is or will be
just, fair, and reasonable, to be thereafter followed, and to make
an order that the carrier or carriers shall cease and desist from such
violation to the extent to which the Commission finds that the
same does or will exist, and shall not thereafter publish, demand,
or collect any rate, fare, or charge for such transportation other than
the, rate, fare, or charge so prescribed, or in excess of the maximum

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

583

Opinion of the, Court.

unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential or prejudicial or otherwise unlawful, the Commission is granted the power under § 15 (1) to determine
and prescribe the just and reasonable rate. The Commission is not bound either to approve or disapprove
in toto the new rates that are proposed. It can modify
the proposal in any respect and require that the proposed
rates as modified or wholly different rates be substituted
for the present ones. That has been the view of the
Commission since the beginning; I and we think it is
the correct one.
The same result obtains as respects the Milwaukee's
single-line rates from origins on its lines in the Brazil
and Linton groups to Beloit, Wisconsin. The Milwaukee
had not proposed any change in those rates. But those
rates had been republished in the proposed schedules.
They were among the rates suspended by the Commission. And the Commission's order of investigation cited
the Milwaukee tariff that contains those rates. Hence
the Commission sought to bring them into the investigation and gave Milwaukee all the notice to which it
was entitled. That the Commission had authority to include them seems clear to us. Even though we assume
they are not "new" rates within the meaning of § 15 (7),
they are rates "demanded, charged, or collected" within
the meaning of § 15 (1).
Second. Section 2 of the Act makes it unlawful for
a carrier to receive from one person a greater or less
compensation for transporting property than it receives
from another for doing a "like and contemporaneous
service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under
or less -than the minimum so prescribed, as the case may be, and
shall adopt the classification and shall conform to and observe the
regulation or practice so prescribed."
9
See Advances in Rates-Western Case, 20 I C. C. 307, 314;
Lignite Coal from N. Dakota, 126 I. C. C. 243,244.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

substantially similar circumstances and conditions." °
It is pointed out that the purpose of this section is to
enforce equality between shippers of like commodities
over the same line or haul for the same distance and
between the same points. 1 This requirement, it is argued, has not been met in the present case since there
is no finding that any of the coal from any origin point
to any destination was being charged a higher rate than
other coal from the same origin point to the same destination moving over the same line under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions. The contention
would be well taken if the Commission was not warranted
in treating all places within a particular group or district as one origin point. Whether or not the Commission was warranted in doing so, depends primarily on the
legality of its action in gathering together various origin
points into one rate group for rate-making purposes.
As we have noted 12 that has been an historic method
of building coal rate structures. The Commission followed that method in this case because in its opinion
10"That if any common carrier subject to the provisions of this

part shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback, or other device, charge, demand, collect, or receive from any
person or persons a greater or less compensation for any service
rendered, or to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers or
property, subject to the provisions of this part, than it charges,
demands, collects, or receives from any other person or persons for
doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed
guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and
declare d to be unlawful."
11See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co.,
145 U. S. 263, 280; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama
Midland R. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 166; Barringer& Co. v. United States,
319 U. S. 1, 6.
12

See note 3, supra.

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

585

Opinion of the Court.

such a rate structure was necessary to afford consumers,
coal operators, and carriers a fair opportunity to compete
in the purchase, sale and transportation of coal from
the mines in the various groups or districts to the destinations in question. The Commission's power so to act
is not challenged here. Yet once the legality of the
grouping of mines for rate purposes is accepted, the result
is clear. For' the protection of one shipper against
unjust discrimination in favor of another within the same
group is as clearly within the purpose of § 2 as the
protection of one factory against unjust discrimination
in favor of another in the same community.
The Milwaukee and Illinois Central were granting
more favorable rates to some origins than to others in
the same groups or districts. Their single-line rates from
mines on their own lines were much lower than joint-line
rates from other mines in the same group to the same
destinations. The latter are rates published by other
carriers and in which Milwaukee and Illinois Central
join. Milwaukee and Illinois Central therefore are parties to an arrangement which results in some mines getting lower rates than other mines in the same group on
shipments to the same destinations.
The question remains whether that preferential treatment of shippers at some origins was an unjust discrimination within the meaning of § 2.
The single-line rates of Milwaukee and Illinois Central
from the Linton group to northern Illinois destinations
were 12 cents lower than the joint-line rates to the same
points from other mines in the Linton group. The like
differential as respects the Brazil group was 17 cents.
The proposed schedules continued that dual basis of rates
and extended it to Beloit, Wisconsin. The Commission
made what seems to us a permissible inference, that
rates favorable to the mines on the single-rate routes
played an important part in getting the great bulk of

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

the tonnage from the roads having the higher joint rates.
Thus Milwaukee served, only 4 of the 30 mines in the
Brazil group and only 9 of the 31 in the Linton group.
But in what the Commission called a representative
period, Milwaukee handled under its single-line rates over
95 per cent of the tonnage moving from Brazil to Rockford and over 78 per cent of that from Linton to Rockford. The Commission concluded that the maintenance
of the dual basis of rates therefore had an important
bearing 0n the future opportunities of shippers within
the respective groups to market their coal in the destination territory. It found that there was severe competition in marketing coal in this territory and that a differentially related and finely balanced rate structure on
the coal was necessary in order to meet the needs of the
consuming public, the mine operators, and the carriers.
For, in general, all of the mines in these groups produce
coal of the same quality and grade. A difference of a
few cents per ton in the transportation charge is normally
sufficient to divert a coal contract from one mine to
another. Yet the Commission found that the transportation conditions over the single-line routes do not differ
materially from those over the joint-line routes to the
same destinations from other mines in the same group;
that there is no important difference in the average distances over those respective routes.
The latter findings, especially the one respecting the
similarity of transportation conditions, are severely challenged as being without any support in the evidence.
These findings, when judged by the classic examples of
unjust discrimination between shippers, leave much to
be desired. But we think they are adequate in this case.
They reflect an intimate acquaintance by the Commission
with the grouping of mines for rate-making purposes.
See 263 I. C. C., p. 196. The groups are themselves
designed to equalize competitive opportunities. The lo-

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

587

Opinion of the Court.

cation of the mines, their distances from destination territory, the transportation conditions over the lines that
serve the various origins within a group-these are all factors which bear on the determination of what mines shall
be pulled together into one group. The Commission can
draw from its long experience with these groupings to determine whether any variables in transportation conditions warrant a difference of rates as between mines
within one group to a common destination. Or to state it
otherwise, the attack here could not succeed unless it were
on the respective groupings themselves. The appellants,
of course, claim the right to initiate rates within the zone
of reasonableness. See United States v. Chicago, M., St.
P. & P. R. Co., supra. But the Commission holds that
when that power is used to establish a dual basis of rates
for this coal mining region, it defeats the system of grouping by unjustly discriminating against some shippers and
in favor of others in the same group. The Commission's
conclusion that only by the establishment and maintenance of a single-rate basis can that unjust discrimination
be avoided is an informed judgment based on a complex
of many factors. It cannot be successfully challenged on
this record unless the whole system of rate making on a
group basis is undermined. But no such major project
is undertaken.
What we have just said also disposes of the attack
which is made on the findings and conclusion of the Commission that the present and proposed system of dual
rates creates an undue preference and prejudice as between the origins in the Brazil and-Linton groups in violation of § 3 (1) of the Act. 3
13 "It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this part to make, give, or cause any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, association, locality, port, port district, gateway., transit
point, region, district, territorV, or any paxticular description of traf-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Third. The Commission found that the differentials
maintained by the Milwaukee and Illinois Central as
between certain of the. Indiana groups constituted an
undue preference and prejudice in violation of § 3 (1)
14
of the Act.
The Commission found that the differential, Linton
over Brazil, should be 10 cents. This is the standard
differential, in effect generally to the northwest. It
found that the standard differential, Princeton over Linton, was 7 cents. Milwaukee's differential in the former
would be 22 cents; and the differential of the Milwaukee
and Illinois Central in the latter would be 19 cents. The
main attack of appellants on this phase of the case is
the Commission's conclusion that these differentials are
greater than those warranted by the'respective differences
in distances. Facts are adduced to show that they fairly
reflect differences in distances.
But the Commission made plain that in considering
the whole problem of rate relations presented by this
case it did not rely strictly upon distance. Distance was
a factor but it was not controlling. The Commission
deemed its task to be the creation of a rate structure
that would afford a, fair opportunity to compete in the
purchase, sale and transportation of the coal from the
various mines to the destinations in question.
fic, in any respect whatsoever; or to subject any particular person,
company, firm, corporation, association, locality, port, port district,
gateway, transit point, region, district, territory, or any particular
description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage in any respect whatsoever ....
14 "The Milwaukee and the Illinois Central join in rates from the
Princeton and Boonville groups to these northern Illinois destinations
which reflect differences between those groups on the one hand, and
the Brazil and Linton points served by those two respondents on the
other, that are substantially greater than the so-called standard differentials and greater than are warranted by the respective differences
in distance."

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

589

Opinion of the Court.

The propriety of that action of the Commission is
determinative of another phase of the case as well. It
goes to the heart of appellants' objections to the differentials prescribed by the Commission as fair and reasonable as between the Indiana groups and the Illinois
groups.
The Commission approved rates from the Indiana
groups to twelve Illinois destinations which averaged $1.95
from Brazil, $2.05 from Linton, and $2.12 from PrincetonBoonville. These rates, the Commission found, compared favorably with the proposed rates to the same destinations from the Illinois groups, 5 apart from exceptions
not now material.
The chief problem of the Commission in this case was
to provide a rate structure which would afford fair and
reasonable relations of rates to northern Illinois destina15 The Commission in determining maximum reasonable rates from
the Fulton-Peoria group to Iowa destinations developed the so-called
Midland scale. See Midland Electric Coal Corp. v. Chicago & N.
W. R. Co., 232 I. C. C. 5. It used the so-called Indiana-Illinois scale
for the same. purpose in connection with certain Indiana groups to
eastern-central Illinois destinations. See Coal Trade Assn. v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 190 I. C. C. 743, In the present case the Commission made certain adjustments in those scales, see 263 I. C. C.
at 186, and used them in the comparison of the approved Indiana
rates with the approved Illinois rates. Those combined rates for
Indiana'to twelve northern Illinois destinations average 86.1 per cent
of the Indiana-Illinois -scale and 70.7 per cent of the Midland scale,
while the combined rates for the Illinois groups to those destinations
averaged 85.4 per cent and 70.3 per cent of those scales.
The Commission approved rates of $2.22 from Brazil to Beloit,
Wisconsin, $2.32 from Linton, and $2.39 from Princeton-Boonville,
rates which the Commission found compared favorably with the
present rates from the Illinois groups to Beloit. Taken as a whole,
the approved rates from Indiana to Beloit averaged 94.3 per cent
of the Indiana-Illinois scale and 77:1 per cent of the Midland scale,
while the combined present rates from the Illinois groups to Beloit
average 92.9 per cent and 76.6 per cent of the respective scales.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

tions, ooth as between the respective origin groups and
as between Indiana groups and Illinois groups. There
had been historically no fixed relation either between the
former or the latter. And the appearance of a dual basis
of rates greatly distorted the picture. The Commission
did in this: case what the Court pointed out in United
States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., supra, at 510,
it had not done there, viz, it adjudged the fairness of the
relation subsisting between Illinois and Indiana rates.
Appellants however contend that what the Commission
did was wholly arbitrary. They point to instances where
the rate from an Indiana group is more than the rate from
an Illinois group even though the haul is shorter. They
say that what the Commission did was to adjust the rates
not to compensate for the transportation service rendered
but to favor Illinois groups over Indiana groups. They
give illustration after illustration of the inconsistencies
between the specific rates, assuming, as the Commission
found, that the transportation conditions which were
involved were the same. From that argument appellants
seek to make two points-(1) that the rates approved
by the Commission do not reflect group differentials designed to eliminate discrimination and preference and (2)
that, even though they do, individual rates are established that are wholly arbitrary in violation of the principle that each destination is entitled to a reasonable
rate.
We cannot deny the Commission authority to use averages as a measure of the relationship between the rates
of the Indiana groups on the one hand and the Illinois
groups on the other. The averages would be some indication of the closeness of the alignment. The important
comparison here is in the regional or group differentials.
These differentials in the present case were not designed
so as to be faithful to the factor of distance. The Commission followed the common practice in giving diminish-

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

591

Opinion of the Court.

ing weight to distance and increasing weight to competition as the length of the haul increased. The Commission said, 263 I. C. C. at 204,
"In approving the foregoing rate relations, we have

kept in mind the importance to consumers, coal op-

erators, and railroads of relating these differentially
related coal rates, not strictly upon distance, but so as
to afford all concerned a fair opportunity to compete
in the purchase, sale, and transportation of coal from
Illinois and Indiana mines to these destinations.
The rates between the various origin .groups in these
fields have never been made with primary regard for
distance, and to so make them now would have the

effect eventually of eliminating practically all competition between most of them, a result which would

be highly undesirable to the consumer, whose interests we may not disregard." "
16 The

Commission made this additional observation concerning
the weight it gave to distance, 263 I. C. C. at 204,
"And in according such weight to distance as seemed to us to be
fair and reasonable, we have also kept in mind that the average
distances of record, and as used in this report, especially from Illinois
mines, frequently reflect seeming inconsistencies from the same group
to destinations in close proximity to each other. For example, Amboy is located south of and about 12 miles over The Illinois Central
and across country less distant from the Illinois groups than Dixon,
but the average shortest tariff-route distance from the Springfield
group is 9 miles greater and from the southern Illinois group 1 mile
greater to the former than to the latter. By use of the short tariff
routes the distance to Amboy is 9 miles greater from Springfield and
7 miles greater from southern Illinois than to Dixon. These variations in distance are due to the different routes used and also to the
fact that frequently the group rate applies from a larger number
of origins to one destination than to another. Thus, to Dixon the
Springfield rate is published from 61 origins on 15 originating railroads, but to Amboy the rate applies from only 23 origins on 8
railroads. So also, the southern Illinois rate applies from 75 origins
on 7 roads to Dixon and 65 origins on 5 roads to Amboy. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

There is no doubt, therefore, that the Commission believed that the competitive factor was an important one
in considering this problem of rate relationships. The
result may, as appellants contend, favor some Illinois
mines over Indiana as respects certain markets. That
would seem to follow, for example, from the elimination
of the low single-line rate that the Commission found to
be disruptive of rate relations between these groups. But
it does not indicate that the rates approved by the Commission were unlawful. That might be established by
showing, for example, that the Commission gave weight
only to the competitive factor. Yet all that appellants
attempt here is to show that discrepancies in rates are
not warranted by any difference in transportation conditions or in distance. That is not enough provided the
Commission was justified in considering the element of
competition.
We think it was. Rate structures are not designed
merely to favor the revenues of producers and carriers.
The Commission has the consumer interest to safeguard
as well." And when it undertakes to rationalize the interests of the three, great complexities are often encountered.
The economics of the bituminous coal industry have bafvariations in distance thus brought about are much greater from
Illinois groups than from Indiana groups. It is plain, therefore, that
comparisons based on distance, especially as between Indiana and
Illinois groups to particular destinations, cannot be accepted as
controlling, but must be evahiated with the above facts in mind."
'17 The consumer interest traditionally has been prominent in the
Commission's consideration of the type of problem presented here.
See Andy's Ridge Coal Co. v. Southern R. Co., 18 I. C. C. 405, 410;
Waukesha Lime & Stone Co. v. Chicago, M., & St. P. R. Co., supra,
at 518, 519; Wisconsin & Arkansas Lumber Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. &
S. R. Co., supra, at 37, 38; Southwestern Interstate Coal Operators'
Assn. v. Arkansas W. R. Co., supra, at 85; Coal to Illinois and
Wisconsin, supra,at 167, 169.

AYRSHIRE CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
573

593

Opinion of the Court.

fled even experts. We would depart from our competence
and our limited function in this field if we undertook
to accommodate the factors of transportation conditions,
distance and competition differently than the Commission has done in this case. That is a task peculiarly
for it. In fashioning what the Commission called a differentially related and finely balanced rate structure for
this coal, there is no place for dogma or rigid formulae.
The problem calls for an expert, informed judgment on
a multitude of facts. The result is that the administrative rate-maker is left with broad discretion as long as
no statutory requirement is overlooked. Yet that is, of
course, precisely the nature of the administrative process
in this field. See Board of Trade v. United States, 314
U. S. 534, 548; New York v. United.States, 331 U. S.
284, 347-349.
Fourth. Appellants argue that the Commission acted
beyond its authority because it did not afford the carriers
alternative methods of removing the discrimination which
was found to exist. See Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, 289 U. S. 627. And Milwaukee argues that the
Commission was without power to direct it to cease from
granting the undue preference found to exist between its
single-line rate and the higher joint-line rates, since it
had no control over the latter.
This is not a case like Texas & PacificR. Co. v. United
States, supra, where the Commission issues a so-called
alternative order directing the carriers to remove an unjust discrimination or undue preference which has been
found. That kind of order leaves a choice to the carriers
whether to eliminate the unlawful practice by raising one
rate, lowering the other, or altering both. But as we
recently held in New York v. United States, supra, at
342, that rule is not applicable where the Commission
itself undertakes to correct the unlawful practice by pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

scribing the just and reasonable rate. The Commission
has taken that action here. As we noted above, the
present proceeding was one under § 15 (1) and § 15 (7).
Section 15 (1) gives the Commission power to determine
and prescribe the just and reasonable rate once it finds,
inter alia, that any rate charged is unjustly discriminating
or unduly preferential or prejudicial. The Commission
in the present case has exercised that power. It has
prescribed approved rates. They are rates which in the
Commission's judgment will eliminate the unjust discrimination and undue preference found to exist in this rate
structure. Hence the question whether Milwaukee effectively controlled the higher joint-line rates is irrelevant
here. New York v. United States, supra.
Finally it is suggested that the order is invalid because
the Commission did not find that the preferential rates
were noncompensatory. But once a forbidden discrimination or preference in rates is found, the Commission
may remove it even though the rates are within the zone
of reasonableness. New York v. United States, supra, at
344.
Affirmed.

