LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO.

525

Syllabus.

LINCOLN FEDERAL LABOR UNION ET AL.

NORTHWESTERN IRON & METAL CO.
NO. 47.

V.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.*

Argued November 8-10, 19481-Decided January 3, 1949.
A Nebraska constitutional amendment and a North Carolina statute
provide, in effect, that no person in those States shall be denied
an opportunity to obtain or retain employment because he is or
is not a member of a labor organization. They also forbid employers to enter into contracts or agreements obligating themselves
to exclude persons from employment because they are or are not
members of labor unions. Held: They do not violate rights guaranteed to employers, unions, or members of unions by the Constitution of the United States. Pp. 527-537.
1. These state laws do not abridge the freedom of speech and
the right of unions and their members "peaceably to assemble,
and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances,"
which are guaranteed by the First Amendment and made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 529-531.
2. Nor do they conflict with Article I, § 10, of the Constitution,
insofar as they impair the obligation of contracts made prior to
their enactment. Pp. 531-532.
3. Nor do they deny unions and their members equal protection
of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 532-533.
4. Nor do they deprive employers, unions or members of unions
of their liberty without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 533-537.
149 Neb. 507, 31 N. W. 2d 477, affirmed.
228 N. C. 352, 45 S. E. 2d 860, affirmed.

No. 47. In a suit brought by certain labor organizations and the president of one of. them for a declaratory
judgment and equitable relief, a Nebraska trial court
sustained the validity of the so-called "Right-to-Work
Amendment" to the Nebraska Constitution, now designated as Art. XV, §§ 13, 14 and 15, and sustained a de*Together with No. 34, Whitaker et al. v. North Carolina, on
appeal from the Supreme Court of North Carolina.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Counsel for Parties.

335 U. S.

murrer to the petition. The Supreme Court of Nebraska
affirmed. 149 Neb. 507, 31 N. W. 2d 477. On appeal
to this Court, affirmed, p. 537.
No. 34. An employer and certain officers and agents
of certain labor unions were convicted in a North Carolina state court of violations of N. C. Acts, 1947, ch. 328,
N. C. Gen. Stat., ch. 95, Art. 10, for entering into a
"closed-shop agreement." The Supreme Court of North
Carolina affirmed and sustained the validity of the statfite
under the Constitution of the United States. 228 N. C.
352, 45 S. E. 2d 860. On appeal to this Court, affirmed,
p. 537.
Herbert S. Thatcher argued the cause for appellants
in both cases and George Pennell argued the cause for
appellants in No. 34. With them on the brief for appellants were J. Albert Woll, James A. Glenn, J. H. Morgan
and H. S. McCluskey.
Irving Hill argued the cause and filed a brief for the
Northwestern Iron & Metal Co., appellee in No. 47.
Edson Smith argued the cause for the Nebraska Small
Business Men's Association, and Robert A. Nelson, Assistant Attorney General of Nebraska, for the State of
Nebraska, appellees in No. 47. With them on the brief
were Walter R. Johnson, Attorney General of Nebraska,
Clarence S. Beck, Deputy Attorney General, and Edward
R. Burke.
Ralph Moody, Assistant Attorney General of North
Carolina, argued the cause for appellee in No. 34. With
him on the brief was Harry McMullan, Attorney General.
Arthur J. Goldberg and Frank Donner filed an amicus
curiae memorandum on behalf of the Congress of Indus-

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO.
525

527

Opinion of the Court.

trial Organizations and its affiliated organizations, in support of appellants.
An amicus curiae brief in support of appellees was filed
on behalf of the States of Florida, by J. Tom Watson,
Attorney General; Michigan, by Eugene F. Black, Attorney Genersl; North Dakota, by P. 0. Sathre, Attorney
General; Tennessee, by William F. Barry, Solicitor General; Utah, by Grover A. Giles, Attorney General; and
Wisconsin, by Grover L. Broadfoot, Attorney General,
Stewart G. Honeck, Deputy Attorney General, and Beatrice Lampert, Assistant Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under employment practices in the United States,
employers have sometimes limited work opportunities to
members of unions, sometimes to non-union members, and
at other times have employed and kept their workers
without regard to whether they were or were not members
of a union. Employers are commanded to follow this
latter employment practice in the states of North Carolina and Nebraska. A North Carolina statute and a
Nebraska constitutional amendment' provide that no
1 Section 2 of Chapter 328 of the North Carolina Session Laws,
enacted in 1947, reads as follows:
"Any agreement or combination between any employer and any
labor union or labgr organization whereby persons not members of
such union or organization shall be denied the right to work for
said employer, or whereby such membership is made a condition of
employment or continuation of employment by such employer, or
whereby any such union or organization acquires an emp!oyment
monopoly in any enterprise, is hereby declared to be against the
public policy and an illegal combination or conspiracy in restraint
of trade or commerce in the State of North Carolina."
Nebraska in 1946 adopted a constitutional amendment, Art. XV,
§ 13 of which reads as follows:
"No person shall be denied employment because of membership
in or affiliation with, or resignation or expulsion from a labor organ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

person in those states shall be denied an opportunity to
obtain or retain employment because he is or is not a
member of a labor organization. To enforce this policy
North Carolina and Nebraska employers are also forbidden to enter into contracts or agreements obligating themselves to exclude persons from employment because they
are or are not labor union members.'
These state laws were given timely challenge in North
Carolina and Nebraska courts on the ground that insofar
as they attempt to protect non-union members from discrimination, the laws are in violation of rights guaranteed
employers, unions, and their members by the United
States Constitution.3 The state laws were challenged as
violations of the right of freedom of speech, of assembly
ization or because of refusal to join or affiliate with a labor organization; nor shall any individual or corporation or association of any
kind enter into any contract, written or oral, to exclude persons
from employment because of membership in or nonmembership in
a labor organization."
2 Shops that refuse to employ any but union members are sometimes designated as "closed shops," sometimes as "union shops."
Contracts which obligate an employer to employ none but union
members are sometimes designated as union security agreements,
closed shop contracts or union shop contracts. There is also much
dispute as to the exact meaning of the term "open shop.'' See Encyclopedia of Social Sciences, Vol. 3 (1930), pp. 568-569. There is
such an important difference in emphasis between these different
labels that we think it better to avoid use of any of them in this
opinion.
The Nebraska constitutional amendment was challenged in an
action for equitable relief and for a declaratory judgment. A substantial basis of the complaint was that employers had refused to
comply with the request of unions to discharge certain employees
who had failed to retain union membership. In North Carolina,
criminal proceedings were instituted against the appellants charging
that an agreement made unlawful by the statute had been entered
into by the appellant employer and the other appellants, who are
officers and agents of labor unions affiliated with the American
Federation of Labor.

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO.
525

529

Opinion of the Court.

and of petition guaranteed unions and their members by
"the First Amendment and protected against invasion by
the State under the Fourteenth Amendment." It was further contended that the state laws impaired the obligations of existing contracts in violation of Art. I, § 10, of
the United States Constitution and deprived the appellant
unions and employers of equal protection and due process
of law guaranteed against state invasion by the Fourteenth Amendment. All of these contentions were rejected by the State Supreme Courts 4 and the cases are
here on appeal under § 237 of, the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. § 344 (now 28 U. S. C. § 1257). The substantial
identity of the questions raised in the two cases prompted
us to set them for argument together and for the same
reason we now consider the cases in a single opinion.
First. It is contended that these state laws abridge the
freedom of speech and the opportunities of unions and
their members "peaceably to assemble, and to petition the
Government for a redress of grievances." ' Under the
state policy adopted by these laws, employers must, other
considerations being equal, give equal opportunities for
4

State v. Whitaker, 228 N. C. 352, 45 S. E. 2d 860; Lincoln Federal Labor Union No. 19129 v. Northwestern Iron & Metal Co., 149
Neb. 507, 31 N. W. 2d 477. See also American Federationof Labor
v. American Sash &.Door Co., 67 Ariz. 20, 189 P. 2d 912. An appeal
in this latter case was also argued along with the two cases considered
in this opinion. We have treated the Arizona case in a separate
opinion, post, p. 538, b ause the challenged Arizona amendment
presents a question not raised in the Nebraska or North Carolina
laws.
5 This contention rests on the premise that the Fourteenth Amendment makes the prohibitions and guarantees of the First Amendment
applicable to state action. See West Virginia v. Barnette, 319 U. S.
624, 639. The pertinent language of the First Amendment is "Congress shall make no law . .. abridging the freedom of speech, or
of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and
to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

remunerative work to union and non-union members
without discrimination against either. In order to
achieve this objective of equal opportunity for the two
groups, employers are forbidden to make contracts which
would obligate them to hire or keep none but union members. Nothing in the language of the laws indicates a
purpose to prohibit speech, assembly, or petition. Precisely what these state laws do is to forbid employers
acting alone or in concert with labor organizations deliberately to restrict employment to none but union
members.
It is difficult to see how enforcement of this state policy
could infringe the freedom of speech of anyone, or deny
to anyone the right to assemble or to petition for a redress
of grievances. And appellants do not contend that the
laws expressly forbid the full exercise of those rights
by unions or union members. Their contention is that
these state laws indirectly infringe their constitu-.
tional rights of speech, assembly, ana petition. While
the basis of this contention is not entirely clear, it
seems to rest on this line of reasoning: The right of unions
,and union members to demand that no non-union members work along with union members is "indispensable to
the right of self-organization and the association of workers into unions"; without a right of union members to
refuse to work with non-union members, there are "no
means of eliminating the competition of the non-union
worker"; since, the reasoning continues, a "closed shop"
is indispensable to achievement of sufficient union membership to put unions and employers on a full equality
for collective bargaining, a closed shop is consequently
" "an indispensable concomitant" of "the right of employees to assemble into and associate together through labor
organizations . . ." Justification for such an expansive
construction of the right to speak, assemble and petition is

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO.
525

531

Opinion of the Court.

then rested in part on appellants' assertion "that the right
to work as a non-unionist is in no way equivalent to or
the parallel of the right to work as a union member; that
there exists no constitutional right to work as a nonunionist on the one hand while the right to maintain
employment free from discrimination becatiuse 9f union
membership is constitutionally protected." Cf. Wallace
Corporationv. Labor Board, 323 U. S. 248.
We deem it unnecessary to elaborate the numerous reasons for our rejection of this contention of appellants.
Nor need we appraise or analyze with particularity the
rather startling ideas suggested to support some of the
premises on which appellants' conclusions rest. There
cannot be wrung from a constitutional right of workers
to assemble to discuss improvement of their own working
standards, a further constitutional right to drive from
remunerative employment all other persons who will not
or can not participate in union assemblies. The constitutional right of workers to assemble, to discuss and
formulate plans for furthering their own self interest in
jobs cannot be construed as a constitutional guarantee
that none shall get and hold jobs except those who will
join in the assembly or will agree to abide by the assembly's plans. For where conduct affects the interests of
other individuals and the general public, the legality of
that conduct must be measured by whether the conduct
conforms to valid law, even though the conduct is engaged
in pursuant to plans of an assembly.
Second. There is a suggestion though not elaborated
in briefs that these state laws conflict with Art. I, § 10,
of the United States Constitution, insofar as they impair
the obligation of contracts made prior to their enactment.
That this contention is without merit is now too clearly
established to require discussion. See Home Bldg. &
Lo an Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.398, 436-439, and cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

there cited. And also Veix v. Sixth Ward Bldg. & Loan
Assn.,.310 U. S. 32, 38; East New York Savings Bank v.
Hahn, 326 U. S. 230, 232.
Third. It is contended that the North Carolina and
Nebraska laws deny unions and their members equal
protection of the laws and thus offend the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Because
the outlawed contracts are a useful incentive to the
growth of union membership, it is said that these laws
weaken the bargaining power of unions and correspondingly strengthen the power of employers. This may be
true. But there are other matters to be considered. The
sta e laws also make it impossible for an employer to
make contracts with company unions which obligate the
employer to refuse jobs to union members. In this
respect, these state laws protect the employment opportunities of members of independent unions. See Wallace
Corporation v. Labor Board, supra. This circumstance
alone, without regard to others that need not be mentioned, is sufficient to support the state laws against a
charge that they deny equal protection to unions as
against employers and non-union workers.
It is also argued that the state laws do not proviae
protection for union members equal to that provided for
non-union members. But in identical language these
state laws forbid employers to discriminate against union
and non-union members.' Nebraska and North Carolina
thus command equal employment opportunities for both
groups of workers. It is precisely because these state
laws command equal opportunities for both groups that
appellants argue that the constitutionally protected rights
of assembly and due process have been violated. For
the constitutional protections surrounding these rights are
relied on by appellants to support a contention that the
-Federal Constitution guarantees greater employment

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO., 533
525

Opinion of the Court.

rights to union members than to non-union members.
This claim of appellants is itself a refutation of the contention that the Nebraska and North Carolina laws fail
to afford protection to union members equal to the protection afforded non-union workers.
Fourth. It is contended that -these state laws deprive
appellants of their libe~fy without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Appellants
argue that the laws are specifically designed to deprive all
persons within the two states of "liberty" (1) to refuse
to hire or retain any person in employment because he
is 'or is not a union member, and (2) to make a contract
or agreement to engage in such employment discrimination against union or non-union members.
Much of appellants' argument here seeks to establish
that due process -of law is denied employees and union
men by that part of these state laws that forbids them
to make contracts with the employer obligating him to
re.fuse to hire or retain non-union workers. But that
part of these laws does no more than provide a method
to aid enforcement of the heart of the laws, namely, their
command that employers must not discriminate against
either union or non-union members becaus6 they are such.
If the states have constitutional power to ban such discrimination by law, they also have power to ban contracts
which if performed would bring about the prohibited discrimination. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 21')
U. S. 549, 570, 571.
Many cases are cited by appellants in which this Court
has said that in some instances the due process clause
protects the liberty of persons to make contracts. But
none of these cases, even those according the broadest
constitutional protection to the making of contracts, ever
went so far as to indicate that the due process clause
bars a state from prohibiting contracts to engage in con.798176 0--49--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U, S.

duct banned by a valid state law. So here, if the provisions in the state laws against employer discrimination
are valid, it follows that the contract'prohibition also
is valid. Bayside Fish Flour Co. v. Gentry, 297 U. S. 422,
427. And see Sage v. Hampe, 235 U. S. 99, 104-105.
We therefore turn to the decisive question under the due
process contention, which is: Does the due process clause
forbid a state to pass laws clearly designed to safeguard
the opportunity of non-union workers to get and hold
jobs, free from discrimination against them because they
are non-union workers?
There was a period in which labor union members
who wanted to get and hold jobs were the victims of
widespread employer discrimination practices. Contracts
between employers and their employees were used by
employers to accomplish this anti-union employment discrimination. Before hiring workers, employers required
them to sign agreements stating that the workers were
not and would not become labor union members. Such
anti-union practices were so obnoxious to workers that
they gave these required agreements the name of '"yellow
dog contracts." This hostility of workers also prompted
passage of state and federal laws to ban employer discrimination against union members and to outlaw yellow
dog contracts.
In 1907 this Court in Adair v. United State8, 208 U. S.'
161, considered the federal law which prohibited discrimination against union workers. Adair, an agent of the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, had been indicted and convicted for having discharged Coppage, an
employee of the railroad, because Coppage was a member
of the Order of Locomotive Firemen. This Court there
ho!d, over the dissents of Justices McKenna and Holmes,
that the railroad, because of the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment had a constitutional right to dis-

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN 'CO.. 535
525

Opinion of the Court.

criminate against union members and could therefore do
so through use of yellow dog contracts. The ohief reliance for this holding was Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.
45, which had invalidated a New York law prescribing
maximum hours for work in bakeries. This Court had
found support for its Lochner holding in what had been
said in 'Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, a case on
which appellants here strongly rely. There were strong
dissents in the Adair and Lochner cases.
In 1914 this Court reaffirmed- -the principles. of the
Adair case in Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, again over
strong dissents, and held that a Kansas statute outlawing yellow dog contracts denied employers and employees
a liberty to fix terms of employment. For this reason
the law was held invalid under the due process clause.
The Allgeyer-Lochner-Adair-Coppage constitutional
doctrine was for some years followed by this Court. It
was used to strike down laws fixing minimum wages and
maximum hours in employment, laws fixing prices, and
laws regulating business activities. See cases cited in
Olsen v. Nebraska, 313 U. S. 236, 244-246, and O.qhorn
v. Ozlin, 310 U. . 53, 66-67. And the same c-;nstitutional philosophy was faithfully adhered to in Adams v.
Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, a case strongly pressed upon us
by appellants. In Adams v. Tanner, this Court with four
justices dissenting struck down a state law absolutely
prohibiting maintenance of private employment agencies.
The majority found that such businesses were. highly
beneficial to the public and upon this conclusion held that
.the state was without power to proscribe them. Our
holding and opinion in Olsen v. Nebraska, supra, clearly.
undermined Adams v. Tanner.
Appellants also rely heavily on certain language used
in this Court's Opinion in Wolff Packing C.. v. Court of
Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522. In that case the

53.6

-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Court invalidated a state law which in part provided a
method for a siate agency to fix wages and hours.' See
Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 267 U. S.552, 565. In invalidating this part of the state act, this Court construed
the due process clause as forbidding legislation to fix hours
and wages, or to fix prices of products. The Court also
relied on a distinction between businesses according to
whether they were or were not "clothed with a public
interest," This latter distinction was rejected in Nebbia
v. New York, 291 U. S. 502: That the due process clause
does not ban legislative power to fix prices, wages and
hours as was assumed in the Wolff case, was settled as
to price fixing in the Nebbia and Olsen cases. That
wages and hours can be fixed by law is no longer doubted
since West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, 300 U. S. 379;
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S.100, 125; Phelps Dodge
Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.177, 187.

This Court beginning at least as early as 1934, when
the Nebbia case was decided, has steadily rejected the due
process philosophy enunciated in the Adair-Coppage line
of cases. In doing so it has consciously returned closer
and closer to the earlier constitutional principle that states
have power to legislate against what are found to be
injurious practices in their internal commercial and business affairs, so long as their laws do not run afoul of some
specific federal constitutional prohibition, or of some valid
federal law. See Nebbia v. New York, supra -at 523524, and West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, supra at 392395, and c~ses cited. Under this constitutional doctrine
the due process clause is no longer to be so broadly construed that-the Congress and state legislatures are put in
6

Other parts of the state statute related to matters other than

wages, prices, and the making of contracts of employment. Considerations involved in the constitutional validity of those other
.parts of the.st;.tute are not relevant here.

LINCOLN UNION v. NORTHWESTERN CO.
525

537

Opinion of the Court.

a strait jacket when they attempt to suppress business
and industrial conditions which they regard as offensive
to the public welfare.
Appellants now ask us to return, at least in part, to
the due process philosophy that has been deliberately discarded. Claiming that the Federal Constitution itself
affords .protection for union members against discrimination, they nevertheless assert that the same Constitution
forbids a state from providing the same protection for
non-union members. Just as we hd e held that the due
process clause erects no obstacle to block legislative protection of union members, we now hold that legislative
protection can be afforded non-union workers.
Affirmed.
[For concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRA.NKFURTER,
see post, p. 542.]
[For concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE RUrLEDGE,'
joined by MR. JUSTICE MURPHY insofar as it applies to
Nos. 34 and 47, see post, p. 557.]

