C ksES IN THE SIPREME (OURT

1825.
United States
V.

Morris.

[REITfsSIoN OF FO RFFTURE.

P1.EAVING.J

The UNITED STATES V. MORRIS, Marshal of
the Southern District of New-York.
The Secretary of the Treasury has authority, under the Remission
Act of the Sd of March, 1797, c. 301. [lvii.1 to iernit a forfeiture or
penalty accruing under the revenue la s, at any time, before or after
a final sentence of rondemnatia,i,r jndgment for (lie penalty, until
the money is .ictally 1,ad over to the Collector for distribution.
such remission , itends to the .hares of the fotfeitune or penalty to
whc-b the officfm s of the customs are entitled, a- %,-lIas to the interest f the United States.
In a plea of justification by the Marshal, fit not levying an execution,
etting forth a remiision by the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
fokt.eiture or penalty on which the judgment was obtained, it is not
necessary to set forth the statement of facts upon which the remis-ion was founded.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New-York.
This wat an action brought against the defendant, in the Court below, as Marshal of the
Southern District of New-York, for a misfeasance in neglecting to proceed on a vcnditioni exponas issued out of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Maine, requiring
him to -eIl the goods and chattels of Andrew

Ogden, Abraham K. Smedes, and Thomas C.
Butler,which tie had levied upon by virtue of cer-

tain executions issued against them, in favour of
the United States, on a judgment recovered in
the said District Court of Maine, and which
want
Voods and chattels refhained in his hands for

OF THE UNITED STA I'ES.

of buyers, according to his return on said executions.

1825.

The misconduct, or neglect of duty, al-.United

leged against the Marshal, was, that he did not
sell the property so levied upon, according to the
command of the Writ, but delivered the same up
to the defendants, discharged from the execution.
The declaration stated the judgment to have been
recovered in the September term. of the Court,
in the year 1817, for 22,361 dollars 75 cents,
damages, and which, in part, to wit, in the sum of
11,180 dollars 87 cenis, remained in full force;
not reversed, paid off, or satisfied, to the plaintiffs, and that execution to that amount remains
to be done. The venditioni exponas, as was alleged, Was put into the hands of the Marshal on
the lSth day of August, 1819.
The pleadings in the cause show, that Andrew
Ogden, of the city of New-York, in or about
the month of June, in the year 1813, imported
into Portland, in the District of Maine, certain
goods and mer handise qin the brig Hollen, which
vessel, as well as the goods, belonged to him:
These goods, together with the brig, -were thereupon seized as forfeited to the United States, on
the ground that the goods had been imported in
that vessel, in violation of the non4ntercourse
acts, then in existence. The goods and vessel
were libelled in the District Court of Maine, on
the 6th ot July, 1813, and on the 19th of thc-same
month were delivered up to Aridrew Ogden, after
having been regularly aplpraised, upon his having
executed, together with Abraham K. Smedes,
and Thomas C. Butler. a bond for their appraised

States

V.
Morris.

CASES IN TiHE SUPREME COURT

N48
1825.
States
U~nited
eSton

v.

Morris.

value. The vessel and goods wprc, afterivards,
the 27th of May, 1817, condemned as forfeiteo to the use of the United States. And such
proceedings'were thereupor had, that, in the following Se')tember term of the Court, a judgment
was entered upon the bond of appraisement for
22,361 dollars 75 cents, with costs.
The defendant, Morris, pleaded the general
issue, and a special plea in justification, that the
forfeitures had been remitted by the Secretary
of the Treasury, setting out in h.ec verba, two
warrants of remission, which were duly served
upon him before the return day of the venditioni
cxponas, and averring a compliance on -the part
of the*defendants, with all the terms and conditions required by the warrants of remission. All
which were duly set forth in the return on the
-renditioniexponas, before the commencement of
the present suit.
To this special plea, a replication was filed,
stating, in substance, that at the time of the forfeiture, seizure, and condemnation, of the brig
Hollen, and the goods imported in her; and,
also, at the time of their condemnation, and the
entering up of the judgment on the bond for
their appraised value, and of the issuing of the
several writs of execution, and at the time of the
making and issuing the said warrants of remission, and of the service thereof on the defendant, &c. Isaac Ilsley, and James C. Jewett, were
the co.llector and surveyor of the port of Portland, and, as such; entitled to one half of the said
forfeiture; and that the said several executions

OF THE LN1TI'D STATE*.

were issued for their benefit, and solely to col- 1825.
eS States
lect the said sum of 11,180 dollars 87 cents, for
. United
v.
their own separate use, and that the defendant
Morr
writs
of
the
said
several
thereof
when
had notice
execution were delivered to him to be executed;
setting out, also, two endorsements on the execution, one signed by -the District Attorney 6f
Maine, notifying.the defendant, that' the execution was for the benefit of the said Collector an.d
Surveyor, hn'd directing the Marshalto collect the
same by their order. The other was-signed by
the Collector and Surveyor, requiring the Marshal
to collect the. executi6n . forthwith, and deposit
the. money, agreeably .to the co mimand of the
writ, and notifying him, that the. propertyin the.
executidn was in thein, arid directing him tO receive orders from them, and from no other person. whatsoever, in Wihatever related "to the said
execution. . _nd it Was then averred, 'that the
present suit was for the purpose-of.enabling the
Collector and Surveyor to recover their damages
for the injury they had sustained by reason of the'
misfeasance of 'the defendant, in the declaration
mentioned, and not for the benefit,. use, or behoof, of the said plaintiffs.
To this replication the defendant demurred
specially, and stated the following causes of demurrer : (1.) For that the replication is a depar-ture from the declaration, in this, that the declaration proceeds upon a cause of action in favour
'of the' United States ; whereas the replication
pro.ceeds upon a cause of action in favour'of the
said Ilsley and Jewett, &c. (2.) For that the
Vol. -X.

-32

250

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

replication discloses no lawful and sufficient authe said I. and J., to prosecute the
e thority for
Unniteid
.
States
said action against the said T. M., &c., and in
V.
(3.) For that
Morris. the name of the United States.
1825.

the declaration proceeds upon the ground, that
the several writs of execution therein respectively
mentioned, were issued upon a judgment obtained for the use of the United States, and, therefore, according to the act in such case made, &c.,
might lawfully run and be executed in any other
State or territory of the United States, than the
Raid District of Maine, in which the said judgment was obtained. Whereas the replication
discloses the fact, that the said judgm-n-tvas not
obtained for the use of the said United States, bu
for the use and benefit of the said I. and J., and
therefore, could not run and be executed in any
other State, &c. (4.) That the suit is prosecuted in.the name of the United States, by an attorney, on record, other than the District Attorney of the United States for the Southern District of New-York.
A joinder in demurrer having been filed, judgment was given for the defendant in the Co.urt
below, and the cause brought by writ of. error to
this Court.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it was contended,' that the judgment ought to be reversed,
1. Because the -Secretary of the Tikeasury had
no power to remit th. share of the forfeiture
wlieh belonged to the ustom-house *officers.
2. Because the action was rightly brought in
the name of the United States, 'by an attorney of

OF TH" UNITED STATES.

251

the Court below, specially authorized to prose- 1825.
" d'0
States
cute the suit by an order of one of the Judges of United
that Court.
3. Because the replication is not a departure

from the declaration, proceeding upon a different
cause of action from that stated in the declaration.
hVeaton, for the plaintiffs in error, stated
Mr.
the principal question in the cause to be, whether,
after .a: definitive sentence of condemnation, in a
revenue cause, the Secretary of the Treasury has a
right, under the Remission Act of the 3d of March,
1797, c. 361. [1xvii.]" to remit the forfeiture so as
a Which -provides, (s. 1.) . That Wherever any person, or persons, who shall have incurred any fine, penalty, forfeiture, dr disability, or shall have been interested in any vessel, goods, wares,
or merchandise, which shall have been subject to any seizure, forfeiture, or disability, by force of any present or future law of the
United States, for the laying, levying, or collecting, any duties or
thxes, or by force of any present or future act, concerning the registering and recording of ships or vessels, or any act concerning
the enrolling and licensing ships or vessels employed in the coasting trade or fisheries, and for regulating the same, shall prefer his
petition to the Judge of the District in which such fine, penalty, forfeiture, or disability shall have accrued, truly and paiticularly setting forth the circumstances of his case; first causing reasonable
notice to be given to the person or persons claiming such fine,
penalty, or forfeiture, and to the Attorney of the United Staies for
such District, that each may have an opportunity ofshowing cause
against the remission or mitigation thereof; ant aall cause the
facts which shall appear upon such .inqtiry, to be stated and annexed to the pelition, and diredt their transmission to the Secretary
of the Treasury of the United Stats, who shall thereupon have
power to mitigate or remit such fine, forfeiture, or penalty, or remnve such disability, or any part thereof, if i.his opinion the

v.
iIolr.

252
1825.
United
UunderStates

V.
Morris.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to affect the right of the officers of the customs,
the Qollection Act of 1799, c. 128. [cxxvii.i.]
ss. 89. and 91.," to a moiety of the fines, penalsame shall have been incurred without wilful negRgence, or any
inrtentiorf of fraud in the person or. persons incurring' the same;.
and to direct the progecution, if any shall have een instituted ror
the recovery thereof, to cease and' 'be discontinued, uppn such
terms or conditions as he may deem reasonable and just.", (S. 3.)
" That nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect the
'right or claim of any person to that part of any fine, penalty, or
forfeiture, incuri'ed by the brea.ch of any of the laws aforesaid,
whihh such person shall or may be entitled to, by virtue of the
said laws, in cases where a prosecution has been commenced, or
information has been given before the passing of this act, or any
other act relative to the. mitigation, o r remission of such fines,.
penalties, or forfeitures; the amouit -of which right and claim
shall be'assessed and valued by the proper Judge or Cburt in a
summary way."
a Which provides,. (s. 89.) " That all penalties accruing' by.
any breach .f this act, shall be sued for and recovered, with costs
of suit, in the name of the .United States of America, in any. Court
competent to try the same; and the trial of any fact which may be
put in issue, shall be within the judicial District in which any sudh
penalty shall have accrued; and the Collector within whose Dis-"
trict ihe seizure shall have been made, or forfeiture incurred, is
hereby enjoined to cause suits for the same to be commenced
without delay, and prosecuted to effect; and is, moreover, auth'orizid to receive from theCourt, within'whiich s.uch.trial is had,
or from the propet, officer thereof, the sum or su's so recovered,
after deducting proper charges,.to be allowed by, the said Court;
and on receipt thereof the said Collector shall pay and distribute
the same, without delay, according to law," &c.. (s. 91.) " That'
all fin es, penalties and forfeitures; recovered
by virtue of this act,
and not otherwise approp.riatek], shall, after deducting all proper
costs and charkes, be disposed of.as-follows: one moiety shall be
ifor the us of the United States, and .be paid into the Treasury
thereof by the Collector receiving the same i the other moiety shall
.h. aiv.ided between, and paid in equal proportions to, the Collector

OF T-HE UNITED STATES.

253

ties, and forfeitures, recovered under tho act. 1825.
He Insisted, that the right of the Collector, &c. United States
accruing by the seizure, wa! consummated by
I.
the final sentence.of- condemnation, and became
an absolutely vested right, which could not be
devested~by the remission after such sentence.
This had been expressly determined in the.Circuit Court for'the First Circuit ;a and though tle
..ase had -not hitherto been pro.sented to this
Court,.there were other analogous cases which'
settled the doctrine, that, as between the representatives of a deceased Collector, and his successor in office, or as betwe.en a removed Collec-'
tor and. such successor, the share of the forfeiture to which be is entitled attaches, and is consummated by the sentence of "condemnation.'
This went upon the principle, that it became an
absolutely vested right, by relation back to thetime of' seizure. If it were an absolutely vested
right, it must be vested as against the government.
.It .is not vested, even as against the government,
at the time. of the seizure.. That only gives an
inchoate right, which may never become absolute
for want of a condemnation, or 'may be intercepted by. a remission before condemnation. The
and Naval Officer of the District and Surveyor of the port, whereto
the same. shall have been incurred, or to such of the said officers as
there may be in the said Dihstrict; and in districts where only one of
the aforesaid officers shall havw been established, the-said moiety
shiall be given to such officer." &c.
a The Margaretta, 1 Gallis. Rep. 515. 522. The.Hollen, I
Mason's Rep. 431.
b Jones v. Shore , IWhat. Rep. 462. Van Ness -v. Buel. 4
it heat. Rep: 74.

254

(ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. forfeiture has, for certain purposes, relation back
the commission of the offence. As between
the offender and all persons claiming as purv.

tfe to
e"States
United
'

Morris.

chasers of the property, and the government, the

forfeiture attaches- at the -moment of delictunt.
But this proceeds from the necessary strictness
of all fiscal regulations, and does not prevent a
remission before condemnation. The delicturn
does, indeed, devest the proprietary interest from
the owner, so as to overreach th6 claims of -subsequent purchasers ; but it .does not, therefore,
follow, that the share to which the officers of the
customs may become entitled, vests in them eo
instanti. Their title may never vest, -by reason
of three contingencies: (I.) There may be no
seizite. (2.) There may be a remission after
.theoffence, and before cofidemnation. "3.) There
may be no condemnation. Jf there be no seizure,
of course no title vests.. If there be a remission
before condemnation, as no title'has yet vested
except against subsequent purchasers, it purges
the offence entirely, by relation back to the ddicturn. If there be no cdndemnatiori, the inchoate
title is never ripened into maturity. But if there
be a remission after condemnation, the rights of
the. seizing officers have become Absolute, and
the remission purges the offence (if it has any
-eff&et at all) only so far as the government is concerned..
This .would appear from the plain reading of
the Collection Act of 1799, 6. 128. [cxxviii.]
,z

C-anch's R p. C95. 41.-

OF TiE UNITED STATES.

255

ss. 89,90, 91. which directs the Collector to prose- 1825.
cute for breaches of the revenue laws, and to reV.
ceive the sqms recovered, and to pay and distri- Morris.
enpersons
different
the
bute the same among
titled. It must be admitted, on all hands, that
the 'right must absolutely vest at some period.
The Court have already rejected the notion that
it does not vest until the actual receipt, and payment over of the money.a There could, therefore, be no other epoch but that of the sentence
of condeinnation,- which, if definitive, or unappealed from, fixes and ascertain' the rights. of all
parties. Admitting, f6r the sake of the argu;
ment, that the government may aftdrwards remit,
so far as its own rights are exclusively concerned; it cannot certainly be concluded, from* the
terms of the Remission Act, that the government
iritended to revoke its bounty, conferred absolutely upon its officeis by a solemn statute for
great purposes of public policy. "Itis immaterial what the Secretary of the Treasury intended
to do. The question is, what was he authorized
to do by the law under .which he acted.
All the analogies of the common law would be
found to repel the idea that the remission could
devest the rights which had become ascertained
and fixed by the sentence of condemnation. Pardon and remission are synonymous terms, and
their legal effect upon the rights of parties must
be the same. ." Pardon" is defined to be " a
work of mercy, whereby the king forgiveth any
,.

Jones v. Shore. 1 Wheat. Rep. 470.

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. offence, &c. right, title, debt, or duty." ,, ThiUniteodtatespower which 'is given to the President by'the
V.

constitution, of granting pardons for offences

may, or may not, extend to revenue cases; but
whether the pardon is granted by the President,,
or by his minister, is immaterial. It is still the
act of the governfment, and it can have no
greater effect in the one case than in the other.
It is laid down that'a pardon does not discharge
the thing-in which the subject has a property or
interest.; as if a suit be in the Spiritual. Court for.

tithes, d legacy- contract, or matrimony, &c. " or
for dilapidation. So, if an incumbent accepts a
plurality, the interest of the patron to present is
not discharged by a general pardon.' A penalty,
upon a, conviction for deer stealing, is not discharged by a pardon-; for it'is a forfeifure to the
party grieved.' 'The king cannot, by his pardon,
discharge an action comtnenced qui tam upon a
penal. statute, except for the king's moiety or
partl Nor penialties to be divided between the
informer and the poor of the parish.9 So a pardon does not dischlarge a thing conseqienit or iftcident in which the subject has an interest vested
in -him; as costs taxed in the- Spiritual- Court,
a pardon of the offence does not discharge ihe
costs." And this, though the party appeals after
the taxation of costs, so that the sentence is-suspended. by the appeal.: So, if the party appeals
a '3 Inst. 233.'
b 5 Co. 51. a.
c -s Mod. Rep. 56..

f 3 Inst. 238.
g Str.-Rep. 1272.
h 5 Co. 51. b. Cro. iac.

d.Cro. CRa.r. 3"57. 358.
e 1 Salk. Rep. 233, 23-4.

159. "Cro.Car. 199..a 5 Co. Lit. 51. b.

OF THE UNITED STAT.ES.

after costs taxed, and then the pardon comes, 1825.
\-v-'
UniteStato
.
and upon the appeal the former sentence is annulled, and costs given to the appellant; these i V.
for the Morris:
costs are not dischargedby the pardon:
costs being taxed in the original suit, the party
had a right -ofappeal, which was not taken away
by the pardon;.and, consequently, has a right to'
th costs.- So, on a proceeding.. in- rem, ii the
Exchequer, the crown's share only of a forfeiture
is pardoned, by an act of genei'al pardon, .but not
the informer'i" on an information previously filed.b
And in prize proceedings, the condemnation is
held to. vest the right in .the captors so absolutely, that the government cannot release.: Thus,
in the case of'the Elsebe; (one of the fa.moius
Swedish convoys) Sir.. W. Scott determined,
thit the crown might interp6se to release -the
captured vessels before, but not after, a final
aajudication.c
As to the technical questioiis which had been
raised by the special deinurrer upon the plead-.
ings, they were allinvolved-in the questi.oi upon
the merits. If the remission was •void as to the
custdm-house .officers,-they had a. right to sue in
the nameof the United' States ;. or, rather, the
latter are suing in their own name, to give effect
to their own bounty granted to those officers,who are pro~sicutors. from the beginning ifi the
name of the United States. They are not bnly
privies, but.parties, and are concluded by a sonb Pa'rk&r, 20.

a Cro. Car. 47.
• c 5 Rob. 173.

VoL. X.

33

( ASES IN TIlE SUPREME CQURT

185. tence of acquittal as well as of condemnation."
Spited States But they may also be considered as the assignees
v.
of the United States, and then the question whether
.-fo~rns. they are'to sue in their own name, or in that
of
the United States, will depend upon the forms of
proceeding in analogous cases.
By the civil
law, op. the cession of a debt, tho assignor impliedly ceded to the. assignee all his rights of action as incidental to the cession. The assignee
became what was called procuratorin rem suam,
and sued in the name of his assignor. So, in
Efngland, and in this country, it has long since
been settled, that the assignee of a chose in action may-sue in the name of the assignor, who
has no right to interfere *With the suit.' By the
ancient common law, the king could assign a
chose in action, though a subject could not. But
the assignee of the king took it with all the high
prerogative remedies. Thus, it is laid down,
that the king's grantee may sue an obligation,
&c. granted to him, Int his own name, or may
prosecute in the king's nam.e; " for the grant of
the statute, or debt, is a warrant to him to prosecute process in the king's name."O Thus, where
a debt due to an outlawed person was granted
by the king; held, that the grantee might levy
it in his own name, or, by extent, in the king's
name. " although he hath not any words in his
a H~oyt y. Gelston, 3 Wheat. Rep. 319.
b 1 Johns. eas. 411. 2 Johns. Cas. 121. S Johns. Rep.
425. Bottoiley v. BrDoke, 2 B1. Re "1271. 1 Wheat. Rep.
23. 1 Term Rep. 619. 621, 622.
c Cro. Jac. 82.

1159

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1825.

grant to sue it in the name of the king, as is

e States
United

usual in such cases.

As to the alleged departure in pleading, which
relied on as one of the causes of demurrer,
-is
the objection-is, that the replication sets up a
cause of action in the -custom-house officers,
whi lst the declaration proceeds on a cause of ac--

tion for the-United States. The answer is, that
the suit being herebrought in the niame of the
United States, whose duty and interest it is to
prosecute fok the benefit of the officers, (who are
their grantees,) notwithstanding the remission,
the cause of action stated in the replication is
just as much'iii favour of the" United Stated as
the deolaration. How,'then; stand
that.set.up in.
.the.pleadings.? (1.) The declaration settiifi up
a cause of action in favour of. the United States.
(2.) A plea 'of remission by the United-States.
(3.) A replication, 6dmitting the fact'of remission, aid airming.the cause of .4.tiQn in fayvour
of the United States, as.46t 915 ib'the"ddcaration,
with dt new. ciicumstance, viz. a right: of third
persons, which invalidates the remisgion so far
as. they are concerned. Tilis new matter is as
serted, not by the .officers, but by the United
States theinselves, "who sue precisely as -if the
parties had not performed the c.onditibns on
which the remission.was granted; and it had become totally vbid. Ai .was not. necessary that
.this new matter'should have been stated in the
a .Cro: Jac. 179, 10.

Com. Dig. tit. Assignment, (D.'

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

declaration. In declaring, it is only necessary
ieatoStates
set out enough to naintain the action. In an
United
V.
action fbr not executing a writ of execution, it is
Morris.
sufficient to set out the judgment, execution, and
facts of neglect or misfeasance. Even stating
the judgment is merely inducement. It is sufficient to state concisely the circumstances which
give rise to the defendant's particular duty 6r liability." The remission was a matter of defence
which it was incumbefit 6n the defendant to set
forth. Successive pleadings are designed for this
verypurpose. The offiee of the declarationisto set
forth. the cause of action merely, of the plea to
avoid itand of the replication to avoid the plea.
Thus, in debt on bond for the performance of'
covenants, the plaintiff declared for the penalty.
The' defendant craved oyer, and pleade'd general
performance. The plaintiff replied, setting forth
particular breaches, and it was held good? The
.declaratioi in the present ease pursues the most
approved forms, and with more circum~tantiality
than usual.: Departure is where the plea contains subsequent matter, which does not maintain
or fortify the matter in the declaration." But
here it does maintain it, and, at the same time,
avoids the bar. The bar is remission; the replication shows, that it is no answer to the declaraa
b
c
d

1 Chitty's Plead..369.
Post Master General v. Cochran, 2 Johns. Rep. 4i"t.
See 2 Chitty's Plead. 203-,206,
Co. Lift. 304. a.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

261

tion. In Winch v. Keeley, in assumpsit, defendant pleaded, that plaintiff had become a bank-

1825.
"

rupt, and assigned all his effects, under the sta-.

V.
Moris

tute, to his legal assignees ; plaintiff replied, that
the suit was brought by him for the use of another' party, to whom he had transferred the debt
before the bankruptcy. Tho replicatidn was
held good, and.the objection of departure was'not
even mentioned at the bar.
On the part of the defeii.ant; it was insisted,
that the judgment ought -to be affirmed, for the
following reasons:
1. Because the Secretary of the Treasury had
a right to remit the forfeiture in question, not-.
withstanding the judgment of condeinnation previously rendered, as stated in the pleadings.
2. Because, the whole. case, on the part of the
Collector and Surveydr of Portland, proceeds on
the gr6und; that the remission by the Secretary
is binding upon the United States, and discharges
their moiety of the forfeiture ; bui bas not that
effect on the other moiety claimed.by tiem ;.thus
giving a construction to the remission, inconsist-.
ent with its"own terms, and the act .under which
it was granted. According to that act, the remission must b6 valid to the whole extent of the
power exercised under it, or not at all; as it is,
admitted, therefore, to be good in part, it follows
that it is good for the whole.
S. Because such a remission is not like a pardon, nor is it to be governed b1.the same rules;
I Term Rev.':,1o.

'162

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

but is equivalent to the judgment or decree of a
iS States competent tribunal, that no forfeiture should be
United
v.
enforced, inasmuch as it was without wilful negliMorris. gence, or any intention of fraud, in the persoil
1825.

or persons incurring the same.
4. Because, as far at least as it relates to the
act of Congress, vesting in the Secretary of the
Treasury the remitting power, as therein mentioned, the custom-house officers have no vested
rights in any forfeiture, until not only condemnation, but the receipt of the money produced by a
sale of the forfeiture, or collection of the bond
substituted for it, before which time the Secretary has full power to remit; and, having exercised it in.this case, the Collector and Surveyor
of Portland' are equally bound by it as the United
States.
5. Because, if the said Collector and Surveyor
of Portland had any vested rights in the forfeiture in question, notwithstanding the remission,
then they ought to have enforced them by an action in their own name, and not in that of the
United States.
6. Because, the condemnation of the brig and
goods being to the use of the United States,
and the recovery in the bond being also in
the name of the United States, they became
trustees for the Collector and Surveyor of
Portland, for whatever rights or interest they
had therein; and these, whateveri.they were,
were discharged by the remission of the Secretary, inasmuch as the release of a trustee is, at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

263

law, a bar of the rights or interest of his cestui 1825.
-"'ia'
-tates
que trust, and especially in a case where fraud United
V.
pretended.
is neither charged nor
recover Morris.
7. Because, this being an action to
damages for a misfeasance, if the United States
themselves could sustain it, yet, it- being, in its
nature, incapable of assignment, they c5uld not
transfer to the said Collector and Surveyor such
right of action, and authorize its prosecudtion in
their name; much less can it be prosecuted without any such assignment or authority.
8. Because, if the United States. could themselves sustain such an action, the said Collector
and Surveyor would be entitled to no part of the
damages recovered; for suchi damages would
not be the forfeiture, nor the proceeds of the
-bond which was substituted for it; to a share of
which only they are by law entitled. Of coiirse.
therefore, they cannot sustain the present action
to recoverdramages foi their own private benefit,
in the name of the*United States, which, .ifrecovered by the United States, they would be entitled to no share of.
M r. Emmett and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the
defendant, stated, upon the first point, that it was
remarkable, and might be useful for interpreting
the law, that the question as to the power of the
Secretary to remit, after sentence, was never
raised until subsequently to the judgment of this
Court in JoneR. v. Shore,a and more especially
,1

j Wheat. Rep. 46,'

264

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
United States

v.
Morris.

until 4 Ler what fell from Story, J. in the Margaretta., That no such doubt was conceived to
exist at the bar before the case of Jones v.
Shore, al pears from the arguments of all thb
counsel i; that case, which admit, that the right
was hiot so vested as not to be defeated by a remission. An expression there attributed -o Mr.
Pinkney ' as to the President's power of pardoning, leacts to an examination of the distin,'t:on between this power of remission and the pardoning power. The power of pardoning isa pre-,
rogative given to the President by the constitation, analogous to that exercised by the British,
and other sovereigns. It is an act of grace and
mercy; founded on the fact of guilt and crime,
but exercised from other considerations than
those which govern a remission by the .reasury.
It is laid down, that " the king, by his -lprerogative, may grant his pardon to all offenders attainted or convicted of a crime, where he has hope
of their amendment.' 'c The remission proceeds
on the ground of moral innocence, and is to be
only a consequeice of it. The Secretary of the
Treasury has no power whatever, except where,
in- his opinion, from the judicial' statement of
facts, the forfeiture " shall have been incurred
without wilful negligence, or any intention of
fraud in the person or persons incurring the
same." A pardon being an act of grace and
mercy to an acknowledged criminal, it is but just
a 2 Gallis. Rep. 316.
r Conkyn's Dig. Pardon, (A.)

b 1 WhAeat. Rep. 462.

OF THE UNITED STATI

that it should not disturb the rights of others, 1825.
United States
founded on the fact of that guilt, and their indus- t'¢e"
v.
try in detecting it; but where the remission is Morris.
of the
justice
the
innocence,
moral
on
fbunded
case is the other way. In this respect, there
ought to be no difference whether a condemnation was had or not; for, although a sentence of
condemnation may establish a violation of the
letter of the revenue laws,.the remission proceeds
on the ground, that it establishes no guilt, and
the petition for the .emission must admit all the
facts on which conviction could be founded. The
-remission is intended to be, ard is, in fact, a judicial decision. It is the policy of the revenue
laws to make certain acts subject to forfeiture
and penalties. It adopts this course, in'order to
relieve the government from the onus of proving,
that those, acts were coupled with a crimir~al intent; and to oblige the party suffering to prove
the innocence of his mim, by such evidence as
would satisfy the proper officer of the government itself. Ih analogy to the jurisdiction of a
Court of equity to take cognisarme of a judgment at law, and relieve against it on principles
which the" Courts of law could not have taken
into consideration, the Secretary of tfie Treasury
is empowered lo administer equitable relief, on
principles which -the revenue Courts could not
apply; but which go to the entire *destruction of.
all guilt, and ought, therefore, to go to the enitire
remission of all punishment. The preliminary
proceedings are all judicial, by petition to the
District Judge. and by examinations before him
V'OL. X.

34

(66.k

'266

1825.
a
United States

V.

Morris.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

and, like an analogous suit in equity, all parties
interested are brought before the Court to assert

their rights, and contest the justice of the application.

The officers of the customs, having notice,

and the liberty of contesting the matter, are parties
to the suit or application, and can no more complain that they are deprived of vested rights, than
they could where a Court of equity decreed a
perpetual injunction on a judgment at law.
The statute, having thus provided for making
all persons interested parties to the suit, uses the
most general language possible to cover the entire remission of the forfeiture. The prayer of
the petition extends to the remission of the
whole, and the power given to the Secretary is
to remit "such fines," &c. The proviso in the
d section shows the extent to which it was intended .to protect vested interests, or to consider
them as vested, viz. where a prosecution had
been commenced, or information given, before
the passing of the act. Every information,
seizure, or prosecution, subsequent.to the passing of the act, was followed up, sibject to the
provisions of that act. It formed a limitation
upon the extent of ve.sting the interests of the
prosecutors, or, to use the expression of one of
the counsel, in Jones v. Shore,. "it is a condition originally attached by the law," and attached,
whether the interest became originally vested
by the seizure, the condemnation, or the recovery. and receipt of the money.
z I

17ihent Rep. 467

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To what extent is the vesting?

It is decided

in Van Ness v. Buel,a that the Collector acquires

2671

1825.
e Statess
United

v.
an inchoate right by the seizure, which, by the
Morris.
him
gives
condemnation,
subsequent decree of
an absolute vested title to his share in the forfeiture; and it *is also determined, in Jones v.
iSthore," that the right to share in the forfeitures
and penalties is given to the Collector who made
the seizure, and not to him in office on the receipt of the money. These adjudications were
as between officers' themselves, and not between
an officer and the owner of the thing seized. But
they establish the principle, that the right made.
absolute by condemnation was- that, and only
that, which had become inchoate by seizure.
That inchoate right was, under the statute, subject to be destroyed by remission according to
its provisions, and therefore that made absolute
must be subject to the same provisions.
But the vesting' of the right, as laid down -iii
the*case of the Afargaretta,edoes not take place
before a final judgment or sentence; and the
same epoch is assigned in the case of the Elsebe,'
for the vesting of prize interests in cases of captur'e. Now, prize Courts can take notice of all
equitable coonsiderations, but a revenue Court
cannot. Notwithstanding condemnation, then,
it remains to be inquired,- whether there was any
criminal intent. If innocence. be allged, and
the proper proceedings founded on it be instia 4 Wheat. Rep. 74.
c 2 Gallis. Rep. 522.

b 1 Wheat. Rep. 467.
d 5 Rob. Rep. 155. .4m. ed.

"68

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

tuted, until those proceedings are decided upon,
S
there is no final adjudication, within the spirii
U.nit ed StatesI
V. and meaning of the act.
Morris.
Another consideration shows that the remission must operate to extinguish the rights of the
officers of the customs.. They puld maintain
no action for the forfeiture as in their own
names, The forfeiting party has nothing to do
with them : ho forfeits only to the United States,
and it is only as between the United States and
the officers, that the latter have any claim. In
this respect there is a material difference between our act .and the British revenue laws. Bxthe British statute, one half is forfeited to the use
.of the crown, and the other to the use of the informer. tn the IExchequer, the form of proceeding~to adjudge a moiety of fhe forfeiture to
the seizors, or informer, by the sentence itself.
and it becomes a vested right in them, by relation back to the filing the information." But in
this country, the utmost that can be said is, that
the United States are, pro tanto, trustees for
them; but as to the forfeiting party, the government is the only legal actor. There must be a
right of releasing some where. A release by the
officers of the customs wbuld nut prevent the
United States from recovering the whole penalty. Thus, in debt on a. single- bond made to A.,
to the use of him and 1., the defendant pleaded
a release made to him by B.:; on which the plaintiff demurred; and without difficulty, it was ada Weddel v. Thirlow. Parker. 280.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

269

judged for the plaintiff: for B. is no party to the

1825.

deed, and therefore
can neither sue nor release
•

UnitedStates

it. But it is an equitable trust for him, and suable
in the Chancery, if A. 'will-not let him have part
of the money: and the book of Edw. III. cited, that
he might release in suc]h case, was denied to be
law.a Sifice there. must be a power of releasing
somewhere, .and the officers could not do it, the
power must reside in the United States, and the
remission is such a release.'
Cases have been cited on the. other side, iw
which Courts of law hae taken notice of equita-.
ble interests, and have permitted them to be
pleaded or replied, so as to protect them. All
these cases proceed on the ground *of friaud andcollusion, which cannot be charged here. *Asto
Bottomley v. Brook, and Rudge v. Birch; they
are said by.Mr. Maryatt, in Schooley v. Mears, to
have been overruled in the Exchequer, in the
case of Lanev. Chandler: and in Wake v. Tinker,.Lord Ellenborough says, " I am much more
inclined to restrain than to extend the doctrine
*of.these cases," And Bailey, J. says, "we have
nothing to do in this case with any other than
legal rights." So in Bakerman v. Radenius, Mr..
Erskine (arguendo) states a cage before Lord
M~nsfield, where an action was brought in the
name of a nominal piaintiff by persons benefia Ofly v. Warde, 1 Lev. 235. S. C. I Keb. 3SS.b Bayley v. Lloyd, 7 Mod. Rep. 25".
c Cited in 1 Term Rep. 621, 622..
d 7 East. Rep. 153.
e 7 Term Rep. 662.

v.
Aforris.

270

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

cially interested, for whom he was a trustee. At

e
Gnited&tates

the trial, the defendant produced, a release from

V..

the plaintiff, which Lord Mansfield held to be
conclusive; but said the Court of Chancery,

Morris.

upon application, would make the trustee pay the
principal, the debt, if well founded, and the' costs
of suit. And Lawrence, J. cites a ease from
Sa.lkeld,° where Lord Holt -said, that if the plaintiff in ejectment, who is considered only -as a
,trustee for the lessor, released the action, he
might be committed for a contempt of the Court :
" but he did not say the release would not defeat the action." So, in Paine v. Rogers,' where
the tenant, .a nominal plaintiff, haying-given a
release to the plaintiff, the Court, on application
of the landlord, ordered it to be givEn up; clearly,
because if used it would defeat the action. And
in Legh v' Legh, the obligor of a bond, after notice of its being assigned, took a release from the
obligee, and pleaded it to an action brought by
the assignee, i.n tihe-name of the obligee. The
Court, on motion, set the plera aside, Eyre, C. J.
saying,

".

the only question is., whether- the as-

signee must not seek relief in a Court. of equity."
Clearly showing, as the whole case does, that the
plea could not be replied to at la.w.
But why should .the custom-house officers be
•entitled to maintain this- actiQn in the name of
the United States, notwithstanding their release,
and having no possible interest in the- esUlt ?
a Anony, Salk: 260.

b Dougl. 407.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

271

Why should they have the benefit of not being 1825.
liable to costs for a false action? They are not UnitedStates
assignees of the United States,. if that would proV.
Morris.
test.
a
of
assignment
no
be
can
There
them.
tect
The injury by the Marshal's return is directly to
themselves, and the United States have barred
-themselves from regarding it as an injury to t:hem
by the remission. The right to sde in the name
of another onl;" existed where the action would
not lie in the name of the party actually interested.. But, in every case where the-unlawful act
of one person does an injury to another, an action-on the case lies for the injury. Can the Ui;.ted States, who are not injured, sustain"this action ? If they could, is such a right of action
assignable ? Here, however, is no actua.l assignment; and it can only be considered as analogous
to 'the assignment of a chose in.action. But
how can the real plaintiffs entitle themselves to
the damages recovered in the name of the United
States, without. such assignment?. The law 9rly
gives them half the forfeiiure or'proceeds. How,
then) .'anthey, notwithstanding the release or remission by the United States, recover, in their
name, damageswhich they are not legally entitled
to participate in? and do.so for their, own
bendfit, -when, if they.have sustained damages,
they may sue in their own name?
And this brings us to consider some of the sp!ecial- causes of demurrer. The replication is a
departure from the declaration, nlot only by notbringing forward matter pursuant to it; and forti:fying it, but by bringing forward matter showing.

272

CASES IN THE SUPREME'COURT

1825. no right of action in the plaintiffs, and showing,
" " that if it exists any where, it exists in third per'United States
V. sons; and that this matter was known, and might
Morri. be made available, before action brought. Departure is defined to be, " when the second plea
containeth matter not pursuant t6 his f6rmer,
and which fortifieth not the same, and,therefore,
it is called decessus, beca,se he departeth from
his former plea."" Thus, where the defendant
pleads in bar a lease for fifty years made by a
corporation ; plaintiff replies, that it was made
while a former lease was in existence, and shows
the statute 21 H-en.. VIII., and that the lease for
fifty yeaTh was void ; not setting forth the proviso
making such leases good for twenty-one years.
Defendant, in his rejoinder, pleads the proviso
of the statute 21 Hen. VIII., which makes such
leases good for twenty-one years. Held, that
this pleading of the proviso was a departure, because it neither goes with, nor enforces the bar
So, in a przecipe quqd reddat,the tenant
before.
pleads, that the land was devised to him, and the
plaintiff replies, that the devisor was.an, infant ;
to this the d~fendant says, that, by the custom,
infants may-devise.; and, per Curian, this is a
departure, for he ought to have pleaded the special matter first.c So, in Docir. Plac. 124. per
Keble, nota, where general matter is pleaded,
and where the special matter might have beei
a Co. Litt. '304. a. Doctr. Plac. tit. Departure,(119.)
a.
b Fuhnarston v. StuArd, Dyer, 102. b. 1.013.
u.'Doctr.'Plae.1'23. 37 H. VI. 5.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

,)73

pleaded at the commencemefit, the party, after- 1825.
wards, sh'all not maintain the general mattbr with United States
Vjustithe special matters. And if the defendantreplies,
Morris.
plaintiff
fies by distress for rent, and the
that he used and sold them, to which the defendart rejoins, -that he sold the distress pursuant to
the statute 2 If. 4- Of., it will be a departure ;
for it should have been alleged so at first." Defendant, in a plea, justified taking cattle damage
fea.ant, and afterwards rejoined, that they were
taken sufcharging tke common; held to be a dopartui; *andone of the reasons was, that the'
surcharge might have been pleaded -first, because
the defendant then knew the plaintiff's right.. So,
when a nman, in his former plea, pleadeth an estate made by the common law, in the-second plea,.
regularly, he shall not make it good by an act of
.parliainent." So, when, in his'former plea, lie
ejititeth himself, generally,.by the common law,
in his second plea lie shall not enable'himself
by a custom, but should have pleaded it at first"
As to the third cause of demurrer, the statute
only enables th6 issui~fg of a writ of execution to:
another District; upon' judlgments i, obtained for
the .use of the United States." Tie presdnt
judgmenlt was.obtained in their niame;-but for the
use of other pdrties. It is contended, that if the
judgment was for. the -use of the United States,
the execution nieed not be 'so. But the privilege
& -do,. Dig. Peqde5,(s. 8.)
b Ellis 1. Rowles, W4lkes, 638.
c Co. Litt. 304. a..
VOL. X.

Z5

.74

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. obviously attaches to the execution, and not to
"i
ae the judgment.
It was for the benefit of the got
Unitedl States
v.

Morris.

vernment, and was not intended to be communi-

cable to citizens in cases where the United States
have no interest. All the rules for construing
statutes will bear out this interpretation.a
Mr. Webster, for the plaintiffs, in reply, insisted, that the authority to sue in the name of the
United States could not be disputed by the defendant in this Court. The government was
here represented by the Attorney General, and
if he did not interfere with the suit, it might well
be maintained. It was novel doctrine, that an
appearance by a wrong attorney was a ground of
demurrer. If it had keen intended to take advantage of that objection, a summary application
should have been made to the- Court below, by
whom the attorney on the record had been appointed to prosecute this suit, the District Attorney having refused to prosecute it. The discretionary power exercised by the Court below in
this instance, was essential to the administration
of justice, whenever the District Attorney refuses
to act, or is interested, or in case of his death.
But, even if this Court should be of opinion,
that the order made in the present case was irregular, it would not, on that account, give judginent against the sufficiency of the plaintiff's replication as pleaded. It would merely direct the
pleadings to be -mended by inserting the name
,', Rr,.

M.i,, i;..

thtltr. J." r.,

Pnird. i,

OF THE UNITED ST.\'rE..

of the District Attorney in the place of the present attorney on the record.

275

1825.

The plaintiff's de- United States

V.
claration is admitted to be good, and it is unneMorris.
plea
the
since
replication,
the
cessary to consider
contains the first fault (if any) in the pleadings..
It cannot be pretended that it is a good plea, because the plaintiff has declared by 6 wrong attorney. If this judgment be affirmed, it is a perpetual bar as against the United States, and all
others interested. While the cause is allowed
to stand on the calendar, the rights of the parties, as stated in the pleadings, must alone be
regarded. .But the officers of the customs have
a right to use the name of the United States.
*The cases cited in the opening sufficiently show
it. Wherever the subject has an interest in a.
prosecution in which the king's naine is necessary as a-formal party, the subject has a legal right'
to use-it. All cases of information, not ex officio,
are of.this sort, such as those by the Master of
the-Crown Office, in quo warranto, of intrusion
to office, &c. The prerogative of the supreme
magistrate is held, not for purposes of ostentation, .but for- the substantial benefit of society,'
and, its aid may be invoked as often as necessity
requires it.
The plea is bad, because the Marshal, who is
a mere ministerial officer, was not a ctmpetent
judge of the validity or effect of the. remission.
He :is the officer of the Court, and not of the
treasury., He is to collect the money, and bring
it into Court. When it is received in the registry., disfributiofi is to be made' of it aecor~ling to

CASES 1NT
TlE SUPREME COURT

1823. law ; or if' the forfeiture has been remitted, the
k.itedtate
"UnitedStates conditions of the remission are to be complied
v.
with under the directions of' the Court. If the
M'orris.

Marshal had levied the money upon the execu-

lion, and no remission had been obtained, be
could only be compelled to pay it over by a motion to compel him to return the process. If the
remission had been unconditional, and could devest the share of the custom-house officers, he
had nothing to do with carlying it into effect. It
isby the Court only that the rights of the parties
are to. be ascertained,. and their respective claims
to be satisfied.
.The plea' is also bad, because it does not
set forth, with prope" averments, thefacts and
circumstances stated in the petition to the Secretary of the Treasury, upon which the remission
of the .forfeiture was granted. It is an inflexible
rule of pleading, that whenever a justification is
set.up under a special or limited authority, every
thing should be set forth to show the case to b6
within the protection of the authority xelied on.
The statement of facts on which the remission
was grounded, is -essential to be known, in. order.
to see whether the Secretary of the Treasury,
who also acts merely as a ministerial officer, has
pursued his authority. It has, indeed, been argued, that the Secretary acts judicially in those
cases, and that his decision is an adjudication
binding on all the world, and.especially on the
officers of the customs, who are both parties and
privies. But, how, can that be a judicial power,
which is merely of executive discretion? The

OF THE UNITED STATES.

277

Secretary may remit under the statute, whenever 1825.
it is proved to his satisfaction that the offenqeUnitedStates
v.
was committed " without wilful hiegligence, or
Morris.
to
boicnd
not
is
he
but
;"
fraud
of
intention
an
re'mit even in-.ase of innocence ever so clearly
-proved. 'All-jhidicial" pow4er, under the constitution, is vested in'one Supreme Court, and such
"ihferior tribunals as -Congress shall establish.
11ow, fhen, can any portion of that power be vested in the treasu'ry department, or in any other
'executive department ?
The plea is bad, because it alleges the 'remission after a final sentence of condemnation, and
a summary judgmenit upon the appraisement
boncL The Remission Act of Congress was
evidently copied from the British statute of the
27th Geo. III. c-. 27.; and under that statute the
Commissioners of the Customs have never exercised the power of remitting a forfeiture after
judgment.!. This defect of authority haying been
found, in some xespects, inconvenient, the power
of remitting.after judgment was expressly given
(not to the Commissioners -of the Cpstoms, but
to a highet authority,) the Lords of the Treasury,
by the 54th of Geo. III, c. 171. When it is said,
.that the, rights of the custom-house officers. are
vested from the time of the judgment or sentence,
it is not meant that they are. vested independent
of the act of Congress, but under the act, -and
according to-the act. If thelhwauthdrizes a remission after judgment, ft is idle to speak of
a Citty'4

Crim. Law, 798.

'278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rights being vested by the judgment. The quesAnd it is conUte .te
United
States tion is, what does the act mean ?
1825.
V.
Morris.

tended, that it limits the power to cases before
condemnation. Every clause and phrase of the

act is applicable, and alone applicable, to such
cases. The persons entitled to the benefit of
the act, are those who "i shall have incurred,any
fine, forfeiture, or disability, or shall have been
interested in any vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise, which shall have been subject to any
seizure,foifciture, or disability," &c. This cannot refer to things already forfeited. Goods forfeited and condemned, are not subject to forfeiture ; they ai'e actually forfeited. So, the words,
"incurred any forfeiture." No man incurs a
forfeiture by a judgment against him. It is the
offence by which the forfeiture is incurred. So,
also, the summary inquiry which is to be made
by the District Judge, into the facts and circumstarices of the case, shows, that the law supposes
that no trial had yet been had. It would be an absurd
provision, upon any other supposition. The act
authorizes the Secretary to direct the prosecution, if any shall have been instituted, for the recovery of the forfeiture, to cease, and be discontinued. It supposes a prosecution either pending, or not yet-brought. The prosecution cannot
be said to be pending, in a general sense, after
judgment. There is not a single expression in
the act applicable to a judgmeit. But here are
two successive judgments, one against the goods,
and the other against the claimants, upon the appraisement bond. How-cai the remission dis-

OF I'HE LN1TED SrTrEs.

9-79

charge this s(-cond judgment - Why was not tI~e 1825.
remission shown when the application was made . ntdStates
v.
for that judgment, so as to prevent its being entered? There is nothing in the act to authorize Morris.
the remission of a judgment. The subjects to
be remitted are, " fines, penalties, forfeitures,
and disabilities." Besides, the phraseology applicable to judgments would be, released, or vacated ; not remitted or mitigated, There must be
some limit in point of time, and in the order of
the proceedings,. to the exercise of this power of
remission. If the rights of- all parties are not
fixed and ascertained by the judgment, it will be
difficult to discover when they are consummated.
The receipt of the money by the officers may
change. the possession, but it cannot alter the
right. That idea .is expressly rejected by the
Court in Jones v. Shore.,
The argument on the other side, that there
must be a power of releasing somewhere, and
since the Custom House officers cannot do it' the
power must reside in the United States, and may,
therefore, be exercised by the Secretary of the
Treasury, is founded upon an entire misapprehension of the distinct powers of the different
branches of the government. There is no authority given by law to any department or officer
of the .executive government to release a debt
due by judgment. The Secretary of the Treasury may remit a forfeiturie -or penalty before
judgment, or may discharge the debtor a-s to his
,a I 7 heat. Rep. 470.

280
1825.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

person, but nothing short of the legislative power

te S

of Congress, specially exercised, can discharge

- V.

the debt. The usual course of the Treasury has

Morris.

been, to refuse to remit after judgment, and to

refer to the President for the exercise of the pardoning power. It may well be doubted, whether
that power extends, unde'r the constitution, to
cases arising under the revenue laws. But the
practice shows the .sense entertained by the
Treasury of the limitation to its authority. Whether the President's pardoning power extends to
such cases or not, there is a close analogy be:
tween a pardon and a remission; and there is no
more reason why one should affect private rights
and interests actually vested more than the other.
Both suppose legal guilt, and some consideration which makes it consisterit with the publiic
good that it should be forgiven. A pardon, as
well as a remission, often suppos.es moral innocence.
As to the execution running out of the District
of Maine, not only was the judgment " for the
use of the United States," but the execution was
for their use.) 'If the forfeiture coulM not be remitted after judgment, the whole debt is still
due, and the United States have a direct interest
in a moiety of it. If the forfeiture might be remitted, so far &;the share of the United States is
concerned, they have still an interest in efiforcing the demand, since it is intended to secure
to their officers a part of their legal compensation. But this question cannot ari'se upbn the
pleadings. The defendant admits that he.has

OF THE UNITED STATES.

81

1825.
executed the process, so far as the remission didbyUnited
States
Unis
by
estopped
therefore
not prohibit it, and he is
v
his plea from insisting that it is a void process.,
Mr. Justice THOMiPSON delivered, the opinion

March 15h.

of the Court, and after stating the case, proceeded as follows:

exequcre
the wh-e
The judgment of this Court being -placed upon, ther

the cu on upon
the validity of the plea, and the merits of
paroth judiet
unnecessary.
is
it
up,
set
defence therein
,
questions that have couldorun into
cUlarly to notice any other
however,
guard,
To
bar.
the
at
been discussed
band be exeeuthIn DiCourtt'e
the
by
sothern
against an inference, not intended
Newof
in this case,tuict
to be admitted, that the execution,
Court of ork
District
the
from
was properly issued
Maine to the Marshal of New-York, .it is proper,
to observe, that this must depend on the construction to be given to the act "of Congress.of
the 3d of March, 1797, entitled, ' an act to provide more effectually for the settlement of accounts between the United States and the receivers of public money." Independent of this
act, it has not, and certainly' cannot be~pretended, that an execution from the District Court of
Maine could run into any other State. The sixth
section of that act declares, ' that all writs of execution upon any judgments obtained for the use
of the United States, .in .any of the Courts of the
United States, in one State, may run aid be executed in any other State, but shall be issued
from, and made returnable to, the Court where
the judgment -was obained. The. pleadings in
this case show conclisively, that although the
'VTn.

X

SG

282

1825.
,
I.
MOS

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

judgment is nominally in favour of the United
States, yet it is substantially and beneficially for
the use of the custom-house officers of Tortland;
And that the execution was issued solely mic
exclusively for their benefit, and not for the use
of the United States. If it was necessary to decide this point, it might be difficult to maintain,
that this case came within th'e true iateni and
meaning of the act; but as the decision of the
cause is put uqpon a-point more extensive in its
practical application, this is- passed by without
the expression of any opinion upon it. Nor is it
deemed necessary to notice any objections taken
to the replication. The argument has been confined principally to the plea, as being the first
error on the record.
The plaintiff having replied, without taking
any exceptions to thd plea, he cann6t now.,avail
himself of any defect, that would not have been
fetal on a general. demurrer.
The objections to the plea-may be considered
under the following heads :
1. That it does not set forth, with proper ayerments, the facts and circumstaqces stated in the
petition to the -Secretary -of the' Treasury, and
upon which .the. remission of the forfeiture was
granted.
2. That the Secretary of the Treasury had no
power to remit after condemnation.
The -first objection .supposes the'case to fall
withiA the rule, that 'Where- a justification is. set
up under, a'special or limited authority, every
thing should be set out to show the case'to be

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

within the jurisdiction of the authority whose
protection is claimed and relied upon.

M.

1825.
u\Mted s t

V.
It may be observed, preliminarily, that this Morrit.
the
of
stage
objection, coming so late, and at.tfis
cause, is not entitled to much indulgence.. If
Well founded, and it had been made at an earlier
day, .the plea could have been amended, and
much expense and litigation prevented. Evry
reasonable intendment, therefore, in favour of the
plea, -ought now to be made.
It by no means follows, that in order to sustain this plea, it is necessary to show that it
would have been held good on general demurrer;
For it is a rule, founded in good sense, ahd supported by the settled doctrines of pleading, that"
many defects are- waived and cured, by pleading

To remisover, that might have been fatal on demurrer.
But it is far from being admitted that this plea setforth inwould not have stood the test of a general. de-j-stifcato
ti6 Marriaurrer. The.defendant was a ministerial officer,

and placed in a situation, in which -he was obliged to jidge and- determine, whether to obey
the command of the execution, or that bf the
warrant of remission from the Secretary of theTreasury. The latter is set out in A&ec verba in
the plea, and upon its -face refers to the law under which it was issued, which was a public aci;
and in which warrant, the Secretary of the Treasury sets forth, that a statemeni of fac ts, with the
petition of Andrew Ogden, touching the forfeiture, had been tansmitted to.him by the Diatrict Judge of the -Distfict of 'Maine,:pursuant, t6
th" statute of the Unit~d States, entitled. " an

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. act to provide for mitigating or remitting the for"

United States

v.

Morris.

feitures, penalties, and disabilities, accruing in

certain cases therein mentioned," as by the said
statement of facts, and petitions remaining in
the Tieasury Department of the United States
may fully appear; and that he having maturely
considered said statement of facts, -it appeared
to his satisfaction, that the said forfeitures were
incurred, without wilful uegligenco or avy tntention offraud,and thereupon remifted all the right,
claim and demand of the United States, and 6f all
others whomsoever, upon certain conditions therein
specified. This warrant, therefore, upon its
face, contained every thing required by the law,
and which was necessary to bring the case within
the .cognisance of the Secretary of the Treasury;
and to.require any thing more from a ministerial
officer for his justification, would be imposing
upon him great hardship.
This plea, by setting out the warrant at large,
adopts and asserts all the facts therein set forth,
and must be taken as alleging, that a statement
of facts had been made by the proper officer,
and transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasuryj
and is, therefore, an avetment- of that fact. It
is not, to be sure' a -formal, but is a substantial.
'averment; which is nothing more than a positive
statement.of facts, in opposition to argument or.
inferen.ce.

It would be altogether useless, and mere surplusage, to set forth sich statement of fadts in
the plea; they would not be traversable. It is
not competent for any other tribunal, collaterally,
to call in question the competency of the evi-

85Z

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1825.

dence, or its sufficiency, to procure the remission.
The Secretary of the Treasury is, by the law,

made the exclusive judge of these facts, and there
is no appeal from his decision.

The law de-

6lares, that on receiving such statement, he shall
have power to mitigate, or remif, such fine, forfeiture, or penalty, or remove such disability, or
any part.thereof, if, in his opinion, the same shall
have been incurred without wilful negligence, or
any intentionof fraud, iWthe person or. persons
incurring thesamie. The facts are submitted to
the Secretary, for the sole purpos'e of enabling
him to form an opinion, whether there was wilful
negligence, or 'intentional fraud, in. the trahsac-:
tion; and the correctness of his conclusion
therefrom no one can question. It is a subject
submitted to his sound discretion. It would be a
singular issue to present to a jury for -trial, whether the facts contained in such statement were
sufficient 'or not to satisfy the Secretary of the
Treasury, that there was no wilful negligence, or
intentional fraud. If the plea, by setting out the
warrant at large, contains, as I have endeavoured
to show, an averment, that a statement of facts
had been transmitted to the Secretary by the
proper officer, as required by the law, it was all
that was necessary. This gave the Secretary
cognisance of the case, and which was sufficient
to give bii- jurisdiction. But what effect that
statement of facts would, or ought to have, upon
his opiv-ion, whether the forfeiture was incurred
Ivithout wilful -negligence, or any intention of
fraud, is a matter that could not be inquired into.
But, should any doubt remain on this point, it

%.

Sta%

V.
Morem

,86
1825
_'
v.
Moris.

CASES IN THE $UPREME COURT

is removed by the admissions in the replication;
which begins by saying, that although true it is
that-the said William H. Crawford, as such Secretary of the Treasury. of the United States,

did make- and issue the said warrants of remission, as in the said plea of the said defendant.is
alleged, yet, &c. proceeding to set out facts and
circumstances, to show that the legal effect and
operation of such kemission cannot take away
the moiety of the custom-house officers, but affirping its validity as to -the moiety of the United .States, and thereby admitting the authority
' andA.. jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury, -and placing the avoidance of the operation
of the remission- on the rights of the customhouse officer";on'a totally distinct ground. The
only purpose.for which the statement of facts
upon which the Secretary acted, could be-required
to be set out in the plea, would be .to show his
jurisdiction; and if the replication admits this; i.
must .certainly work a cure, 6r waiver of the deIt is laid down by' Chitty, (Chitty on
:A'defectivede-fect.
:laratlon may
beaidedbythe.Plad. 547.) and for which he cites adjudged
plea, and a
"
support him, that,. as a defective
plea cases whih
dretlive
th elcaby
deelaration may be aided at.common law by the
tr.
plea, so a defective plea may be aided, in some
cases, by the replication. As if, in debt on bondi
.to make an estate to A., the defendant pleads,
that he enfeoffed another to the use of A., (which
is not sufficient, without- showing that A. was a
pagy, or had- the deed,) yet, if the plaintif-reply
that he-did not enfeoff, this aids the -bar. So-, if
tfie defendant pltad an award without sufficient

OF THE UNITED STATES.

"A87

certainty, and the plaintiff makes a replication 18.
which imports the award to have been made, if,UnitedSwes
V.
aids the uncertainty of the bar. And this rule is
Morris.
exbut
merely,
form
not confined t6 matters of
tends to matters of substance. Thus, in an action of trespass for taking goods, not stating
them to be the property of the plaintiff; this
defect will be aided, -ifthe defendant, by his plea,
admits the plaintiff's property. So, where several acts are to be performed by the plaintiff, as a
condition precedent, and he does not aver performance of all, if it appear by the plea, that the
act omitted to be stated was, in fact, performed;
the defect is cured. (6 Binny, 24. Chitty,
402.) We may, then, conclude, that the plea is
not, in. the present stage of the cause, to be
deemed defective on account-of the first exeepion taken to it.
And the remaining, and more important inquiry The Secrehs
Treasury
to remit
. .power
,, . had
.
is, whether the Secretary • of" the -Treasury
at
fofeiture
time be.
authority to remit the share of the forfeiturea
-. any
claimed 'by the custom-house officers.

fore 'at after
And this.condemnation.

nust depend oi the construction to be given to until the mo
texercised.
'~tMUpaid
. ney isactually
over to
the act under which the power wasW~~~
t
re
Ia
n
fo
Collector
distibuany
at
remit;
to
r
The authority of the Secretary
time before condemnation of the property seized, tio.
is not denied on the part of the plaintiff; and it
cannot be maintained, that Congress has not the
power to vest in this officer authority to remit
after condemnation ; and the only inquiry would
seem to be, whether this -has been done by the
act referred to. (2 L U. S. 585.). The present case ought not, perhaps, to be considered

288

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

altogether as a remission after condemnation.
Unted S~tate For, it appears, by the warrant of remission, that
V. the statemnut of facts, by the District Judge,
Morris.

upon which the remission is founded, bears date

on the 13th of June, 1814, and the condemnation
did not take place until May, r817; and although
the remission was not -actually granted until January, 1819, yet, as the facts on which it was
founded were judidialy ascertained three years
before the condemnation, there would be some
plausibility in maintaining that the remission

should relate back to. the time whpn the application was made to the Secretary. Bit, we think,
a broader ground may be taken, and that.the authority to remit is limited only by the payment of
the money. to the Collector for distribution.
It may safely 4e affirmed, that the question now
presented, has never received any judioial decision in this Court. Nor has any case been cited
at the bar, or recollected, by the Court to have
beqn decided here, containing any principle at
variance with the construction of the "act now
adopted.
In the case of Jones v. Shore's executors,
(1 Wheat. Rep. 462.) no such question was involved. The United States there asserted no
claim. Norliad the Secretary of the Treasury
exercised any authority under the ac in question.
The nfoney was in Court fordistribution, and the
-ole question before this Courtwas, whether the
then Collector and Surveyor were the actual incumbents in. office, or -the representatives: of the
late Collector and Surveyor, in right of their tes-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tator, and intestate, were entitled to the money,

289
1825.

The United States
V.
Ness
Van
of
same principle governed the case
and it was decided in favour of the latter.

v. Buel, (4 Wheat. Rep. 75.) But these cases
decide no more, than that the right of the custom-house officers to forfeitures, in rem, attaches
on seizure, and to personal penalties on suits
brought; and in each case this right is ascertained and consummated bythe judgment, as between
such officers and the party wh& has incurred theforfeiture or penalty. But they decide nothing
with respect to the right, or the control of the
United States, over such penalties and forfeitures. The rights and interests of these officers
must nece~sarily be held subordinate to the au-*
thority of the United States over the subject.
And that such is the light in which they are viewed, is evident from what fell from the Court in
the case of Gelston v. Hoyt, (3 .Wheat. Rep. 319;)
It is there sAid, the.seizing officeris the agent of'
the government from the moment of the seizure
up to the termination of the suit. His own will
is bound up in the acis of the government in reference to the suit. By the very'act of seizure,
he agrees to become a party to the suit under the
government; for, in no other manner, can .he
show an authority to make the seizure, or to enforce the forfeiture. If the government refuse
to adopt his acts, or waive the forfeiture, there is
an end to his claim; he cannot procee d to enforce
that which the government.repudiates.
It is not denied but that the custom-house officers have an inchoate interest upon the seizure.
VOL. X.

37

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

and it is admitted that this may be defeated by a
renission at-any time before condemnation. But,
unfia
.atesa
V1. if this is not the limitation put upon the authority to remit; by the act giving the power, it is
,difficult to discover-any solid ground upon which
such limitation can be assumed. If the interest
of the custom-house officers, before condemnation, is conditional, and subject to the power of
remission, the judgment of condemnation can
.have no other effect than to fix and determine that
interest as against the claimant. Those officers,
although they may be considered parties in interest, are not parties on the record; and it cannot
with propriety be said they have a vesied right,
in the sense in which the law considers such
rights. Their interest still continues conditional,
and thq condemnation only ascertains and determines the fact on which the right is consummated,
should no remission take place. This is. evidently the scope and policy of the laws on this
subject. The forfeiture i to the United States;
and must be sued fo'r in the name of the
'United States.. (3 L. U. S. 221. s.. 89.) It is
jnade the duty of the Collector to prosecute, and
heis authorized to receive- the money, and on re.
£ pi therebf,.is required to distribute the same
according to law. In all this, however, he acts
as the.agent of the government, and subject td
tie authority. Of the Secretary of the Treasury,
whb may direct the prosecution to cease. And
the act creating the right of the custom-house
oftriers to a pottion of the forfeiture, does. not
'"'

OF TAE UNr£ED STATES.

vest any absolute right'in them until the money 1825.
s
is received. (s. 91.) It declares, that all finesU
v.
penalties, and forfeitures, recovered by virtue of
br1L
this act, shall, after deducting all proper costs
and charges, be paid, one moiety into the treasury, and the other moiety divided -between the
Collector, Naval Officer, and Surveyor. No part
of the act warrants the conclusion, that the right
of these officers becomes absolute by the eon-demnation. But, on the contrary; the plain and
obvious interpretation is, that the right does. not
become fixed until the.receipt of the money by
the Collector. Unless, therefore; the act under
which -the remission is allowed (2 L. U. ,S. 585.)
limits -the authoiiy of the Secretary of the Treasury to the time of condemnation, the customhouse officers have no right to question the remissi6n. That the act does not, in terms, so
limit the power, is very certain; nor is such a construction warranted by the general object aind
policy of the law, whicho i"intended t6 provide
equitable relief.where the forfeiture has been incurred Without wilful negligence or. mteiationAl
fraud. It presupposes, that the offence has beev
committed, and the forfeiture attached according to the. letter of the law, and affords relief for
inadvertencies, and unintentional- error. And
why should, such relief be foreclosed 1y the condemnation ?- The law was made for .the benefit
of those who had innoeently incurred the penalty,
and"not foi the benefit of the custom-house officers. If any prosecution has. been instituted,
the Secretary has authority to direct it to cease

292

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Utions
UnitedStates

IV.

Morris.

and be discontinued, upon such terms or condias he Inay deem reagonable and just. This

enables him to do ample justice to the custom-

house officers, not only by reimbursing all costs

and expenses incur-ed, but rewarding them for
their vigilance, and encouraging them in the active and diligent discharge of their duty in the
execution of the revenue laws. But, to consider
their right to a moiety of the forfeiture as absolute, and beyond the reach of the law, after condemnation, would be subjecting the innocent to
great and inequitable losses, contrary to the
manifest spirit and intention of the law.. The
Secretary is authorized to direct the prosecution
to cease and be discontinued. This, undoubtedly, gives him a control over the execution. The
suit, or prosecution, does not end with the judgment, but -embraces the execution, and it has so
been considered by this Court at the present
term. And that such is the sense in which the
term prosecution is used in these laws, is evident from the 89th section of the Collection Act,
where the Collector is required to cause suits to
be-commenced and prosecuted to effect. But the
prosecution would be to Very little effect, unless
it extended to and included the execution. The
provision in the third section of the act under
which the remission is allowed, affords -a very
strong inference, thfit the rights of -the customhoWse officers are conditional, and subordinate to
the authority-to remit. It deelares, that nothing.
herein contained shall be construed to affect the
right or claim of any person, to- that part of any

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'20

fine, penalty, or forfeiture, to which he may be 1825-.
entitled, when a prosecution has beeni corn- Unied Sta6
V.
menced, or ipformation has been given, before the
Morris.
to
relative
act
other
any
or
act,
this
passing of
the.mitigation or remission of such fines, penalties; or forfeitures; thereby clearly showing, that
before such power to remit was given, the right
of the custom-house officers attached upon the
commencement of the prosecution, and could
not be devested; but that such right was now
modified, and made conditional. This provision
is contained in the first law which passed in the
year 1790, (2 L. U. S. 103.) giving authority'to
the Secretary .of the Treasury to remit penalties
and forfeiures. This act 'was temporary, but
continued from time to time until the 8th of May,
1795, when it expired, and was not revived until
March, 1797, leaving a peiod of two years, when
the. power to remit was not vested in the Secretary of the treasury, and to which period the
provision in the third section of the act of 1797
probably refers.
The powers of the Secretary of the Treasury
have been supposed analogous to those of the
Commissioners of the Customs in England, under the statute 27 Geo. III. c. 32. s. 15. But
it is very obvious, on reference to that statute,
that the authority of the Commissioners to remit, was limited to the condemnation. These
powers were afterwards, by statute 51 Geo. IL
c. 96. extended, but still limited to remissions
It was probably not
before condemnation.
deemed advisable to confer more enlarged powers

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

294

1825.

upon the Commissioners of Customs, but that a
somewhere to remit after judgment of
condemnation was proper and necessary; and,
accordingly, by statute 54 Geo. III. c. 171. this

apower
United States

V.
Harris.

power is transferred to the Commissioners of.the
Treasury. The two former acts are recited, and
the recital then proceeds thus: "Whereas it is
expedient, that the provisions of -the said acts
should be further extended, and that the Commissioners of his Majest3's Treasury should be
empowered to restore, remit, or mitigate any forfeiture, or penalty, incurred under any laws relating to the revenue, or customs, or excise, or navigation, or trade, either before or after the same
shall have been adjudged ia any Court of law, or
by or before any C6mmissioner of Excise; or Justice of the Peace ;" and it is then enacted, that the
Commissioners of the Treasury may order any
goods seized as forfeited, to be restored, on the
terms and conditions mentioned in the order, and
may mitigate or remit any penalty or forfeiture
which shall have been incurred under the revenue laws, and upon. such terms and conditions,
as to costs, or otherwise, as under the circumstances of the case shall appear reasonable. The.
en*acting clause in this statute is general, like our
act. It does not, in terms, give the power to the
Commissioners of the Treasury to remit after condemiation,, and yet thero can be, no doub.t- the
power extends to such cases; and, if this be so,
what becomes of the rights of informers, which have
ben supposed to become, by the judgment of con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'295

demnation, so vested, as not to be devested" even 1825.
unitedState
by a pardon.
V.
The powers given by this statute to the Com
missioners of the Treasury, are very analogous IfTrri,.
to those given by our act to the Secretary of the
Treasury, and the phraseology employed to confer such powers is aearly the same in both.
Neither the one ror tnle other, in terms, extends
the power to-remission after condemnation; and
there can be. no reason why the same construefjon should not be given to both.' No vested'
rights of informers, or custom-house officers, are
violated in eithercase. These rights are conditionial, And subordinate to the.power of remission,
and ta be provided for in the terms and conditions upon which the remission is granted.
The practical construction given at the Treasury department to our aet, has not been particularly inquired into. It is understood, however,
that until within a few years, rem'hissions were
granted as well after as before. condemnation,
but that latterly this power is not exercised after
nondemnatibn, nor will the remission be .granted
before condemnation, unless the petitioner will
admit the forfeiture has been incurred. This
practice is. probably founded- on the impression,
that the equitable powers of the Secretary ought
not to. be interposed, until the legal guilt .of
the petitioner is ascertained. But the rights ofthe custom-house officers would seem to be as
much affected under such a practice, as to remit
after cofidemnation. Those rights are said to be
inchoate by the seizuie, and'to be consummated

296

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

by the condemnation. The confession of the
Un"S't"
United
StateF forfeiture before condemnation, remaining on the
V.
record of the Treasury department, although not
a judicial condemnation, might well be said tb
consummate the rights of the custom-house officers, if they are to be considered as becoming abThe
solute when the forfeiture is ascertained.
condemnation does no more than to determine
that question, so Par as respects the rights of
those officers; for the condemnation is not to
them, but to the United. States; they are no parties to the judgment; and their rights must depend upon, and be governed and controlled by,
the acts of Congress, which create and regulate
such rights; and by these acts, those rights, in
the opinion of the Court, do not become fixed
and absolute by the condemnation, btit are subject to the power of remission by the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the money arising from the
forfeiture is. received by the Collector for distribution. The warrant of remission, therefore, in
this case, when served upon the Marshal, operated as a supersedeas to the execution, and justified a discharge and restoration of the property
levied upon, and exonerates him from all claim
to :damages by the custom-house officers.
1825.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON. I *entirely'concur 'vith
my brethren in ,the opinion, that the power of the
Secretary to remit extends as well to cases after
as before judgment rendered. The question is
one which I have had to consider repeatedly in
my circuit, and which I so decided more than

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.2.97

twelve years ago. "rhe reasons on which I then 1825.
founded, and still adhere to this opinion, were unitedStates
briefly these :V.
neither Morris.
I consider the contrary doctrine as
consistent with the words nor the spirit of the
act of 1797. The unavoidable consequence of it
would be, that the suitor for grace is. hut out of
every legal defence; and it would be difficult to
assign a reason why justice should be refused by
the hand that tenders mercy. Many defences are
not only consistent with the claim for remission,
but furnish in themselves the best ground for extending the benefit of the act to the party defendant. He who supposes his case not to
come within the construction of a law, or that
the law is repealed, expired, or unconstitutional,
cannot be visited with moral offence, either in
the act charged or the defence of it. Yet, how
is the question of right ever to be decided, unless
he is permitted to try the question before a Court
of law ? In such a caso, pertinacious adherence,
to his offence cannot be imputed to him, since
resisting the suit on the one hand, while he sues
for remission on the other, amount to no more
than this,-that he denies having violated the law ;
but if the Court thinks otherwise; lie then petitions for grace,-on the ground of unaffected mistake; a point on which, of'course, he must satisfy the Secretary, before he can obtain a remission.
If the question be tested by the letter of the
law, it .vill be found, I think, to lead to the same
conelusion. The words are, " whenever any
38
VOL. X.

298

CASES IN THE SUPRtEME COURT

1825.

person, who shall have incurred any fine, penalty,
e S
forfeiture, or disability, or shall have been inteV. rested in any vessel, goods, wares, or merchanMorri. dise, which shall have been subject to any seizure, forfeiture, or disability, by force of any
present or future law of the United States, for
laying or collecting any duties or taxes, or by
force .of any present or futrre act concerning
the registering and recording-of ships or vessels,
&c. shall prefer his petition to the Judge of the
District in which such fine, penalty, forfeiture, or
disability, shall, have accrued, truly and particularly setting forth," &c. then, &c. the power
of remission may be exercised by the Secretary,
and the prosecution if any, ordered to be staid.
On perusing this act, it must be conceded, that
the terms are sufficiently general to extend the
powers of the Secretary, without limit, to the
cases of fine, forleiture, or disability, occurring
under the several laws specified. The limitation, therefore, nmst be sought for either in some
principle of construction, or in some principle
aliunde, which is competent to impose'such limitation.
But, with a view to construction,, there will be
found several considerations calculated to extend
the power granted to cases wherein judgimbnts
have been obtained, rather than to restrain it tO
any pre-existing state of things. If the question
be tested by the technical "significttiQn of the
terms, in strictness the power would be confined
to cases in which judgment had been obtained,
rathor-titn to those of a contrary' description.

OF THE UNITED bTAL'I:..

9

Fines, penalties, and disabilitids, are notincur- 1825.
red, and do not accrue, in thc technical sense OfUnited State!
V.
the terms, until judgment. With regard to disabilities particularly, (and there is no discrimination made between the cases,) I would notice
that disqualification to' hold any office under the
United States, which 1s imposed upon a smuggler for seven years. Who can question that it
must be counted from the day of judgment,
and not from the day of the offence or infor:mation ? Or-who can suppose that it could be made
a plea to the authority of a public officer at any
time before conviction?
But, with regard to fines and forfeitures, also,
there are various provisions of the United States
lawjs, which'look positively to a trial as necessary
to det6rmining whether such fines and forfeitures
have been incurred. I would notice "particularly
the 29th section of the Collection Law of 1799,
under which, incurring the penalty for the offence
there stated, is made* to depend upon tle master's not being able to satisfy the Court, by his
own oath, or other sufficient testimony, of certain
facts, which, in the given case, prevent his incurring the fine.
"Po, alsQ, of the 67th section -of: tlfe same law,
in which a forfeiture is made to accrue upon a
state of facts which positively requires tlhe intervention of a Court of justice, and which, of consequence, cannot be said to have been incurred
or accrued until j.dgment.
But bther consideiations present themselves
upon this law, which lead to the same conclusion.

,l0tu
1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The words are, " shall prefer his petition to the

Uilted
e States
StJudge

V.
Morris.

of the District in which such fine, penalty,

forfeiture, or disability, shall have accrued." That
this word accrued meant something more than
the terr incurred, used in the previous part of
the section, is obvious from this consideration'.
that an offence might be co amitted in one District, and the offender prosecuted in another; but
it never was imagined, that the suit for remission
could be going on in the District where the'.penalty was incurred, in one sense of the term, and
the prosecution in another. The term accrued;
therefore, has been universally held to be here
used with relation to the seizure, information, or
suit for the penalty; and so far from its being
held to have any effect in confining the time of
prosecuting this claim for remission to the ihterval between information and judgment, that,
practically, we know, in some of the most commercial Districts, the construction adopted was,
that the .penalty did not accrue until conviction ;
and, hence, suffering a decree or judgment to
pass, was considered as essential to making up
the ease in which the suit for remission might be
preferred. And there was some- reason for this
practice, since the necessary meaning of the
term, as distinguished from the word incurred,
shows; that there could hardly ever occur a case
in which the suit for remission was not preceded
by the suit for the penalty. But, if the -defendant was compelled to confess that he had violated
the law, and so the act requires, what reason
could exist why judgment should not forthwith

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pass against him ? And if, under such circum-

stances, the judgment was a bar to the remission,
ZD

1825.

.1 United States

the boon held out to them was all a fallacy; nay,

more, it was a lure to ensnare him; for the law

imposes no obligation on the Judge to stay proceedings ; and whetherlie would or not, rested
with him, or with the District Attorney, until the
Secretary should have time to act upon the applicaiion for remission.
The replication, however, exhibits the true
ground on which the real plaintiff in this suit is
compelled to rest his case: which is, that by
virtue of the .judgment, certain rights were vested
in him, over which the remitting power of the
Secretary does not extend. In making up this
replication, the party ought to have felt the real
difficulties of his case. It is generally true, that
the rules of pleading furnish the best test of a
right of action. The effect, in this case, Was to
introduce a new personage into the cause; and if
I were disposed to get rid of the question, on a
technical ground, I should find no difficulty in
coming to the conclusion, that there is a departure in this plea, and he has abated his writ.
How, in fact, the name of the United States
comes at all to be used in this cauise, is to me a
mystery; The very policy of the law in this
part of its revenue system is avoided by it, and
would be frustrated, if the practice could be
countenanced.- That the name of the United
States should be used against its will, and an attorney for the United States nominated by a
Judge, to act where the attorney of the United

v.

Morris.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

302
1825.

States refuses to act, and that without any

nietae
UnitedStates

authority by statute, I acknowledge has excited

V.
Morris.

Pny surprise.
The principles asserted are, that an absolute
interest is vested by law in the Collector; that
the United States are the trusteeg to their use;
that the act of the trustee shall not defeat the interests of the cestui que use, and that be- shall
have the use of the trustee's name to vindicate
his rights, that too in an action for damages.
The whole of this thing appears to me to be
wrong. If the right was an .absolute, substantive,
individual right, why was not the suit brought in
the name of the Collector? 'If his interest is
only an equitable interest, by what known rules
of pleading dan he avail himself of his, mere
equitable interest in a suit at law? or rather,
-can he make his appearance as party in the suit
instituted by his trustee ? ard that too, a suit
for damages ? It all results in a strong attempt
to modify the operation of our laws, and to regulate the rights and powers of -our officers, by
some fancied analogy With the British laws of
trade, and British revenue officers.
Our system is a peculiar system; and nothing.
is clearer to my mind, than that, in many particulars, it is constructed with a view to avoid that
very analogy which is here set up, and those consequences and embarrassments which might grow
out of it. In the instance before us, relief was
to be provided for a case of misfortune and of innocence, and nothing could have been more absurd, than to suffer the vested rights of informers

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and seizing officers to embarras the government

303
1825.

in its benevolent and just ..
views. towards
the ob-• UUie¢ae
..
nited S tates

jects of this law. Mercy and justice could only
v.
have been administered by hklves, if Collectors Morris.
could have hurried causes to judglnent, and then
clung to the one half oT the fortleiture, in .contempt ofthe cries of distress, or the mandates of
the Secretary. Hencre, according to our system,
all the suits to be instituted under the laws over
which the Secretary's power extends, are commenced in -the name of the United States. No
other party is permitted to sue ; they are all made
national- prosecutions; all the legal ac.tors are
those who are bound in obedience to the government that prosecutes. Nothing is more untenable than the idea' that at any one stage of the
prosecution, the government assumes the character of a trustee ; an idea so abhorrent to the principles of the "common law, *thatto make the king
a trustee, was to. make hbim absolute proprietor.
Nor is it until the character of prosecutor for offences against itself is put off, that the law raises
a state of things, in which the relation of trustee
and .cestui que use actually can arise. This is
when the money is paid into the hands of -the
Collector. To him the law directs that it shall
be paid; in order that it may be distributed.
What right, I would ask, would any one 6f the distributees here have to move the Court, that the.money be paid to him, and not'to the Collector?
There are cases in which other persons than a
Collector may be entitled -in ihe cap'acity of informers, and it may then be necessary for the

3U4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Court to decide on individual rights. But in no
ae
United eStates case,
that I am aware of, arising under the colV. lection law, can the Court be called upon to pay
Morris. the money in any 6ther way than to the Collector,
to be by him distributed; and this distribution I consi'der as a mere boon from the government, which
they may justly, and do practically, reserve a sovereign control over, until so paid under their laws.
The gift is from them, of a thing perfected to
them, and they may modify and withdraw thal
gift, ad libitum. When once paid away, according to legislative will,. their control is at an end.
and the right then, and not till then, becomes
vested and absolute, as between them and their
officers, whom, to the last, the law regards as absolute donees. That such is the view of the
Legislature, and'that in the exercise of that discretion, they still meant to be reasonable and
just, and not to exercise an expostfacto power in
such case, is all conclusively proved in the third
section of this act, as has been very justly insisted on in argument. During two years, this
power of the Secretary had remaiied suspended,
and with regard to rights accruing during that
time, the Legislature declares, that as the modification imposed upon the grant to the informer,
or siezing officer,- by virtue of that dispensing
power, did not then exist,. their proportions
should not afterwards be subjected to it, but the
Court may assess their proportions in a summary
manner. There cannot be a more explicit declaration of legislative understanding than this
clause presents, inasmuch as it tnakes no dis1825.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

305

crimination between the cases of judgment and

1825.

other cases, but considers the right accruing to

United States

v.
them the same before judgment as it is after.
Morri-.
in
which,
case,
this
in
peculiarity
There is one
my opinion, precludes the possibility of recovery,
independently of the general principle ; which
is, that this action is brought against the Marshal
for not executing process issuing from another
State. It certainly presents a dilemma from
which I think it impossible for th party plaintiff
to escape. The right to issue such process originates 'inthe 6th section of the " act
more effectually to prov ide for the settlement of
accounts between the United States and receivers
of public, money," by the words of which the
explicitly confined to the case of exepower
cutionsison judgments obtained for'the use of the
United States.
The real plaintiff.here, then, is reduced to this
alternative: Either the judgment was for his
use -or it was not.. If not for his use, then he
cannot be damnified by the defendant in refusing
to execute it. But if for his use, it cannot be
for the use of the United States, and then the
execution -issued wrongfully, and was rightfully
disobeyed. If it be replied, that tht judgment,
in the first place, was obtained for the .use of the
United States, it-only brings us back to what I
before observed, that so entirely is this trdfe, as
to raise no vested right in any one on the solitary ground of. an eventual contingent interest.
Judgment affirmed.
'OL. X

39

