192
1825.
"taking

M'Ccrm;ck
Sullivant.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

until Banks shall indemnify them f6r the underof their ancestor on his account.

Its unnecessary to proceed farther in the examination of this case, because the Court is of
opinion, that for the errors already stated, the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed,
and the bill be dismissed without prejudice.
Decree reversed.

[C AN'CEaY.

M'CORMICK

RThs ADJUDICATA.

LEx Loci.]

and Wife and others, Appellants,
V.

SULLIVANT

and others, Respondents.

The Courts of the United States are Courts of limited, but not of
.izfer orjurisdicti6n. If the jurisdiction be not alleged in tile
proceedings, their judgments and decrees nsay be reversed for that
cause, on a writ of error and appeal ; but, until reversed, they are
conclusive evidence between parties and privies.
Th'title and disposition of real property is governed by the lex" loci
roisite.
The title to lands can only pass by devise, according to the laws of
the State or country where the lands lie., The probate in one State,
or country, is of no validity as affecting the title to lands in another.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
The appellants filed their bill in equity in the
Court below, setting forth. that Willihm Craw-

OF TiE UNITED STATES.

IU16

ford, deceased, the father of the female appel- 1825.
lants, being, in his lifetime, a colonel in the Vir- M'Cormick
V.
ginia line, on continental establishment, and, as
and 2-3d SuIlvant.
such, entitled to the quantity of 6,666

acres 'of land, to be laid off between the Scioto and
Little Miami rivers, on the northwest side of the
river Ohio, departed this life, having first duly
made and published his last will and: testament,
bearing date the 16th of June, 1782, whereby he
devised all his estate, not otherwise. disposed of
'by said will, to be equally divided between his
three children, John Crawford, and the female
complainants, and their heirs for ever, That this
will fas proved and recorded in Westmoreland
county, in the State of Pennsylvania, 'on the
10th of September in the same year. That a
warrant for the above quantity of land was afterwards issued in the name of the said John Crawford, as heir at law of hig father, under which
the following entries were made: one for 800
acres, which was surveyed and patented to Lucas
Sullivant, of which quantity 400 acres are claimed by Bernard Thompson; another for 95 2-3d
acres, which was surveyed and patented to John
Armat, but then claimed by William Winship;
another for 956 acres, patented to some person
unknowni but claimed by Samuel Finley; another for 955 acres, patented to some person unknown, but believed to be claimed and possessed
by Lucas Sullivant.
The bill then proceeds to interrogate the above
parties, who are made defendants, severally, as
to their knowledge of the above will, and of the
VOt. X

Of

kCASES IN TIHE SUPREME COUR'T

1825, title of the
them to set
'
MICormick
v.
claimed by
.M2Ilirant, what time,

female complainants, and requires of
forth and describe the lands severally
them, from whom they jlurchased, at
and for what price the same were

purchased, and when the purchase money was
paid. The prayer is for a conveyance, by each
defendant, of two thirds, of the land claimed by
them respectively, and for possession.
The answer of the heirs of Winship states,
that the land to which they claim title was purchased, for a valuable consideration, of Thomas
Armat, by tleir father, to whom a conveyance
was made in the year 1807. That a bill was filed
by the'present complainants, against the said
Thomas Armat, in the District Court of Obio,
exercising the powers and jurisdiction of a Ci'rcuit Court, for the land now in controversy, to
l.hich the said Armat filed his answer, asserting
himself to be a bonafide purchaser of tle land,
t'or a valuable consideration, and without notice,
and that, the cause coming on to be heard, th6
-bill ivas dismissed without costs, after which detree, the purchase was made of Armat by the
defendant's father. They insist upon, and pray
to be prbtected by the said decree.
Finley answers, and, alleges himself to be a
bonafidepurchaser, for a valuable consideration,
of 5.00 acres, part of the 956,acres mentioned in
the bill, from one Beauchamp, who claimed as
assignee of Dyal, whe was assignee of John
erawTord, forewhich he, paid,. and received a patent, before notice of the claim of the plaintiffs,
or of the will of William Crawford.

OF THE UNITED STA'TES.

The heirs of Thompson filed a plea in bar,

195
1895,

alleging, that the complainants, in the year 1804, MCormick

filed their bill in the District Court of Ohio

Ta

of a Cir-- SuUfixat,
exercising the powers and jurisdiction

cuit Court, against -B,.Thompson, their ancestor,
under whom they claim, setting forth the same
title, and, substantially, the same matters, as in
their present .bill, to which the said.Thompson
answered, and the complainants replied, and upon a hearing of the *cause the bill was dismissedwith costs, which decree is in full fbrce, &c.
Sullivant filed a similar plea, and the bill was
dismissed, as-to him, by agreement..
A general replication was put in to the answers
of Finley and. Winship's heirs,- and a spe.cial replication to the plea in bar5 setting forth the. record in the former suit, and alleging, that the
pro'ceedings in that suit were coram non judice,
the record not ;howing that the complainants and
..defendant in that suit, were citizens of different
States,
Upon the hearing, .the bill-was dismissf 1, and
ai appeal taken .to this Court.
Mr. Doddridge,for the appellants, argued, that
the fqrmer proceedings in the District Court of
-Ohio, pleaded in bar of the present suit, were
absolutely null and voids th.. ,cord not showing
that the parties to that suit were citizens of different States and consequently, the suit was coram non jdice. The Courts of the United
States are all Courts of limiled jurisdiction, and
the presumption is, that a case i.- without their

udrch th

( ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. jurisdiction until the contrary appears.'
MCormick
M
ijurisdiction

V.
oulivant.

The

must appear on the record, either as

arising out of the character of the parties, or the
nature of the controversy. If it arises from the

character of the parties, as being citizens of diffbrent States, aliens, &c. the citizenship or
alienage of the respective parties must be set

forth.b He also contended, that the probate of
the will of W. Crawford, in Westmoreland county, now a part of the State of Pennsylvania, but
then claimed by Virginia, as being within its territorial limits, was sufficient to pass the title to
the lands in question; but if this were not so,
that the probate and record of the will was notic'e to all the world, and affected, in the view of
a Court of equity, ',e consciences of the grantees, and all' those claiming under them. He,
however, concluded by asking, that in ease the
decree of the Court below should be affirmed,
that it might be without prejudice.
Mr: Scott, contra, insisted, that the appellants
had entirely failed in establishing any title .to the

lands in question, under the will of W. Crawford,
they not having exhibited a probate either in
the State of Virginia, or of Ohio, which then constituted a part of Virginia. By the law of Virginia, then in force, it was necessdry that a will
of lands should be duly proved, and admitted to
a Turner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dal. 8.
b Bingham v. Cabot; 3 Dal. 282. Mossman v. liigginson, 4
Dali. 12. Abercrombie v. Dupuis, I- Cranch'sRep. 343. Wood v .
Wagnon, 2 Cranch'sRep. 1.

'*F THE UNITED STATES.

record in the Court of the county where the tes- 1825.
tator had his xe'idence at the time of his de- M'Cdrmiekv.
cease; or, if he had no place of resideiice in the
Sullivant.
where
county
the
of
Court
County
the
in
then
State,
the landsdevised were situate; or, if the land was
of a eertain value, it might be proved in the General Court.a

The will of W. Crawford, whether

executed in Virginia or elsewhere, could not have.
the effect to pass his real estate, situate in that
State, unless made and proved in conformity
with its laws. It belongs to the sovereign power
of every State, to prescribe the rules by which
real property within its territory shall be transferred. No Courts but those of Virginia, or
Ohio, could have jurisdiction of this will, because
the probate must depend upon the legality of the
execution, and that again must depend upon the
lex loci. The probate of a Court. of competent
jurisdiction s, by the local law, conclusive evidence of the due execution of a Wil of real as
wdll as personal estate. But the Court of Westmoreland county could have no jurisdiction of the
probate of this will, because that Court was not
established under the authority of Virginia, and
because the lands did not lie in that county, nor
was the testator resident there. A mere contested claim to the territorial *jurisdiction could
never lay the foundation to establish the validity
of this probate, which was, in fact, made in a
foreign country. It is laid down, by the text
writers on this subject, that " if a will be made
in a foreign country, disposing of goods in Eng- . ,r:,i' Pr!' (~ode. '-.:') .'

.

C( XE- IN\ THE "- PR.'nE CUlI

1825.
C
AlCormick

V.
Sullivant.

.farch

16th.

'

land, it inozt be proved there."a A Jbrt-iort.
would it*be required to be proved there, (if by

the English law probate of a will of lands were
conclusivb,) where it related to real property.' If
this will could not pass the legal title to the lands
in controversy, nefther could the respondents be
affected with- constructive notice by the probate
in Pennsylvania. Had it been duly proved and
recorded in the Stahte where the -lands are situate, it is so vaguely drawn as not to designate,
with certainty, the particular lands in question..
The claim of the appellants would, therefore, still
be but a latent equity, and the purchaser from
the heir would be protected.c He also insisted,
that the respondents were protected by the foriner decree in the District Court. Although the
Courts of the United States are Courts of limited
jurisdiction, so that their judgments will be reversed on error, unless the jurisdiction appears
upon the face of the record, yet they are not inferior Courts in a technical sense ; and so long
as their judgments~remain unreversed, they are
conclusive. Their judgments may be reversed
in an appellate Court for this cause; but they
are not mere nullities.'
Mr. Justice WASHINGTO'.N delivered the opinion
of the Court, and, after stating the case' proceeded as follows:
a Toller's Exec. 72.
b Robertson, Wills, 50. See also I1 Vin. Abr. 58, 59. 1 Vern•91. 1 Ld. Rayn. 251. 3 Mass. Rep. 518. 16 Mass. Rep. 441.
K-err v.'Moo'n, 9 Whcat. Rep. 565. 570.
c Lewis v. Madison, i Munf. 303.
"
Kennedy,-5 Cronch's Rep.
,7Kempe

)i, Till UNITED STATES.

199

The question which the plea of Thompson's 1825.
•
heirs, pre- bM'Cormick
heirs, and the ahswer of Winship's
',.
of dismisdecree
general
the.
sents, is, whether
by the present Howlanth
sion of the bill in equity, filed Court
of Ohio, Ho, far the
District ourCorts-of
plaintiffsin the Federal
the
in
States
underVnited
defendants,
of
these
Courts
of
are
against the ancestor
juris.
whom they respectively claim title, is a barofnimited
.
• to be enforced by the those Courts
•
the remedy which is sought
eversmyb
of
rot want
present suit? 'The reason assigned by the repli- ed
jurisdic~ton
bar,
a
on
appearing
cation, why that &eree cannot operate as
faceof the
is,'that the proceedings in that'suit do not showlthproceedings;
nt.eil n,
that the parties to it, plaintiffs and defendants, reversed,
is
were citizens of different States, and that, con-conclusive as
O s adjudi.
sequently, the suit was coram noi judice, and the'
decree void.
But this reason proceeds upon an incorrect
view of the character and jurisdiction of the inferior Courts of the United States. They are.
all of limited jurisdiction ; but they are not, on
that account, inferior Courts, - in -the technical
sense of those words, whose judgments, taken
alone, are to be disregarded. If the jurisdiction
be not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and decrees arc erroneous, and may, upon
a writ of error, or appeal, be reversed for that
cause. But they are not absolute nullities. This
opinion was strongly intimated, if not decided,
by this Court, in the case of Kempe's lessee v.
Kennedy, (5Cranch'sBep. 185.) and was, afterwards, confirmed by the decision made in the
case of Skillern's executors v. Mays executors,
(6 Cranch's Rep. 267.) That suit came before
this Court upon a writ of error. where th deeree

200

IASES IN THE SUPREME GOUIV

of the Court below was reversed, and the caus,
M
remanded for further proceedings to be had
Mo.i
threin. After this, it was discovered by that
Sullivant. Court, that the. jurisdiction was not stated in the
proceedings, and the question w.as made, whether that Court could dismiss the suit for that
reason ? This point, on which the Judges were
divided, was certified to the Supreme Court, where
it was decided, that the merits of the cause having been. finally decided in this Court, and its
mandate only requiring the execution of its decree, the Court below was bound to carry that
decree into execution, notwithstanding the jurisdiction of that Court was not alleged in the
pleadings. Now, it is very clear, that, if the decree had been considered, as a nullity, on the
ground that jurisdiction was not stated in the
proceedings, this Court could not have required
it to be executed by the inferior Court..
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the decree
of dismission relied upon in this case, whilst it
remains unreversed, is a valid bar of the present
suit as to the above defendants.
The next question is presented by the answer
of Finley. At the death of William Crawford,
in the year 1782, be was entitled to a certain
quantity of land to be laid off between the rivers
Scioto and Little Miami, under a promise contained in an act of the legislature of Virginia. His
interest in this land was purely an equitable one.
After his death, a warrant to sutvey the same
was granted to John Crawford, his only son and
h.-ir at law. who assigned to mne Dval r.certain
1825.

'itOl

OF THE UNITED STATE*

tract which had been surveyed under the warrant,

1825.

and the defendant claims a part of th(: tract so MCormick

,.
surveyed, under Beauchamp, who purchased from
Sullivant.
made
he
that
answer,
his
in
alleges,
Dyal. Ile
the purchase bonafide, paid the purchase money.
and obtained a grant for the land, befbre lie had
notice of the will of7 William Crawford. or of the
claim of his daughters under it.
Crawford's will, under which the female coniplainants claim title, was proved in some Court
in the county of Westmoreland, in the State of
Pennsylvania, and was there admitted to record;
but it does not appear, nor is it even alleged, to
have been at any time proved in the State of
Virginia,. or in the State of Ohio, where the lands
in controversy lie.
At te time of the death of William Crawford .dnds lying in Virginia were transmissible
by last will and testament, in writing, .the same
being signed by the testator, or by some person in
his presence, and. by Jbis direction, and if not
wholly written by himself, being attested by two
or more credible witnesses, in his presence. But
to give validity and effect to such will, it was necessary that it should be duly proved, and admitted to record, in the Court of the cunty where
the testator had his residence at the time of his
decease, -or, if he had no place of residence in
that State, then in the Court of the county where
the land'devised lay, or it might be proved in the
General Court, where the land was of a certain
value. Subsequent to the death of William Crai for'd.101(l.
atll
" 5 ,-Oh
- ..s
,.:
,dli~ a,'t,
*.~'t
,' nb
o
a.~
~ ,,.,
~
.'~
i

i

20?

LASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

mitted authenticated copies of wills, proved in
any other State of the Union, or abroad, to be ofArick fered for probate in the General Court, or in the

1825.
C

Snlli-vat.

Circuit, County, or Corporation Court, where the

whole of the estate lies.
By the law of the State of 'Ohio, lands lying
in that State may be devised by last will and testament, or writing; but, before such will can be
considered as valid in law, it must be presented
to the Court of Common P~leas of the county
where the land lies for probate, and be proved by
at least two of the subscribing witnesses. If the
will be proved, and recorded, in another State,
according to the laws of that State, an authenticated copy of the will may be offered for probate
in the Court of the county where the land lies,
without proof by the witnesses; but it is liable to
be contested by the heir at law, as the oriainal
might have been.
b
It is an acknowledged principle 'of -law, that
l,,
'will of'
oes,,t srTOethe title and disposition of real property is exthe title tor

elusively sbject to the laws oi die country where

property inan-

othe.
Th exiit issituated, which can alone prescribe the mode
lori r~ei sio,,,
o ..sas toby which a title to it can pass from one person
the disposition
or iel pro-to

l t~Y"

another.

For the establishment of this doe-

trine, it will be sufficient to cite the cases of the

U.ntited States v. Crosby, (7 C'ranch'sRep. 115.)
and Kerr v. Moon, (9 Wheat. Rep. 565..) It follows, therefore, that no estate could pass to the
dlaughters of William Crawford, under his will,
until the same should be duly provd according
to the laws of Virginia, where the land to which
he waku mtithl ks'. at-fth timie oif hi. dtath, or

uF THE UNITED STATE,.

203

of the territory of Ohio, after the cession by I825.
Virginia to the United States, under the ordiV.
nance of Congress of the 18th of July, 1787, or
Suffivant.
has
which
State,
that
of
law
the
to
according
already been recited. The probate of the will
in the State of Pennsylvania, gave it nio validity
whateVer in respect to these lands, as to which
this Court is bound to consider Cfawford as having died intestate, and, consequently, that they
descended to John Crawford, his only son and
heir at law, according to the law of Virginia, as
it stood in .the year 1782. The Court below,
then, could do no less than dismiss the bill as
against this defendant, upon the ground, that the
complainants had shown no title whatever, legal
Qr dquitable, to the land in controversy.
This Court might be induced to yield to the
application of the counsel for the appellants, that'
in case. of an affirmance, it- should, be Without
prejudice, if we could perceive, from the recor(h
thai the complainants could, in another suit, -present their case under -a more favourable aspect.
But this the answer of Finley will not permit us
to anticipate; for, even if an authenticated copy
of Crawfdrd's. will should hereafter be offered
for probate, and admitted to record in the State
of Ohio, still, the title to be- derived under it
could not be permitted to overreach the legal title
of this defendant, founded, as it is, upon an equitable title, acquired bona fide, and for..a valuable
consideration paid, which purchase, payment,
and acquisition of legal title, were made bfore
he had either legal nr (cn.ructive notice of the,

2-U4
18125.
- Wright
V.
Denn.

CASEb EN THE :i.PREME COLRr

will, or of the claim of the daughters, Fbr we arti
all of opinion, that the probate of the will in
Pennsylvania cannot be considered as constructive notice to any person, of the devise of the
lands in controversy. The decree of the Court
below must, therefore, be affirmed generally,
with costs.

DE'.'isE.

\VmRHT.

Plaintiff in Error, v. DE
PAGE, Defendant in Error.

u.:r dc/n.

-1. P., by his last will, after certain pecuniary leacies, devised as fullows : "Item, I give and bequeath unto my loving wife M., all the.
rest of my lands and tenements whatsoever, whereof I shall die
seised in possession, reversion, or remainder, provided she has no
lawfulissue. Item, I give and bequeath unto M., my beloved wife,
whom I likewise, constitute, make, and ordain, my sole executrix
of this my last will and testament, al- and singular my lands, messuages, and tenements, by herfreely to be possessed and enjoyed,"
& c. "and I make my loving friend, H. J., executor of this my will.
to take care, and see the same performed, according to my true intent and meaning," &c. The testator died seised without issue,
and, after the death of the testator, his wife M. 'married one G. W..
by whom she had lawful issue. Held, that she took an estate for
life only under the will of her husband, J. P.
Where there are no words of limitation to a devise, the general rule
of law is, that the devisee takes an estate for life only, unless, from
the language there used, or from other parts of the will, there is a
plain intention to give a larger estate.
To make a pecuniary legacy a charge upon lands devised, there must
be express words, or a plain implication from the words of tle
vil

