OF THE UNITED STATES.

residue of the said ninety-three are to be deliver- 1825.
ed to the Spanish claimant, on the terms in the said
decree mentioned ; and all the remaining Afri- burgh.
cans are to be delivered to the United States, to
be -disposed of according to law; and the said
decree of the said Circuit Court is, in.all things
not contrary tb this decree, affirmed.

[INsTANCE COURT.

The PLATTSBURGH.

SLA VE TnADm AcTs.]

MARINO,

Claimant.

A question of fact under the. Slave Trade Acts, as to a vessel.
claimed by a Spanish subject, as having been engaged in"
the trade
under the laws of his own countiy, but proved to have been originally equipped in the United States for the voyage in question.
Under the Slave Trade Act of 17.4, c. 11. the forfeiture attaches
*here the original voyage is commenced in- the United States;
,whetherthe vessel belong to citizens or foreigners, and whether the
act'is done suojure, or by an agent for the:benefit of another person
who is not a citizen or resident of the United States.
Circumstances ;f a'pretended transfer to a Spanish subject, and
the commencement bf a.new voyage in a Spanish-port, held not be
sufficient to-break the continuity of the original adventure, and to
avoid the forfeiture.
It is not necessary, to incur the forfeiture under the Slave Trade
Acts, that the equipme.nts for the voyage should be completed. It is
sufficient, if any preparations are made for the unlawful purpose.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New-York.
This was a seizure of the schooner Plattsburgh, otherwise called the Maria Gertrudes, on
.he Coast of Africa, made .by the United States
-hip of war, the Cyane, in the year 1820. The

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

vessel was brought into the port of New-York
adjudication, and a libel .of information was
for
The Plaitsfiled in the District Court, under the acts of Conburgh.
gress of 1794, c. 11. and of 1800, c. 205. prohibiting the slave trade. A claim was given in on
behalf of Juan Marino, a Spanish subject, and a
resident merchant of. St. Jago de Cuba. Upon
the proofs taken, a decree of condemnation was
pronounced in the' District Court, which was
affirmed in the- Circuit Coiurt proforma, and the
cause was brought by appeal to this Court.
1825.

.M1arc 15th.

The cause was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr.
Mayer,a for, the appellants, and by the Attorney
General for. the respondents.b The argument
turned principally upon the questio.n of fact, as
to the origin of the adventure in the United States,
and the alleged suibsequent transfer to a-Spanish
subject,"so as to change the property, and break
the continuity of the voyage. The same grounds
of law were als6 insisted on by both parties, as
in the argument of the preceding case of the
Antelope; but, as the present cause was determined by the Court exclusiyely upon the facts respecting the alleged sale and change of voyage,
it has not been thought necessary to report the
arguments of counsel.
a They cited, the Diana, 1 Dodson'8 Rexp. 95. The Louis,
2 Dodton's Rep. 228.
b He cited, the Fortuna, i Dodso' Rep. 81. 86. The Donna Marianna, 1 Dodson's Rp.91.' The St. Jago de Cuba,
9 W qet. Bep. 409.
The cases cited from the English Adu)iralty Reports, will be
found in the APENn x to the present volume, (C.) p'.40.-84.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the 185.
The Platu
Court.
This is a. libel founded On the several acts of inrgh. "
18G .
Congress for the prohibition of the slave trade,
and contains various distinct allegations, and especially counts fram'ed on the Slave Trade Acts
.of 1794, ch. 11. and 1800, ch. 205. -It is unnecessary-to enter upon a minute examination of
the pleadings, because the whole case turns upon
the question, whether, in point of fact, the voyage was originally undertaken from the United
States,. or was undertaken by the ilaimant, Mr.
Marino, from the island of Cuba, after a bona
fide purchase made by him, altogether disconnected frdm the original enterprise;
The Plattsburgh was -duly'registered at Baltimore as an American vessel, owned by Messrs.
Sheppard, D'Arcy, & Didier, jun. of th at pl.ace, in
October, 181,7. She cleared out at tife custom
liouse under the command, of Captain Joseph F.
Smith, in Dece aber, 1819, having what is dalled
an assorted cargo oh board, on. a voyage ostensibly for St. T~homas, in the West -Indies, but
in reality, for St. Jago,. in the .island of Cuba..
Up to this period, the ownership .remained upon
the ship's papers wholly unchanged. But it is
now asserted, that the shares of D' Arcy and Didier were purchased by Sheppard for the sum of
6,000 dollars, and 'that the voyage was wholly
undertaken on his account. The first remark
which arises upon this state of the case is, how
it should come to pass, if the purchase were bona
fide, that the requisite alterations were not made

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

in the ship's papers, since, by the act of Con-

The Platts-gress, unless registered anew
burgh.
the vessel forfeits her American

upon such sale,

character ? Sheppard, in his testimony, gives an extraordinary
reason for the occurxence, declaring that he was
insolvent at the time of the. purchase, and so
could not give the usual bond for the proper use
and deliv.ry up of the registery upon any future
sal.
Yet, accordihg to his own showing, and
that of the other part owners, he was, at- this
time, the owner of one half of the Plattsburgh,
valued at 6,000 dollars, and of an interest in another vessel, valued at- 4,000 dollars. Sheppard
further states, that one of his inducements to
purchase the Plattsburgh, was an offer made to
him by one George Stark, (who became a conspicuous character in the subsequenf proceedings,) to get. for her 12,500 dollars in -St. Jago
de Cuba, Stark- asserting that he was authorized
to purchase a vessel at that place. Accordingly,
Sheppard. determined to intrust Stark with the
negotiation, and a bill of sale of the schooner
was executed to Stark, by all the owners, to enable him to convey the same to any purchaser.
The cargo of the Plattsburgh, as contained in
the manifest, consisted principally of goods belonging to various shippers, who are not in the
slightest degree implicated in any part of the
guilt of this transaction; and upon the sales of
the same at St. Jago de Cuba, the proceeds were
regularly ren'tted to them, These shippers all
contracted with Stark for the shipment and
frieight of their goods, and he informed one of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

131

them, that he had .purchased the schooner fbr 1825.
certain persons iithe island of Cuba, aid that he Patts.

he had no interest in her himself, bit was to re- burgh.
ceive 2,000 dollars for delivering her at that port.
How far this statenient is reconcileable with the
account given of the transaction -by the owners
of the Plattsburgh, it is unnecessary to examine.
At the time of the equipment of the Platts-burgh at Baltimore, there was another vessel, the
brig Eros, which was also fitting out at that port
for St. Jago de Cuba, with a cargo suited for the
slave trade, under the management of Stark, as
charterer for the voyage. This vessel was at
first detained'by the collector upon suspicion, but
.hc,being satisfied,- upon inquiry, that the owner
.of th6 Eros had no intention of-having her en,
gaged in the slave trade, afterwards, released her,
taking out some feW of her equipments. The
Plattsburgh first dropped down the Chesapeake
bay, and, afterwards, (if the witndsses are to be
believed,) some grape, canister, and round shot,
were taken on-board,.an7d, on stowing thdm away,
a barrel of irons, -or handcuffs, was discovered,
whidh was not contained in the manifest of the
.cargo. The -vessel then sailed down to New
Point Comfort, and'there waited ten or twelve
.days for the Eros, and as soon as the latter appeared, after taking on board Mr. Stark, the
Plattsburgh sailed in company with the Ero§, directly for St. Jago de Cuba. The crew on board
are represented to have distinctly understood,
soon afterwards, that the voyage was designed
ultimately for the African coast for slaves
Val. X

is

tASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

Indue time both vessels arrived at the port of

Thep Platts-. destifiation,

"m-zh.

and unladed their cargoes.

And

here the sale to Mr. Marino is alleged to have
taken place, in entire good faith, for the sum of
12,000 dollars, although, upon the production of
the bill of.sale, the sum is there asserted to be
8,000 dollars only. Both of the. vessels are consigned to a Mr. Wanton, at St. Jago, through
whom the negotiation seems to have been made.
After the ostensible sale, the Plattsburgh underwent repairs under the agency of Wanton, and
was in due form made a Spanish ship, viith Spanish national documents ; and the usual preparations were made, and the usual passports obtained, to equip -her for a slave voyage to the coast
;of Africa, under her new owners. A part of the
cargo of the Eros was taken on board of the
Plattsburgh, and particularly about 300 casks of
gunpowder. The original crew were, apparently,
discharged, but Captain Smith, two of the mates,
and six Qr eight of the men, together with Stark,
still remained on board, and accompanied the
vessel to the coast of Africa, she being, during
that voyage, under the nominal command of a
Mr. Gonzalez, with the assumed name of the
Maria Gertrudes. She was'captured, while lying
on the coast of Africa, north of the line, by the
boats of the United States ship of war Cyane,
under Lieutenant Stringham, and was brought
into the port of New-York for adjudication, and
was there finally condemned by the District and
Circuit Courts ; and the present appeal is from

OF THL UNITED STATES.

139

the decree pronounced, pro forma, by the Iat- 1825.
The Plattster.
burgh.'
circumstances
the
of
Such is a general outline
of the case, upon which it is material to observe,
that if the original object of the equipment and
voyage from Baltimore was*for the. purpose of
.carrying on the African slave irade; the forfeiture equally attaches, whether the schooner was
then owned by American citizens, or by a foreigner. The act of 1794, cli. 11. expressly declares,, that no citizen or resident in the United
States shall, for himself, or any other -person
whatsoever, either as master, factor, or owner,
build, fit, equip, load, or otherwise prepare, any
vessel within any pprt of the'United States, nor
cause any vessdl to sail from any port within the
-same, for the- purpose of carrying .on any trade
or traffic iin slaves, to any -foreign country, &c.
&c. under the penalty of forfeiture. Under .this.
act, it is immaterial to whom the ownership. helongs, -and whether the act is done suo jur, or
If, therefore,
for the benefit. of another person;
.at Baltimor.e by:
equipped
was
the Plattsburgh
the owners, of by the master, or by- Stark, as
factpr or agent, to carry on the slave trade for the
benefit of Marino, the case falls directly withirn
the prohibitions of the act. And, in this view,
the declarations of Sheppard and Stark, respecting the sale, are not without considerable, significance. But, there is no pretence to -say, upon,
the facts in proof, that the actual ownership, at
the commencement of the voyage, was not ia
Sheppard and his partners, or in Stark We

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

find the latter travelling with the vessel through
her subsequent wanderings, with a consideraThe ,Plattshurgb.
ble cargo on board, which belonged to himself
when she left Baltimore, and which was at St.
Jago transhipped from the Eros; we find the
original master, and mates, with efficient authority,
on board, on the coast of Africa; we find all parties yielding obedience to them, and to Stark:
we find the master resorting to subterfuges, and
concealments, aifter the capture, and, the logbook kept in the English language ; and if the
testimony of two of the crew is admitted, (and
one of them is not in the slightest degree discredited,) we find the most decisive proofs,. that
the original voyage was conceiv;ed and executed
solely with a view to the slave trade. Whatever
exceptions may be taken to the testimony .of
Ferver, (and it is certainly open to much animadv.ersion from his first prevarications,) it has the
merit of standing supported, as to its main facts,
by all the other circumstances of the case. The
natural, nay, the almost necessary inference from
those circumstances is, that they belong to a meditated infringement of the acts prohibiting the
slave trade,
It has been asked, in what manner the original
intention can be deduced from the facts, since
the Plattsburgh had on board an innocent cargo
when she left Baltimore. That,'however; is not
quite certain, for though nothing noxious appeared on the face of the manifest, yet, j. Ferver aid
Flower are believed, there was a barrel of hand.uiffs concealed in the run. demonstrating. in n,,
Sall

UF THE UNITED STAT'Eb.

equivocal manner, the object of the parties. But, 1825.
were all innocent
• The Platts-•
assuming that the equipments
burgh.
case,
the
help
not
would
in their own nature, that
if there were positive -proof of a guilty intention.
The law does not proceed upon the -notion, that
provisions or equipments which are adapted to
ordinary voyages, are not Wvithin the forfeiting
clause, if they are intended for carrying on the
slave trade. Nor is it necessary that there should
be complete equipments for this purpose. It is
sufficient if any preparations are made for the
unlawful purpose. Suclrwas the doctrine of this
Court in the cases formerly adjudged; which were
cited at the bar.a
But there is no pretence to separate the voyage of the Plattsburgh from that of the 'Eros.
Both were undertaken by the same party, and f6r
the same object. The Eros carried .out the cargo
adapted to carry on the traffic,, and for the purpose of concealment, the Plattsburgh was made
to assume the garb of innocence. It was an ingenious device to lull suspicios., and escape the
penalties of the law; but the intention is just as
. trongly manifested as though all the offensive
articles had been laden on board the Plattsburgh.
In short, the Eros may be considered as the mere
tender of the Plattsburgh, and subservient to all
the objects of.-the latter. Her cargo found its
way on board after the arrival at St. Jago, under
the diredtion of Stark, who, true to his original
purpose, remained with, the Plattsburgh as the
a The Emily and the Caroline: 9 Wheat. Rep. 383.

142
1825.
T

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

duxfacti. It is-impossible, upon any reasonable
grounds, to assume his intention to have been a
burgh,
pprely lawful traffic at St. Jago. If it had been
so, why should he. have been found (n board on
the coast of Africa? Men do not, ordinarily,
take upon themselves such an odi6us and dangerous post, surrounding themselves with penalties and suspicions, without Qausis dee.ply connected with their own private. interests and purposes.
But, we are told, that here was a 'genuine sale
to a Spaniard, who was authorized, by the-laws
of his country, to carry on the slave trade, and,
however immoral or inhuman it may be, the
Court are to- -decide his case. upon principles of
law, and .not merely upon pr.inviples of justice or
morality. -Certainly -the Couirt have nothing to
do with the conscience of the .Spanish'claimant,
ithe has' established a bona fide, legal owner.ship: But that is the very point in controversy.
This is not the case of an ordinary trade, where
no disguise is necessary or useful. It is the- case
of a trade prohibited to Americah citizens under
very heavy penalties, penalties W'hich have since
been aggravated to the infliction of capital
punishment. It is a trad, -dious' in our country,
and carries a permanent stain upon th e repitation
of all who are concerned in. it, and is watched by
the severest vigilafice of the government. Under
such. cir.umstances, it is obvious that. it cannot
be carried on under our flag, but'at the greatest
hazards, and with few chances of escaping detection. If carried on at all, it must, therefore,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be carried on by Amaricans, under the disguise

1825.

of foreign flags ; and, it is notorious, that in the
-i"."
-S
Platts. The

colonial ports of Spain, there is little difficulty in burgh.
procuring all the apparatus for the use of the national flag.- The existence of such a flag is not,
when cireumstaices of just suspicion occur, any
decisive proof of innocence, for it is just-such a
cover, as must accompany the fraud. And these
considerations cannot fail to attract the attention
of a.bohaE fidei Spanish purchaser. He" cannot
but know, that American cruisers are in search
of those who violate our laws respecting this
traffic; and he would debm-it the highest imprudience-to place his property in a situation in which
it might justly be suspected of an admixture of
American interests; He would studiously. exclude from his ship all Americans, lest they
should involve himin serious losses. Of course,
he would, a .fortiori,exclude *fromhis employment the original American master and. owner
from whom he had purchased. He could not.,
without the grossest rashness, be presumed to
forget, that an American owner and master, on
board of a vessel recently under their control,
and recently purchased, would'jeopard the whole
adventure, for, upon the search- of a cruiser, they
would excite very strong presumptions of guilt.
How, then, can we reconcile, with the notion of a
bona fide purchase in this case, the continued
employment of the owner, the master, the mates,
and. a large -proportion of the crew, of the PIlattsburgh ? Does it not necessarily diminish the
credibility of such a claim ?

144

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

What, then, are the explanations attempted to

1825.
The a
Platts- be

burgh.

given upon this subject ?_ It is said, that Smith

and Stark were employed by Wanton to go to
the coast of Africa to transact business for him,
and that thdy were mere passengers. But what
business of Wanton ? None is proved, or attempted to be proved. And who, in fact, is
Wanton? He is the consignee of Stark, both
for the Plattsburgh and the Eros. He is the
shipper of the cargo for the coast of Africa, and,
upon the face of the bill of lading, no other person appears as owner; and it is now said, that
he is what is called an actionist,or 9hare holder,
in the voyage; and, by the Spanish laws, or
course of trade, such persons do -iot appear as
owners on the papers. It is remarkable, that if
such be the law, Marino's name should not appear on the bill of lading, and that Wanton's
alone is stated. The ambiguous fact is alleged,
that no freight is payable, because the vessel and
cargo are'united for the voyage. Surely it must
have been in the power of the claimant to have
given much more full and exact information on
this point.
Then, as to Captain Smith's being a mere pas!senger, on which so much reliance is placed by
the claimant, how does it comport with the facts
upon the record? At the time of the captur he
appeared as a principal personage, and evidently
conducted himself differently from a person who
had rio interest in the voyage, and was a mere
spectator. But what is. decisive, to show that
this is a mere disguise. too thin not to be

OF THE UNITED STATES

easily seen through, is the letter found on board, 1825.
written by him, to the mate, a short time before The Plaitsthe vessel sailed frolm St. Jago, in which the mask burgh.
is stripped off, and he appears in his natural character as master. It is as follows: " Sir, I wish
you to get the schooner down to Moro in the
,morning, and get the men quartered to the guns,
and station them on the tops and forecastle, the
sarie as on board armed ships, and get all ready
for going to sea to-morrow night. After you get
down to the Moro, send the boat, with four men,
for me. Yours, Jos. Smith." Nothing can be
more unlike the character or authority of a.passenger, than these directions. They belong
to one who has a right- to command, and knows
he is to be obeyed. The language imports, a
right to control the voyage, and could be' dictated
only by one in possession of the effective command. It would be absurd for an American passenger to address such a note to an American
mate, who was responsible to a Spanish master
for all his orders and conduct. It would be an
exercise of credulity far beyond atiy just claims
of the evidence, to lead the Court to the .belief,
that Captain Smith-was a mere passenger. The
circumstances of the case are at war with the
supposition, and the positive testimony of Ferver, and Flower, completely overturns it.
Without going more at large into the evidence,
in which there is much matter open to observation, it is sufficient. to state, that in the opinion
of the Court, the reality of the- asserted sale to
Marino is not established by the proofs, and our
19
VOL. X.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146
1825.
\01Thomas

conclusion is, that the unlawful enterprise had its
origin at Baltimore.

V.

Harvie's

Decree affirmed, with costs.

hairs.

LICANcxRY.]
THOMAS,

Appellant,
V.

GABRIELLE

BROCKENUBROUGH, JOHN HARVIE, ED-

wiN HARVIE, JACQUELINE HARVIE, JULIA ANN
HARVIE, Heirs at law, and Devisees of JOHN
HARVIE,

Respondents.

Although bills of review are not strictly within the statute of limitations, yet Courts of equity will adopt the analogy of the statute in
prescribing the time within which they shall be brought
Appeals in equity causes being limited by the Judiciary. Acts of 1789,
c. 20. s. 22:, and of 1803, c. 353. xciii.] s. 2., to five years after the
decree, the same period of limitation is applied to bills of review.
Qucere, Whether a bill of review, founded upon matter discovered
since the decree, is also barred by the lapse of five years ?
It is in the discretion of the Court, to grant leave to file a bill of review for that cause.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ken-

tucky. The apliellant, Thomas, *filed in that
Court, at the November term, 1818, a bill to review and reverse a final decree of the same
Court, pronoinced at the May tertm,. 1810, by
which the plaintiff in the bill of review, and defendant in the original suit, was decreed to con-

