2-U4
18125.
- Wright
V.
Denn.

CASEb EN THE :i.PREME COLRr

will, or of the claim of the daughters, Fbr we arti
all of opinion, that the probate of the will in
Pennsylvania cannot be considered as constructive notice to any person, of the devise of the
lands in controversy. The decree of the Court
below must, therefore, be affirmed generally,
with costs.

DE'.'isE.

\VmRHT.

Plaintiff in Error, v. DE
PAGE, Defendant in Error.

u.:r dc/n.

-1. P., by his last will, after certain pecuniary leacies, devised as fullows : "Item, I give and bequeath unto my loving wife M., all the.
rest of my lands and tenements whatsoever, whereof I shall die
seised in possession, reversion, or remainder, provided she has no
lawfulissue. Item, I give and bequeath unto M., my beloved wife,
whom I likewise, constitute, make, and ordain, my sole executrix
of this my last will and testament, al- and singular my lands, messuages, and tenements, by herfreely to be possessed and enjoyed,"
& c. "and I make my loving friend, H. J., executor of this my will.
to take care, and see the same performed, according to my true intent and meaning," &c. The testator died seised without issue,
and, after the death of the testator, his wife M. 'married one G. W..
by whom she had lawful issue. Held, that she took an estate for
life only under the will of her husband, J. P.
Where there are no words of limitation to a devise, the general rule
of law is, that the devisee takes an estate for life only, unless, from
the language there used, or from other parts of the will, there is a
plain intention to give a larger estate.
To make a pecuniary legacy a charge upon lands devised, there must
be express words, or a plain implication from the words of tle
vil

UF THE UNITED STATEb.

205

ERROR to the Circuit Court of New-Jersey. 1825.
This was an action of ejectment brought in the W
v.
Court below. The sole question arising upon Denn.
conthe
Upon
was
cause,
the state of facts in the
struction of the will of James Page, made on the
15th of February, 1774. By that will, after the
usual introductory clause, the testator proceeds
as follows: " Item, I give and bequeath unto my
beloved sister, Rebecca, 100 pounds, proclamation money, to be paid in four years after my decease.
" Item, I give and bequeath unto my beloved
sister Hannah, the sum of 50 pounds, proclamation money, to be paid when she is of age.
item, I give and bequeath unto my sister,
Abigail, the like sum of 50 pounds, proclamation
money, "to be paid when she arrives at age.
"Item, I give and bequeath unto my loving
wife Mary, all the rest of my lands and tenements
whatsoever, whereof I ha1 die seised, in possession, re.%ersion or remainder, provided she has no
lawful issue.
"Item, 1 give and bequeath unto Mary, my beloved wife, whom I likewise constitute, make, and ordain, my sole executrix of this my last will and
testament, all and singularmy lands, messuages
and tenements, by herfreely to be possessed and
enjoyed; and I do hereby utterly disallow, revoke,
and disannul, all and every other former testaments, wills, legacies, and bequests, by me
in any ways before named, willed and bequeathed, ratifying and confirming this, and no other,
to be my last will and testament. And I make

0-0b

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

my loving friend, Henry Jeans, of the county and

h
Wrighf

province aforesaid mentioned, executor of this

V.

my will, to take care and see the s~ime performed, according to my true intent and meaning ; and

Denn.

for his pains," (leaving the sentence incomplete.)
" In witness whereof," &c. (in the c!ommon'form
of attestation.) The testator was seised of the land
-in controversy at the time, of the will, and died
seised, without issue, on the 10th day of October,
1774, leaving his wife Mary, the devisee, who, afterwards, married one George Williamson, by
whom she had lawful issue still living, and died
in the year 1811. The lessor of the plaintiff is
the brother of the testator, and his' only heir at
law. The defendant claims title to the premise s
as a purchaser under Mary, the wife of the testator.
The title of the testator to the premises was
derived from a devise in the will of his father,
John Page, dated the 11th of November, 1773.
That will, among. other things, contained. the following clause: "Item, f give and devise unto
my son James., one equal half part of my land,
(comprising the land in controversy,) with all my
plantation, utensils, &c. &c. to him, his h-irs
and "assigns,for ever." He.then gives the other
moiety of the land to his son John,,to him, his
heirs and assigns. He then .bequeaths several
legacies to his daughters, Sarah and Mary, and
adds, "Item, I give and bequeath to my three
daughters, Rebecca, Hannah, and Abigail, Rebecca the sum of 50 pounds, Hannah and Abigail the sum of 50 pounds each of them. Like-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

wise it is my will,. that my son,Jlmes do pay Han- 1825.
nah and Abigail the said sum of fifty pounds
f
•Wright
V.
each, when they come of age." He then coneludes h-s will by appointing an executor, and Denn.
revoking all former wills, &c. ; and died soon afterwards.. James*(the son) left no other real estate than that devised to him by this will. What
personal estate he or his father left, at the times
of their decease, was not found in the case; and,
therefore, it did not appear whether or not it was
sufficient to pay thie legacies in their wills.
The Court below gave judgment for the lessor
of. the plaintiff, .who was the heir at law of the
testator, and the •cause was brought, by writ of
error, to this Court.
.Mr. Wood, for the plaintiff in error, contend- Feb..21st.

ed, that..Ma'y, Ithe wife of the testator, took a
fee simple under the devise.
It was admitted, that a devise of land, without
any technical words of limitation, or explanatory
words, gives only an estate for life. But the in'tention of the testator will supersede this rule,
and is the polar star to guide iii the construction
of wills. The local legislature were so impressed
with the good sense of this principle, that, in
1783, a few years after the mnitking this will, they
passed a statute, declaring that a devise of lands
should pass a fee, unless it was expressed to be
for life only. Courts ought, therefcre, to be liberal, in considering the explanatory words and
circumstances relied jon, to*show an intention to
devise the fee; by s0 doing, they further the in-

u.k,SES IN THE 1rUPREME COURT

1825.
\.O-

-blattained

Wright--

V.
Denn.

tention of the testator.- (Grater certainty is not
by ;trittid than 1w a liberal construction
of devises. The only mode of arriving at certainty is, by admitting a general devise to pass a
fee, or by requiring strict technical words of limitation. The notion that descent is the general
rule, and devise tho. exception, is more specious
than solid. They are both distinct, co-ordinate
rules.

He would first examine the clauses of the devise in question separately, and then, consider
their combined operation.
The words;" all the rest of my lands and tenements, whatsoever, whereof I shall die seised, in
possession, reversion, or remainder," &c. are
sufficient to pass a fee. The words rest, and in
reversion or -remainder,ought not to be rejected,
if a meaning can be discovered for them. The
devise of all the rest of his lands to his wife,
clearly imports, that the previous pecuniary legacies shall be a charge on the lands, and-that his
wife shall be entitled to whatever interest remains after the legacies are paid. A charge on
lands may be implied in a will.' An estate tail
in lands may be created by implication from a
proviso ;c a fortiori, a charge may be implied.
a Richardson v. Noyes, 2 Mass. Rep. 59. Doe v. Richards,
s Term Rep. 359. If Wes' Rep. 140. Goodright &t.Allen, 2 Jr.
BL 1042.

b Smith v. Tinsall, 2 Salk. 685. 1 Fes. Jr. 440. Prec. in
Alcock v. Sparhawk, 2 Vern. 229. 2 Dall.131.
c Chapman's case, T)!Ier, S3. Ring v. Rumbal, Cro. Ja:

Ch. 430.

t)F THE UNITED -'Vi I S

299

18'25.
'These lands were already charged in the hand
'-"lega0
other
tit"
Wright
of the testator with the payment
V.
ties, by the will of his father, John P., and which
Denn.
then
question
in
clause
rho
due.
then
not
were
is, as it purports to be, a general residuary clause,
in which the testator means to devise all his remaining interest in his real property. He could
ndt have meant the rest of his lands by way of
local description, for he had devised none before;
but he meant all the remaining interest in the
lands after the legacies were deducted. Wherever it appears that the testator intended to devise all his interest in land, a fee simple passes.
This rule applies with increased force to residuary clauses, in which a greater latitude of construction is allowed.' Though ,the words lands

and tenements are strictly descriptive of locality.
yet, in conrfexion with other expressions, especially iii a residhary clause, they may refer to the
quantity of interest or estate.c The words, in
remainder or reversion, aid the construdtion.
Though the testator might not have been acquainted with the precise technical distinction
between them, yet, he must have knoivh they
a Lambert's lessee v. Paine, 3 Cranch's Rep. 97. Sargent v.
Town, 10 Mass ReP. 3:)5.
b Lessee of Willis v. Bucker, 2 Binn. 464. Lambert's lessee v.
Paine, 3 Cranc/i's Rep. 129. Hogan v. Jackson, Cowp. Rep.
299. Grayson v. Atkinson, 1 Wi/s. Rep. 333.
c Cooke v. Gerard, I Lev. Rep. 212. Ludcock v. Willows,
Carrker's Rep. 50. 2 Ventr. Rep 285. Wheeler v. Waldron,
A4len's Rep. 28. Chester v. Chester, 3 P. VMms. 46. Strode v
Russel, 2 Vemn. Rep. 621. Rooke v. Rooke. Ibid 461

VOT.. X.

I~*

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Wright

W
.
Denn,

meant an estate in expectancy. The case of
v. Ladd' is very analogous to the present, and shows that a fee was intended.
If it be established, that the testator referred

'Norton.

to his interest or estate in the farm in question in this clause, it carries all his interest,
i. e. a -fee simple, because it is residuary, and the
language is broad and comprehensive enough for
the purpose.
Again; the proviso, "provided she has no
lawful issue," shows an intention in the testator
to giVe a fee to his wife. This is a condition
precedent to take effect at the time of his death ;
(1.) Because the terms used ordinarily import a
condition precedent. Where there is nothing in
the nature of the proviso, or in respect to the
ime of its performance, to show that a ¢ondition
subsequent was intended, it is always construed
a condition precedent. (2.) All the circumstances
of the case show, that the testator intended the
condition to take effect at his death, and to
be precedent; for then the issue the devisee
might have, would be his own child and heir.
If it be contended, that this proviso refers to
children the devisee might have by a future husband, the testator is made guilty of the absurdity of intending, that if his wife should marry
again, she might retain the land, but if she should
have issue by such marriage, she should forfeit
this case, was init The devise to the wife in.
descent tothe
the
for
tended to be a substitute
a Lutw. RO3: 7 5-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

heir. Whenever a devise of land is intended as 1825.
a substitute for a fee, the substituted devisc is a Wright
V.
fee.a A Court may discover, in a condition, the
n.
Den
defeat;
to
event,
6ertain
a
in
effect of which is,
the estate, an intent, when the estate actually
vests, to enlarge thg disposition to a fee. Thus,
as before shown, a devise may be enlarged to an
estate tail by the terms of a condition.'
But, to l.ave no doubt of his intention, the
testator, in the next sentence, gives the deviee
his land, "to be by her freely possessed and enjoyed." He drops the peculiar phraseology ofthe
former clause, and takes up new language, manifestly for the purpose of enlarging the subject of
his bounty. A life estate is susceptible only of
a partial and limited enjoyment. The words.
"freely to be enjoyed," have been held sufficient
to carry a fee.0 The idea, that these words, as
used in the present case, give a life estate disp niskable for waste, is wholly inadmissible. It
would be creating a state of things which would
make the interest of the tenant at variance with
the permanent improvement-of the soil, and, consequently, of the best interests, of the country.
It would be his interest to commit waste, and to
destroy the property. The testator could not
have meant that the devisee should hold the lands
a Moore Y. Heaseman, Willes' Rep, 152. Green v. Armstead,
Hob. 65. Ibbetson v. Beckwith, Cas. temp. Talb 157.
b Chapnman's case, Dyer, 333. King v. Rumbal, Cro. 1a..
448.
c Loveacre v. Blight: Cotp. 352. Willis v. Bucker. 2 Binrr.
Rep. 464.

212

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

as tenant for life, dispunishable for waste merely;

,"'4-

for that would only exempt the property devised

v.

from one kind of restriction, when he manifestly
contemplates a free erlijoyment generally, without

Wright

Denn.

any restriction whatever. The free enjoyment is
not annexed to the estate devised, but to the land.
It is the land which is to be freely enjoyed. The
estate is only the technical medium through which
that free enjoyment is secured, and the Court
will see that the devisee takes such an estate as
is compatible with a.free enjoyment.
But, even supposing these different clauses,
taken separately, should be deemed inadequate
to pass a fee, yet, taken conjointly, they form a
body of evidence, strong and conclusive, to show
that the testator intended to devise his entire interest in the lands. It is impossible to suppose
that a plain man would have used such phraseology mdrely to give his farm to his wife for her
life. All the clauses may be taken together, and
receive their full, combined effect. Juncta valent.
Mr. Webster and Mr. Cox, contra,. contended,
that under the will of James P., nothing more
passed to the devisee than an estate for life. The
plaintiff below claimed as heir at law. The title
was, primafacie,in him. It was admitted on all
hands, that the devise contains no words of limitation sufficient to pass the inheritance. It is a
general rule, that in order to create an estate in
a Frogrnorton v. Holliday, 1 H. B1. 54"'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

213

fee, words of inheritance, as " heirs," must be

1825.

•
Wherever an estate is granted, either

Wright

employed.

Y.
specifically for the life of the grantee, or without
Denn.
the
that
is,
presumption
legal
the
any limitation,
de'sign was to create an estate for life only. In
wills a greater latitude has been allowed. The
intention of the testator, expressed in clea'r, unambiguous te'rms, will carry the- fee. But the
rules of conveyance- atcominon law still operate,
although not so rigorously, even in regard to
wills; and, before the heir can be disinherited,
there must be, not merely an intention, but an intention legally perceltible, in an instrument legally executed. The, only difference between
wills and deeds is, ihat in the latter, certain specific technical terms are essential ; in the other,
any words legally indicating the clear intention of
the testat6r, are sufficient.
The intent must be clearly expressed, for.it is
a fundamental rule in the construction of w s,
that the- heir cannot be disinherited without exipress words, or necessary implication. This intention must also be expressed in language at
least quasi technical; for it is perfectly immaterial how plain it may be, that the design of
the testator was to pass a larger estate, unless
that intention be manifest to the legal. eye."
AR the construction now contended for by the
plaintiff in error would disinherit the heii at law,
a Cro. Car. 368. 2 Bl. Rep. 859. 2 Bos. -t Pull.247.
Dougl. 736. Cow;. 235.
b 1 Cowp. 955. q T. R. s59 5 Dos. & Pull. 349

2.14

CASES IN THt SUPREME COURT

1825. and vest the inheritance in a stranger, it is incumvht bent upon him to establish one or the other of
Igh t
V
t ese two propositions:
1. That there are express words creating an
estate in fe in the devisee, (which is not pretended, and which, if actually existingr, would preclude all argument,) or,
2. An intent, so clearly expressed as to require,
by necessary -implication, that such an estate
shoild pass.
The circumstance, that no words exist in this
will, which, by their intrinsic force, carry any
larger estate than for life, raises a legal presumption, that no larger interest was intended to pass.
If the testator had designed the heirs or issue of
his wife as '-he objects of his bounty, some language indicating such an intention would have
been used. If, in.addition to this negative circumstance, we find that these persons in that capacity were present to the mind of the testator,
and yet are not made objects of his bounty, it
superadds a positive weight to the legal presumption that they were not designed to be so, and
that their omission was not merely accidental.
There being, then, no express words carrying
the fee, let us examine those particular expressions which are relied upoh to show the actual
intent that the fee should pass. These words
are, (1.) " All the rest of my lands and tenements ;" (2.) The words "reversion or remainder;" (3.) The words "freely to be possessed
and enjoyed."
1. As to the wo-ds. " all the rest of my lands

.215

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and tenements."

1825.

One of the earliest cases in

which the effect of similar words came under

consideration, was that of Wilkinson v. Maryland.a There, A. being seised of divers lands
in A., B. and C., the lands in C. being in him by
mortgage forfeited, devised the lands in A. and B.
to several persons, and then devised " all the rest
of the goo'ds, chattels, leases, estates, and mortgages, whereof he was possessed,", to his wife,
after his debts and legacies paid, mad6 his wife
executrix, and died. The question was, whether
the fee passed to tlfe wife by, this*devise ; and.it
was .held, that an estate for life only passed, In
that case, there were several circumstances rendering it stronger in favour of a fee than the present. (L) There was a previous clause devising
part of the properiy, and there was, therefore,
an antecedent to which the word rest could relate.
Here theie is no such prior clause, and. the word.
rest is senseless, or the testator attaches to it his
own pe.culiar signification. (2*) The devise of
the real property is there in ,the same clause
.which contains a bequest of the personalty; and,
therefore, the inference as to the testator's intention was irresistible, that he designed to give the
same interest, i. e. an absolute interest, in all the
subjects of the devise. (3.) In the case cited,
the word estate .is employed as the descriptive
term, which is a word frequently held sufficient
of itself, prolrriovigare, to carry.a fee.
a Cro. Car. 447. 828,

',

'
Wright
W.
Denn.

216

tASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825
%

Wright

V.

Denn.

Th6 case of Canning v. Canning,a is very
similar to the present. There the words of the
will were, " All the rest, residue, and remainder,
I

of my messuages, lands, or hereditaments, &c.
after my just debts, legacies, and funeral expenses
first paid, I give to my executors in trust for my
daughters." It was adjudged, that the executors
took only an estate for life : and, notwithstanding
the general character of vosely, as an inaocutate
reporter, this case has been frequently recognised as law." This is evidently a much sironger
-case than the one-now before the Court. (1.) It
is properly a residuary devise; this is not. (2.) It
contained the term hereditaments, emphatically
embracing-the inheritance, according to the opinion of many eminent lawyers. (3.) The estate
was devised " after debts, legacies, and funeral
expenses- first paid." Yet, under all these circumstances, it was held, that the words " rest,
residue, ,and remainder of my messuages, lands,
or hereditaments," so much stronger and more
comprehensive that those of the present testator,
were merely. descriptive. The ground of that
determination was, that the words rest, residue,
and remainder, being unaccompanied by any
words of limitation, could not operate on the inheritance.c This applies, with at least equal
force, to the present case. In Peiton v. "Banks$,
where one devised to his wife for life, and the
a
b
c
d

Mosely, 240.
2 Bos.4.Pull. 251.
2 Bos. 4,Pull.251.' Per Macdonald, C. B.
I'Vern. Rep. 65.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

V7

,reversionto A. and B., to be equally divided, &c. 1825.
it was decreed, that they were tenants i n corn-" Wright
T,
mon for life only. That case, and the one restronger
were
ferred to by Sergeant Maynard,
than the present, since the freehold having been already disposed of, it might have"
been plausibly argued, that the term keversion
there used, ex vi termini, necessarily included the
inheritance. In this case no such argument
would apply, the word rest being w.ithout an antecedent, and being a term more. appropriate, as
descriptive of the gubject than of the quantity.of
interest. In Doe v. Richards,a where, after bequeathing a: c-rtain leasehold estate,, the testator devised "all the rest, residue, cnd remainder
of my messuages, lands, •tenements, -hereditaments, goods, chattels, and personal est'ate whatsoeyer, the Court held, that these words were
not sufficient to carry the fee. The property
thus devised being, however, made subject
to a charge; this circumstance was held sufficient,
although the propriety of that part of the decision .seems to have been questioned.' But the
authority of the case, so far as it determines that
ibese words were insufficient, of themselves, to
pass the fee, has never been controverted..- In
that case, the clause was properly a reversipnary
clause, a previous devise having been made, leaving a reversionary' interest to be disposed of.
There also. the word hereditament was used;
neither of which circumsta.ces exist'here.
a 3 Term Rep. 356.
VOL.

?.2

b 5 Boa, t- Pull.34g.

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182:4.
Wright

v.

Penn.

The next case is that of Den v. hIoor,- which
deserves the more weight as an authority, bcause a second action was afterwards brought on

the same title; the judgment rendered in the

K. B. reversed in the Exchequer ;b and that judgment afterwards reversed in-the House of Lords,
-and the original judgment in the K. B. affirmed." It may, therefore, be presumed to have
been thoroughly examined and considered. In
that case, the testator having first devised a life
interest in a copyhold messuage, then uses these
words: " all the rest of my lands, tenerments
and hereditaments, eithe'r freehold or-copyhold,
whaisoever and wheresoever, my goods, chattels,
and personal estate, of what nature or kind soever, after payment of my just debts and funeral
expenses, I give, devise, and bequeath the same
unto my wife S. C., and I do hereby nominate
and appoint her, my said wife, sole exectitrix of
this my will." In delivering the opinion of the
twelve judges, Macdonald, C. B. states the question arising under that will to be, " Whether
the words are materially distinguishable from
those used in -other wills, and which have been
hield not to denote an intention so expressed by
the testator, as to enlarge that which would,
otherwise, be an estate for life only, into a fee ?"
He then states- that this would depend upon the
effedt of the word rest, of the word hereditaments,
and of the provisibn "'-after payment of my just
a 5 TermRep. 558.

b I Sos. Sf Pull.,f58

c 2 Bos. 4, Pull. 247.

OF THE kNITE1) STATLS.

219

debts and funeral expenses." He considerp 1825.
Canningv. Canning,.as decisive of the question Wright
v.
on the two first words. These two' cases must,
therefore, be considdred as decisive intsettling Den.
the construction to be given to this part of the
present will; in which the phraseology. used is
still less indicative of an intent to pass the inhe"ritance. The word hereditagnents, f6und there,
is wanting here; a word which, in Lydcottv.
Willows, Powell, J. considerdd as sufficient to
-carry the fee,; ind this opinion was- unanimously
8
confirmed in he Exchequer Chamber. So, also,
Lord Holt considered it as sufficient to pass the
fee, in Smith v. Tindal;b and in .Frognbrtov,v.
Wright, Lord C..J. De Grey held it might have
Ihat -operation.c
Ndtwithstanding these decisions, however, the
law, as recognised in Canning v. Canning, is.
considered as settled in Westminster Hall, and
held insufficient
hiw
the word hereditamcehtgis
to.pass the fee.
The case of AMarkant v. Twisden," is, in many respects, analogou8 to that now be'f-o the
Court. A., having settled all his freeholds on his
wife for life, as a jointule, bequeathed several
legacies, and then says, "all the.rest and residue
of my estate, real and personal, I give to my wife,
whom I make sole .executrix." Held, that the
reversion of the jointure lands did pot pass, but
the persertal estate only. The reason assigned
a 2 ;'entr. Rep. 28.
r S Wils. Rep. 418.

b 11 Mod. Rep. 103.
d Gilb. Eq. Rep. so.

20
15.
W~bt
V.
Denn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

appears decisive of the present question, " for,
as the testator devised no real estate, there could
be no residue."

So, in the

present case, the
whole effect of the words rest,
remainder, and

reversi6n, (if it should be -thought that in them-selves they have any to denote an estate larger
than one for life,) is destroyed : (1.) By the circumstance that there was no previous disposition of any real estate in the will, and therefore
this is not a residuary 'clause. (2.) By the cirgunstance that the testator- was seized of no
estate Tn reversion or rem aindei, which could
pass under these words, and therefore they are
wholly inoperative. (3.) It'is perfectly rnmiiifest,
that the words in question were used simply ag
descriptive of the subject matter, and not of the
interest in that subject matter. In this view the
case hds a strong resemblance to Pettiwardv.
P rescotaswhere the testator devised as follows:
"I give. to R. P. my copyhold estate at P.; consisting of three tenements, and now .under lease
to A; B." The Master of the Rolls, after showing, from a yariety of adjudged casesi that the
word estate is sufficient to carry the fee in genexal, yet decides that the devisee took only a. life
interest, on the 'ground that the testator, by the
word in that case, did not mean to speak -of the
quantity of the legal interest, but merely of the
. rpus or subject in the dispositioh.
As corroborating the'construction of the words
ieikersion .andremainder,now. insisted on, it may
a 7 Mew. Rep. 541

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be observed, in the Statute of Wills of the 32d
Hen. VIII. c. 1. it was enacted, "that all and every
person and persons having manors, lands, tenements, or hereditaments, may give and dispose
of them," &c. Afterwards, the stat. 34 and 35
Hen. VIII. e. 5. entitled, "An act for the explanation of wills," was passed. This statute recites, that several doubts, questions, and ambiguities, had arisen upon the previous statute, and
enacts, that " all and singular persons having a
sole estate, or interest in fee simple, &c. of or in
any manors, lands, tenements, rents, or other hereditaments, in possession, reversion, remainder,
&c. shall have full and free liberty to give, dispose, will," &c. In the first statute, it seemed
to be thought, that the languag6 implied a present vested estate in the devisor, in order to give
validity to this. form of disposition. The ambi-.
guity was removed by the second statute, which
gave the right, whether the party was seised in
possession or in expectancy, The statute' then,
authorizes a testator to devise an estate ii which
he has no. present, but .only a reversionary interest; but the same language must be used to
carry the fee, as if the estate were in-possession.
The subjects capable of being devised are en.larged but the .form of the instrument is not altered. A reversionary interest, like'a possessory
interest, may- be for life, for years, in tail, or in
fee; and it is equally important, that these different quantities. of interest should be designated
by the will, in the one case, as in the other. The"

221
1825.
WrIght
wribt

v.

Denn.

M22

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

case of Ager v. Poole,a shows this construction

'"

to be correct; and Peiton v. Banksb is to the

Wright

v.

Denn.

same effect. Both of these cases are stronger
than. the present, for. in each of them the testator had such a future interest as he described.
As to the words " provided she has no lawful
issue," the argument on the other side is, that
they imply a condition precedent. To this it is
answered, (1.) That if a condition precedent to
the vesting of any estate in the wife, the proviso
would be entirely at variance with the whole design of the testator. He evidently intended an
immediate interest to pass to the wife, which
could not take place, if the fact that she should
have no lawful issue is to be a condition precedent., That could only be ascertained by her
dying without issue. (2.) If it be a condition
precedent, she took no estate, because she, in
point of fact, had lawful -issue. To obviate these
conclusions, an intetp&lation is made in the will,
and'the testator is presumed to have 'said, lawful
issue by himself. The answer' is; that -such a
presumption is not, warranted by the language
employed. The case. of Norton v. Ladd, turns
upon the extent to be given to the expression
" whole remainder," after a disposition of a life
estate in all the lands, and the interest of an heir
at law was not involved. Iambert's lessee v.
.Paine,turns upon the meaning to be atta*ched to
-the word estate. Wheeler v. Waldron is deprived
a 3 Dyer, 371.

b 1"',"ern. 05.

OF THE UNIrED STATES.

223

of much of its authority by a remark made in a 1825.
%Wriht
note to Chesterv. Chester.0
Wright
As to the second clause of the will; which conv.
Dnn.
possessed
freely
her
by
be
to
"
words,
the
tains
and enjoyed," the legal signification of this
phraseology has been frequently settled. In
Loveacr-s v. Blight is a clause to this effect:
" Item, to my two sons, T. M. and R. AI., whom
I make and ordain my sole executors, all my
lands and tenements freely to be possessed and
enjoyed alike." In this case there were, (1.) Introductory words, which Lord Mansfield always
considered as entitled to much weight. (2.) There
was a charge, and he thought it but reasonable
to infer an intention to pass a fee, fiecause that
alone would enable the devisees to comply with
the testator's directions fully and completely.
'(3.) Freelyto be enjoyed, h6 considered, in that case,
&s meaning absolutely, because, having charged
the estate, it could not mean free from encumbrances. None of these circumstances exist
here, and, therefore, the case is not analogous,
and cannot warrant the. same construction. The
,case of Goodright v. Barron, more nearly resembles the case before the Court. There, after
the introductory words "as touching my worldly
estate," the testator devised to B., whom he
made his executrix, " all and singular his lands,
inessuages, an4 tenements, by her freely to be
possessed and-enjoyed." These are the identical words here employed, and no other distinca liP ll11s.1..

h C'owp. 3.522,

f, I Last. 220

224

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Wright

V.

Deno

tion exists between the cases, than thas here arc
no introductory words, (sometimes so important,)
yet the Court held that the fee did not pass.
The only other ground on which it can be pre"
sumed that the testator intended a fee, is the circumstance that this devise is after certain legacies ; and it is said,'that " all the rest," &c. means,
that the devisee was to take the real estate subject to the payment, of these legacies. Admitting, that -wherever the testator employs language
of an indefinite kind, prescribing no limits to the.
estate devised, and burthens the devisee with a
gross, but certain charge, that the fee will pass,
that rule of construction is inapplicable here, because, (1.) There is no disposition of the personal estate, the appropriate fhnd for 'the payment of legacies. (2.) There is, at most, only
an implied charge upon the reaF estate; and it
seems unreasonable to require the Court to imply
a charge, for no other purpose than to furnish
a ground for raising another implication still
more serious.
Admitting the verbal construction of the opposite counsel to be correct, the case of fhackson v.
Harrise.is decisive against the conclusion they
would infer from it. If a charge at all, it is a
contingent charge. The personal property is applicable in the first instance, and there is.only a
possibility that it will prove insufficient. A contingent charge is not sufficient to carry a fee.
Besides, supposing the whole of these legacies
a s Th*'s. Rep.

14t

!225

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.Q be payable out of the real estate, the co clu-

1825.

sion contended for would not 'result. The rule
of law is, that where the charge is upon the esthe devisee in
tate, and not upon the person of
respect of the estate, no fee passes by implication." So much of the estate as .issufficient to
raise the sum required, is notgiv'eh to the devisee
at all. The residue is devised perfectly unfettered. Canning v. Canniizg,-Denv. _ooi"e, and
Den v. Allen, ,were all cases in which the real
estate was given after payment of debts, &d.and.
yet held not a fee.

Wright

V.Denn'y

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the AfarciL 41h.
Court, and, after stating the case, proceeded as
follows :
The principal question arising in this catse is,
what estate Mary, the wife of James Page, took
under his wig ; whether an cstate for life, or in
fee' -If the former, then the judgment of the
Circuit Court is to be affirmed; if the latter,
then it is to be reversed.
Some reliance has been placed upon the will J.ohnThe P.,will theof
affords
of John Page, the father, to show the predica-faiher,
no aid in the
ment of the land in the possession of his son.constructionof
the will of
James, and thence to draw aid in the construe-.jme, p.
tion of the will of the latter. Without doubt,
James took a fee, in ihe moiety devised to him by
his father, (which includes the land 'n.contro
versy,) for. it is given " to him, his heirs and asa Jackson v. Ball, 10 Johns. Rep. .i48. Den
Rep. 497. Merson v. Blackmore, 2 Atk. S41.
Wr,.. X

2!

v. Ailen, S Tern.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. signs." But, it is argued, that the land came
v
into his hands charged with the legacies payable
Wright
V. to his sisters Hannah and Abigail, and as these
Denn.
legacies were not payable unti they came of age,
.theyremained a charge upon the land in the hands
of James at his death. Whether the sisters
were of age at his death or not, or had received
their legacies or not, does not appear from the
statement of facts, and nothing can be presumed
'To make a either way. But what is there to show that
legacy chat geable upon land these legacies were a charge on the land ?
The
devised, there
,must be e.-direction in the will is, that " James do pay
ps
roir i,_nHannah and Abigail the said sum of 50 pounds
plitation from
tb!. termns 6
the ill,.

eacn when they come of age ;" but it is not said
or implied any where in the will, that these legacies shall be a charge on the land. The direction
is personal, and must be a charge on the person
only, unless it can beshown, from other parts of
the will, that the tes.tator intended a charge on
the land. A testator may devise lands with a
view to legacies, and make them a charge on the
land, or on the person of the devisee, or on.
both ;a .and whether a particular legacy be in
either predicament, must depend upon the language of the will. In the large class of-cases
which have been decided on this subject, and
which has principally arisen from questions respecting the quantity of the estate taken by the
devisee, the ground assumed has been, that the
will must speak expressly, or by fair implication,
a ee Roe, ex dem. Peter, v. Diy, 3 Al. & S. 518.
Rep. 87. 4 East's Rep. 495.

5 East's

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that the testator in.tends the legacies to be a 1825.
charge on -the land. When, therefore, the tes- Wright
V.
tator ordeis legacies to be paid out of his lands,
or where, sulject to legacies, or after payment of Deni.
legacies, he devises his lands, C'ourts have held
the land charged with the legacies upon the.mainfest intention of the testator. But here there
is no such language. There isno direction that
the' devisee shall pay the legacies out of 'he
land. The charge is personal; and the orse falls
directly within the authority of Reeves v. Gower,
in 11 Mod.. Rep. 208.
We may, then, proceed to the.consideration of
the will of James Page, inasrhuch as that of his
father affords no light to giilde us in the construction. The grounds mainly relied on to establish
that Mary, the wife of the testator, took a .fee,
are, thatthe legacies given to-his sisters are- a
charge on his real. estate in the hands ofhis
widow; that all the rest of his "ktnds and tenements," in possession, reversion, or- remainder,
are given; that'the devise is subject to the proviso, that she has no lawful issue," which is
not a condition merely, but a~substitution for an'
estate *intendedfor his children; and, finally, that
the lands, &c. are'devised to he'r " freely to be
possessed and enjoyed," which wordq are best
satisfied-upon- the supposition of a fee.
rile
Before proceeding to the particulai examinato what
" asGen.ral
wordwili'car
clauses
these
different
of
legal
effect
tion of the.
in the will, it. is*necessary to state. that, where 'Y- "e.
there*are no words of limitatidn to a devise, the
general ruleof law is. that the devisee takes an

-),!8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1825.

estate for life only, unless, from the .language
there used, or from other parts of the will, there
Wright
V. is a plain intention to give a larger estate. We
Denn.
say a plain intention, because, if it be doubtful
or conjectural upon the terms of the will, or if
full legal effect can be given to the language without-such an estate, the general rule prevails. It
is not sufficient that the Court may entertain a
private belief that the testator intended a fee; it
must see that he hag expressed that intention
with reasonable certainty on the face of his will.
For the law will not suffer the heir to be disir.herited upon conjecture. He is favoured by its
policy; and though the testator may disinherit
him, yet the law will execute thaf intention only
when it is put in a clear and unambiguous shape.
An introIn the present case, there is no introductory
s
a in-clause
showing
in the will, expressing an intention to distention to 'dispose or the pose of the whole of the testator's estate. Nor
whole of the.
t
testator's es- I it admitted, that such a clause, if it were intate, will not serted, would so far attach itself to a subsequent
attach l 5 ls
7en ds
atchitself
ou
to a subse- devising clause, as perse to enlarge the latter to
quent derising afe
s,
~
elre
lte
clause, so .'a fee
where the words would not ordinarily
to enlarge thr
'atteto a fee import it. Such a doctrine would be repugnant
'

'

to the modern as well as ancient authorities. ThE
cases of Frogmorton v. Wright, (2 -W. Bl. 889.,
Right v. Sidebottom, (Dougl. 759.) Child v.
Wright, (8 D. Sr E. 64.) Denn v. Gaskin,
(Cowper, 657.) Doe v. Allen, (8' D. 4- E. 497.)
and Merson v. Blackm'or, (2 Atk. 341.) are full
to the point. The. most that can be said is, that
where the words of the devise admit of passing
a greater interest than for life. Courts will lay

.)F THE UN1TED STATES.

229

hold of the introductory clause, to assist them 1825.
in ascertaining the intention. The case of Ho- Wright
V.
gan v. Jackson, (Cowper, 297.) admits this doc- Denn.
the
upon
turn
not
trine. That case itself did
effect of the introductory clause, but upon the
other words of the will, which were thought sufficient to carry the fee, particularly the words,
" all my effects,- both real and personal." -The
case of Grayson v. Atkinson, (1 Wils. Rep. 333.)
admits of the same explanation; and, besides,
the inheritance was there charged with debts and
legacies.
charge
There is*no doubt, that a charge on lands may uoA
lands
upon
be created by implication, as well as by an ex- cannot becraled by iinplipress clause in a will. But then the implication
Unless
S cation,
tihe implicamust be clear upon the words. Where is there tion ispli,,.
any such implication in the present will? The
testator has..Dot disposed of the whole of his personal estate, which is the natural fund for the
payment of lagaci~s ; non constat, how much or
how little he left. For aught that appears, the
per.sonal estate may greatly haie ex'ceeded all
the legacies; and if it did not, that would be no
sufficient reason to charge them on the land. It
is not a sound interpretation of a will, io construe
charges which ordinarily belong to the personalty, to be charges on the realty, simply because
the original fund is insufficient. The charge
must be created by the words of the will. Now,
from what words are we to infer such a charge
in this case ? It is said, from the words " all the
rest;" but, " all the rest" of what ? Certainly
hot of the personal estate. because the words im-.

t.ASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

1825.
'

'

Wright

V.
Denn.

'

mediately following are, " of my lands and tenements," which exclude thie personalty. The
words, " all the rest," have then no appropriate
meaning in reference to the personal estate, fo"
the connexion prohibits it. Can they then be
supposed to import " all the rest ofmy lands, &c.
after payment of the legacies," and so be a
charge on them ? This would certainly be going
much farther than' the words themselves au-thorize, and much farther than any preceding
clause requires or justifies. A charge of legacies
on land would not be a devise of the real estate
in the ordinary understanding of men, nor in the
contemplation of law. It would make tlein a
lien on, and payable out of, the lknd ; but it would
still be distinguishable from an estate in the
land.. But it is sufficient for us to declare, that
we cannot rake these legacies a charge on the
land, except by going beyond; and not by following, the language of the will; we must create
the charge, and not merely recognise it. The
case-of Markant v. Twisden, (Gilb. Eq. Rep.
30.) was much stronger than the present. There,
the testator had settled all his freeholds on his
wife for life, as a jointure; and by his will he
bequeathed several legacies, and then followed
this clause, "all the rest and residue of my estate,
.chattels, real and personal," I give to my wife,
who I make sole executrix. But the Court
held, that the wife did not take the reversion of
the jointureby the devise, .for as the testator had
not ip the preceding part of the will devised any

OF THE UNITED STATES.

real estate, there could be no residue of real 1825..
"r"gh
estate, on which the clause could operate.
Wright
v;
But, admitting that the present legacies were
De.
would
this
testator,
the
of
lands
the
a charge on
not be stufficient to change the wife's est 'te into
a fee. The clearly established doctrine on this
subject is, that if the charge be. merely on the
land, and not on" the pers6n of the devisee, then
the devisee, upon a general devise, takes an
estate for life only. The reason is obvious. If
the charge be merely on the estate, then the devisee (to whom the testator is always presumed
to intend a benefit) can sustain no loss or detriment in case the estate is construed bit a life
estate, silice the estate is taken subject to the
encumbrance. But if the charge- be personal on
the devisee, then if his estate be but for life, it
may determine before he is reimbursed for his
payments, and thui he may sustain a serious loss-..
All the cases turn up6n this distinction. Canning v. Cqning, (7foseley's Rep. 240.) Loveacres v. Blight, (Cow. Rep. 352.) Denn, ex dem:
Moor, v. Mellor, (5 D..4. E. 558. and 2 Bos. 4
Pull. 227.) Doe v. Holmes, (8 D. 4- E. 1.)
Goodtitle v.- Maddem, (4" East's Rep. 496.) all
recognise it. And Doe 4- Palmer v. Richardg, (3
D. 3"E. 356.) proceeds upon it, whtever exception may be thought to lie to the application of
it in that particular case. We are then of opinion,
that there is no charge of th* present legacies
on the land; and, if there were, no inference
could be drawn from this circumstance to en-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

232
1825.
Sare
Wright
v.
Denn.
Effect
words,

large the estate of the wife to a fee, since they
not made a personal charge upon her.
The next consideration is, whether the words.
" all the rest of my lands and tenements," &c.

In the first place, this clause is
to the objection, that it is not a residuary

"-a fee.
all import
of64the

heo

lands,",&C,

my open
res

clause in the will, for no estate in the lands is
previously given, and consequently, if it operates
at all on the fee, it'gives the entire inheritance,
and not a mere residuum of interest. And if a
devise of " all the rest and residue of lands," in
a clear residuary clause, was sufficient to carry
a fee by their own import, it would follow, that
almost every will containing a residuary clause,
would be construed, without words of limitation,
to pass a fee. - Yet, the contrary doctrine has
most assuredly been maintained. In Canning v.
Canning, (Moseley, 240.) the testator devised as
follows : " all the rest, residue and remainder of
my messuages, lands, &c. after my just debts,
legacies; &c. are fully satisfied and paid, I
give to my executors in trust for my daughters ;"
and the question was, whether these words
passed an 6state in fee, or for life, to the executors. The Court decided that they passed a life
estate only. The authority of this case was fully
established in Moor v. Denn, ex den. Mellor, (2
Bos. A- Pull.247.) in the House of Lords, where
words equally extensive occurred; and the -authority of this last case has never been broken
in upon.
The cases which seem at first view to interfare with and control this doctrine, will be

OF THE WJ'NITED

'TATd.

233

found upon close examination to turn on other 1895.
points. Thus, in Palmer v. Richards,(3 D. 4 E. Wright
v.
356.) where there was a devise of" all the rest and
.
Den
legacies
his
&c.
residue of the testator's lands,"
and personal expenses being thereout,paid. Lord
Kenyon admitted, that the words " rest and residue," &c. were not sufficient to carry a fee; but
he ielied on the subsequent words, " legacies,
&c. being thereout paid," which he considered as
creating a charge upon the lands in the hands of
the devisee, of such a nature as to carry a fee. In
this opirion the Court concurred; and, though
this case has been since questioned, on its own
circumstances, its general doctrine remains untouched. So, in the case of Norton v. Ladd,
(1 Lutw. 735. 759.) where the. devise was to
A. C., his sister, for life, of all his lands, &c., after the decease of his mother; then to J. C., his
brother, "the whole remainder of all those lands
and tenements," given to A. C. for life, if he survived her; and if not, then " the whole remainder"
and reversion of all the said lands, &c. to his
sisters, C. E., and A., and to their heirs for
ever ;" the Codrt held, that a fee passed to J. C.
under the devise, upon the ground,. that taking
the whole will, the words " whole"remainder"
properly referred to the estdte or interest of the
testator undisposed of to his sister, A. C. ; and
that the words could not relate to the qua ntity
of lands, which the testator intended to devise
to his brother, J. C., for he had plainly devised
all his linds to his sister, A. C., and all the lands
he haddpevsr'nd 1:i .. C. hf- had tvl :s. to .1, C.
V..L. Y

tSFS IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
h
Wright

v.

Den .

so that ihe wNrds naturally and properly had relation to the quantity of estate which the testator intended to give J C., that is, all the remainwhich is the same in effect as all his estate.

.der,

If the words were merely to be referred to the
lands he intended to devise to J. C., they woilld
be ineffectual, for it was impossible that he could
have any remainder of lands, when he had devised all to A. C. ; so that they must refer to the
estate in the lands. Such is the substance of the
reasoning of the Court; upon which it is unnecessary to say more, than that the case turned
npon the supposed incongruity of construing the
testator's words otherwise than as importing the
whole r4emaining interest in the lands, upon all
of which lands a life estate was already attached.
And the final devise over, which carried a plain
fee to the sisters, being a substitution for the
former estate to J. C., in the event of his death
before the testator, greatly fortifies this interpretation. This case has been much relied on by
the plaintiff in error upon the present argument;
but it is very distinguishable from that before
the Court. There, a life estate was given, and
the terms, " whole remainder," had a natural
meaning, as embracing the whole remaining interest. Here, on the contrary, there is no preceding interest given in the real estate, and therefore the terms, " all the rest," are not susceptible
of that sense. There, a substituted estate, in fee,
was clearly given; here no clause mcrurs, leading necessarily to such a conclusion. All that
the case in Lutwyche, taken as the fullest autho-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rity, establishes, is, that the words " rest and re- 1825.
sidue" may, in certain connexions, carry a fee.' Wright
This is not denied or doubted; but then the
v.
words attain their force from their juxta-position Denn.
with other words, which fix the sense in which
the testator has used them. In Farmerv. Wise,
(3.P. Wins. 294.) thd residuary clause was of" all
the rest of his estate, real and personal," and the
word " estate" has long been construed to convey a fee. This Court have carried the doctrine
still farther, and adjudged a devise of " all the
estate called Marrowbone," to be a devise of the
fee, construing the words, not as words merely
of local description, but of the estate or interest
also in the lan.
Lambert's lessee. v. Paine,.(3
Craneh'sRep. 79.) Murray v. Wise, (2 Verv.
Rep. 564.) S. C. (Prec. in Ch. 246.) contained a devise, after a legacy, of all the residue
of his real and personal estate, and rests on the
same principle, as do Beacheroft v. Beachcroft.
(2 Vern. Rep. 690.) and Ridart v. Paine,(3.Atk.
Rep. 486.) In Willows v. Lydcott, (Carth.Rep.
50. •2 Vent. 285.) the residuary devise was to
A. and her assigns for ever, which latter words
indicate a-clear intention to pass a fee. In Grayson v. Atkinson, (1 'Vils. Rep. 333.) there was
an introductory clause, purporting the intention
of the testator to dispose of all his temporal
estate, thei several legacies were given, and a
direction to A. to sell any part of his real and
a See Lord Hardwicke's comments on this case, in Bailis v.
Gale, (2 Vesey's "Rep.48.

1 4bES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

personal estate for payment of debts and lega~
WrightV cies: and then the will says, as to the rest " of
V. my goods and chattels, real and .personal, movenn. able and immoveable, as houses, gardens, tenements, my share in the copperas.works, &c. 1 give
to the said A." Lord Hardwick'e. after some
hesitation, held it a fee in A., relying upo'n the
introductory clause, .and the charge of the debts
and legacies on the land, and upon the longuage
of the residuary clause. Whatever may be the
authority of this decision, it certainly does not
pretend to rest solely on the residuary clause :
and its containing a mixed devise of real and
personal estate, was not insignificant in ascertaining the testator's intention.
It may also be admitted, that the words "lands
and tenements," do sometimes carry a fee, and
are not confined to a mere local description of
the,property. But,. in their ordinary sense, they
import the latter only; and when a more extensive signification is given to them in wills, it arises
from the context, and is justified by the apparent
intention of the testator to use them in such extensive signification. The cases cited at the bar
reach to this extent, and no farther. Their authority is not denied ; but their application to the
present case is not admitted.
W6 may, then, take it to be the general result
of the authorities, that the words, " all te rest
of my lands," do not, of themselves, import ,
devise of the fee; but, unless aided oy the context, the devisce. whether he be a sole or a re-.

OF THE UNITED STATEb.

siduary devisee, will, if there be no words of 1825.
limitation, take only a life estate.
:
Wright
We next come to the efflct of the words, "m

v.

possession, reversion, or remainder," and, as in- Denn.
cidental thereto, the effect of the Word " tenieEffect ofccthe
• wods,
ih
ments." That the terifi "remainder" may, inwpossso,,e
vsion, or resome cases, connected with other clauses, carry mader,"'

a fee, has been already admitted, and was the
very point in 1 Lutw. 755. The same is true in
respect to the word "reversion."
This is affirmed in the case of Bailis v. Gale, (2 Ves. Rep. 48.)
where the devise was,""I giv'to my son, C. G., the
reversion of. the tenement my sister now lives in,
after her decease, and the reversion of those two.
tenements now in the possession of J. C." Lord
Hardwicke, in pronouncing judgment, relied on
the legal significiation of theword " reversion,"
and that its use by the testator was fairly to be
inferred to be in its legal sense, as the whole
right of revertor; and he adverted tb the circumstance, that the devise was to a child, to whom
it could scarcely be presumed.the parent intended to give merely a dry reversion, or to split up
his interest in it into parts. " But, in that case,
as in 1 Lutw. 755. there Were antecedent estates
created or existing in the land ; and the devise
was of a " .frersion,"and not, as in this case, of
" all the rest of my -lands, &c. in reversion," &c.
The land now in controversy was not held by the
testator as a reversionary estate, but as an estate
in possession; and in no way, therefore, cah the
doctrine help the present case. But there are cases,
which are contrary to Bailis v. Gale, and some-

288

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Wrigh
Wright

V.

Denn.

what clash with its authority. In Peiton v. Banks,
(I Vern. Rep. 65.) the case was, that a man devised his lands to his wife for life, and he gave the
reversion to A. and B., to be equally divided be-

twixt them. The Court decided, that A. and B.
took an estate as tenants in common for life only.
And Sergeant Maynard stated a similar decision
to have been made about twenty years before
that time. It is not material, however, to enter
upon the delicate incjuity, which of these authorities is entitled to most weight, because the present case does not require it.
The word
In respect to the word " tenements," itisonly

" tenements,"
does
not carry
a fee,
inde-

necessary to observe, that is has never been conin a will, independently of other circumstances, to pass a fee. In Canning v. Canning, (Moseley's Rep. 240.) and Doe, ex dem,
Palmer,v. Richards, (3 D. 4.E. 356.) and Denn,
ex dem; Mloor, v. 31iller, (5 D. 8" E. 558.) S. C.
(2 Bos. 4 Pull. 247.) the same term occurred,
as well as the broader expression, " hereditaments ;" in neither case was the term "tenement," supposed to have any peculiar effect; and
the argument, attempting to establish a fee upon
the import of the' word "hereditaments," even
in a residuary clause, was deliberately overruled
by the Court. The same doctrine was held in
Hopwell v. Ackland, (Salk. Rep. 239.)
If, then, it is asked, what interpretation the
Coutt put upon the words " all the rest," in connexion with " lands and tenements ?" the answer
is,
that no definite meaning can, in this will, be

pendent
ofstrued
other circumnstances,

'239

OF THE UNITED STATES.

annexed to them. It -is our duty to give effect to 1825.
all the words of a will, if, by the rules of law, it Wright
v.
can be done. And where words occur in a will,
their plain arid ordinary sense is to be attached Denn.
to" them, unless the. testator manifestly applies Where words
are used by.a
them in some other sense. But, if words are testator, which
th'oplace
used by him, which are insensible in the place
they oe,here
is ie
where they occur, or their common meaning iscur, or their
deserted, and no other is furnished by the wil,

mi

de-

serted, isandfuno
Courts are driven to the necessity of deemingZ5other
rthe
by
nished
and
surplusage,
or
insignificant
must
merely
they
will,
as
them
dis.
to find the true interpretaionr of the will without bee entirely
rded.
" all ther g
words,
the
case,
present
the
In
them.
rest of my lands and tenements," stand wholly
disconnected with any preceding clause. There
is nothing to which " the rest" has relation, for
no other devise of real estate is made. We haveno certain guide to the testator's intention in
using them. We may indulge conjectures; but
the law does not decide upon conjectures, but
upon plain, reasonable, and certain expressions
of intention found on the face of the will.
The next clause is, "provided she has rio lawful issue." The probable intention of this proviso was, " provided she has no lawful issue" by
me. Men do not, ordinarily, look to remote occurrences in the structure of their wills, and especially unlearned men. The testator was young,
and his wife young, and it wAs natural for them
not to despair of issue., although, at the time of
the will, he was in ill health. In case of leaving
children, posthumous or otherwise, he might

"240
'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

think, that the gift to his wife of the whole of his

Wright

real estate, would be more than conjugal affec-

V.

tipn could require, or parental prudence justify.
In that event, he might mean to displace the
whole estate of his wife, and to leave her to her
dower at the common law, and thi children to
their inheritance by descent. This interpretation would afford a rational exposition of .the
clause, and, perhaps, ought not to be rejected,
although there is no express limitation in the
words' In this view, it is not very material,
whether it be considered as a condition precedent
or subsequeht, though- the general analogies of
the law would certainly lead to the conclusion,
that it was in the latter predicament. But even
in this view, which is c6rtainly most favourable
to the plaintiffs in error, it falls short of the purposes of the argument. As a condition, in -the
event proposed, the prior estate to the wife would
be defeated; but. there would be no estate devised to the issue. They would take by de cent
as heirs, and not by devise. It would be going
quite too far to construe mere words of condition
to include a contingent devise to the issue; to
infer from words defeating the former estate, an
intent to create a new estate in the issue, and
that estate a fee, and a clear substitute for the
former. .No Court would feel.justified, upon so
slender a foundation, to establish so broad a superstructure. Nor can any intention fo give a
fee to the wife be legally deduced friom'the proviso, in any way of,, interpreting the terms, because it isA as perfeetly consistent with the inten-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'241

tion to defeat a life estate, as a fee in the whole 1825.
of the lands. The testator, with a limited pro- Wright
V.
perty, might justly think it too much to take from
Denn,
inheritance
their
of
substance
his own issue the
during a long minority, in favour of a wife, who
might live many years, and form new connexions.
In such an event, leaving her to the general provision of law, as to dower, would not be unkindness or injustice. But, it is sufficient to say,.that
the words are too equivocal to enable the Court to
ascertain from them the clear purpose of establishing a fee. And if the proviso refers to any
lawful issue by any other husband, then it must
be deemed a condition subsequent; and in the
events which have happened, the estate of the
wife, whether it be for life or in fee, has been defeated, and the plaintiffs in error are not entitled
to reverse the present judgment. Qacunq9ue
via data est, the proviso cannot help the case.
It remains now to consider the succeeding
clause of the Will, in whichl the testator repeat'
his devise, and gives to his wife " all his. lands,"
&c. dropping the words " the rest," and, therefore, showing that he did not understand them
as having any other or stronger import than the
will presented with6ut them. Then follow the
words, " by her freely to be possessed and enjoyed ;" upon which great stress has been laid
at the bar. If these words had occurred" in a
will devising an estate for years, or for life, or in
fee, in express terms, they would not, probably,
have been thought to have any distinct auxiliary
signification, but to be merely a more full annunr0L. X.

J42

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Wr"ght
Wright

V.
Denn.

ciation of what the law would imply. Occurring
in a clause where the estate is undefined, they
are supposed to bave a peculiar force ; so that,
" freely to possess and enjoy," must mean to
possess and enjoy without any limitation or restriction as to estate or right. The argument
is, that a tenant for life is restricted in many respects. She can make no permanent improvements or alterations ; she is punishable for waste,
and is subject to the inquisition of the reversioner. But, if this argument is admitted, it proves,
not that a fee is necessarily intended, but that
these restrictions on the life estate ought to be
held to be done away by the words in question.
They admit of quite as natural an interpretation.
by being construed to mean, free of enczimbrances ; and, in this view, are just a's applicable
to a life estate as a fee. Perhaps -the testator
himself may have entertained the notion, that
the legacies in his will, or that of his. father,
were encumbrances on the estate ; and if so, the
words would ilicate an intention, that the wife
should be disencumbered of the burthen. But
in what way are we to reconcile the argument deduced from this clause, with that drawn on the
same side from the preceding proviso? How
could the testator intend, that the wife should
" freely possess and enjoy" the lands in fee,
when, in one eveni, be had stripped.her of the
whole estate, and that by a itondition inseparably
annexed as an encumbrance to her estate ? We
ought not to suppose. that he intendedto repeal
the proviso under such a generd, phrase. The

tw rHE UNITED STATES.

24S

,:zsO of Loveacres v. Blight, (Cozo. Rep. 352;) 1825.
hms been supposed to be a direct support of the Wright
V.
argument in favour of a fee. In that case, the
testator made the following devise : As touching Den.
such worldly estate wherewith it bath pleased
God to bless me -ii this life, I give," &c. " in the
following manner and form: First of all, I give
and bequeath to E. M., my dearly beloved wife,
the sum of five pounds, to be paid yearly out of
my estate, called G., and also one part of the
dwelling house, being the west side, with as much
wood craft, home at'her,as she shall have need
of, by my executors hereafter named. I give,"
&c. " unto my son,. T. M., the sum of five
pounds, to be paid in twelve months after my decease. I give unto my granddaughter E., the
sum of five pounds, to be paid twelve months
after my decease. Item, I give unto J. M.,and R.
M., my two sons, whom I make my----- and ordain
my sole executors," &c. "all and singular my
lands and messuages, by them freely to be possessed and enjoyed alike." The question was, whether, by this clause, the sons took an estate for
life, or in fee. The Court held, thatthey took a
tenancy in common in fee. Lord Mansfield, in
delivering the opimhion of the Couft, admitted,
that if the intention were doubtful, the general
rule of law must take place. But he laid stress
upon the circumstance,. that the estate was
charged with. an annuity to his wife, so that the
testator could not mean by the word "freely,"
to give it free of encumbrances. He thought thefree enjoyment must. therefore. mean. free frord

U:ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

244

1825.

all limitations, that is, the absolute property of
estate. He also thought the introductory
clause not unimportant; and that the blanlk after
my was intended to be filled with " heirs ;" and

Sthe

Wright

v.

Denn.

it can scarcely escape observation, that it was a
case where the sons of the testator were the devisees. These considerations may well lead to
a doubt, whether Lord'Mansfield intended to lay
down any general principle of construction in
relation to the words, "freely to be enjoyed," &c.
But, if he did, the subsequent case of Goodright
v. Barron, (11 East's Rep. 220.) has manifestly
interfered with its authority. In that case, there
was an introductory clause, " as touching such
worldly estate wherewith it bath pleased God to
bless me," &c.; and the testator then proceeded
as follows: " I give and bequeath to my brothe'
T. D., a cottage house, and all belonging to it, to
him, and his heirs, for ever, W. C. tenant. Also,
I give and bequeath to my wife E., whom I likewise make my...sole executrix, all and singular
my lands, messuages, and tenements, by her
freely to be possessed and enjoyed." The Court
held, that ihe wife took an estate for life only;
that the words, being ambiguous, did not pass a
fee against the heir, but might mean free frofi
encumbrances or charges, free from impeachmeit for waste; and that the introductory clause
could not be brought down into the latter distinct
clause to aid it, though, if joined, it might have
had that effect. The Court distingaished that
case from the case before Lord Mansfield, because. in the latter, as the testator had already

OF THE UNITED STATES.

245

encumbered the estate, the words must have 1825.
meant to pass a fee, or they would have no mean- Wright
v.
ing at all. Mr. Justice Le Blanc added, that tle
Denn.
words used were not inconsistent with a life estate only; and he distinguished between them
and the words, , freely to be disposed of," admitting that the latter would pass.a fee. So tlat,
taking both these cases .together, the fair deduc-tion is, that the words, " freely to be possessed,"
&c. are too uncertain, of themselves, to raise a
fee, but they may be aided by other circurmstances.
The case before us is far less strong than
either of the foregoing cases,*for there is no introductory clause; showing an intention to dispose of the whole property,, as there was both in
Goodright v. Barron, and Loveacros v. Bligiht;
rior is there any encumbrance created by the tes.tator on the land, which was the decisive circum.stance that governed the latter.
Upon the whole, upon the most careful examination, we cannot find a sufficient warrant in the
words of this will to pass a fee to the wife. The
testator rpay have intended it, and probably'did,
but the intention cannot be extracted from his
words with reasonable certainty; and we have
no right -toindulge ourselves in mere private conjectures.

.Fudgment affirined, with costs.

