406

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Corporation
of Washington

[I'tACTICZ.j

V.

Young.

The

CORPORATION OF

.WAsINiGTON,

of AT'CuE and others,

fbr the use

V.MOSES YOUNG.

Where the manager of a lottery, drawn in pursuance of an ordinance
of the Corporation of the city of Washington, gave a bond to the
corporation, conditioned " truly and impartially to execute the duty
and authority vesed in him by the ordinance ;" held; that the person entitled to . prize ticket had no right to bring a suit for the
prize against the manager, upon his bond, in the name of the corporation, without their consent.

THIS cause was argued by the same counsel
with the preceding.
Mlarch lath.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL -delivered the
opinion of the Court.
. The defendant was the managor of a lottery,
drawn in pursuance of an ordinance of the Corporation of Washington, and gave his bond to
the corporation in the penalty of 10,000 dollars,
conditioned " truly and impartially to execute
the duty and authority vested in him by the ordi)
nance.
The declaration was oh the penalty of the
bond; after oyer of which, and of the condition, the defendant pleaded non damnificatu,
upon which there was issue, with leave to give
the special matter in evidence on both sides.
A jury was impanelled, who found the special
verdict stated in the preceding case of Rgent ef

OF THE UNITED STA'TES.

407

al. v. Davis, with this additional circumstance, ]825.
which, having no connexion with that case, was Corporation
not stated in it. The ticket No. 1;037, drew aof Washingprize of 10,00. dollars. It had been sold in
Y'
quarter shares to several persons, but had remain- Young.
ed in possession of the said Gideon Davis, who
gave to each purchaser a certificate specifying
the interest 'he held in the ticket. After the
drawting was completed, but before. the institution of this suit, Gideon Davis delivered.the said
ticket, No. 1,037, to the managers, towards securing and paying of the moteys stipulated to be
paid.by him under his contract for the purchase
of the lottery.
This suit is instituted for the benefit of the
purchasers of the. ticket No.-1,037,.without, the
consent of the corp.oration.
The judgment of the Couft was in favour of
the defendarit, and-the. plaintiffi have sued outa
writ of errorto bring the ause. into this Court.
Thle first inqtiry s .intd
the right of the pt67
prietors Qf.the ticket No. 1,037,.to sue in the name
of'.the corporation Without its consent.. Their
counsel insists, that the bond was taken for the
berefit of the fortunate adyenturers in the'lottery, and that each has a right to use it. In support of this prolositioh, he. has cited the case of
M'Mechen v. The Mifyor and City Coungel of
Baltimore, decided in. the Court of Appeals of
Maryland in the year 1806. That was a writ of
error to a judgment confessed in the General
Court, in an action brought by the corporation on
a bond given by Thomas Yates and Archibald

408

'CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Campbell, with their sureties, conditioned for the
performance of their duty as auctioneers. The
Corporation
of'Washing-Court deter-mined, that the suit was to be considered as brought by authority of the corpoV.
ration, although no warrant of attorney was
Young.
shown; and that the confession was -an admission of the right to recover the penalty of the
bond; whether in their owli right, or fdr the use
of another, was immaterial.
The opinion was also expressed, as stated by
the reporters' in a note, that every person whose
money was withheld by the auctioneers, had a
right to apply to the city council to direct a suit
to be instituted on the bond; and the corporation
could not, consistently with their duty under the
ordinance, refuse such application,, and might be
enjoined by suit in Chaincery to allow the person
to use their name t6 prosecute his claim.
Had this been the direct judgment of the Court,
it could not have sustained the pretensions of the
proprietors of. this ticket to maintain this suit
under the circumstances Ahich attend it. They
had undoubtedly " a right to apply to the. corporation to direct the suit, and the corporation
could not, consistently with their duty, have refused such application," if the purpose of the
bond was to secure the fortunate adventurers in
the lottery, not to protect the .corporation itself.
But the propriety of bringing such suit was .a
subject on which the obligees had themselves a
right to judge. If the proprietors of one prize
ticket had: an interest in this bond, the proprietors of every other prize ticket had the same in1825.
0

OF THE UNITED STATES.

terest ; and it could not be in the power of the 1825.
orLpotauon
first bold adventurer who should seize and sue
_
Washingof
to
and
use,
upon it, to appropriate it to his own
force the obligees to appear in Court as plaintiffs ".
against their own will. No person who is not the Young.
proprietor of an obligation, can have a legal right
to put it in suit, unless such right be given by the
Legislature; and no person can be authorized to
use the name of another, without his assent given
in fact, or by legal intendment. The declaration
of the Judge in the case cited from Harris 4
Johnson,that a Court of Chancery might injoin
the obligees to allow the injured person to use
their names in that particular case, is evidence of
the opinion, that he could not sue at his own
will. We think, then, that this case is no authority for the -power claimed by the proprietors of
ticket No. - 1,037; and we think, upon general
principles, they had no right to institute this suit
without the consent of the corpoxation.
But, we think also, that the corporation.itself
must be considered as the real plaintiff, and that
its right to prosecute the suit cannot be a,ected
by the allegation that it is brought for the benefitof others.
It has been determined in this Court, that the
warrant of attorney need not be spread on -the
record, to enable counsel to appear for'a corporation ; and if the dismission of the suit be not ordered, the consent of the corporation will be presumed after verdict. If, in its progress, the
a See Osborn v. United States Bank, ante vol. ix. p. 738. 829.
Vor. M

410

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'

,Ma shn-

tn.

Young.

Court shall perceive that it is brought without authority, the-proper course would seem to be to
dismiss it; not to render judgment for the defendant, which might, where no special breach is assigned, bar any other action.
The proprietors of the ticket No. 1,037 have
shown no right to sue on this bond. Their remedy is certainly directly against Gideon Davis;
and, in the event of his insolvency, it may be
against the managers. But, if they have, without authority, .put this bond in suit, the proper
course is to turn them out of Court, not to render
a judgment, which may bar any future suit brought
by the plaintiffs, whose names have been improperly used.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, therefore,
must be reversed; but as the pleadings are so incomplete as not to show what judgment ought to
be entered, the proceedings are set aside up to
the declaration, and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court, to be farther proceeded in according to law.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

