CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

454
1825.
M'CDowell

V.

Peyton.

It is the opinion of the Court, that the fourth and
fifth counts, however informal, have substance
enough in them to be maintained against a general demurrer, and that th, judgment must be re-

versed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings. It will be in the power of the Circuit
Court to allow the parties to amend their pleadings.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

[LenAL L.w.]

M'DOWELL V. PEYTON

and others.

The following entry, " I. T. enters 10,000 acres of landJ, on part of a
treasury warrant, No. 079, to be laid off in one or more surveys,
lying between Stoner's fork and Hingston's fork, about six or seven
miles nearly northeast of Har od's lick, at two white-ash saplings
from one root, with the letter K marked on each of them, standing
at the foiks of a wet branch of Hingston's fork, on the east side of
the branch, then running a line from said ash saplings, south 45 degrees east, 1600 poles, thence extending from each end of this line
north 45 east, down the branch, until a line nearly parallel to the
beginning line thall include the quantity of vacant land, exclusive
of prior claims," is not a valid entry, there being no proof that the
" two white-ash saplings from one root, with the letter K marked on
each of them, standing at the forks of a west branch of Hingston's
fork," had acquired sufficient notoriety to constitute a valid call for
the beginning of an entry, without further aid than is afforded by
the information that the land lies between those forks.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
m. ,',t This cause was argued by Mr. Wicklife for

45S

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the appellant, and by Mr. Talbot for the respondents.

1825.
MDowell
7.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced in
the Court of the United States for the Seventh
Circuit and District of Kentucky, dismissihg a
bill brouglt by the plaintiff, to obtain a conveyance for a tract of land in-possesion of the defendant under an elder grant, to which the plaintiff claims to have the superior equitable title.
The defendant rests on his patent; and as the
entry uider which the plaintiff claims was made
before that patent issued, the cause depends essentially on the validity of the entry. It is in
these words:
Dec. 24th, 1782.-" John Tabb enters 10,000
acres of lind, on part of a treasury warrant, No.
97S9, to be laid off in one or more surveys, lying
between Ston.ei's fork and Hingstofn'.s fork, begin-.

ning about six or seven miles nearly northeast of
Harrod's lick, at two white-ash saplings from one
root, with the letter K marked on each of them,
standing at the forks of a'west branch of Hingston's fork, on the east side of the, branch, then
running a line f,'in said ash saplings, south 45
degrees east, 1600 poles, thence extending from
each end of thiz., hue nortth 45 east, down the
tranch, until a line nearly.parallel to the beginning line shall include the quantity of" vacant
land, exclusive of prior claims."
The counsel for the defendant insists, that this

Peytm.
farcl 5d.

459

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. entry is invalid, because it does not describe the
4
land with that certainty which is required by the
SV. land law of Kentucky. They contend that the
~eytgn" description given to find the beginning is false,
and calculated to mislead a subsequent locater.
Harrod's lick, Stoner's fork, and Hingston's
fork, are proved to have been objects well known
by those names at the date of the entry, and
serve as a general description of the. country.in
which the land lies ; but it is not shown, that the
two white-ash saplings from one root, with the
letter K marked on each of them, standing at
the forks of a west branch of Hingston's fork, had
acquired sufficient notoriety to constitute a valid
call for the beginning of an entry, without further
aid than is afforded by the information that the
land lies between these forks. Its identity is
proved, .but the decisions on the act .of 41779 require notoriety as well as identity. The plaintiffs' counsel maintain, that there are descriptive
words in the entry sufficient to bring a person,
using reasonable diligence, and searching for this
beginning, near enough to it to find the two whiteash saplings.
Those descriptive words are,
"Beginning about six or seven miles nearly northeast of Harr6d's lict, at two white-ash saplings,
&c. standing at the forks of a west branch of
Hingston's fork, on the east side of the branch."
The information which is to guide a subsequent
l'cater to the white-ash saplings, is the course
and distance from Harrod's lick, and the forks
of a west branch of Hingston's fork.
A survey was made by the order of the Court,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

457

and the plat shows that the saplings mentioned 1825.
in the entry are three miles and one hundred and
V.
forty-five poles from Harrod's lick, and that the
Peyton.
degrees
53
north
i's
them
to
leads
course which
east The real distance, then, is about one half
the distance called for in the entry, and the course
varies eight degrees;
To obviate the objection founded on this variance, the plaintiff alleges the distinction between
the descriptive and locative calls of an entry.
The purpose of the first is to bring the subsequent locater into the neighbourhood of the land
he means to avoid, and that of the second is to
And the land already appropriated, so as toenable him to appropriate the adjacent residuum.
The precision, therefore, Which is. necessary in a
locative call, has never 'been required in that
which is descriptive.
The correctness of this principleis not controverted. Still, it is necessary that the descriptive
calls should designate the place so nearly, as to
give information which vould enable a subsequent
locater of ordinary intelligence to find the land
previously entered, by making a reasonable
search. It Will not be pretended, that in such a
case as this, exactness in distance -or in course,
would be indispensable to the validity of the entry; but distance and course are both intended
to lead to the ash saplings, and, if unaided by
other description, could alone be regarded by the
person who should search for them. He would
pursue a northeast course at least six miles from
Harrod's lick; and not finding a western branch
V,"L

X.

8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

of Hingston, would search f6r such a stream in

M-D.el.

every direction, from the place to which he wag"
conducted by his course and distance. In an un-

V.

'eyion.

explored country, covered with cane and other
wood, it wouid be extremely difficult to find an
object far from being conspicuous, t a distanc.e
of two or three miles, and would require more
time"and labour than ought to be imposed on a
per son desirous of appropriating the adjacent
residuum. The counsel for the plaintiffs would
not attempt to support such an entry; but they
contend"that the error in both course and distanice is corrected by other paits of the entry,
and by the situation of objects to which the attention is directed.
The land is required to lie between Stoner and
Hingston; and the person who should pursue a
northeast direction from Harrod's lick, in search
of it, would trike Hingston at the distance of
five and one eighth miles. He would, consequently, know that he had passed the ash saplings, and would return in search of them. His
search would be directed td a western branch of
Hingston, at the forks of which the two whiteash saplings would be found. It is contended,
that this description would lead the inquirer to
the mouth of Clear creek, proceeding up which;
he would find at one of its forks the white-ash
saplings, at which Tabb's entry begins.
If this 'statement was strictly accurate, there
would certainly be great force in the argument
founded on it. With certain information that
Clear 6reek was called for in the entry, and that

of

PlEL

UNITED S'T,.S.

its beginning was at a place so well described as
to be known when seen, it might not,
perhiips, be
0

132.
M'Dowecll

V.
too much, to require the person desirous of acquiPey.oll,
forks
the
to
creek
that
trace
to
land
ring adjacent
at which the saplings stand. But the inquirer is
not directed to Clear creek. He is directed to a
western branch of Uihgston, and two branches
empty into that stream, the one above and the
other below the point, at lvhiei a northeast
course from Harrod's lick would strike it, and
about equi-distant from that point. There is no
expression in the entry which would, in the first
instance, direct the inquirer to Clear creek, on
which the saplings stand, in preference to Brush
creek, on which they do not stand. His attention
would be rather directed to Brush creek, by a
circumstance which is undoubtedly entitled to
consideration, and has always received it in Kentucky. It is this: Clear creek had, at the time
this entry was made, an appropriate name, which
distinguished it from the other western branches
of Hingston; and a locater, intending to place his
beginning on that creek, might be reasonably
expected to call it by its appropriate name, and
not to refer to it by a general description which
it possessed in common with many other streams.
The inquirer, therefore, would proceed, in the
first instance, to Brush creek, because that credk
would be designated, when Tabb's entry was
made, only as a western branch of Hingston.
The plaintiff contends that this error would soon
be corrected, becaus6 'the entry calls for a northeast course to run down the branch, and Brush

4W9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. creek bends so much at a small distance from its
,.-welmouth, as to satisfy the inquirer that this could
IN'Dowell
v.
not be the stream intended by the entry. With
Peyton. the plat before us, we can readily make this discovery. But a person unacquaihted with the
course of Brush creek, would not 'make it until
he had proceeded up It a considerable distance.
He could not know, till he had .done so, that the
creek would not again change its course, and pursue a southwestern direction. If, after making
this discovery, he should go to Clear creek, he
would find its first course from Hingston a very
discouraging one ; nor would its course be adapted to the call of the entry, until he came within
a very short distance of the fork at which the
Add to this, Clear creek -apsaplings stand.
pears to fork several times before reaching the
saplings; and at each of these forks, an accurate
search must be made before the inquirer would
proceed farther up the creek.
The course and distance from Harrod's lick,
mentioned in the entry, are calculated to mislead
a person desirous of knowing the land it designates; and although these errors might utnquestionably be corrected by other parts of the description, which would conduct us With reasonable certainty to the beginning, it may well be
doubted whether the whole of this entry, taking
all its parts together, and combining them, contaffis such reasonable certainty. Had it been
,new, for the-first time, brought before a Court for
adjudication, it is liable to such great and seriou. objections. that it would most probably be

OF THE UNITED STAT.S.

pronounced invalid. But the highest Court of 1825.
Kentucky has already given this decision; and M"Twel
this Court has always conformed to that construcv.
tion of the legislative acts of a State, which has Feyton.
been given by its own Courts. This general
principle is entitled to -peculiar consideration,
when it applies to an act which regulates titles to
land.
The case of Cochran v. Thomas, reported in
Hardin, 261. depended on the validity of this
entry, and in that case, the Court decided against
its validity. The authority'of this decision hag
been questioned on several grounds.
1st. It was mad.e by only two Judges, when the
Court consisted of four, the others being interested.
Had a cofitrary. opinion been avowed by both or
eitherof the other Judges, or by any Judge since
this decision was made, its authority would undotibtedly be .much impaired, if not entirrly annulled. But no such contrary opinion has been
expressed, although the decree in Couchman v.
Thomas was pronounced in the spring term of
1808. Since then it was made by a tribunal,
which was at the time legally constituted, and
has remained unquestioned for sixteen years, this
Court must admit its authority in like manner as
if it had recpived the fbrmal approbation of a
majority of the Judges.
2d.- A second objection is, that it is a single
decision; and the Courts of Kentucky do not
consider themselves, as b6und by a, single decision, if its princip.les are believed, on more ma-

462
1825.
M

v.
Peyton.

CASES IN THE SUPRE*;ME COURT

ture deliberation, to be unsound.

Those Courts,

we are informed, have often given different deci-

sions on the same entry, when brought before
them in a different case, prepared. with more care.
That different decisions will be often made on
thi same entry, can excite no surprise, when it is
recollected that the validity of an entry does not
depend entirely on its own terms, but on the application of those terms to external objects, and
the general notoriety of those objects, as proved
by the testimony in each case. If in one case,
the party claiming under an entry had neglected
to prove the notoriety of some material call, by
the notoriety of which its certainty was to-be established, in consequence of which defect the
entry was declared to be invalid, this could constitute no reason for pronouncing the same decision in another case, between different parties,
who had been careful to bring before the Court
ample testimony of the fact on which the cause
must depend. This difference of decision would
constitute no difference of principle.
But the Court can perceive no new testimony
in the case under consideration, which can vary
it, to the advantage of the plaintiff, from the case
of Couchman v. Thomas.
It may be very true, that a single decision cannot be permitted to shake settled principles, and
that this Court ought not to consider one jidg
ment as overturning well established doctrines,
and introducing a new course of opinion. But,
certainly, a decision on the .very point which has
remained for many years unquestioned, has thIe

OF THE UNITED STATES.

first impression in its favour, and must be proved
to overturn established principles before this
Court can disregard it.
The land law of Kentucky requires that the
holder of a land warrant, shall locate it "so specially and precisely, that others may be enabled
with certainty to locate other warrants on the
adjacent residuum."
In construing this provision of the law, Courts
have always inclined to support entries, where
this inclination could be indulged consistently
with the provision itself; but they have always
supposed a reasonable degree of precision and
certainty to be indispensable to the validity of
every entry.
They have laid down great general principles,
in the application of which to ,particular cases,, the
shades of difference are as numerous. and as nice
as ii, the application of the principle, that the intention of the testator shall govern, to the words
of a will.
The description of the land to be acquired,
whi.ch every entry must contain, may be divided
into general and special. The general description must be such as to bring the holder of a
warrant to be located -into the neighbourhood of
the land already appropriatedand such as-to enable him to find that land with reasonable diligence; the special description, or, in the technical language of the country, the locative calls of
the entry, must be such, a's to ascertain and identify the land. All the cases-recognise these princtiples, and claim4.o come within them.

1825.
Ml'Dowell

v.
Peyton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
M'DoweII

l',

Peyton.

The counsel for the plaintiff has cited many
alcases, in which entries have been sustained,
though the whole description they contain has
not been precisely, accurate.
The Court has examined these cases, and is of
opiniont, that'in all of them, although the description may bh in part defective and unceetain, such
defect and uncertainty have been cured by other
calls; which afford all the information that could
be reasonably required. An example of this is
furnished by the case of Ta.ylor v. Kincaid,
(Hardin, 82.) The entry was made "on the
head of Willis Lee's branch, four miles from
Leesburg," and was sustained, although the head
of the branch, was, in truth, eleven miles from
Leesburg. In this base, however, the mistake in
the distance was corrected by th e notoriety of the
object itself. Willis Lee's branch, at the time,
and before the locatiQn was made, was so notorious that the inquirer could n.ot be misled by the
mistake in the distance. That a part of the description which is erroneous, maybe discarded, if the
object called for is itself so notorious that it requires no aid from description, and cannot be
mistaken; and that such part will not vitiate the
entry, may be admitted, without impugning the
judgment in the case of Couchman v. Thomas.
Tabb's entry contains no descriptive call, which
would conduct the inquirer to the white-ash saplings he is in search of, and the saplings themselves were iot objects of sufficient notoriety to
cure the defects in'the ,reneral description.
Decree iffirmed

