CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

312
1825.
The Josefa
Segunda.

[SL4VE TRADE ACTS.

The JOSEFA

SEGUNDA..

1NsTAtNCE COURT.J

ROBERTS

and others,

Claimants.
The District Courts have jurisdiction, under the Slave Trade; Acts,
to determine who are the actual captors, under a State law maile in
pursuance of the 4th section of the Slave Trade Act of 1807, c.
77. and directing the proceeds of the sale of the negroes to bb
paid, " one moiety for the use of;the commanding officer of the.
capturing vessel," Uc.
In order to constitute a valid seizure, so as to entitle the party to the
proceeds of a forfeiture, there must be an open, visible possession
claimed, and authority exercised, under the seizure.
A -seizure, once voluntarily abandoned, loses its validity.
A seizure, hot followed by an actual prosecution, or by a claim, in
the District Court, before a.hearing on the merits, insisting on-the
benefit-of the seizure, becomes a nullity.
Under the 7th section of the Slave Trade Act of 1807, c. 77. *the
entire proceed$ of the vessel are forfeited to the use of the U'ited
States, unless the seizure be made by armed vessels of the navy;
.or by revenue cutters, in which case distribution is to be made ii
the same manner as prize.i taken from the enemy.
Under the act of the State of Louisiana of the 13th of March, 1818,
passed to carry into effeQt the 4th section of the Slave Trade Act
of Congress of 1807, c. 77. and directing the negroes imported
contrary to the act to be sold, and the proceeds to be paid, " one

moiety for the use of the commanding officer of the capturing.vessel, and the other moiety to the Treasurer of the Charity Hospital
of New-Orleans, for the use and benefit of the said hospital ;" no
other person is entitled to the first moiety than the commanding
officer of the armed vessels of the navy, or revenue cutter, who may
have made the seizure, under the 7th section of the act of Congrcss.

APPEAL firom the Circuit Court of Louisiana.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This is the same case which was reported ante,
vol. 5. p. 338.

It was a proceeding against the

vessel, and the negroes taken on board of her,
under the Slave Trade Act of the 3d of March,
1807. c. 77. in which the vessel was condemned
in the Court below, and that decree was affirmed
on appeal, by this Court. After the con demnation of the vessel in the District Court, and be-fore the appeal to this Court, the negroes found
on board of her wema. (under-the 4th section 'of
the act of Congress, and under an act of the
State of Louisiana, passed on the 13th of March,
1818, in pursuance of the act of Congress,) delivered by the Collector of the Customs for the
port .of New-Orleans, to the Sheriff of the parish
of New-Orleans, for sale t .cording to law. A
cross libel was afterwards filed by the alleged
original Spanish owners, claiming restitution of
the negroes, which was dismissed, and, on appeal, the decree affirmed by this Court. By consent of all the parties in interest, the negroes
were sold by the Sheriff, and the proceeds lodged
in the Bank of the United States, subjdct to the
order of the Court below. After thie cause. had
been remanded to the District Court, a qi .estion
arose in that Court respecting the ma-irer in
which these proceeds, as well as those of the
vessel and effects, were to-be distributed, and the
parties -respectively entitled to them. Mr. Roberts, an inspector of the revenue, claimed a
moiety of the proceeds as the original seizor or
captor;. Messrs. Gardner, Meade, and Humphrey,
respectively, made similar claims under sub4'
VOL. X.

40

1825.
T

Segunda:

3.14

CASES IN THEf.SUPREME COURT

18P.5.

quent military seizures alleged to be made by
'them;
and r.Chew, the Collector of the port
seaa. of New-Orleans, donjointlv with the Naval Officer and Surveyor of the port, filed a like claim
as the true and actual captors and seizos, who
made the last and only effectual seizure, and prosecuted the same'to a final sentence of condemnation.0
a The act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1807, c. 77. (s. 4.)

alter providing a personal penalty for taking.on board, receiving,

or iransportihg. any negro, &c. from Africaj or any other foreign
coimtry, for the purpose of selling them as slaves, in any Part of the
.nitedStates; enacts, that "every such ship or vessel, in which
spp.. negro, mulatto, or person of colour, shall have been taken on
board, received, oftrahsported as aforesaidlber tackle, apparel,
andfftrittire, and the goods, and effects which shall be foiund on
bard Jhd same, shall be forfeied t the United States, aind shall be
liable to be seized, prosecuted and condemned, in any of the Circuit Courts or Dittrict Courts, in the b)istrict where the said sip
or vessel nay be found or seized. And neither the importer, nor
any person clqiming from or under himi shall, hold any right. or
title whatsoever to any negro, nulattQ1 or person of colour, nor to
the-sermci or labour thereof, whQ may be imported or trought
within the United.States,!or territories thereof, in violation of thi
law, .but tle saine-shall remain subject to any regulations not contravening theqpr6visions of this act, which the Legislatures of the
several States or territories at any time hereafter may make, for
.disposing of any such negro, Inulatto, or person of colour." (s. 7.)
€!That it any ship or -vessel shall be found, from and after the first
-day.6f .ann.ary, 1808, In any'iverI port, bay, Qr harbour, or on
the highotis, within the jurisdictidna limits bf the United States,
or hovering* on the- coasts thereof, having on. board any
nego, mulatto, or teraonofbcolQur, for he purpose of selling them
As 4Iaves: or witl" intent to land the same :in any port or 'lace
within the jurisdiction of the Ufited States, contrary to the prohi4ftwnof this act,everysuch shi'pBr vessel,,together with her tackle,
aPparel, and furniturq, and the goods or effects which shall be

oF THE UNITtD STATES.

It appeared, by the evijience, that Roberts,

~31 5
1825.

being employed as an inspector in a revenue boat The Josefa
at the Balize, near the mouth of the Mississippi, Segunda.
found on board the same, shall be forfeited tothe use of tbe United
States, and may be seized" prosecuted and condemned in any
court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof. And it
shall be lawful for the President of the United States, and he is
hereby authorized, sbould he deem it expedient, to cause any of
the armed vessels of the United States to be manned and employed to cruize on any part of the coast of 4he United States, or ter-'
ritories thereof, where he may judge aitempts will be made to vior
late the provisions of this act, and to instruct and direct the command.erg of armed vessels of th United States, to seize, takei andbring into any port of the United States, such ships or vessels,
and moreover'to seize, take, and bring into any port of [the
United States, all ships or vessels of the United States,
wheresoever found on the. high seas, contravening.the provisions of this act, to be proceeded against according to
law," &c. 11And the proceeds of all ships and vessels, their.
tackle, apparel, and furniture, and th'e godds and effects on boaid
of them, whish shall be so seized, prosecuted, and condemned, shall
be divided equally between the United Statesand the officers and
men who shall make such seizure, take, or bring the same into port
for condemnation, whether such seizure be made by an armed vessel of the United States, or revenue cutters thereof; and te same
shall be distributed in like manner as is provided by law for the
distribution of prizes taken from an enemy : Provided, That-the"
officers and men, to be entitled to one half of the proceeds aforesaid, shall safe keep every negro, mulatto, or person of colour,
found on board of any ship or vessel so by them seized, taken, or
brought into Court for condemnation, and shall deliver every such
negro, mulatto, or person of colour, to such person or persons as
shall be appointed by the respective States,. to receive the same;
and if no such person or persons shall be appointed by the respec.
States, they' shall deliver every such negro, mulatto, or person
five
of dolour, to the overseers of thepoor of the port or place where
such ship or vessel may be brought or found, and shall immediately transmit to the Governor, or chief magistrate of the State, an
account of theirpioceedings together With the number of such ne-

316

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. on the 18th of April, 1818, boarded the vessel,
declare4l that he had seized her. He, soon
The Jfa
%and
sjda. afterwards, werit on shore, and put a person on
board to take charge of the vessel, which remained at anchor opposite the block-house, until the
21st of April, when Lieutenant Meade, with six
soldiers in a boat, went from Fort St. Philip, in
company with a custom-house boat, and Mr..
Gardner, an officer of the customs, on board,
took possession of the vessel, and brought her
up under the guns of the fort. It appeared, that
RP6berts, afterwards, came on board the vessel,
but did not remain on bdard until her arrival at
the city of New-Orleans, he having left her in
order to board another vessel in the river. On
the 21st of April, Mr. Chew, the Collector at
New-Orleans, acting on independent information
which he had received, sent an armed revenue boat,
with anInspector of the Customs, down the river,
with instructionsto seize the vessel. On arriving at
groes, mulattoes, or persons of colour, and a descriptive list of the
same, that he may give directions respecting such negroes, mulattoes, or persons of colour." The act of the Legislature of the
State of Louisiana, passed on the 13th of March, 1818, after recifing the substance of the above 4th- section of the act of Congress,
proceeds to declare, that the Sheriff of the parish of New-Orlean
is authorized and required to receive any negro, &c. delivered to
him in virtue of the act of Congress, untik the proper Court pro.
founces a decree~of condemnation'; and after such condemnation.
it: authorizes him to sell sych n.egro, &c. as.a.slave for life; ane
then declares, f4that the proceeds of such sale shall, after de
.ducting all charges, be paid over by the said Sheriff, one nioiety foj
the use of the commanding officer of. the capturing vessel, and th
moiety to the treasurer of the Charity Hospital of Newmher
Orleans, for the use and benefit of the said hospital."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

311

Fort St. Philip, they found the vessel at anchor op- 1825.
kT0,
posite the fort, with a serjeant's guard on board,
which had been placed there by Major Humphrey, -Seguadi.
the commanding officer at the fort. The inspector received from that officer the ship's papers,
and ,took possession of the vessel and negroes,
the guard having been withdrawn, and brought
them up to the city of New-Orleans. Proceedings were commenced against the property at the
instance of Mr. Chew, and the other officers of
the customs, and though his name was not inserted in the libel, the prosecution was conducted
by him until its final-determination, and the other
parties claiming as daptors, or seizors, did not
intervene -until after the decree of this Court on.
the appeal in the original cause.
The Court below pronounced a decree, dismissing the claims of Messrs. Roberts, Humphrey,
Meade, and Gardner, and allowing that of the
Collector and other officers of the customs, and
the cause was brought by appeal to this Court. •
Mr. Livingston, for the appellant, Roberts, iu-March 15th.
sisteci, that he was entitled as the first seizor,
under the act of Congress of the 3d of March,
1807, c. 77. s. 7. and the act of the Legislature
of Louisiana, passed on the 13th of March, 1818,
in pursuance of the act of Congress, to a moiety
of the proceeds of the vessel and negroes found
on board. He exercised all the authority and
control over the vessel he was capable of,. with
the force at his disposition. The persons on
board submitted to .the seizure ; and, as in cap-

SIB

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tures jure belli, it is not necessary that there
1Ale Jomfa.
f shoiild be a *physical superiority of force on the
Sogunda part of the captors.a He was afterwards compelled to abandon the possession; and such an
abandonment, from the force and fear of another
party, cannot invalidate thq original seizure." By
the act of Congress, (s. 7.) the proceeds of the
vessel and effects are to be divided equally between the United 'States and the officers? and
men who sall maketke seizure "and by the act
of Louisiana,- the proceeds -of the negroes are
to be divided equally between the commanding
o ffcer of the capturing vessd, and the charity
hospital. The appellant, Roberts, is entitled in
both capacities; and the revenue officers, who
came in after the capture was complete, and dispossessed him who was the first seizof, can have
*no claim under either act.
18"25.

Mr. Key, for the appellants, Gardner, Meade,
apl Humphiey,.-argued upon. the facts, to show
that they w"re the real; meritori6us captors.
The Attorney General, for the respondents,
insisted, -that -if-any- of the parties before the
Court were. entitled, the Collector and other officers of the customs weie the only partisentifled by law to-be considered -as the captors .r
seizors, they having made. tje first effectual sei.zure, 'andprosecuted it to condemnation, whilst
te other claimants: avoided -all the expense and
a The Alexander, 8 Cranich'sRep. 179.
b The Mary, 2 Wheat, Rep. 1s.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

hazArd of the prosecution, and did not intervene 1825.
until its successful termination. The law does The JoseftL
not mean to encourage that kind of seizure, Segundi.
where the captor lays his hand on the subject,
and takes it off again. That person is.the seizor
who informs and prosecutes. If any other person claims a title, he is bound to intervene before
the first adjudication, and submit his claim to the
decision -of the Court.' -It may be doubted,
whether, under the 7th.section of the act of Congress, any person can be entitled, as a seizor, except the officers, &c. of the.armed vessels, and
revenue cutters of the United States. If it be a
cansus omissus, none of the captors n6w before the
Co u'rt are literally within the terws of the act,"
and the whole of the -forfeiture must B& to-t.
United States. But, if an.ny are.entitldd, the Colle.ctor is clearly to be preferred.
Mr. Justice STOUy delivered the opinion of marh aa.

the Court.
Thd case of the 'Josefa'Segunda, in' which thb
present coutroversy had its origin, is reported hi
the fifth volume of Mr. Wheaton's Relorts. It is
only necessary to mention, that after the condemnation of the vessel, in the District Court of
Louisiaaa, and before the intervention of the appeal to this Court, the negroes seized on Wx.ard
of her, in pursuance of the act of Congress, and
the act of Louisiana, which will be hereafter
ponumented on, were delivered by Mr. Chew, (the
a Hargr. Law Tracts, 226, 227".

320
1825.

CASES IN 'I-IE SUPREME COURT

Collector of the Customs,) to the Sheriff of the

The JosefIParish of New-Orleans, to be sold according to
SWHd. law; and a few days afterwards a new libel,
claiming the property of the negroes, having been
filed by the Spanish owners, (which was. afterwards dismissed, and on appeal, the dismissal
confirmed by this Court,) by consent of all the
parties in .interest,- the negroes were sold by the
Sheriff, and the proceeds lodged in the Bank of
the United States,- subject to the order of the
District Court. The question now in contestalion respects the manner in. which the proceedd
of this sale, as well as of the sale of the vessel
and-effects, are to be distributed, and the parties
who are entitled to them. Mr. Roberts, who is
an Inspector of the Customs, claims title as the
original seizor or' captor; Messrs. Gardner,
Meade, and Humphrey, make a like claim under
a subsequent military seizure made by them; and
Mr Chew,. and the -Surveyor and Naval Officer
of the port of New-Orleans, a like claim as the
true and actual captors and seizors, who m ad.e
the last and only effectual geizure,, and prosecuted the same to a final decree of condemnation.
Mr. 'Chew ..aused the original libel against the
vessel to be brought, and though his name is ac cidentaly omitted in it as the offcer through
whose instrumentality the seizure was made, yet
it is admitted, andindeed could not be denied, that
he was the sole responsible prosecutor of the
suit, until the final condemnation of the vessel,
and the final dismissal of the second libel,

OF* THE UNITED STATES.

brought by the original Spanish claimants. The

321

1825.

'
claims of all the other parties now before the The"Josefa
Segunda.
intei7
have
Chew,
Mr.
Court, adverse to that of
vened since the final judgment pronounced in
the Supreme Court in the cause.
The Josefa Segunda .was finally condemned
under the seyenth section of the Slave Trade
Act, of the 2d of March, 1807, ch.'77. It will be
necessary to refer:to the terms ofthat section at
large, because the question heke respects as well
the distribution of the* proceeds of the iesse1
(which must be made according to the 'rules prescribed in that section,) as of the 15roceeds of the
sale of the negroes, who were unlaw'fully'brought
into the United States; and, in the progress of
the discussion, it will materially aid us in the decision of the latter, to. ascertain who, by the construction of that section, are the captors entitled
to the distribution. of the .former.
The fourth section of the act of 1807 provides,
that "neither the importer, nor any person or
persons. .claiming from or under him, shall hold
any riglit or title whatsoever to any.negro, &c.
w.ho may be imported or brought within theUnited States, or territories thereof, in violation
of this law; but the same shall remain. subject to
any regulations, not contravening the provisions
of this' act, which the 'Legislatures of the several
States or territories, at any time hereafter may
make, for disposing .of any such negro," &c.
Accordingly, the Legislature of Louisiaia, on the
13th of March, 1818, passed an act avowedly to
meet the exigency of this section,.which act, afVOL. X

41

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. ler reciting the substance of the same section,
f
proceeds tc deelare, that the Sheriff of the parish
The Joseta
Segunda.. of New-Orleans is authorized and required to
recLive Any negro, &c. delivered to him in virtue of the act of Congress, until the proper
Court pronounces a decree of condemnation;
and after such condemnation, it authorizes him
to sell such. negro, &c. as a slave for life; and
then declares, that 11the prooeds of.such sale
shall, after deducting all charges, be paid over
by the said Sheriff, one moiety for the use of the
eommanding officer of the capturing vessel, and
The other moiety to the treasurer of the Charity
Hospital of New-Orleans, for the use and benefit
of the said hospital." There is no doubt that
this act is not in contravention of the intention
of 'the,act of Congress, for the sixth section contains a proviso, recognising the validity of such a
sale, when. made under the authority of a State
law.
JSrisdiclion.
Some
af the District.
- iP.... objection his been suggested as-to the
Coue, JtbJurisdiction of the District Court of Louisiana, to
presen
pr°'entertain the present proceedings, upon the
'edings.
grofnd that the distribution is to be made under
this act by the Sheriff of New-Orleans. But
upon a full consideration of the act of 1807, we
are of opinion, that the objection cannot be maintained. By the judiciary act. of 1789, as well as
by the express provisioni of the act of 1807, the
District Court has jurisdiction over seizures
made unrder the latter,.act. •Th" principal pr~oeeedings are certainly to. be against the vessel,
And the goods and effects found on board. But

OF THE UNITED STATE.

323

the negroes are also to be taken possession of, 1825.
for the purpose of being delivered over to the The 3osda

State governments, according to the provision
of the act; and it is obvious, that this d~livery
can-only be after a condemnation has occurred,
since it is only in tat event ihat the State Legislature can acquire any right to dispose of them.
The proviso in the seventh section; that the
offcers to whom a moiety of the proceeds is
given on condemnation, shall be so entitled only
in case they'safely keep and deliver over the negroes according to the laws of the States, operates by way of condition to the completion of
their title; but does not import any requirement
that the delivery shall be until after the condemnation. On the cpntrary, as by a decree of restitution of the vessel and effects, the claimants
would be entitled to a restitution of the negroes,
the reasonable construction seems to be, that
they remainssubject to the order of the District
Court, as property 'in the custody of the law,
though in the actual possession of the 3eizing
officers. The possession. of -the-latter is the possession of the Court, as much in respect to. the
negroes as the vessel and cargo; and it must remain until the Court, by pronouncing a inaI decree, directs in what manner it is to be surre.adered. In the present case, the negroes were
sold, and the proceeds substituted for them were.
in the custody of thet Court. It was, therefore,
authorized to deliver them over to the parties
who should be entitled, under the State law. In
terms,, the State law required the delivery to the

Sepmda.

324
1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Sheriff to the use of the parties; but who the
The 3osefa parties were to whose use the Sheriff. must hold
Segunda. them, could not be ascertained by him, but must
be awarded by the Court, to whom, as an incident to the principal cause, it exclusively belonged. In what manner could any other Court
be authorized to ascertain who was the commanding officer of the capturing vessel? The
dedree of the Court, in distributing the proceeds
of the vessel and cargo, must necessarily involve
this inquiry; and certainly it cannot for a moment be maintained in argument, that any other
person than the commander of the capturing
vessel, who would share the proceeds of the prize
and 'her cargo, could be within- thc meaning of
the law of Louisiana. The common form of
-drawing up decrees; imcases of condemnation, is,
that' the proceeds be distributed according to
law. But if any difficulty arises, upon petition,
the Court always proceeds to decide who are the
parties entitled to distribution, and to make i
supplementary decree. But it may do the same
in the first instance, 'and make the particulars of
the distribution a part Qf the original decree. In
the present case, if the original decree had been
drawn out at laxge. it ought to have been, that the
negroes so captured be delivered over to the Sheriff of New-Orleans for sale, according to the ac.
of Louisiana in this behalf provided, and that thd
netproceeds of the sale be afterwards paid over;
viz. one moiety to A. B.,,adjudged by the Court to
be the commanding officer- of. the capturing vessel, and the other moiety to the Charity Hospital

325

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of New-Orleans.

This course of proceeding is

1825.

very familiar in prize causes; where the Court Th~e Jos efa

of Admiralty always ascertains who are the captors entitled to the prize proceeds; and the
Courts of common law will never entertain any
jurisdiction over the proceeds until after such adjudication. Considering this cause, then, as a
cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, belonging exclusively to the Courts of the United
States, we are not aware how any other Court
could adjudge upon the question who -were the
captors or seizors entitled to share -the proceeds;
and we think that the District Court has jurisdiction over the present proceedings.

Segund£

neis
What
In respect to the claim of Mr. Roberts, we do cessa
r~o
con-ti tute a.vEflid
he
that
establishes
evidence
the
that
not think
so as
It isseizure,

ever made any valid seizure of the vessel.. It is partyentitle
to *the
tilt
not sufficient that he intended to inake one, orroceeds of a"
that, on sorne occasions, he expressed to third forfeiture.
persons that behad so done. There must be an
open, visible possession claimed, and -authority
exercised under a seizure. The parties must
understand that they are dispossessed, and -that
they are no longer at liberty to exercise any dominion on board of the ship. It is true, that a*
superior physical force is not necessary to be employed, if there is a voluntary acquiescence in the
seizure and dispossession. If the party, upon
notice, agrees to submit, and actually submits, to
the command and control of the seizing officer,
that is sufficient; for, in such cases, as in cases
of captures jure belli, a voluntary surrender of
authority, and an agreement to obey the captor.

326
1825.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

supplies the place of actual force.

But, here,

'Thesefa
•The
Jorsefa

Mr. Roberts gave no notice of the seizure to the

"Regunda.

persons on board; he exercised no authority, and
claimed no possession. He had- no force adequate to compel submission; and his appearance
in the vessel gave no other character to him than
that of an inspector, rightfully on board, in performance of his ordinary duties. To construe
such an equivocal act as. a seizure, would be unsettling principles.
Messrs. Humphrey, Meade, aqd Gardner, certainly did make a seizure, by their open possession.
of the vessel, -andbringing her under the guns. of
Fort St. Philip. But there is this objection to the
seizure, both of Mr. Roberts, (assumig .that he
made one,) and of the other persons, that it was.
never followed up by any subsequent prosecution

Effect of a or proceedings. The seizure of 'Messrs. Humabandonment ofphrey, Meade, and Gardner, seems to have been
voluntary

'dseizure.

voluntarily abandoned by them; and even that of
Mr. Roberts, if he made one, does not seem to
have been persisted in. Now, a seizure, or capture, call it which we, may, if once abandoned,
without the influence of superior force, loses all
its validity, and becomes a complete nullity. Like
the common case of a capture at sea,,and a voluntary abandonment, it leaves.the property open
to the next occupant. But what is decisive in
our view is, that neither of these gentlemen ever
attempted any prosecution, or intervened in the
original proceedings in the Distr.-t Court, claiming to be seizors, which was :no spensable to
ei claim
consilmmate their iegai right ... ,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was, for the first time, made after a final decree 1825.
of condemnation in the Supreme Court. This The Joser
was certainly a direct waiver of any right acquired Seunda.
by their original seizures. It is not permitted to
parties to lie by, and allow other persop,3 to incur
al the hazards and responsibility of being held
to damages in case the seizure, turns out to be
wrongfiul, and then to come in, after the peril is
over, and clairethe whole reward. Such, a proceeding would be utterly unjust,- and inadmissible. If the parties meant to have insisted on
any right, as seizors, their duty was to have intervened in the District Court before thi hearing on the merits, according to the course pointed out by Lord Hale in the passage cited at the.
bar, where there are several persons claiming to
be seizors of forfeited property. In the present
case, Mr. Chew actually advanced a considerable.
sum of money for the maintenance of these negroes during the pendency of the suit ; and if it
bad been unsuccessful he must have exclusively
borne the loss. Upon the plain ground, then,
that Mr. Roberts, and Messrs. Humphrey, Meade,
and Gardner, have not followed up their seizure
by any prosecution, such as the act of 1807 rea Harg.Law Tract8, (4to.) p. 227. " At. common law, any
person might seize uncustomed goods to the use of the king and
himself, arid thereupon inform for a seizure. -But yet, if A. seize
goods uniustomed, and then B. seize them for the same cause, he
that first seizeth ought to be preferred as the informer. And,
therefore, if B., that seized after, first informa, and A. also inform,
A. may be admitted to interplead with B., upon the priority of
the seizure, before the merchant shall be put to answer. either."

328

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. quires, we are of opinion, that there is no fout""
Va
The Josefa dation, in point of law, for their clainis.
That Mr. Chew, on behalf of himself, and the
Segunda.
Surveyor and Naval Officer of the port of NerQrleans, did make-the seizure on. which the prosecution in this case was founded, is completely
proved by the evidence; it is also admitted by
the United States, in their answer to the libel of
Messrs. Carricaber'a, &c.. the Spanish claimants,
and is averred by Mr. Chew, and his coadjutors,
in their separate allegation and answer.to the
same libel. While -the vessel lay at Fort St. Philip, armed boats, under revenue officers, were sent
down by him, with orders to seize her, and bring
her up to New-Orleans for prosecution, which
was done accordingly.
The remaining question then is, whether Mr.
Chew, for himself and his coadjutors in office,
isto be considered as entitled to the proceeds of
the vessel under the act of Congress, and to
the proceeds of the negroes, as "the'commanding officer of the capturing vessel," within the
sense of the Louisiana law.
If he is entitled to the proceeds of the vessel
and cargo, under the 7th section of the act of
1807, then, we think, he must be fairly considered as within the spirit, if not the letter, of the act
of Louisiana.
The 7'gh section is certainly not-without difficulty in its construction. In the first clause it
declares, that vessels found " in any river, port,
bay, or harbour, or on the high seas, within the
jurisdictional limits of the United States, or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

hovering on the coast thereof, having on board

S29
1825.

any negro, &c. for the purpose of selling them TheJosefa

as slaves, &c. contrary to the prohibitions of this Segunda.
act, shall be forfeited to the use of the United
States, and may be seized, prosecuted, and condemned, in any Court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof." Under this clause,
standing alone, it cannot be doubted, that any
person might lawfully seize such a vessel at his
peril, and if the United States should .choose'.to
adopt his act, and proceed to adjudication, he
would, in the event of a condemnation, be completely justified. But it may. be considered as
peculiarly the duty of the officers of the customs,
to watch- over any maritime infractions of the
laws of the United States; and,' by the Collection Act of 1799, (ch. 128. s. 70.) it is made the
duty of'all custom-house officers, as well within
their Districts as without, to make seizures of all
vessels violating the revenue laws.
The section, then, in-the next clause, authorizes the President of the United States to employ
any of the arned vessels of the United States to
cruise on any part of the coast, to prevent violatiorns of the act, and to instruct and direct the
commanders of such armed vessels, to seize all
vessels contravening the act, " wheresoever
found on the high seas," omitting the words, " in
any river, port, bay, or harbour," contained in the
former clause. It then proceeds to declare, that
the proceeds of all such vessels, when condemned,
" shall .be divided equally between the United
States, and the officers and men, who shall make
VOL. X,

42

6S0
1825.
,

The Josefa

Segunda'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

such seizure, take or bring the same into port for
condemnation, whether such service be made by
an armed vessel of the United States, or revenue
cutters' thcreof, and the same shall be distributed
in like manner as is provided by law for the distribution of prizes taken from an enemy." In a
strict sense, the present seizure was not made by
an armed vessel of the United States, nor by a
revenue cutter, which, by the act of 1799; (oh..
128. s. 98.) the President is at liberty to require
to co-operate with the navy. But if we consider
these cases as put only byway of example, or if we
give an enlarged meaningto the w6rds "revenue
cutter," so as to include revenue boats, such as
the Collector is, by the act of 1799, (ch. 128. s.
101.) authorized to employ, with the approbation
of the Treasury department, then the seizure of
Mr. Chew may be brought'within the general
terms of the act. The United States do not appear to have resisted this construction as to the
proceeds. of the sale of the Jose'fa Segunda.
And, on the other hand, *if we consider, that
the act meant to deal out .the' same.rights to
all parties who might seize the offending vessel, whether they w~re officers of armed vessels,
or of revenue cuitters, or merely priv'ate individuals, who may seize and prosecute to condenin.tion, then, under that construction, Mr. Chen
may be properly deemed the seizing officer, en.
titled, with his crew, to the piog.eeds of the vicssel. If such a construction is noi admizsible,
within the equity of the act, then it is a casus omis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sus, and the property yet remains undisposed of by 1825.
law.
The Josefa
Upon the bist consideration which we have Segunda.
been able to give the case, we are of opinion,
that it is a casus omissus, or rather, that all the
beneficial interest vests in the United States.
The first clause of 'the seventh section declares,
that all vessels offending against it, " shall be
forfeited to the use of the United' States," and
may be seized, prosecuted, and condemned, accordingly. The seizure may be made by. any*
person ; but the forfeiture is still to be, by the
terms of the act, for the use of the United Stdtes..
If the act had stopped here, no difficulty in its
construction could have occurred. As nothing is
given by it to the seizing officer, nothing. could
be claimed by him except from the bounty of
the government. The subsequent clause looks
exclusively to cases where the seizure is made by
armed vessels of the navy, or by revenue cutters,
and directs, in such an, event, a distribution.io be
made in the same manner as in cases of prizes
taken, from an enemy. , Correctly speaking, these
cases constitute exceptions from the preceding
clause, and take them',out of the general foifeiture " to the use of the United States." It might
have been a wise policy to have extended the benefit of these provisions much farther, or to have
given, as the act of the 20th of April, 18.18, (ch85.) has given, a moiety in all cases to the person
who should prosecute the seizure to effect. But
Court's- of law can deal with questions of this
nature only so far as the Legislature has clearly

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

expressed its will. Mr. Chew appears to be a
The
Josefvery meritorious officer, and deserving of public
T-e Josefaz:
Segunda. respect for his good conduct on this occasion.
But as the act has made no provision for his
compensation, he must be left, in common with
those who made the military seizure, to the liberality of the government.
The remarks which have been already made,
dispose of the case, so far as respects the proceeds of the vessel, and we think they are decisive as to the claim to the proceeds of sale of
the negroes. The case as to this matter is also
a casus omissus in the act of Louisiana. That
act had a direct reference to the act of Congress,
and " the commanding officer of the capturing
vessel," in the sense of the former, must mean the
commamding officer of such an armed vessel, or
revenue cutter, as is entitled to share in the distribution of the proceeds by the latter. It would
be going very far to give a larger construction to
the words than. in their strict form they import;
and since they admit of a reasonable interpretation, by confining them to the cases provided for
by Congress, we are satisfied that our duty is
complied with, by assigning to them this unembarrassed limitation.
The decree of the District Court, so far as it dismisses the claims of Messrs. Roberts, Humphrey,
Mead, and Gardner, is affirmed, and so far as it
sustains the claim of Mr. CheW, and the Naval
Officer and Surveyor of the port of New-Orleans,
is reversed.
Decree accordingly.
1825.

