152

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
'rather
Elmendorf

V.
Taylor.

ants inthat cause,, as being the heirs of Harvie,
than to two of them, who, lie alleged,
were -entitled to the land as devisees? If they
did not complain of the decree, (and that they
did not, is 'proved by their-plea and demurrer to
the bill of review,) and if the plaintiff in this bill
was not injured by.it, the Court is at a loss to
conceive, upon what legal or equitable ground,
that decree could have been reversed for the
errors growing out of the after discovered evridence. These observations apply equally to the
second and third errors assigned
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[CHANC.tAtX.

EL31ENDORF,,

LIITATIoiv.

LOCAL Liw.]

Appellant, v. TAYLOR and others,
Respondents.

Although. the statutes of. limitation do not apply, in terms, to
Coifrts of Equity, yet the period of limitation which takes away
a right of entry, or an action of ejectment;has been held bf analogy
to bar relief in equity, even where the period of limitation for a writ
of right, or other real action, had not expired.
Where an adverse possession has continued for twenty years, it constitutes a complete bar in equity, wherevgr an ejeetment would be
barred if the plaintiff possessed a legal title.
The rule which requires all the parties in interest to be brought before the Court, dbes not affect the jurisdiction, but is subject to the
discretion of the Court, and may be r.edified according to circumstances.
In the Courts of the United States, wherever the case may be completely decided is between the litigant parties, an interest existing

OF THE UNITED STATES.
in-smine other person, whom the process of the Court cannot reach,
1825.
as Ifsuch party be a resident of another State, will nof prevent a
Elmendorf
decree upor the merits.
V.
The Courts of every government have the exclusive authority of conTaylor.
struing its local statutes, and their construction will be respected in
ev..-r. other country.
This Court respects the decisions of the State Courts upon their local
stahutes, in the same manner as the Sta* Courts are bound by the
de.:iions of this Court in construing the constitution, laws, and
treaties of the Union.
In Kentucky, a survey must be presumed to be recorded at the expiration of three nmonths from its date, and an entry dependent on it is
entitled to all the notoriety of the survey as a matter of record.
An entry in the following words; " W. D. enters 8,000 acres, beginnirg at the most southwestwardly corner of D. R.'s suivey of 8,000
acrts, between Floyd's Fork and Bull Skin ; thence along his westwa:'dly line to the corner ; thence the sasie course with J. K.'s lifie
north 20 west 964 poles, to a survey of J. L. for 2,000 acres;
theare with Lewis"line, and from the beginning south 70 west till
a line parallel with the %firstline will include the quantity," is a.
valid entry.
Such an entry is aided by the notoriety of the surveys, which it calls
to adjoin, where those' gurveys had been made three months anterior to its date.

APPEAL from the Circuit Cour of Kentucky.
This was a bill in equity, brQught by the appellant, Elmendorf, in the Court below, to obtaini a
conveyance of lands held by the respondents
under a prior grant, and under entries which were

But the defendants be-

all older than his entry.

low relied entirely on their patefit; and the case,

consequently, depended on the validity of the
plaintiffIs entfy.

This entry was made on the

19th of April, 1784, as follows: "Walker Daniel
enters 8,000 acres, beginning at the most southwestwardly corner of Duncan Rose's survey of
8,000 acres, between Floyd's Fork and Bull
Skin; thence along his westwardly line to the
VOL X.

20

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1825.
Ezer-r
Elmemdorf

v.

Taylor.

corner; thence, the same course with Granville
Smith's lower Jine, to John Lewis' corner; thence
with Lewis' line, and from the beginning south
7Q west, till a line parallel with the first will ir
elude the quantity." This entry was afterwar s
explained and amended on the 1st of July, 17g4
so as to read as follows: " Walker Daniel enters
8,000 acres, beginning at the most southwest-

wardly corner of Duiican.Rose's survey of 8,000
acres, between Floyd's. Fork and Bull Skin;
thence along his westwiardly line to the dbrner;
thence the same course with. James Kemp's line
north 20 west, 964- poles, to a survey of John.
Lewis fr 2,000 acrs thence with Lewis' line,
andfrom the beginning south 70 west, till a ine
parallel
with the first line will inclu;de the g'antbty. '
The plaintiff's bill was dismissed by the Court
below, and the cause brought by appeal to this
Court. It was argued, at a former term, by Mr.
Clay, and Mr. Talbot, for the appellant, and by.
Mr. Bibb, for the respondents, and was again
argued at the present term by the same counsel.
Feb. Nth.
On the part of the appellant, it was contended,
that the survey referred to in the amended entry,
was, at the time, an object of sufficient notoriety
to give validity to the entry, which called for one
vf its corners as a beginning. The Land La
of Virginia prescribes, ihat.survqys shall be returned to the:- office, and recorded in a reeord
book, to be kept for- that purpose by the prfincipal surveyor, within three months from the time

OF THE UNITED $TATE-.

of their being made.

This survey had thus be-

1825.

Elmendorf
come a matter of record: and subsequent pur- Emdo

chasers were bound to know its position, in the
the posame manner as they are bound to know
sition of entries. The book of surveys has every
quality of a record, except that the surveyor is
restrained from grahting copies until the time
limited by law, for the return of surveys to the
land office, has expired; and the notoriety attached to the record of survey, does not entirely
depend on the right to demand a copy of it. The
right to inspect it still exists, and this right has
been considered by the legislature as giving sufficient notice, to all persons interested, to enter a
caveat against the issuing of a patent. Were
the question of novel impression, there could
be no doubt. But it had been settled by a long
series of decisions in the local tribunal, and has
become a settled rule of property, which this
Court would respect, in the same manner as it
always respected the interpretation of local statutes by the Statc Courts.a
On the part of the respondents, it was insisted,
that the prohibition in the statute to give a copy
of the survey, excludes the idea of that notoriety
which is aseribed to a record. Though inserted
for preservation in a book, which is termed a book
of record, it does not become substantially a matter of record, until it becomes public and accessible to all the world. Even if an inspection of
a The cases cited are enumerated
Court.

in the opinion of the

V.

rayldr.

156

CASES IN THE SUPREME C:OURT

'1825.
Elmendorf

V.
Taylor.

the book was demandable as a matter of right,
such an inspection would, from the nature of
things, be of no avail, unless an office copy could
be obtained. The notoriety of the surveys
referred to in the entry, wbuld not, therefore, be
inferred from the fact, that the three months,
within which they were dircted by the statute
to be recorded, had expired before making the
entry. It was, also, insisted, that the appellant's
61aim did not entitle him to maintain the bill in
his own name, for the land in question. He was
a tenant in common with others, and could not
be allowed to sue in equity without making his
co-tenants parties to the bill.a The length of time
since which the plaintiff's title had accrued, was
also insisted on as an equitable bar. More than
twenty years had elapsed, and the principle was
well settled, that a Cour of equity would adopt
the analogy of the statute of limitations, applied
to bar an entry, or an ejectment, as the rule to
be applied to equitable rights and remedies.' Th6
statute of limitations is made to protect against
ancient claims, whether well or ill founded, the
a Ainde. Pract.2. 16 Ves. 325. 6 Johns. Ch. Cas, 450 3
Bro. Ch.Rep. 229. 2 Ves. sen. 312. 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 199.
b Prdnds' Max. X. p. 8. Smith v. Clay,.3 Bro. Ch.Rep.
639. note. Jenner.v. Tracy, 3 P. Wins. note (B.) 2 Egu.
Cas.,4Ar. tit. Length of Time." Cook v. Arnhan, 3 P. WMs.
283. Bond v.. Hopkins, 1 Scho. ! Lefr. 413. Hovenden v.
Lord Annesley, 2 Scho. ,'Lef-. 607. 1 Vern. 196.s62. 1 Ch.
,ep. 105. s Atk. 225. 2 Ves. sen.. 226. 2 4tk. 83. Cholmondeley v.'ClintonR, 2 Jacobs 81 Walker, 138.

CF THE UNITED STATES.

1.57

evidences of .which may have been lost, or ob-

scured by time.'

1825.
El"VendRf

Elmendlorf
V.

Mr. ChiefJusticie MARSHALL delivered the opi-

Taylor.

nion of the Court.
'klarch 5th.
This suit was brought by the appellant, El.nendorf, in the Court for the seventh Circuit
and District of Kentucky, to obtain a conveyance
of lands held by the defendants under a prior
grant, and under entries which are also older
than the entry of the plaintiff. As the defeAdants
do not adduce their entries, and rely entirely on
their patent, the case depends on the validity of
the plaintiff's entry. That was made in -April,
1784, and was afterwards, in July of the same
year, explained, or amended, so as to read as
follows: "Walker Daniel enters 8,000 acres, beginning at the most southwestwardly corner of
Duncan Rose's survey of 8,000 acres between
Floyd's Fork and Bull -Skin; thence along his
westwardly line to the corner; thence the same
course with James Kemp's line, north 20 west, 964
poles to a survey of John Lewis for 22,000 acres;.
thence with Lewis' line, and from the beginning
south 70 west, till a line parallel with the first line
will include the quantity."
As this entry begins at " the most southwestwardly corner of Duncan Rose's survey of 8,000
acres*between Floyd's Fork and Bull Skin," the
first inquiry is, whether this survey was at the
,time an object of sufficienf notoriety to give vaa Clementson v. Williams, 8 Cranc.'s Rep. 72.
Miller, 2 W7neat. Rep. 1,24

Shipp v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Elmendorf

S.

Taylor.

lidity to an entry calling for one of its corners as
a beginning. It is not pretended that the survey
itself had acquired this notoriety; but the plaintiff
contends that it had become a matter of record,
and that subsequent purchasers were, on that account, bound to know its position, in like manner
as they are bound to.know the position of entries.
The Land Law prescribes that-surveys shall be returned t) the office, and recorded in a record
book, to be kept for that purpose by the principal
surveyor, within three months from the time of
their being made. They are to be returned to
the land office in twelve months from their date,
during which time the surveyor is forbidden to
give a copy to any person other than the owner.
It is contended by the defendants, that this prohibition to give a copy of the plot and certificate
of survey, excludes the idea of that notoriety
which is ascribed to a record. Though inserted
for preservation in a book which is denominated a
book of record, it does not become, in fact, a record, until it shall partake of that characteristic
quality of a record, on which the obligation to notice it is founded, being accessible to all the
world. Were even an inspection of the book
demandable as matter of right, which the defendants deny, that inspection would, they say,
from the nature of the thing, be of no avail, unless a copy was also attainable. They insist,
therefore, that the notoriety of these surveys is
not to be implied from the fact that the. three
months had expired, during which they were directed by law to be recorded

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The plaintiff contends, that the book of surveys
has every characteristic of a -record, except that

1825.
Erno
Elmrnrarf

v.
the surveyo' is restrained from granting copies,
Taylor.
surof
return
the
for
law
by
until the time limited
veys to the land office shall ..have expired; and
denies that the notoriety attached to a record is
dependent entirely on the right to demand a copy
of it. He maintains the right to inspect it, and
insists that this right has been considered by the
legislature as giving sufficient notice to. all persons interested in the property to enter a caveat
against the issuing of a! patent, from which he implies that it is intended as a record to give notice, although 6Lcopy of it cannot be obtained.
Were this questioil now for the first time to be
decided, a considerable contrariety of opinion respecting.it vould prevail in the Court; but it will
be unnecessary to discussit, if the point shall ap-.
pear to be settled in Kentucky.
This -Court has uniformly p'ofessed its dispo- How far this
P' ' the desition, "icases depending on the laws of a parti- set
of the
the construction which the cisionsCourts,
cular State, to• adopt .State
Courts of the State have given to those laws. upon
tion s of queslocal

This course is founded on the principle, supposed law.
to be universally recognised, that the judicial department of every government, where such department exists, is the appropriate organ for construing' the legislative acts of that government. Thus,
no Court inthe universe, which professed to be
governed by principle., would, we presume, undertake to say, that the Courts of Great Britain,
or of France, or of any other nation, had misundprstood their own.statutes. mid therefore erect

160

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825. itself into a tribunal which should correct sue mis,,J-l'.
We receive the constriction
Elimendorf understanding.
V.
given by the Courts of the nation as th( true
Taylor. sense of the law, and feel ourselves no mre at
liberty to depart.from that construcgion, than to
depart from the words of the statute. On this
principle, the construction given by this Cc urt to
the constitution and laws of the United Sta'-es is
received by all as tile true construction; dnd on
the same principle, the construction given by the
Courts of the several States t6 th legislative acts
of those States, is received as true,- unless they
come in conflict with the constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States. If, then, this question has beeri settled in Kentucky, we must suppose it to be rightly settled.
The defendants contend, that conflicting opinions have been-giyen in the State, and that the
question is still: open; while the plaintiff insists,
that the rea1L-questo-n, that -is, the notoriety of a
survey afteroIeffng made three months, has never
been determined in the negative.
The fiist case of which we have any knowledge, is Sinclair v. .Singleton, (tughes, 92.)
The decision of the Court was' in favour of the
validity f an ehtry which calls for the lines of a
survey. The Court is not in possession of the.
book in which the case is reported; but, judging
from the references made to it -in subsequent
cases, the entry must have been made within
twelve, and;probably, within three months of the
date of the survey.
The next case in which the question was directly

OF THE UNITED STATES.

made, is Key.v. Matson, (Hardin,70.) decided
in the fall term of• 1806.

-X

21

1825.

The survey had not Edorf
Elmendorf

been made three months, at the date of the entry; and the Court determined, that it was not
an object of notoriety. *Arehearing was moved
for, and, according to the course of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, errors were assigned inthe original decree. The first wad, that " the
Court has decided, that an entry dependent on a
survey not made three months, is void; whereas,
according to law, and former decisions, such an
entry ought to have-been valid."
The Court adhered to its first decision, and
used expressions) which, though applied to a
case in which the entry was made before the expiration of three months after the survey on
which it depended, yet indicated the opinion, that
an entry, made aftbr the expiration of three
months from, the date of the survey, would be
equally invalid.
Moore v. Whitlege, (Hardin,89.) .and Respass
v. Arnold, (Hardin,115.) decided in the. spring
of 1807, were on the authority of Key v. Mat-son, and were also cases in which the entries
were made a few weeks after the surveys. The
case of Cartwright v. Collier, (Hardin, 179.)
decided in the spring of 1808, was one in which
the entry wa made only fifteen: days after the
survey. In Ward v. Lee, (1 Bibb, 27.) decided
in 1808, the entry cblled for a survey which had
been made twenty-three- days, of the return of
which, to the office, there was- no proof. the
Judge adds, " if it bad been returned and reVOL..

.16i

v.
TarIr.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

corded, yet no person was entitled to a copy."

e
Elmendorf

This last observation is indicative of the opinion,

v.
Taylor.

that a survey, though recorded, would not become
an object of notoriety until a copy of it was demandable; but it was made in a- case in which
that point did not occur. The case of Cleland's
heirs v. Gray, decided at the same time, is of
the same character. The survey was made sixteen days before the entry which called to adjoin
it. The Judge says, " it is clear, that no description in this certificate of Evan Shelby's survey, can aid Weeden's entry, because it does not
appear that the certificate was even made out, or
deposited in the surveyor's office,, at the date of
Weeden's entry. But, if it had been recorded,
yet it was inaccessible to holders of warrants.
They were not entitled to a. copy until twelve
months after the making of the survey; nor was
the surveyor himself bound to record it in. less
than three -months after the survey was made."
In the case of Galloway v. Neale et al.
(1 Bibb, 140.) the Judge who delivered the opinion of the Court, states the law thus : " If the
holder of a warrant adopts a survey previously
made upon another warrant as the basis of a
location, he must prove the notoriety of the survey at that period, otherwise his location cannot
be supported. If he .has adopted such survey at
a period earlier than that at which the law has
opened the record thereof for copies, he must
prove its notoriety by eyidence aliunde."
This plain declaration of the opinioni of the
Court on this point, was, however, made in a

OF THE UNITED S.TATES.

case in which it did not arise. The survey had
preceded the entry which called for it, more than
twelve months.
The cases of Davis v. Bryan,,(2 Bibb, 113.)
and Davis v. Davis, (2 Bibb, 137.) decided in
the spring of 1810, were, each of them, cases in
which the surveys preceded the entries calling
for them, less than three months.
It is, then, true, that from 1806 to 1810, inclusive, the prevailing-opinion of the Court of Kentucky was, that an entry could derive no aid from
the description contained in the plat and certificate of a survey for which it called, until that
survey had been made twelve months; but, it is
also true, that this opinion has been advanced
only in cases in which the point did not occur.
The first case in which the point actually occurred, was Carson v. Hanway, (3 Bibb, 160.)
The entry was made on the 9th of February,
1784, and called for a survey made on the .15th
of February, 1783. The entry was 'supported,
on the principle, that the plat, and certificate of
survey, constituted a part of it. In delivering
the opinion of the Court, the Judge said, "when
the survey has been so long made, that the law
requires it to be of record, it will be presumed
to be so, and a call for its lines, in an entry, will
render it a paft of the description of such entry."
At the preceding term, before the same Judges,
the case of Bush v. Jamison,(3 Bbb, 118.)-was
argued, and the Court determined, that an entry
could not be aided by the description contained
in a survey which had been made only seven days

163
1825.
Elmendorf

ylor.

(_ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

prior to the entry which called to adjoin it. In
giving its .opinion, the Court says, " how far a
Ellnendorf
V. subsequent adventurer would have been bound
Taylor. by a description given in the survey of its beginning corner, if the survey had been of record, is
not material to inquire ; for there is no proof that
the survey was, in fact, of record; and, as the
law did not require that it should have been recorded at the date of the entry, a presumption
that it was cannot be indulged, according to any
rule of probability, or on any principle recognised
in former adjudications of this Court."
These cases, decided so near each other, by
the same Judges, show clearly, by the terms in
which they are expressed, that the distinction between a survey, neither recorded in fact; nor in
)resumption of law, was in the mind of the
Court; and that its former ddjudications were
considered.
Reed's heirs v. Dinwiddie, (S Marsh.Rep. 185.)
was decided in the year 1820. In that case, ani
entry called for a survey which had been made
six months, and the Court determined, that the
person claiming under this entry might avail
himself oP the notoriety contained in the certificate of survey, " which, from its date, must have
been of record."
Jackrman's heirs v. Walker's heirs, (3 Litt.
Rep. 100-) is the last case which has been cited.
It was decided in 1823. The surveys were made
about ten months before the entry, which called
to adjoin them, and the Court allowed to the entry a11 the aid which could be derived from the

OF THE UNITED STATES

165

description contained in the next crtificate of 1825.
'._dob
survey; because, "from the length. bf time they
Elmendorf
v.
had been made before the date of the entry in
question, the law required them to be of record, "lor.
and, of course, they must be presumed to be soY
From the year 1813,,then, to the present time,
the Courts of Kentucky have uniformly decided,
that a surveymust be presumed to be recorded
at the expiration of three months from its date';
and that an entry dependent on it is *entitledto
all the notoriety which is possessed by the survey. We must consider the construction as settled finally in the Courts of the State, and that
this Court ought to adopt the same rule, should
we even doubt its correctness.
We think, then, that the entry under which the
plaintiff claims, is aided by -the notoriety of the
surveys which it calls to ad..-A ,.if those surveys

have been made three months anterior to its
date.
This depends on the question whether it is to
date from April or July, 1784. The defendants
insist t!.at the amendment, or explanation, of the
first of July, does not change the ground originally occupied, and is, therefore, not to be considered as having any influence on the date of the
entry, or as connecting it with the surveys mentioned in the amendment or explanation.
We cannot think so. This amendment would
be seen by zibsequent locaters, and would give
them as full notice that the entry adjoined the
surveys of Duncan Rose, James Kemp, and
John Lewis. as they would have received had the

(C'kSES IN THE SUPRLME COURT

1825.
1 mendor
V. f

Taylor.

original entry been made on that day. Were it
then to be conceded that the original entry, callof James
ing for Greenville Smith's line, instead
I
Kemp's, would have been construed to cover thd
same ground which it now covers, still we perceive no substantial reason for refusing to the
change made in its terms any advantage belonging to the date of that changc.
We think, then, for the purpose of the present
inquiry, the entry is to be considered as if made
on the first of July, 1784, and is entitled to all
the notoriety of the surveys for which it calls.
This being established, we do not understand
that any controversy remains on the question of
notoriety. Some of the objects called for in the
surveys are so well known, as to fix incontrovertibly the beginning of the entry made by Walker
Daniel; and its validity is not questioned on any
other ground.
The validity of the plaintiff's entry being established, it remains to consider the other objections which are made to a decree in his favour.
2. It is contended, that he is a tenant in common
with others, and ought not to be permitted to
sue in equity, without making his co-tenants parties to the suit.

This objection does not affect the jurisdiction,
ties to abill i,,but addresses itself to the policy of the Court.
equity.
Courts of equity require, that all the parties conto
Rule as par-_
necessary

cerned in interest shall be.brought before them,
that the matter in controversy may be finally settled. This equitable rule, however, is framed by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

167

the Court itself, and is subject to its discretion. 1825.
• Eimendorf
It is not, like the description of parties, an inflexV.
the
turns
ible rule, a failure to observe which
Taylor.
jurisdiction
no
has
it
party out oi Court, because
over his cause; but, being introduced by the
Court itself, for the purposes of justice, is susceptible of modification for the promotion of
those purposes. In this case, the persons who
are alleged to be tenants in common with the
plaintiffs, appear to be entitled to a fourth part,
not of the whole tract, but of a specially described
portion of it, which may, or may not, interfere
with the par.t occupied by the defendants. Neither the bill nor answers allege. such an interfereAce, and the Court ought not, without'such
allegation, to presume it. Had the decree of the
Circuit Court been in favour of. the plaintiff, and
had this objection to it been deemed sufficient to
induce this Court to reverse it, and send back
the case for the examihation of. this fact, it could
never have justi ed a d mission of the bill-without allowing the plaintiff an opportunity. of showing that he was the sole owner of the lands in
dispute. In addition to these observations, it
may be proper to say, that the rule which requires
that all persons concerned in interest, however
remotely, should be made parties to the suit,
though applicable to most cases in the Courts of
the United States, is not applicable to all. In
the exercise of its discretion, the Court will require the plaintiff to do all in his power to bring
every persorn concerned in interest before the
Court. But. if the, case may be.completely de-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
E
Elmendorf

v.

Taylor.

cided as between the litigant parties, the circumstance that an interest exists in some other person, whom the process of the Court cannot reach,
Its if such party be a resident of some other State;

ought not to prevent a decree upon its merits. It
would be a misapplication of the rule, to dismiss
the plaintiff's bill because he has not done that
which the law will not enable him to do.3. The third poiit in the defence is, the length
of time which has elapsed since the plaintiff's
equitable title accrued.
His patent was issued on the 11th of February,
1794, and those of the defendants are of prior
date. His bill was filed on the 28th of December, 1815. Several of the defendants, in their
answers, claim the benefit of the length of time.
Lapse oftime,
From the earliest ages, Courts of equity have
an equitable
bar,
by analo.
gy
tothbe
effect refused their aid to those who have neglected,
qf the statute for an unreasonable length
of time, to assert
otitathons teir claims, especially where the legal estate has
been transferred to purchasers without notice.
Although the statutes of limitations do not, either
in England, or in these States, extend to suits in
Chancery; yet the Courts in both countries
have acknowledged their obligation. Their application, we believe, has never been controverted; and in the recent case of Thomas v. Har,tie's heirs, decided at this term, it was expressly
recognised. But, the statute of limitations, which
a As to who are necessary parties-to a bill in equity, vide ante,
vol. 8. p.451. note a.
Vide ante, p. 146

OF THE UNITED STATES.

bars an ejectment after the lapse oftwenty years, 1826.
constitutes no bar o a writ of right, even where Elmendort"
the tenant counts on his own seisin, until thirty
v.
years shall have elapsed. Whether a Court of Taylor.
equity considers an equitable claim to land as
barred when the right of entry is lost, or will'sustain a bill as long as the -mere right may be asserted, is a question of some difficulty, and of
great importance. The analogy of a bill in
equity to actions founded on a right of entry,
seems to derive somne. title to consideration, from
the circumstance, that the plaintiff does not sustain his claim on his own seisin, dr that of his
ancestor, but on an equity not necessarily accompanied by seisin, whereas seisin is an indispensable ingredient.in a writ of right.. But the case
must depend upon precedent, and if the one rule
or the other has been'positively adopted, it ought
to be respected.
In the case of Jenner v. Tracy, (3 P. Wins.
287. ini a note;) the defendant demurred to a bill
to redeem modrtgaged premises, of which the defendant had been in possession more than twenty
years, and the dlemurrer was sustained; the Court
observing, that*" as twenty years would bar an
entry or ejectmeht, there was the §ame reason
for allowing it to bar a redemption." It is added,
that " the same rule was agreed in the case of
Belch v. Harvey, by the Lord Talbot. In 8 Atk.
Rep. 225. the Court expressed an opinion unfavourable to a demurrer in such a case, because
the plahntiff ought tobe at liberty, in his replica.tion, to show, that he is within the exceptions of
Vol.. X.

--

CASES IN THE S'IJIIREME COURT

1825.
E
Elmendorf

V.
Taylor.

the statute; but supported the bar when pleaded.
The same principle is recognised in 3 Atk. Rp.
313. The rule appears to have been laid down
in 1 Ch. Cas. and to have been observed ever
since.
In 3 Johns. Ch.Rep. Chancellor Kent said,
"It is a well settled rule, that twenty years possession by. the mortgagee, without account or
acknowledgment of any subsisting mortgage, is
a bar to aLredemption, unless the mortgagor dan
bring himself within the proviso in the statute of
limitations."
These decisions were made on bills to redeem
mortgaged premises; but as no reason can be
assigned why an equity of redemption should be
barred in a shorter time than any other equity,
they appear to us to apply with equal force to all
bills asserting equitable titles. We have-seen no
dictum asserting that the rule is not applicable
to other equitable rights, and we should not feel
justified in drawing a distinction which has never
heretofore been drawn. But we think the rule
has been applied to equitable rights generally.
In the 2d vol. of Eq. Cas. Abr. title " Length
of Time," it is said generally, " that possession
for more than twenty years, under a legal title,
shall never be disturbed in equity." The case
of Cook v. Arnham, (3 P. i;ns. 283.) was a
bill brought to supply the want of a surrender of
copyb old estate to the use of the will; and it was
objected, that the application to tne Courthad
been unreasonably delayed. The Lord Chancellor said. that " the length of time was not

OF THE UNITED STATES

above fourteen years, which, as it would not bar
an ejectment, so neither could it'
bar a bill in
equity."
The case of Bond v. Hopkins et al. (1
Sch. 4 Lef. 413.) was a suit brought by a
person claiming to be the heir, to set aside a will
alleged to be obtained by fraud, to obtain possession of title papers, and to remove impediments out of the way in a trial at law. Length
of possession was set up as a bar to the relief
prayed for in the bill; and the question, which
was discussed at the bar by very eminent counsel, was profoundly and deliberately considered
by Lord Redesdale. The testator died in November, 1754, and the bill was filed in June,
1792, so that thirty-eight years had elapsed between the death of the testator and the filing of
the bill. As this time was not sufficient to bar a
writ of -ight, no question could have arisen respecting the act of limitations, had the rule of
"granting relief in equity depended on the ability
of the plaintiff to maintain a writ of right. But
the rule was clearly understood, both at the bar
and by the CoUrt, to be, that the equitable rule
respecting length of time had reference to twenty years, the time during which the right of entry- was preserved,- not to the time limited for
maintaining a writ of right. In the very elaborate and very able opinion given by the Chhncel]or, in this case, in which he investigates thoroughly the principles which govern a Court of
equity in its decisions on the statute of limitations,
it is not insinuated that it acts in any case friom

1825.
Elmenorf
Taylor.

tA-ES IN THE SUPRrME COURT

Elmendorf

analogy to a writ of right, but is assumed as an
acknowledged and settled principle that it acts
from analogy to a writ of ejectment. In this case,

Taylor.

a suit had been instituted by John Bond, the

1825.
-,

grandfather of the plaintiff, as early as 1,755, and
a decree pronounced in 1770. The full benefit
of this decree was not obtained, and John Bond
took forcible possession of a part of the property,
of which he Was dispossessed by order of 'The
Court, on a bill for that purpose, brought by the
defendant. The said John Bond died in prison,
disin 1774, having first devised the property in
life,
for
infant,
pute to-his son Thomas, then an
with remainder to his first, and other sons, in
ejectstrict settlement. Soon after his death, an
ment was brought by the defendant, to recover
and
part of the property in possession of Bond;
a
in 1776, a bill was filed by Thomas Bond, then
minor, to enjoin the defendants from proceeding
in their ejectment, and to have the will delivered
up. Various orders were taken; and in June,
re1792, an original bill, in the nature of a bill or
vivor, was filed by Thomas Bond, and his eldest
son Henry. In discussing this case, so far as
respected length of time, no doubt was.entertained
of all
that the plaintiffs would have been barred
the
in
relief in equity, by a quiet 'acquiescence
possession of the defendants fbr twenty years.
It was a strong case of fraud, but an acquiescence of twenty years would have cl6sed the
Court of Equity against the plaintiffs.- This was
not questioned; but it was insisted that the pendency of suits, from the year 1755. when John

OF THE UNITED STATF,S.

Bond, the son and heir of the testator, returned 1825.
from America, had preserved the equity of the. Eendoivi
plaintiffs, unaffected by the lapse of time; and of Taylor.
this opiion was the Court.
The case of Hovenden v. Lord Annesly, (2
Sch. 4"Lef. 607.) was a bill filed in May, 1794,
to set aside a conveyance madein July, 1726, alleged to have been fraudulently obtained. There
were some circumstances on which the plaintiff
relied, as.relieving his case from the laches justly imputable to him for permitting such a length
of time to elapse ; but they Aeed not be noticed,
because they were deemed insufficient by the
Chancellor, and the bill was dismissed. In discussing this point, Lord Redesdale reviewed the
cases which had been determined, and said,
" that it had been a fundamental law of state policy, in .alcountries, and at all times, that there
should be some limitation of time, beyond which
the question of title should not be agitated. In
this couintry, the limitation has been fixed (except in -writs of right, and writs depending on
questions of mere title) at twenty years."
" But it is said, that Courts of equity are not
within the statute of limitations. This is true in
one respect; they are not within the words of
the statutes, because the words apply to partiCular legal remedies; but they are within the spirit
and meaning of the statutes and have been always so considered." After reasoning for some
time on this point, and citing several cases to
show " that wherever the legislature has limited
a period for law proceedings. equity will, in ana-

(. ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
E
Elmendorf

V.
Taylor.

logous cases, consider the equitable rights as
bound by the same limitation," he says, " a
Court of equity is not to impeach a transaction
on the ground of fraud, where the fact of the alleged fraud was within the knowledge of the party sixty years before. On the contrary, I ihink
the rule has been so laid down, that every right
of action in equity, that accrues to the party,
whatever it may be, must be acted upon, at the
utmost, within twenty years."
This question was fully discussed, and solemnly, and, we think, finally decided, in the tase of
the Mfarquis Cholmondeley v. Lord Clinton et
al. reported in the 2d vol. of Jacobs 4 Walker.
In that case, the title accrued in December, 1791,
andthe bill was filed in June, 1812. Other pdints
were made; but the great question on which the
cause depended, was the length of time which
had been permitt.ed to elapse; and this question,
after being argued with great labour and talent
at the bar, was. decided by the Court, upon a full
review of all the cases which are to be found in
the books. It was considered, and was treated
by the Court, as -one of the highest importance ;
and the opinion was unequivocally expressed, that
" both on principle and authority, the laches and
non-claimn of the rightful owner of an equitable
estate, for a period of twenty years, (supposing it
the case -of one who must, within that period, have
made his claim in a Court of law, had it been a
legal estate,) under no disability, and where there
has been no fraud, will constitute a bar to equitable relief. bv analogy to the statute of limitations.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

if, during all that period, the possession has been

1825.
held under a claim unequivocally adverse, and 'lIdor
without any thing having been done, or said, diV.
re.ctly or indirectly, to recognise the title of such Taylor.
rightful owner by the adverse possessor." Upon
this ground alone the 6ill was dismissed. The
plaintiff appealed to the House of Lords, and the
decree was affirmed.
The Lord Chancellor, in delivering his opinion
in the House of Lords, took a distinction, as to
length of time, between trusts, " some being express, and some implied." " In the case of a
strict trustee, it was his duty to take care of the
interest -of his cestui qque trust, and he was not
permitted to do any thing adverse to it; a tenant
also had the duty to preserve the interests of his
landlord; and many acts, therefore, of a trustee,
and a tenant, which, if done by a stranger, would
be acts of adverse possession, would not be
so in them, from its being their duty to abstain
from them."
In a case of actual adverse possession, however, as was that before the House, his lordship
considered twenty years as constituting a bar.
Lord Redesdale was of the same opinion, and,
in the course of his address, remarked, that "it
had been argued, that the Marquis Cholmondeley
might, at law, have had a writ of right. That
was a writ to which particular privileges were
allowed, but Courts of equity had never regarded
that writ, or writs of formedoi, or others of the
same nature. They had always considered the
provision in the statute of Jameq, which applied

I kFE,;

IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.

to rights, and titles of entry, and in which the
Ejnendorf" period of 'imitation was twenty years, as that by
V.
which they were bound, and it was that upon
Taylor.

which they had constantly acted."

This is not an express trust. The. defendants
are not to use the language of the Lord Chantellor in the case last cited, " strict. trustees,
whose duty it is to take care of the interest. of cestui que trusts,and who are not permitted to do any
thing adverse to it." They hold under a title in
all respects adversary to that of the plaintiff, and
their possession is an adversary possession. In
all cases where such a possession has continued
for twenty years, it constitutes, in the opinion of
this Court, a complete bar in equity. An'ejectment would be barred, did the plaintiff possess a
legal title.
This point has been decided in the same manner by the Courts of Kentucky. The counsel
for the plaintiff insist, that those decisions are
founded on tfie peculiar opinions entertained by
that Court respecting writs of right. We do not
think so. Their doctrine on that subject is, indeed, used as an auxiliary argument; but it is
merely auxiliary to an opinion forlmed without its
aid.
'rhe decree of the Circuit Court is to be reversed, and the cause remanded to that Court,
with instructions, that the entry under which the
plaintiff claims is valid;, but that the adversary
possession of the defendants respectively, constitutes a, complete bar 'to. the plaintiff's bill:

OF THE UNITED ",TATL..-

wherever it would constitute a bar to ianujetment, did the plaintiff possess the legal title.-

1825.
'2o
Elmendorl
V.

(a, Although, in general, length of time is no bar' to an express
trust, clearly established to have once existed.; yet, as lengtb of time
necessarily obscures all human evidence, and deprives parties
of the means of ascertaining. .he nature of th6 original transactions,
it operates, by way of presumption, in- favour of innocence, and
against the imputation of fraud. It was, therefore, held by this
Court, that the lapse of forty years, and the death'of all the original parties,.would discharge and eitinguish a trust, provwd once
to have existed by" strong circumstances ; by analogy to the rule'
of' law, which, after.the lapse of time, presumes the payrrivnt of a
debt, surrender of a deed, and extinguishment of a trust, where cir.cumstances require it. (Prevost v. Gratz, ante, vol V]. p. 481.
497".) In-the case of Hlillary v. Waller, (12 Ves. 265.) the whole
subject of presumptions from the lapse- of time is gone fully into
by Lord ERsxiNE, both as applicable to incorporeal hereditaments,
and where therA is a written title. He states 'the doctrine to be
founded in reason, the nature and-cha'racter of marn, and.the resuit of humadi experience. " It resolves itself into thi,; that a
man will naturally enjoy what belongs to him." 11It has been
said, you cannot presume, uniess you believe. But it is because
there are no means of creating belief or disbelief, that such general
presumpiions are raised upon suibjects, of which there is no record
or written muniment. Therefore, upon the weakness and infirmity of'all human tribunals, judging of matters of antiquity, instead
of'beliefr, which must be the foundation of the judgment upon a
recent transaction, where the circumstances are incapable of forming any thing like belief, the legal presumption holds the place of
particular and. individual belief."
Although some of the principles laid down in this decision
seem to be questioned by Mr. Sugden, in his treatise on the Law
of Vendors and Puechaqert, (p. 250.) yet it was cited with entire
approbation, and its doctfine adopted by this Court, in determining the abdve case of Frevost v: Gratz, (ante, vol. VI. p. 504.)
In thh case of Smith v. Clay, (reported in 3 Bro. Ch.Rep. 639.
note,) and. which isalso cited and-adopted by this Court in the
case of "T!omas v. Harme's heirs, (ante, p. 146.) L6rd, CADIDE4
says, " A Court of equity, which is never actihe in relief aeamsr
Vo;. X.

2s

Taylor

C ksF- IN"

1825.

DECREE.

I-

--, PRI-ME COURT

This cause caine on, &c. on con-

-ideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
Elmendor.f sle'o'
.
there is error in the decree of the said Circuit
Tavlo..
conscience, or public convenience, has always refused its aid to
stale demands, where the party has slept upon his rightand
acquiesced for a great length of time. Nothing can call forth
this Court into activity, but conscience, good faith, and reasonable -diligence; where these are wanting, the Court is passive, and does nothing. Laches and neglect are always discountenanced, and, therefore,.from the beginnin'g of this jurisdiction, there
was always a limitation to suits in this Court." After applying this
principle to limit a bill of review and appeals, by analogy to the
statute concerning writs of error, he proceeds to cite tle fiaxim,
Rpedit reipublcce ut sit finis litiun, arid to state that it had prevailed in the Court of Equity, in all times, without the help of an
-act of Parliament. ccBut as the Court has no legislative authority,
it could not properly define the time of bar, by a positive rule, to
an hour, a minute, or a year; it was governed by circumstances.
Bvt as pften as Parliament bad limited the time of actions and remedies to a certain period in legal proceedings, the Court of Chancery adopted that rule, and applied it-to similar cases in equity.
For where the legislature had fixed the time at law, it would have
been preposterous for equity, which, by its own proper authority,
always maintained a limitation, to countenance laches beyond the
period that law has been confined to by Parliament. Therefore, in
all cases, where the legal right has been barred by Parliament, the
equitable right to the same thing has been concluded by the same
bar. Thus, the account of rents and profits, in a common case,
shall not be cairied beyond six years. Nor shall redemption be
:)
allowed after twenty years possession in a mortgagee.
So) also, this Court, in the case of Hughes v. Edwards,(ante, vol.
IX. p. 489. 497.) adopted the same principle in relation to the effect
of te lapse of ti me upon the respective rights ofmortgagor and mortgagee, and of purchasers claiming under the former.
The great case of Cholondeley v. Clinton, cited in the text,
was that of an estate subject to o mortgage in fee, Jeing in settled
nient with an ultimate limitation to the right heirs of S. R.; A.,
on the expiration of the previous estate, entered, claiming to be
,n~ittlpd.. under the liniratoa - ad he. and after his death, his son.

oF THE UNITED STAT.

Court, in this, that the said Court determined, 1825.
that the entry in the bill mentioned, made by Elenor
v.
Walker Daniel, on the fiist day o April, 1784, Taylor.
continued in quiet possession, paying interest on the mortgage, for
twenty years. It was finally determined, aftfir much litigation,
that the devisee of the person really entitled under the limitation,
was barred by the length of time.
The case, as first decided in the Court of Chancery, will be
foufd reported in 2 Meriv. Rep. 173. 357. where it was determined, by Sir W. Grant, M. R., that the lapse of tir.i.- was no bar by
analogy to the statut6 of limitations. Upon ;ts a;irwards coming
on before his successor, Sir T. Plumer, the latter delivered a learned and elaborate judgment, which will be found reported in 2 Jacobs €'Walker' 138. tending to show, that whe.r~ver in the claim
of a legal estate, the remedy is barred in a Court of law by the statote of limitations, the remedy for an equitable est .te will be equally
barred, by the lapse of the same period of time, in a Court ol
equity. An appeal was taken to the House of Lords, and'in"
moving the judgment of the House, Lord Eldon adverted to the
general principles adopted by Courts of equity on the subject of
length of tme, and observed on " the vast difference between
trusts, some being express, some impjied; some, relations .formed
between individuals in the matter in which they deal- with each.
other, and in which it could hardly be said, that one was trustee, aid
the other cestai que trust, and yet it could not well be denied, that
•for some purposes they were so. Of this kind, he took the xela.timn between mbrtgagor and mortgagee to be. In the case of a
strict trustee, it was his duty to take care of the interest of his
cestui que trust, and he was not permitted to do any thing. adverse
to it; a tenant, also, had a duty to preserve the interests of his
landlord ; and many acts, therefore, of a trustee and tdnant, which,
if done by a stranger, would be acts of adverse possession, would
not be so in them, from its being .their duty to abstain froin them.
But the case of a mortgagee was different, he being at liberty to
hold possession, and not becoming strictly a trustee until the money was tendered to him, and having a right, if he continued in possession for twenty years, without acknowledging the mortgage, to
turn round on the mortgagor, and say that the estate was his own

\-ES IN THE SUPREME ('01R'

1823.
Ejm"ior
Eimendorf

v.

Taylor.

.,nd ,.xplained

on the first day of July o, tnt

:anie v.ar. on which the plaintiffIs title is foundcd. Is invalid whereas, this Court is of opinion.
His lordship could not agree to, and had never heard of, suth :,
ruie, as that adverse possession, however long, would not avail
against an equitable estate ; he meant, where ther- was no duty
which the person who has it has undertaken to discharge for him
against whom he pleads adverse possession. The poss,.ssioni of
Lord Clinton was adverse; it had been said, that it was taken by
consent, fouided on mistake ; but that did not make the posses.ion
the less adverse, because Lord Clinton took, and kept it for himself, where he owe.1, as it appeared to him, no duty to Lord Orfore..
He concluded by stating his opinion to be, that adverse possession
of an equity of redemption for twenty years, was a bar to an;.h,'I
person claiming the same equity of redemption, and worked the
same effect, as disseisin, abatement, or intrusion, with respect to
legal estates ; and that, for the quiet and peace of titles, and the
world, it ought to have the same effect. Lord Redesdale concurred, and the decree was affirmed.
Although, in general, lapse of time is not a bar to a direct trust,
as between trustee and cestui que trust, so long as there is a continuing and subsisting trust acknowledged and acted tpon between
the parties, yet this must be 'understood as applyin:g to s'.,ch trusts
only as are the creatures of a Court.of equity, or strict technical
trusts, and not to those which are within the cognisance of a Court
of law; for, in regard to all those trusts which are the ground of
an action at law, and where there is a concurrent jurisdiction at
law, and in equity, the rule is the same, and the statute is a bar,
both in a Court of law, and equity. 'Kane v. Bloodgood, 7
Jotns. Ch. Rep. 90. 127.) And, though in cases of trusts peculiarly and exclusively of equity jurisdiction, the statute does not
apply ; yet, if the trustee denies the right of the cestui que trust,
and the possession of the property becomes adverse, lapse of time
may constitute a bar in equity. (lb.) And where a person takes
possession of property in his own right, and is, afterwards, by evidence or construction, changed into a trustee, he ray insist on the
lapse of time as a bar. (Decouche v. Savatier, 3 Johns. Ci.
Rep. 190.)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that the same is a valid entry. It is, therefbre,
ORDERED ald DECREED, that the decree of tile
said Circuit Court, dismissing the plaintiff's bill,
ought to be, and the same is hereby, reversed
and annulled. And this Court is further of opini.rn, that in cases of adversary title, such an adxersary possession as would bar an ejectment,

d;d the plaintiff possess the legal title, constitutes
also a bar to a bill in equity. It is,therefore,
further ORDERED end DEcREED, that this cause
be remanded to the said Circuit Court, with instructions to take such further proceedings therein, conformably to this opinion, as may be agreeable to equity and good conscience. All W~hich
is ordered and decreed accordingly.

[CHANCERY.]

CARNEAL

BANKS,

and others, Appellants, v. BANKS, Respondent.

Appellant, v. CARNEAL and others, Respondents.

The jbindeyr of improper parties, as citizens.of the same State, &ac.
-iqil not affect the jurisdiction of the Circpit Courts in equity, as
between the parties who are' pioperly be.fore the Court, if a decree
may be pronounced as betw*een the parties'who are citizens of the
saipe State.
A decree must be sustained by the allegatiohs of the parties, as well as
by the proofs in the cause, and cannot be founded upon a fact not
put In issue by the pleadins. '

1825.
Curneal

v.
Banks.

Banks
Carneal.

