OF THE UNITED STATES.

60 Pipes'Of

Brandy.
CINSTANCE COURT.]

SIXTY PIPES OF BRANDY. KENNEDY & MAITLAND,

Claimants.
Under tho Duty Act of 1799, c. 126. [cxxvi.] s. 43. it is'no cause ofr
forfeiture, that the casks, which are marked and accompanied with'
the certificates required by the act, contain distilled spirits which
have not-been imported into the United States,- or a mixture of domestic with foreign spirits; the object of the act being 1he security
of the revenue, without interfering with those mercantile deices
which look only to individual profit without defrauding the government.

APPEAL from the. Circuit Court of Massachuisetts.
This cause was argued by Mr. Emmet, for the march 1i4a
appellants and claimants, and by Mr. Webster,
for the respondents.
Mr. Justice JOHNSO

delivered the opinion of March18t.

the Court.
The libel jn this case contains two allegations,
and the amended or supplemental libel contains
a third.
The first is, that these sixty pipes of brandy
were imported from abroad, and landed in th.
port of Boston. without a permit. The second,
that they were not accompanied with the marks
and certificates required by-law. And the third.

422
1825.
60 Pipes of

Brandy.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that they were imported fiom abroad, and landod
in the port of New-York w.ithout a permit.
To the first and third of these allegations, the

record furnishes no evidence, nor, in .fact, is it
contended, that the article seized is to be visited
by the penalties inflicted for those offences, otherwise than as an incident to the cause of forfeiture
contained in the secbnd allegation.
The passage of the law on which the libellants
claim the forfeiture, is in these words; "and if
any casks, &c. containing distilled spirits, &c.
which, by the foregoing provisions, ought to be
marked and aceompanied with certificates, shall
be foundin possession of any person,. unaccompanied with such marks and certificates, it shall
be presumptive evidence that the same are liable
to forfeiture; and it shall be lawful for any officer
of the Customs, or of Inspection,.to seize them
as forfeited; and if, upon the trial, in consequence
of such seizure, the owner or claimant of the spirits, &6. seized, shall not prove that they were
imported into the United States according to
law, and the duties thereupon paid or secured,
they shall be adjudged to be forfeited."
The fact that these casks were accompanied
witli certificates is-not questioned, nor that the
certificates accompanying them were those which
issued from the custom-house upon those identical casks. But, it is contended, that the identity
of the spirits is destroyed by a large admixture
of other spirits; and that, by the true construction of the- law, such a change falsifies the certificate, nd the cask§ are no longer, in the sense of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

423

the law, " accompanied by certificates." And, 1825.
further, that such a change justified the -seizure, 60 Pipes of
and wherever the seizure is just, the onus pro- Brandy.
bandi is thrown upon the claimant, and he is
held to comply strictly with the words of the
law, ,and prove the spirits which they contain to
have been " imported according to law, and tlhe
duties thereon paid, or secured to be paid."
That such a construction of the law is carrying its penal effects beyond the literal meaning
of its terms, we understand no one to dehy. The
words are, " if any casks containing distilled spirits, which ought to be marked and accompanied
with certificates," &c. That these .words must
necessarily be confined to the cask, and cannot
extend to its. contents, results, we think, from requiring the article to be rnarked, as well as accompanied with the certificate; a 'requisition,
absurd in terms, if applied to the distilled spirits
contained in the casks. And although the term,
" the same," used in the member of the sentence
which imposes the forfeiture, might, with grammatical correctness, be applied exclusively to the
cask, and thereby produce a greater absurdity, yet
it may, with as much propriety, be applied to both
the -cask and spirits as its antecedent; and this
application is sustained by the subsequent words
of the same period; which speak expressly and
exclusively of the " claimant of the spirits," and
leave the cask to be claimed only a.s an incident
to the property in the spirits.
The constituaets of the offbnce here intended
to be %isited on the claim:tint. obviously are.

424

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1. That the cask should contain distilled spirits.
2. That it should be one which the law r-.quires
60 Pipes of
Branxdy. should be marked and accompanied with a zertificate, that is, one that has been used for foreign
spirits. 3. That it.should be found in fie possession of some person unaccompanied - ith the
legal mark and certificates. When thes 3 three
facts concur, the propertyis presumed su")ject to
forfeiture; and it follows, that unless all t0 ,:constituents unite in the given case, it must bo a.case
of innocence. But the whole argumen .ofthe
libellant goes to impose a fourth circumstence as
essential to the imputation of innocence, and the
absence of which, of consequence, must e'xist in
order to repel the imputation of crime; which is,
that the distilled spirits in the cask should be the
identical spirits imported in the cask -, and this,
not from any necessary construction of. he. language of the act, but as a deduction from the
supposed policy of the act.
. We are indueed to adopt the opinion, that even
if it were consistent with the rules of construction to. give a latitude to the meaning of language
used in a statute so highly penal, the language
of this act is so far from sanctioning the construetion here contended for, that it actually repels
it; for, it is observable, that when the act goes
on to declare what it shall be incumbent on the
defendant to establish, in order to escape the
penalty of the law, the identity of the spirits
found in the cask, with that originally imported,
is not required to be pioved. It is only required,
that he should prove the spirits seized to have
1825.

oF THE UNITED. STATES.

been legally imported, 'and the duties paid, and 1825.
'-v
whether in those casks, or any other casks, is 60
Pipes of
Brandy.
and
altogether immaterial to his, defence. Gin
brandy may interchange receptacles, and travel
together in perfect security, provided they have
been respectively legally imported, and the original certificates attend the casks to which they
were originally attached.
From this, we think it conclusively results,
that the government had nothing in view but" the
security of its own revenue, Without interfering
with those devices of the mercantile world which
look only to individual profit without defrauding
the government; and hence, that the spirit and
policy of the 43d section would carry us no further than its express letter.
But there are other views of this subject.whiph
raise other questions in adjudicating on this
cause. And, first, it is very obvious, that if the
change of the contents of the cask c6uld invalidate the immunities ifthe certificate in other
cases, it could not in ihe case where domestic
spirits have been substituted for that imported.
If the evidene establishes any adulterationi in
this case,- it proves it to have been made by the
addition of American spirits to the imported:
brandy. But when the act imposes upon the
claimant the necessity of proving " that the spiirits found in the casks were imported. into the
United States according to law, anld the.duties
thereon paid or secured," it could not have intended to imipose an actual impossibility, by requiring suchi pn-,f is t-qpirit, ,-hich, ex ri terVny,. X.

-I

- ASEb IN PRE -- PREIME COURT

182 5. mini, were not imported. Much less could it
'
have intended to leave open a chance of defence.,
00 Pipes of
Brandy. where the substitution was of foreign liquors,
upon which it might, by possibility, have been
defrauded, and preclude all defence as to domestic spirits, a trade in which, coastwise or in any
wise, was perfectly harmless, and could not have
produced a fraud upon the revenue.
But, although the libellant may have failed on
his second count, lie is entitled to all the benefit
which the law allows him under. his first and
third. And here the case rests upon the general
provisions of the 50th, 70th, 71st, and some
other sections of the Revenue Law, under which
the Col1ector was certainly ju.stifiable in making
any seizurle, where he had reasonable ground to
suspect that a fraud upon the revenue, or a violation of the revenue laws, was meditated. And
upon showing probable cause for such seizure,
the onus probandi is thrown upon the claimant.
Whatever was the fact, the certificates of the
numerous individuals who examined this brandy,
and testified to its equivocal nature, were sufficient to attract the Collector's attention, and justify his instituting an inquiry to determine whether this brandy, notwithstanding the certificates,
had aatually paid the duty. The brandy which
had paid the dtity, might, by possibility, have been
drawn off, and other brandy substituted that had
evaded the duty. It would be too much, also, to
hold hirm to a correct construction of laws, which
have excited doubts and elicited contrary opinions in Courts of justice. The claimant, there-

oQ

rHE UNITED STATES.

fore, upon the general provisions of the Collection Law, was properly called upon to furnish
an explanation of circumstances calculated to
excite reasonable suspicion. After comparing
the mass of testimony which the ca.c affords, we
are led to the conclusion, that the claimant has
successfully repelled the charge of illicit importation. If, as before observed, the brandy was not
the identical brandy imported in these casks in
which it was seized, still all the evidence goes to
prove that it was in part the same, and in part
consisted of neutral spirits, which spirits two of
the witnesses call American. Illegal importation, therefore, is out of. the case. And the views
which we have taken of the subject render it
unnecessary to examine the question, whether the
evidence establishes the fact of adulteration or
not.
Deeree of condemnation reversed, with a certificate of probable cause.

1825.
"¢"'
60 Pipes of
Brandy.

