1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

440 U. S.

HANER v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR RECALL OF MANDATE AND

No. A-864 (78-6468).

STAY

Decided April 6, 1979

An application for stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari,
of the Court of Appeals' order committing applicant, the president of a
corporation under investigation by a federal grand jury for involvement in an allegedly fraudulent funding scheme, for civil contempt for
refusing on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination to answer
questions before the grand jury regarding records maintained by the
corporation, is denied where the inquiry was of a very general naturea description of the type of records kept by the corporation.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant requests that I stay, pending consideration of
his petition for writ of certiorari, the order of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit committing him
for civil contempt. This petition arises out of a grand jury
investigation currently being conducted in the District of
Oregon. According to the petition, the grand jury is investigating an allegedly fraudulent funding scheme involving
Allstates Funding, Inc., of which applicant is president.
Pursuant to a subpoena duces tecum, applicant appeared
before the grand jury and refused to answer questions regarding corporate records maintained by Allstates Funding on
the ground that he might incriminate himself. The United
States District Court for the District of Oregon ruled that
applicant could not invoke his Fifth Amendment privilege
against self-incrimination with regard to the nature of records that were maintained by Allstates Funding. A unanimous Court of Appeals panel affirmed, noting that "[t]he
privilege against compulsory self-incrimination protects
against real dangers, not remote and speculative possibilities."
Applicant claims that if he testifies regarding the existence

HANER v. UNITED STATES
1308

1309

Opinion in Chambers

of corporate records he confronts a Hobson's choice which will
inevitably result in self-incrimination.
"[I]f the Government learns from the testimony of Petitioner in response to question number seven, and its
various subparts, that no corporate records were ever
maintained in the first instance, the Petitioner will have
provided the government with very strong circumstantial
evidence of criminal intent and wrongdoing in his connection with the corporation. By the same token, if the
Petitioner testifies that certain records that have not
been produced under subpena were in fact maintained,
the Petitioner will have provided the government with
equally strong circumstantial evidence of criminal intent
and consciousness of criminal wrongdoing by their likely
destruction or surrepticious [sic] transfer to third parties."
Pet. for Cert. 8-9.
Applicant places his principal reliance on Curcio v. United
States, 354 U. S. 118 (1957). In Curcio this Court held that
the contempt sanction cannot be used to compel a custodian
of records to disclose the whereabouts of books and records
which he has failed to produce if he claims that disclosure of
their location will incriminate him. The Curcio Court recognized that the privilege does not extend to all oral testimony
about the records. Certainly the custodian can be compelled to "identify documents already produced," id., at 125,
for the touchstone for evaluating the appropriateness of the
privilege must be the "incriminating tendency of the disclosure." Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 379 (1911).
The Ninth Circuit relied on Zicarelliv. New Jersey Investigation Comm'n, 406 U. S. 472, 478 (1972), for the proposition that the self-incrimination privilege "protects against real
dangers, not remote and speculative possibilities." A court
contemplating a contempt citation must look to circumstances
and context and gauge whether there is a real possibility that
a responsive answer will incriminate the witness.

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

440 U. S.

Given the very general nature of the inquiry in this casea description of the type of records kept by the corporation* I think that the courts below properly struck the balance and
that it is accordingly unlikely that four Members of this Court
will vote to grant certiorari. The application for stay of the
order of commitment is denied.

*The petition does not relate the precise wording of the question and to
that extent is deficient under this Court's Rule 23.

