OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS ON APRIL 5 AND
APRIL 6, 1979

EVANS v. BENNETT, CORRECTIONAL

COMMISSIONER,
ON

ET AL.

APPLICATION FOR STAY OF EXECUTION

No. A-868.

Decided April 5, 1979

A mother's application for stay of her condemned murderer son's execution
scheduled by the Alabama Supreme Court for April 6, 1979, based on the
son's alleged incompetency, is granted, pending further consideration by
the Circuit Justice, or by the full Court if the application is referred
thereto by the Circuit Justice, of submissions of a response to the
application by respondent Commissioner of the Alabama Correctional
System and an explanation by applicant's counsel as to why applicant
had waited until April 2 to seek habeas corpus relief in Federal District
Court.

Circuit Justice.
This application for stay has come to me by reason of the
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

unavailability of MR. JUSTICE POWELL.

Applicant is the

mother of John Louis Evans; her son was tried and convicted
of robbery-murder and was sentenced to death pursuant to
Alabama law by an Alabama trial court in April 1977. Evans
did not contest his guilt at trial. Instead, he took the stand,
confessed to the crime, and requested the jury to find him
guilty so that he could receive the death penalty. His conviction and sentence were appealed (according to the application,
against his will) under the Alabama automatic appeal statute,
and the judgment and sentence were affirmed by the Alabama
Court of Criminal Appeals and the Supreme Court of Alabama. Evans v. State, 361 So. 2d 654 (Ala. Crim. App.
1977); Evans v. State, 361 So. 2d 666 (Ala. 1978). With his
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

440 U. S.

approval, a petition for writ of certiorari seeking review of the
sentence imposed upon him was filed in this Court in November 1978. On February 3, 1979, Evans' counsel, at Evans'
insistence, filed a formal request for withdrawal of his petition
for writ of certiorari, but both the petition for withdrawal and
the petition for writ of certiorari were denied by this Court
on February 21, 1979. Evans v. Alabama, ante, p. 930. Following that action by this Court, the Supreme Court of Alabama set an execution date of April 6, 1979.
According to the application for stay, John Louis Evans has
refused to undertake any further appeals on his behalf and
has repeatedly expressed his desire to die. On April 2, 1979nearly six weeks after this Court had denied the petition for
certiorari, and only four days before the execution date set by
the Supreme Court of Alabama-applicant, the mother of the
condemned killer, filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
in the United States District Court in the Southern District
of Alabama. That court heard oral argument on April 3, and
following that argument dismissed the petition on the grounds
that "the reason forwarded by petitioner for the inmate's failure to verify the petition, i. e., incompetency is not supported
by credible evidence, that Betty Evans is not entitled to next
friend status by reason thereof, that accordingly, this Court
has no jurisdiction over the action and the action must therefore be DISMISSED and the stay DENIED."
A timely notice of appeal was filed and the District Court
issued a certificate of probable cause. On April 4, the
applicant moved for a stay of execution in the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. That court likewise denied the
application for a stay, reciting in its order:
"A majority of the Court concludes that a factual issue
justifying standing in a next friend has not been made.
"Judge Hill would grant the stay in order to ascertain
whether or not a mental deficiency short of incompetency
would authorize proceedings by a next friend."

EVANS v. BENNETT
1301

Opinion in Chambers

If I were casting my vote on this application for a stay as
a Member of the full Court, I would vote to deny the stay.
Evans has been found guilty of an atrocious crime, sentenced
to be put to death in accordance with Alabama law, and has
had his conviction and sentence reviewed both by the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals and by the Supreme Court
of Alabama. His petition for certiorari to review the judgments of those courts affirming his conviction and sentence
was denied by this Court. A Federal District Court has denied
a stay and dismissed the petition for habeas corpus filed by
Evans' mother on his behalf, and a panel of the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit also has denied a stay. There
must come a time, even when so irreversible a penalty as that
of death has been imposed upon a particular defendant, when
the legal issues in the case have been sufficiently litigated and
relitigated that the law must be allowed to run its course.
If the holdings of our Court in Proffitt v. Florida, 428 U. S.
242 (1976), Jurek v. Texas, 428 U. S. 262 (1976), and Woodson v. North Carolina,428 U. S. 280 (1976), are to be anything
but dead letters, capital punishment when imposed pursuant
to the standards laid down in those cases is constitutional; and
when the standards expounded in those cases and in subsequent decisions of this Court bearing on those procedures have
been complied with, the State is entitled to carry out the
death sentence. Indeed, just as the rule of law entitles a
criminal defendant to be surrounded with all the protections
which do surround him under our system prior to conviction
and during trial and appellate review, the other side of that
coin is that when the State has taken all the steps required
by that rule of law, its will, as represented by the legislature
which authorized the imposition of the death sentence, and
the state courts which imposed it and upheld it, should be
carried out.
There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that the United
States District Court made every effort to resolve doubts as
to legal issues in favor of granting a stay, but was nonetheless

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

440 U. S.

unable to find legal authority for granting the stay. My conclusion in this regard is supported by the following language
from the opinion of that court:
"Having concluded that next friend applications are
permissible in habeas corpus cases, it remains for the
Court to determine whether this is such a case that a
next friend petition ought to be allowed. Both Funaro
[United States ex rel. Funaro v. Watchorn, 164 F. 152
(CA2 1908)] and Preiser [United States ex rel. Sero v.
Preiser, 506 F. 2d 1115 (CA2 1974)] limited the use of
such applications to incidents of infancy, incompetency,
or lack of time, and the Court is unpersuaded that any
other grounds are permissible. In the instant case the
inmate is over the age of majority and adequate time
exists for him to verify his own petition, so the petitioner
must fail unless the inmate is incompetent.
"The only evidence presented to the Court in support
of John Evans' incompetency is a sworn affidavit of a
staff psychiatrist at the Mobile Mental Health Center.
The psychiatrist, who has not personally interviewed or
otherwise examined John Evans, concludes from conversations with other individuals that John Evans is 'not
able to deal rationally with his situation and ...probably
need [s] someone else to make legal decisions affecting his
life for him.' The affidavit further reveals that the doctor tried to arrange an interview between John Evans,
himself, and a psychologist, but Evans refused to be
evaluated. The evidence in rebuttal to the allegation of
incompetency is quite strong. John Evans was evaluated
prior to his murder trial and was determined fit to stand
trial, and there is no indication of any intervening physical or mental disability arising between the time of trial
and the filing of the petition in the instant case. Clearly
one who is competent to stand trial is competent to make
decisions as to the course of his future. At no time prior

EVANS v. BENNETT
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

to the filing of this petition, as far as the Court can
ascertain, has John Evans' competency been questioned.
The fact that Evans has elected not to pursue postconviction remedies that would serve to forestall the
impending execution is not controlling, since it may well
be, as the media has advertised, that John Evans has confronted his option of life imprisonment or death by
execution and has elected to place his debts on a new
existence in some world beyond this. The Court finds
no evidence of irrationality in this; indeed, in view of the
allegations in the case of Jacobs v. Locke, the death row
conditions of confinement case presently pending in this
Court, it may well be that John Evans has made the more
rational choice. In any event, this Court is not persuaded that John Evans is incompetent merely from a
professional opinion rendered on hearsay information."'
((I
Evans' attorney stated during the hearing that he had observed
no change in Evans' mental condition in the past two years, but of
course, this counsel is without any training in psychiatry."

The application for stay cites a number of decisions relating
to mental competency, none of which seem to me to bear
directly on the issue in this case. The application states
(p. 7):
"The criticism of the trial judge that the affidavit is
based on hearsay is due solely to the fact that John Louis
Evans refused to see the psychiatrist. Clearly Evans
should not be allowed to control his mother's standing to
raise issues on his behalf."
To my mind, this argument stands the question on its head:
It is not Betty Evans, the applicant, who has been sentenced
to death, but her son, and the fact that her son refuses to see
a psychiatrist and has expressed a preference for electrocution
rather than serving the remainder of his life in a penitentiary
cannot confer standing upon her as "next friend" which she
would not have under recognized legal principles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

440 U. S.

Nonetheless, since this matter is not before the full Court,
but simply before me as a Circuit Justice, I must act as surrogate for the full Court. The most closely analogous case
to come before us in this posture is that of Gilmore v. Utah,
429 U. S. 1012 (1976). There, a majority of the Court denied
an application for a stay of execution over the dissents of
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

joined by

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL,

MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN

id., at 1017, and of

and

MR. JUSTICE

id., at 1019, and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, id., at
1020. As I understand the dissent of MR. JUSTICE WHITE,
its linchpin was the absence of any consideration or decision
as to the constitutionality of the Utah statute providing for
the imposition of the death penalty by the Utah courts. MR.
JUSTICE MARSHALL'S dissent, as I read it, was based upon
what he regarded as the inadequacy of the procedures provided by the State to determine the competency of the waiver
by Gilmore of his right to appeal from the sentence imposed
by the Utah trial court. MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S dissent
expressed the view that the question of the standing of Gilmore's mother to raise constitutional claims on behalf of her
son was not insubstantial, and should receive a plenary hearing from this Court.
Were this a case involving an issue other than the death
penalty, I think I would be justified in concluding that because the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals and the Alabama Supreme Court have fully reviewed Evans' conviction
and sentence, the same considerations which led four Members of this Court to disagree with our denial of a stay of
execution in Gilmore's case would not necessarily lead all of
them to do so here. But because of the obviously irreversible
nature of the death penalty, and because of my obligation as
Circuit Justice to act as surrogate for the Court, I do not feel
justified in denying the stay on that assumption.
I have therefore decided to grant a stay of the execution
ordered by the Supreme Court of Alabama to be carried out
at 12:01 a. m. on April 6, 1979, pending further consideration
MARSHALL,

EVANS v. BENNETT
1301

Opinion in Chambers

by me, or by the full Court at its Conference scheduled for
Friday, April 13, in the event that I should refer the application to that Conference, of the following submissions:
(a) a response by respondent Larry Bennett, Commissioner
of the Alabama Correctional System, to this application for
stay;
(b) a detailed explanation by counsel for applicant as to
why, in a matter of this importance, she waited from February 21, 1979, the date upon which this Court denied John
Louis Evans' petition for certiorari seeking to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama, until April 2,
1979, to file a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
Alabama. There may be very good reasons for the delay, but
there is also undoubtedly what Mr. Justice Holmes referred to
in another context as a "hydraulic pressure" which is brought
to bear upon any judge or group of judges and inclines them
to grant last-minute stays in matters of this sort just because
no mortal can be totally satisfied that within the extremely
short period of time allowed by such a late filing he has fully
grasped the contentions of the parties and correctly resolved
them. To use the technique of a last-minute filing as a sort
of insurance to get at least a temporary stay when an adequate
application might have been presented earlier, is, in my
opinion, a tactic unworthy of our profession. Such an explanation is not a condition of the granting of this or any
further stay, but the absence of it will be taken into consideration by me.
The parties are required to file the foregoing submissions
by 12 noon, e. s. t., on Tuesday, April 10, 1979. Unless
otherwise ordered by me or by the Court, this stay shall expire
at 5 p. m., e. s. t., on Friday, April 13, 1979.
The application for a stay is granted on the terms and
conditions set forth in this opinion, and an order will issue
accordingly.

