too

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.HODGSON
V. I

UlA-. IN. Co.

~ HODGSON . THE MARINE INSURANCE CO1iPANY OF ALEXANDRIA-

A
poERROR-to the circuit court of the district of
licy,general
insuring
every pirsrn Columbia. in an action of covenant upon a sealed
having an inte- policy, whereby the Marine Insurance Company of
rest. in the Alexandria, in consideration of' seventeen and -a
thing insured,

and containing half per cent. premium paid.by the plaintiff Hodgno warranty son, for "George F. Straas and others,*of Richthat the pr.

Mond,' covenanted with the plaintiff for the said
"George F. Straas and others, of Richmond, as well
and in the name and n.mes
a me.o of
the
all
and
every
other
person
and
persons
to
whom
yropertyinan sexinn of
in
'or
covetiaiit on a same did, might, or should appertain, in part
poliey, it is no all," to insure eight thousand dollars on the brig
defence to Sa ,
at and
lost, atan
a prize vessel," lost or not lot,
that the pre- Hope
her
last
port
of
lading
in
St.
Domingo to
mium
has
not
from
eeln Vaid, but
The yesbe enoaid'b a a port of discharge in the Chesapeake.
e-of
han-sel'was valued in the policy at ten thousand dolThe declaration -averred the vessel to be of
eery.
A misrepre- lars.
sehtationn,ot that value, and that in prosecution of the voyage inperty is lien
tral,
covers
belligerent
a
vell a neural

.in his ownname as for

averred to be sured she was seized by certain British vessels. and

.material, is nO
bar to an action

carried inio Jamaica, where she' was libelled, con-

on a policy. A deinned and sold, whereby she was totally lost.
misrepresentaunt of
tion, to have one co

that effect,

In

the. declaratioxi the vessel was averred

to be the property of George .F. Straas and Jere-

must be r.at- miah
6f Ri
in
the other itwas averRchmond,
Leeds,
i
ria! to the risk

of the

,yage.red to be the property of Leeds alone.

ft is not liccessary, in an

The defendants, after oyer, pleaded eight pleas.
action of covenant on a PQ- Upon the three first there were issues in fact.
licy, that the
declaration
should aver
that the plaintiff had
doned to the
underwriters,

The 4th plea, ill substance, was, that the vessel, at
the time ot the capture and sale was the property
aupeof the enemies of Great Britain, and as 'such was
captured, libelled, condemned and sold. That
Richmond was the capital town of the state of Virginia, a neutral state. That Straas and Leeds were
of IRichmond, and citizens of Virginia, and were

"FEBRUARY,- 1809.

101

known to be so to the parties to the policy at the
time of insurance. That the insurance was made
of
by the contracting parties upon the property
American citizens in which no belligerent- subject
or citizen was interested; and that at the time of
insurance, capture, condemnation and sale of the
vessel, there was open war -between France and
Great Britain.
To this plea there was, a demurrer, and, the following causes were stated:
1. Because the plea alleges ,that the vessel -was
the property of the enemies of. Great Britain, but
does not show in particular who were the owners
thereof.
2. Because the plea is double in this,' 1st. That
it tenders an issue upon the fact of its being enemies' property; 2d. That it was condemned as
such; 3d. That the insurance was made upon the
property of American citizens.
3. Because it alleges thdt the insurance was made
upon the property of American "itizens, which is
matter of law, and not of fact.

4. Because, as "he policy contained no warranty
of neutrality, it- is wholly immaterial whether the
property was neutral or belfigerent.
5. Because the plea is no answer to the plaintiff'.,
declaration.
6. Because it admits Straas and Leeds to be owners of the property insured, and to be American citi:
zens, and it does not"state any other person or persons to be the owne-s thereof.
7. Because the defendants were estopped by the
policy from alleging that the irisurafice was made
uJon the proptery of American citizens.

HomGsoN

V.

102
UouosoN
M)AR

It.

U. S'
SUPREME COUT'

The 5th plea', insubstance y.vas, that it has'always
:o: been, and is the rual and practice of the defendants,
to make an insurance upon a vessel bfybnd
her reasopable and just value accoi:ding to-the representation and description.given of her, especially as
t6'her age, tonnage'and equiplnent, which rule and
practice were well known) to the contracting parties
at the time of the contract, at which time the plaintiff
proposed to the defendants that the value o'the vessel should be agreed in the policy to be ten thousand
dollars; and that at the time of executing the policy, th6 plaintiff, to in'duce-the defendants to execute
it, thereby, insuring to the value of 8,000 dollars
upon the" vessel, represented that she was "aboit
250 tons burthen," "and from six to seven years old."
That the defendants, ,ncqnsequence of that representat;on, and placing full faith and credit therein, executed the policy. 'I hat the representation was untrue in this, that the vessel Vas not of two hundred
and fifty tons burthen, but less than one hundred and
sixty:-fve tons burthen and was not fromsix to seven
years old at the time of the representation, but much
c Ider, viz. more than eight and a half years old.
"hat the vessel was not of the value of eight thousand dollars, but of the value of 3,000 dollars otily'.
That the misrepresentation respecting the .age and,
tonnage of the vessel' induced the defendants to execute the policy, whereby the value was agreed. to be
tin thousand dollars, and whereby iisurance wag
made td the amount of 8,000 thousand dollars ; "1and
-so the saiddeed is void as to them; and this they are
ready to verify."

Snever

To this plea also there was a demurrer, and the
following causes werestated:
i. Because the plea does not aver the ,misretresentation to be material.
2. Because it is nQt alleged' to have been fraudIulently made.
3. Because the matter of the plea is not sufficieht
to annul or make void the policy.'

FEBRUA'RY,. 180.

103

4. Because the misrepresentation alleged is not of
a definite fact; -but that the vessel was Qf'about 27i

tons burthen, "tc.
5. .Becapse the plea is double in this, that.it putt
in issue the custom of the defendants, the representation touching the vessel, the age, the 'tonnage- and
the value of the vessel.
6. Because the defendants are estopped by the policy from averring that the vessel was of less value
than 10,000 dollars.
The 6th plea was like the 5th, except that the aver.
ment'respecting the rule and practice of the defend-ants vas omitted, and thdt it contained an averment
that the difference between the" tru.e and the repre=
sented age and tonnage 9f'the vessel "'was material
in regard to the contract of insurance," in: the policy.
set forth; and so the policy was void as to them.
To this plea the'plintiff, protesting that the vessel
W¢ai seaworthy,'and that he'did not knowingly and
fraudulently statb any misrepresentation, and admitting that the vessel was of less tihaii 165 tons burthen, and was eight and a half. years old, replied,'
that 'the difference bi-tween the true %.and the represented"age ind tonnage of the vessel, was nbt
material iMregardto the seaworthiness of the vessel,
and her ibility, 'to perform the Oydfge insunred, ",and
did not increase the proballity of loss by means of
any o" the risks insurbd against, but wasaltogether'
immaterial in regard' to those risks.
The 'rejoinder -of the 'defendants set forth their
rdle "indpractice as stated in -the -5th plea; and
averred that the -misrepresentation induced and deceived the defendants into the'lagreement. as to the
value of the vessel, and ds to the sum insured, and
thht the sum insured was more than double the
valu'e of th&vessel; and so the defendants say. that
the difference between the true and the represented
age and tonnage of the vessel was material.

1oraso2r
. 11. CO.

10OL

SUPREME COURT U. S.

To this rejoinder the plaintiff demurred, and sta-!,
of demurrer nearly like those to the 5th
tedcauses
~plea.-

HoDGsoN
MAE. IN. Co.

The 7th plea was, in substance, "that the vessel
was in part owned by one Alexander Burot, a
French- citizen, and an enemy of Great Britain,
and that this fact was not disclosed to the"defendan=
at the time of executing the policy.
To this.plea there was a general demurrer.
The 8th plea was, in substance, that-the plaintiff
had not paid the premium, but had obtained a perpetual injunption from the court of chancery in Virginia, against the defendants, to prevent the recovery thereof.
To this plea also there was a general demurrer.
The judgment of the court below was in favour
of the defendants on the demurrer to the %th plea,
and in favour of the plaintiff upon all the other demurrers.

Swann, for the plaintiff in error.
It is a sufficient answer to the 4th plea, that the
policy is general; it contains no warranty of neutrality, iind therefore covers belligerent as well as neutral
property. 1 iN. 2. T. Rep. 230. 238. 243. 2
Emerig. 460, Doug. 16. Marsh. 286.
The objections to the 5tl plea are,
1. That no misrepresentation touching the subject of a sealed contract is sufficient, in a court of
law, to set it aside,
The insurance cases against incorporated companies in England show that an equitable defence may
be made--in that country under the statutes.. All
other cases upon insur. aces are cases' of simple cov
tract.,

FEBRUARY, 809.0

.105

This question then depends upon the general prin- HOIDG"O
C.
By that law a mi'sre-MAR
preseitation touching the subject of a sealed contract
was not pleadable against that contract.

ciples of the common law.

.

It is true that any fraud in the execution of an
instrument which will authorize the plea of non est
factum, may he relied on at law. 1 Burr. 391. So
y6u may show that the consideration of a deed is
unlawful,"as in the cases of usury, gaming, simony,
&c. But this plea show. no fraud, nor unlawful
consideration. - It relies merely upon fa. mistake
which goes only to -a part-of the subject matter of
the contract.
2. The misrepresentation set foith in'this plea
would not be sufficient to vacate the policy, eveff if it
-were a simple contract.. The misrepresentation
must relate to the risk, afntbe material as it regards
the risk. All the cases speak a uniform language
upon this subject. Marsh.. 334, 335.. Park, 197.2o4, 2o5. i N. 2'. T.Rep. !Z37, 238. 245.
If the representation must'be 'material In regard
to the risk, the plea is bad in substance; because it
does not' show any facts which would increase the
risk, nor aver the representation to be matwrial to
the risk.
3. As the misrepresentation relates to the valiie
of the' vessel, and-not to the risk 6f the voyage, the
defendants -are estopped from alleging that the vessel was worth less than the value agreed upon, i)n
the policy.
4. In a. valued' policy the underwriter waives allin quiry into any 'act or -circumstance' that relatds.
to the value of the thing insured-: aund the extent.
or amount 'of value in such a policy. is ,ltogether
immateriaj. Park, 1.109.
.

The 6th
VoL V.

lea concludes by saying that the repre0

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HODoSON
V.
DIA

U

j

N.

Co.

sentation was material in regard to the contract of

insurance.
This averment is difficult to be understood. It
-might mean material as it rekArded the amount
insured, 9r '.material as it regarded the risk. If
issue had been taken. upon this averment, the julry
-might have decided that the representation-was ma.terial as. it regarded the amount insured; and .upon
that ground the cause -might have been lost. If
-the plaintiff had demurred to it, it might have been
an admission that. it was material to the rl'k. If
the averment had been that it was material as to the
amount insured, we should have demurred; if it
had been ,that it was material to the risk, we should
have taken issue.
In this uncertainty it was necessary for-the plaintiff to reply tpecially; tendering an issue as to the
materiality of the represeritation in regard to the
risk of tbe..voyage.' This issue tih defendants refused to join, and, have thereby -explained their
averrhent to be that the representation was material,
not to the risk, but to the amount insured. In this
point of view it is bad not only for the reasons
alleged against the 5th plea, but because it neither
shows nor avers the representation to be material in
regard to the risk.
No falsehood or misrepresentation, not increasing
the risk, is material. No misrepresentation touching the ability of the vessel to' perform the voyage
cati be material if she is 'sea'wortfy. The law does
not notice grades of. seaworthiness; and with regard to this point her age and tonnage were perfectly immaterial: and it was equally immaterial:as
to the value,' because the value was conclusively
fixed in the policy.'
E. _. Lee and C. Lee, cohtra, contended, 1st. That
the 'expression "1of Richmond" implied *awarrahty
that the property was neutral, and the - condemnation was conclusive .!evidence of a- breach of that

FEBRUAIRY, 18b9.

107

warranty. 2dly. That the declaration wfts badbe- HoDosozi
1*40o.
A
cause it contafied-no averment of an offei.to aban-SMAR.
don; and, Sdly. Thqt th misrepresentati6n, as stated,
amounts to a fraud in law, and that fradd,will vacate every kind 6f instrument; and that in all cases
6f insurance any misrepresentation material to the
contract is fatal.
It is because it is a valuedp.olicy, that the misrepresentation'as to the age aid tonnage bec~nme material
to ,the contract. It was a misrepresentation .of
those facts upon which a judgment was to be formed,
of the value of the vessel. The "defendatits never
would have agreed to fix that v~dlue, unless they hid
believed the representation of the. plaintiff :as to
those facts. The misrepresentation induced the
defendants to make a"contract which they would
not otherwise -haye made. ' It is unnecessary that
the plaintiff should have known that .hewas~misrepresenting the facts.
, He"uindertook to represent the" facts, and by go
doing must take the risk of their truth, and, the
consequences. of their falsehood.
The mater;aity was a. question for the'.jury.
Whenevei" the questibn of law is involved with the
fact, the court m-y leave the whole to the jury.
The pleais not double. A misrfepreseptation may
be in a.variety.of particulars nece ssary for the formation of a correct judgment as to the value.
.The defendants are not* "estopped by their dIejo
from alleging facts which show the mistake, or misrepresentation upon'which the instrument was. pred icated; because if the deed be void-the estoppel cannot exist.
If the goods of an enemy be'insuied as the goQds
of an ally,%the policy is void. I he only question on
this point, is,whether the vessel was insured as an
American, vessel.

108

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The payment of the premium is for ever enjoined,
and nothing. can be more unjust than to compel the
Cdefendants
to pay the loss.

HoDGsoN

.

The iolloving authorities were cited by the counxsel of th6 defendants. 1 Rob.,11. 13. 1 Burr..397.
Shep. Touch. 58, 59. Chitty on Bills, 8, 9. 3'Bro.
Parl Gas. 525. Smith's Rep. 289. 2 P. ims. 154.
157. 220. 287. Marsh. 339, 340. 348. Doug. 260.
.Marsh. 199, 201. 586. 2 WiIs. 347. 1 -Fonb. 230.
5 Com. Dig. tit. Pleader, 2 Vo 18. 3 T. k. 438.
5 Co. 129. Gilb.
Hayne v. Maltby. 2 IV. BI. 1,15'
Ev. 163. 2 gent. 107. Bull. 173.. 1 Mod. 477. 1
iWroddeson, 207. 3 Burr. 1918. Carter v. Boehm.
Pa.k, 182. 1 N. r. T. Rep. 229. Barnewall v.
Church. Doug. 260, 261, 262. M'Dowell v. Frazier. 1 1Y BI. 593. Carter v. Boehm. .iiliar, 57.
Park, 209. Marsh. 208, 209. 350. ktewart v. Thnlop. -2 East, 452.. Williamson v. Allison. 4 East,
590.. Haywoood v. Rodgers. Marsh. .540... Le Cras
v. Hughes. 3 Cranch, 281. M'Ferran v. Taylor &
Mikiasie. 1_Fes. 2.13. 4 Dall. 250. Doug. 96. 2 Wils.
352. Collins v. Blantern. .1 Vent. 121. Doug. 30.
2 Wils. 8. Long v. _7ackson. Skin. 327.
Yones, -in reply, was directed by the court to confine his observations to the 5th and Qth pleas.
No fraud or covin is charged in either of those
pleas ; the .doctrines, therefore, iespectitlg a sealed
instrument being vacated by fraud, do not apply,
The case depends upon the principles of the common law applicable to contracts under seal.
The 5th aid 6th pleas are in substance the same;
and if the 5th be bad, as the court below decided,
the 6th.must be bad, for the same reasons.
There is no. case in which a sealed ifistrument has
been set aside oui the grounds alleged in the plea,
If the facts would not maintain an action of deceit,
they will not avoid a contract under seal. -They
cannot even be given in evidence. It must be a

FEBRUARY, 1809.

109

matter that goes to the whole contract, and shows it
tO be void ab initio. It must be an gillegation of
fraud, or of illeal cdnsideration.
The case of Hayne"v.,.Maltby, s T.. P. 438. is
the only one vited "which bears upon the preseit.
But there the contract was void ab initio, and the
case was decided upon the principle of fraud. Itis
immaterial wha.t the facts of the case were, or how
slight the evidence of fraud was. It is the principle
only which is to be considered.
In an action at law upon a sealed contract you
cannot go into the question of consideration, but to
show it fraudulent or illegal. 2 Cro. 4. Chandler
v. Lopus. 1 Com. Dig. 184. 2 Bast, 446.
Fdbruary 24.
CUSHING; J. (lfarshall, Ch. Y. not sittirg -in the
cause) delivered the opinion of the court,* as folloWS

The insurance in this case being general, as wcll
for the parties named as "for all and every other person orpersons to whom the vessel did or iight appertai n," and containing no karranty of neutrality, belli-.
gerent as well as Awerican property was covered by
it. Some of the-parties being described as of Richmond, does not necessarily imply that they all resided there; 6ut if they did, mere residence would
not make them citizens; and even then, an express
warranty Was necessary, if it had been designed to
run only a neutral risk. This is an. answer to the 7ih
as well as to the 4th ,plea; because there can-he no
undue, concealment as -to the parties inteirested,
where the terms of the policy are so broad as
to preclude the necessity, either of disclosing
their names, or of iriserting them- in the instrument.
Presedi Cushlng, J~adhingt3n, z'nigoton an( Johnson, .justices.

HonGs6x

V.

II0
n6voso'
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S

The eighth plea is also bad. The defendants acknowledge, under seal, to have received a consideration of 17 1-2 per cent. for the insurance they made,
which it appears was secured by a note, the amount
of Which was to be deducted from the sum to be
paid for a loss, if any happened. On the face of
the instrument, then, a valid consideration, if that
be necessary, is stated, and if thie note be never
paid it cannot Vacate the contract, or be 'relied
on as a defence to an action on it. This court
knows not why a court of equity has been applied
to fttr an injunction. Its proceedings, therefore,
can have no influence on the present Suit, for notwithstanding its interposition in the way mentioned
in this plea, the defendants cannot be deprived of
the right they 'hav reserved of deducting the
amount of premium from whatever sum they. may
have to pay for the loss that has occurred.
Without deciding whether a material misrepresentation, not fraudulent, can be pleaded in avoidance of it sealed instrument, the court thinks there
is no fact digcdosed by either the fifth or sixth plea,
which could vacate an insurance were it only a sim,ple contract. In no part of the 5th plea is the misrepresentation alleged to be material. - It is only to
be. inferred that it had some influence (but to what
degree does not appear) in prevailing on the defendants' to agree to so high a vatuadon. It will hardly, however, be insisted, that every over-valuation,
however' inconsiderable, or however innocently produced, will annul a contraqt of this nature. It
would seem more reasonable, to let mistakes of this
kind (if they are to have any operation at all) re*
gulate the -extent of recovery, and not deprive the
party of his 'whole indemnity: for if an extravagant
valuation be made, an underwriter cannot reasonably ask to be .relieved bdyond the excess complained of. The allegation 'that the vessel was worth,
when insured, only 3,000 dollars, is also very unimportant, it being nowhere stated that the plaintiff
represented her to be worth more, .but only proposed that her, value in the policy should be agreed

FEBRUARY, 1869.'

ill

at ten thousand dollars. Npw although she might Hoiosofr
"C
TN.Q.
not in fact have been worih' this sum, it is impossi- MA. v.
ble for the court to say-that this difference was produc d entirily by the mistake which was made in
lier age and ton nage. This woul4 Se to say that
a difference of ayear or two in thq'age,'andof fifty
or sixty ton$ In the burden of avessel, must,'in all
casesi -have the same effect on her- value; a conclu:
sion which, on investigation, would be found very
incorrect. Nor, if it appeared "on trial, that her'.
actual Wvorthf were no more than 3,000 dollars, would
,it necessarily aivoid .tbe contract, or restrict the
damages to that sum; fSr she may, notwiths'tanding,
h ve:fairly'cost her owners the 'whole amount df ier
valuation;.who, inthat case; would have honestly
tepresented her as worth 10,000 dollars.
-

But a more fatal objection to this plea is, that
_the nisrepresentaiion relied on is not statedto have
been materal to the risk of the Iroyage; and yet
the only cses in which policies "have been .avoided
for innocent misreprese tations' re those in whih
the niatter "disclosed or .concehled has a.ffected the
iisk so d 'to render iWdiffe'rent from' the 6n understood at the time,'and on wvhich -the premium 'was
Zcalculated.-"
Xost of.the.remarks on the 5th apply also-"to
the 6th plea for 'although it be here.alleged 'that
the misrepresentation -was imaterial " in.regard 'to
the contract 6f insurance," it should.have been .sa;'ted in what particiiar, that it inlght appear.whether
the rish run were at all affected by it.
Art objection is made to'the declaration, butnot
much relled on, that no abandonment is averred to
have been mide.. In covenant such averment. cai-- .
it
not be 'necessary. . If:it 'be 'proved on the trial,
,will be suffiient,
The. judgment of the circuit court on the 4th,
5th, 7th an4 8h pleas must be affirmed with costs -and its ju~dgimnt in favour of the defendants on the

112l
HoDcisox
MR. IN.

CO,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

6th plea reversed; and judgment on that plea be
also rendered for the plaintiff.
JOHNSON, J. The difficulties in this case arise
partly from the pleadings, and partly from the case
presented by the pleadings.'

This policy, having been effected by a corporation under it-, corporate, seal, has been considered
as imposing an obligation'on the insured to bring
covenant instead of assumpsit, as is usual on such
contracts.
Thus the defendants haye been obliged to plead
specially; and the cause comes up on demurrer,
which, of course; admits the case as made up on the
pleadings.
Whether there, is sufficient matter well pleaded
why the plaintiff ought not-to recover? is therefore
the question before us.
I am of opinion that there is. I cannot for a moment suffer the sealing of the policy, or the form of
the actibn, to impose any restriction upon the latitude of defence applicable to'the contract of insurance. Stich a doctrine would be fatal to every incorporated insurance company. -I therefore maintain, that, in the action of covenant on a policy of
insirance, every defence may.be taken advantage of,
in pleading, that' could be introduced, in' evitence,
before a jary. -It is an exqeedingly .inconvenient
form of action for trying the. merits of questions
arising out of this species of contract, "ind:I feel
4Oisposed, if possible, to diminish the inevitable dif'ficulties, and the intricate and volumbinous pleadings,
which must grow out'of this form of action, and to
admit every facility which the ,rulep'of pleading will
'possibly sanction'.
There are eight pleas filed to the present, action.
On the. three first there are issues in fact, and the
court below has given judgment on- the' remaining

FEBRUARY 18o.
five.

r

113

am disposed to concur intheir decisions on

ITDoso.

each of these several pleas, although, perhaps, on M1

some of them, for reasons not altogether the same
with those by which they were influenced; but I shall
confine my observations solely to the sixth plea, as
that disposes of the case finally, if decided for the
defendants, and has been the principalmsubject of the
argument before- this court.
,The substance of this plea is-, that the plainiiff
misrepresented the age and tonnage -of the veseI,whereby the defendants were induced to insure to a
higher.amount than they otherwise should; and concludes with averring, that the difference between the
true age and tonnage of the vessel, .and the represented age and tonnage, was material iii regard to
the contract of insurance.
The plaintiff replies that this misrepresentation
was ifimaterial in regard to the seaworthiness.of the
vessel; her abiloty to perform the voyage, and the
othdr risks insured against.
To me it appears that -the plea presents the true
turning point of the case, and that the replication
draws towards questions" very diiTerent from that
which ought fi control 'our decisions.
It is not on the doctrine 'of seawuothinesi that a
misrepresentation is held to vitiate the policy, because the insured -is always held to guaranty the
sufficiency of his vessel to perform the voyage insured. Nor is it an evident and necessary increase
.of the risk; but it is presenting such false lights to
the insurer, as induce him *to enter into a contract
materially different from that whicF he supposes he
is entering into. It is a rule of lai introduced to
protect underwriters from those innumerable frauds
which are practised upon -them in, a contract which
must of necessity be regulated almost-wholly, by the.
information derived from the insured. I do not lair so much stress upon the misrepreVol. V.

P

-.

Co.

114

SUPREMB COURT U--S.

ijobasox sentation with regard to the age of the vessel; for
MAR. IN Co. that appertains much to hei seaworthiness; but with

, regard to hef size the misrepresentation was so enorrac t as leaves no doubt upon my mind that had
th case been submitted to -a jury, the court would
have been bound to charge them in favour of the
defendants. It had in its nature an immediate tendency to entrap the defendants into one of the most
common and most successful snares laid for the unwary underwriter, To make it the interest of the
insured rathe'r to *sink than to save -his vessel. It
can very. well be conceived .that ar undeiwriter may
be induced to insure a certain sum upon a certain
vessel for a very moderate premium., when no pre;
mium would induce him to insure'double that
amount upon' the same bottom. I am aware of--a.
very considerable diffic,ulty arising out of this case,.
viz. how we-are to estimate the degree of misrepresentation with r$gard to tonnage which shall vitiate
a policy? but it is a difficulty arising out of the
node in which. we are drawn into a decision on the
case, rather than. out of the case itself.
If this question had been brought before a jury
the difficulty would have vanished; but. shall the
party' lose the benefit of this defence because the
pleadings have assuimed such a shape as to force the
court into a decision upon the point without a jury ?
I am of opinion that he ought not, if it can be
avoided; an extreme case maIay be supposed in which
the misrepresentation may be very inconsiderable,
as df a single ton for instance; but, on the other hand,
We may, suppose'an extreme case of a misrepresentation to the highest possible number of tons burden,
say 1,000 tons; will it be said that,.in the latter case,
the mitrepresentation wduld not avoid the policy ?
From these considerations it seems to result that
the c9urt is driven to the necessity, of deciding this
-case, upon its intrinsic merits, and reserving its oplmon upon successive cases as they shall occur. This
necessity it forced upon us by the alternativ6 eitherto decide that no misrepresentation, however gios

FEBRUARYf 1809.

D15

of the size of the vessel will avoid a policy, of that HonosoN
C.
any misrepresentation, however- minuate, will have
that effect. It is to be hoped, in the mein time, that. '
some statutory provision may be made, which will
Telieve the court from a similar embarrassment.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES -v. JUDGE PETERS.

AT the last term Gideon Olif'stead, in behalf of The legisi'.
state
,,f aa|nnul
tare
and
'
ecannoqt
"
himself and' Artimus White, Aquilla Rumsdale,
the
Jdgmets,
t
David Clark, moved the court for a mandarnuv,
nor determine
be directed to the honourable Richard Peters, judge tl-jurisdiction,
of, the district court of the United- States for the f tile c,,crts
Pennsylvania district, corhmandirig him to order and or tht. United
direct an attachment or other proper process to is.ue. The court of
to the sentence of the said dis- appeals in
to enforce obedience
trier court in a civil cause of admrlty and marime priet causes,
arile ciectedhby the
amry
jurisdiction, in which.the said Gideon Olmstead'and- continental
ree..ess,to hald
,others were libellants, and Elizabeth Serjeant and power
Esther Waters were respondents. This motion was ,ise and crthe
rect th of senmade upon a suggestion, supported by- affidavit, that tencs
a copy of the sentence had been served upon the state courts of
.A.rthou'gh the
xespondents, which they refused to obey; and that admiralty.
,i a
of
application had been made to the juige for an 4t- clid
iniy. be
tachfnent, which he had refused to grant; whereupon state
uitm.tely afSa mandamus nisi was granted returnable to this term; f&cted by the
of a
decision
when the judge made the following return:
calie, yet if
the state be not

"On Saturday, March 5th, ISOB, upon the affidarit oFijimstead, n'rile nccessarily a
Iva$ granted that Judge Peters shoud shw cause by the next Satar- defeldan, tte
day, why a mandamus should not isue. On Matarday, March 12th, a crts of the
letter was received -by ine of the counsel for •Olmstead, from Judge United ZtAtes
Peters, acknowledging service-of the ruli;, and statiog that all act of arc build to
the legislature of Peonsylsauia halt commanded ihe geovernor of that exercise jx.
state to call out an armed force to prevent t m exceition of any prhwees risdiution,.
to enforce the perlormsance of the sentence. That s'elh being the
state of things he should nut dihect process to issue unlbss -he should

be 'so or~ered by this court ; whereupon a mandanue Wim fas granted,
returnable at the uext term.

