34
A'Kr
Dl3LArc4Y'S
LZSSEE.

*

SUPREME COURT.U. &.

which olie of the tracts of land lies; as it couldbe if
the deed conveyed no. other tract. The verity of
thie deed is-as completey secured in the one case as
in the other.
it appears to .the court also to be within the letter
of the law. This deed was unquestionably properly
admitted-ro record in the office of the city andcounty
of Philadelphia. It c6nveyid lands lying within that
city and county, and, on any construction of the act,
probeeds
might be there recorded. The'act then enrolled,
.to~say, that the copies of all deeds, so
"shall be allowed in all courts where produced,, and.
are hcreby declared and enacted to be as good evidence, and as valid and effectual in law,'as the original deeds themselves."
The whole deed, then, is evidence by the letter of
the act.. The whole is a copy from the record. If
the validity of the conveyance depended on its being
recorded in the county where the land lies, then a
deedmight be good. as to one tract, 'and *bad as to
another. '-But the deed is valid, though not recorded;.
and the question is, whether the copy is evidence as
to every thing It contains. The execution of- the
deed is one entire thing, And is proved so as to admit the instrument to record. The copy, if true in.
part, is true in the whole; and. if evidence in part,,
must, under theact, and on the general principle that
it is the copy of a record, be evidence in the whole.
There is no error in the judgment of the circuit
court; and it is affirmed with costs.,

JOHN AND JAMES TUCKER v. OXLEY,'ASSIGN LE OF T. MOORE, A BANKRUPT.

ERROR t6othe circuit court df the district. of Co-.
Unde. thebr31krupt law lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action-of-assumpin
f
oa the United
Staesa jntsit for gopds sold and' delivered, brought by Oxley,

FEBRUARY,

1809.

.35

assignee of Thomas Moore, a bankrupt, against the
plaintiffs in error. Upon the general issue, the
jury found a'verdict for the plaintiff, below for 143
dollars and 33 cents, subject to the opinion •of the
court upon the following case:

TucKERs,

OxCL1y.
debt
maygainist
be
setoff"

seprate

claim of the as-

one
of the of partThomas Moore, the bankrupt, carried on the trade. signep

and business of a vendue master in copartnership nets. utsuh
could
with one Henry Moore, which copartnership was on offi-t
not have been
the 31st of Marc, 1802, dissolved on the terms that made, at law,
of
iudemiendent
Thomas Moore sho'uld collect the balances due toand
"
the
bankrupt
pay the debts due fromthe joint concern a5 far as the law.
joint property would extend.

Thomas Moore car-

A joint debt

ried'on the trade and business of a vendue master on mny be proved
his separate account from that time until the 2d of rate commniauda fidt
September following, when'he became bankrupt, and sion,
dfividend re-.
a commission being duly awarded and issued against eeived. It is
which canalone
rehim, he was duly declared a bankrupt according- to equity
the laws of the United States then in force concern- strain thejoint
ing bankrupts; under which the plaintiff was duly ap- receiving
creusitov from
htis
pointed assignee.
ful divihid
until
joint
effectsthe
are
ex.

While Henry and Thomas Moore. carried 'on the hausted.
business of vendue master in partnership, they became jointly indebted to the defendants, John and
James Tucker, in the sum of f06 dollars and 49
cents, being the balance'of account due to the defendants, for theii goods sold by H. and Ts Moore,
at vendue. After the dissolution of the partnership,
and while Thomas Moore carried on business on
his separate account, the defendants, the Tuckers,
at different times, from the 1.9th of April to the t22d
of July, 1802, kuiowing that the partnership was dissolved, and that' Thomas Moore carried on business.on his separate account, purchased of him at
vendue, goods to the amount of 113 dollars and 12
cents, which go',ds were charged to the defendants,
the Tuckers, in the separate books of Thomas
Moore, without credi.t being given to the defendants
for the joint debt due to them from Henry and
Thomas Moore. Thomas Moore being examined
as a witness, proved that'he intended, at the time of
selling the goods to the defendants, to give them
credit -for the joint debt due to them from Henry

-36
TeVGcRs

'OxLEY.
."

OTPREUE -CO.URTI U. S.

and Thomas Moore, bot',nqzhing was said or agreed
bn the subject, between him and the defendants, nor
was-any such credit,ever givenbefore his bankruptcy.

This Aition is brought f 9 i the prie.of the goods so
sold and delivered -by Thomas .Moore in his separate I.alaeity. If -the, court sho Ild .be of opinion,
ppon:the.xase stated, that.the defendants are entitled
o haVd "the.joint debt due to them by Ren.ry and
9ord deducted from' 'the sum lailted in
Thotias
tfii 'action, the verdict' was"zo be reduced to 16 dolir 'knd 63- cents., and, judgment,to be'entered accord.ing~y
being, that thle
The opinib, "of the couit 6elolti"
joint debt coult&-ii:hbPe set off against the .separate
caim" of the bankiupti 'judgirment was rendered for
the plaiitfiff for 4he 'Iarger sum; whereupon the de.
fendants brought, a wiit of error.
C. .irms' for the plaintiff in error..
-All contracts with partner; are joint and several;
and-eyery partner is liable to pay the 'whole. In.what
proportion the. o'hers are to contribute is: a-. rattir
merely among theijselves. The plaintiff may bring
his. action at law against-any one of the partners, and
can Pnly be compelled by_plea in Abatement to join
theni all. 5,Burr. 2618. I-ESP u .
By the 42d section of the bankrupt law,, (ol. "5.
p. 74.) it is declared, that where there hath beezi mu.u.ral ctedit given'by ihe bankiupt and any other' person, or m.tual debts between them, the assignee
shall state the account between them, 'and one debt,
shall be set off against the other, and the balance of
such account, after such' -et-off, and no more, shall
be'claiined.orpaid on either side respectively.
Lord Phancellr Haidwicke, in d.dwarde's case,
1 At, 100. doubted whether, under the'statute relating to mutual debts, a debt due. from A. to B.
couldbe.set off against a debt due from B. to A.'and
C. In that-,ase C. was not.in any manner liable tQ
15. for the #e'6lb&due fram A. .tq B,

PEEIUARY, Isb9.

37

Ks
V.
But in the present case,Thomas Mooe'was liable
to the Tuckers.for the debt due..to .them from OxLEY.
Henry and Thomas Moore, and the .Tukersniight %
have compelled payment from Thomas alone.

.The clause in the act of parliament,. 5 Geo. II.relacihg io mutual credits, and which i the same as the
42d section of our-bankrupt law,has ieceiyed a very
liberal -construction. 1 Atk. 228. Ex'parte.Deeze.
1 At0. 2So. Ex parte Charlea Prescot.
By the 34th section of the bankrupt law it appears that -apartnership, debt may be pioved on a
separate commission against orje of the partners. By
that-section'it is declared, that the "bankrupt shall
be dischirged from all debts by him due or owing
at the time he became bankrupt,'and all which were
or might have been proved ufder'.the.commission;"
withthis-proviso, "that no such discharge of a bankrupt shall release or.discharge an , person zvho vas
a partnerwith such bankrupt, at the time he became
lankrupt, or who wzt'-then jointly held or bound with
such bankrupt, for the same debt or debts,from which
such bankrupt was discharged as aforesid."
And it may be laid down ga. general rule, that a
debtor of. a bankitipt may be.allowed o set, off any
debt due from the bankrupt' which -le'-could have
proved tinder the commission. Cqop. -B. Z1 247.
Yones, contra.

The debt for which this action was brought against
the Tuckers, was contracted long after the dissolution of-the partnership of' Henry and Thomas Moore.
Itiwlw and yet stands, charged against'them on the
separate books of Thomas Moore.
It is neithef a mutual debt, nor a mutual credit,
They are elaims in different rights
It Us a gen.eral principle, in cases of ban'krupxcy,.
thit the joint funds are to be applied to the'discharge
of the'oint debts, and the• separate -'unds to tfie'dis-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tuc~uns

V.
OXLEYX

charge of the separate debts. The separate creditous
can only come upon the joint fund for their debtbres,
share of the surplus, after paying the joint creditors;
and the joint creditors can only come upon the separate. fund for the surplus, after payment of the sepa'rate creditors.
A joint creditor can only prove under the separate commission for the chance of that surplus, and
to assent to or dissent from the allowance of the-certificate. Cooke's,B. L. (4th edit.) 237. 244. 250. 3
'Vez.jun. 238. Ex parte Mlton. 4 Fezjun. 837. .Ex'
larte Abell,
There is no statute in Virginia which authorizes
set-off. The question depends entirely upon the 42d
section of ,the bankrupt law of the United States,
which 'is precisely like the 28th section of the act of
parliamefit of 5 Geo. II. c-. 30. Cooke's B. L. 541.
544',.
IIt is clear that the aeparate creditors cannot come
upon the joint fund until all the joint creditors are
paid ; it is unreasonable that the joint creditors
should take the whole separate estate without looking
at'all to the joint estate. In the presentcase it is not
stated that the joint funds were exhausted. 'It does
not appear but that the other partner is solvent. The
assignee of Thomas' Moore cannot collect the debts
due to Thomas and Henry Mbore, and it is inequitable that he should be obliged to pav their debts.
In order to be set off under the bankrupt law, it
must be a plain mutual credit. Cooke's B. L. 568. If
due in different rights, it cannot be set off. A separate
claim against one partner cannot be set off against a
joint demand. 1 Wash. 77. Scott v. Trent.
Simms, in reply.
The detendants below might have proved their
debt under the commission against Thomas Moore.
The 34th section of the bankrupt law provides,

'FEBRUARy, i809.

39

that a dikcharge uuider a commission against one
partner shall not discharge the other partner; which
a joint
pr!vision would be wholly unnecessary, if
debt coild not be proved under that commission.
It is true that there is. no statute in Virginia a'uthorizing set-off; but under the equity of the statute
respecting the action of debt by the assignees of
promissory notbs and bonds-, set-off has been allowed
in that state.
But the assignee of T. Moore, if he had an equitable right to the joint debts, might bring an action
in 'the joint name, and a court of law would protect
his equity.
LIVINGSTON,

J.

I do not-recollect any particui-

lar authority, but I have always considered it as. ou
of the clearest principles of law, that a joint-debt can.not, at law, be set off against a separate claim
February 15
MAisLAL, Ch. J. dehvered.the opinion of the

court, as follows :
In this case the plaintiffs in error, who were defendants in the circuit court, claimed to set 6ff against
a debt due from them to Thomas Moore, the bankrupt, a debt previously due to them from the firm of
H-.and T. Aloore, which firm was dissolved, ahd the
partnership fund had passed to T. Moore. This
offset was not allowed; and its rejection is the -error
alleged in the proceedinzs of the circuit court,
-At law, independent of the statute of bankruptcy,
the court is of opinion that this discount could not
have been made in a suit instituted by Thomas
Moore against the Tt~ckers ;. and if the words of the
act of congress allowing set-off in the case of m'utual debts and credits were to be expounded, without regard to the provisions of that act in otner respects, itis probable that they would not be extended
beyond that technical operation, to which has beet

Tucxps

)

V.

V

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TuercEns
OXLEVY.

allowed the term "mutual debts,:7 in ordinary casesw
But tfle bafikrupt law changes essentially, the rela.,
situation of the. parties; aiid the pibvisions
making thit change are thought, by a majority of the
court, to have a-material influence gn the words of
the 42d section of the act, which provide- for the
case of mutual "debtsAnd credits.

Stive

It i the "opinion of the court that this is a debt,
which might have been proved under the 6th section
of the act. It is a debt, which, by a 'suit against
both the partners, might have been. recovered against
either of them, and either might have been 'compellee
to pay' the whole: Although due from the company,
-yetit is also due from each member of the company;
and the claim of the creditor for its satisfaction 'extended, previous to the act of ba'nruptcyv,'o-the
whole propdroy of each member of the' hrm; as Well
as to the joint property of the firm.. It would' be
certainly impairing that claim' to apply, 'by the 0bpration of law, the whole particular fund 'to other
creditors, who, at the time of the bankruptcy, had
not a better legal claim on that fund than the Tuckers, without allowing-ttiem to participate in it. The
court, therefore, would be much inclined, to e6niddr
the creditors of the partnership as having a righti
under the general -description of creditors- of- the
bankrupt, to prove their debts before-the" comnlssioners.'' But all doubt-on this subjecf-seems to be
removed by the proviso to the 34th section. That
section declares,that the bankrupt shallbe discharged
from all'debts which were due from him at the date'
6f the bankruptcy, and all which were of might have been proved under the-said commission;)" Provided
that no such discharge of a bankrupt shall release or
discharge any .person, who was a partner with such
bankrupt at the time he or she became bankrupt, or
who was then yoiltly held or bound withhsuch'bank-.
rupt for the same- debt or debts; from which such
bankrupt was discharged as aforesad."'.
Thomas Moore, then, is discharged from the debt
due from Henrv and Thomas Moore to the Tuckers
and if he is-discharged therefrom.it would'seen/ to

FEBRUA4%Y,

0

41

be aninfraction of their pre-existing rights not to al- Tuoit-s
low them a share of his property. .JIti deemeA by 0'-v
the court material in the construction of this. statute,
that, as the proviso sliows.the' joint creditors to be
Within the description 'of the'terxs creditors of the
bankrupt, so as to enable thei.to prove their debts
under the comfifission, they are of neceqsity coinprehended within the same tErms.in'those sections
which direct to whom the dividends are to. be made.
The words of the 29th and 30th .sections are niperative. They command:the comniissioners to di-'
vide the estate of the. bankrupt among such of liis
,creditors as shall have made due "pr6ofof tbiejr ddts
in.proportion to th6 amount of their ctaima. Consequendty, every' creditor 1whoproves his delit is, enti.
tied to a dividend.
•But, although the creditors of H. and T. Moore
might have proved their debt' before the cctmflis-sioners, and have receiyed'a dividend out. f the
estate of'the bankrupt, it may be cdntended"that,.
.havng'failed to do so, they are not entitled to set off
their whole claim.
o
'.The 42d section of the act'directs, that where it
shall appear to the commissioners that there hath
been mutual credit given by the bankrupt: and-any
otherperson, or mutual debts betweeti them at aiy
time before such person became bankrupt,- h! assignee or assignees of the estate 'shall state the iccount between them, and.one debt mfay be set"off
against the othei; and what shall appear to 'be'. due
on either side, on the balance of such accont,' afte
such set-off, and no more, shall be ,claimed or p6dS
on either side respectvelvThe'term "debt, ' ,as used in this section, is fairly
to be construed to mean any debt. for whicl the' act
provides. A debt which may be proved Before the.
conmissioners, and to the owner of whicl a dividend miust be paid, is a debt in the sense o'f the teim
as used ir thi*ssedtion.
"Vol. V..

SUPREME COURT -U. S.
Tucrncs

0xLP..
,

Were this doubtful, it cannot be denied that the
•advantage given by. the section is reciprocal, and in
any case where the set-off would be allowed, if the
balance was against the bankrupt, it must be allowed
if'in his favour. It has already been stated that the
Tuckers might have proved their claim before the
commissioners. Can it be doubted that the whole
,of the debt due to the bankrupt would, under this
section, have been deducted from that claim? -We
'think it cannot be doubted. Then, the terms apfplying alike to each party, the debt due to the Tuckers must be set off from that which they owe the
bankrupt.
If the " assignee of the estate ought to have state I
the account," and have only claimed the balance, his
omitting so to do cannot enlarge his rights; he can
only recover what he ought to have claimed.
*,This, which seems to be the naked law of the
case, is not unreasonable. It is fair to conclude that
the Tuckers forbore to recover the money' due to
them from H. and T. Moore, in consideration 6f
their dealings with T. Moore, after he traded on his
separate account.
This exposition of the bankrupt act appears to the
court to conform to that which is given in England.
As the bhLnkrupt law of-the United States, so far as
respects this case, is almost, if not completely, copied
from that of England, the decisions which have been
made on that law by the English judges may be considered. as having been adonted with the text they
wzpoundtd.
In England; it has never been doubted that a man,
having a claim on two pe.rsons,'might become a petitioning creditor for the'bankruptcy of one of them.
Such 'petitioning creditor has always been admitted
to prove his debt before the commissioners, and to
receive his dividends, in proportion, with the other
creditors. He is, then, in contemplation of the act,
%creditor of the bankrupt; and, consequently, all the

FEBRUARY, 1809.

4S

p7rovisions of the act apply to him, as to ether credit- TurK
ors. This would seem to .prove that, under the leoxLzv.
gal operation of the act, a creditor of, a firm, of
which the bankrupt was one,. and a creditor of the
bankrupt singly, were egually creditors of the bankrupt, iri contemplation of the law, and were construed
to come equally within the meaning of the term, as
used in the act. If this position be correct, the rules
which we find laid down by the chancellor, for
*marshalling the respective funds, aie to be considered merely as equitable restraints on the legal rights
of parties, obliging them to exercise those rights in
such manner as not to do injustice to. others. This
is the peculiar province of a court of chancery. It
is the same, in.principle, with the common case of
marshalling assets, where specialty creditors,. who
have a right to satisfaction out of lands, exhaust the
personal estate, to .the injury of simple contract
creditors.
It is undoubtedly unjust that the Tuckers, haihig a
claim on H. and T. Modre, and being able'to obtain
payment from 'H. Moore, should satisfy that claim
entirely out of the. separate estate of T. Moore, to
the exclusion of other creditors, who had no resort
to Henry; and it is probable that a court of chancery
might restrain this use of his legal rights w'ithin
equitable limits. But suppose H. Moore, also, to
be a bankrupt; or to be insolvent, and unable to pay
the debt; would' it not be equally unjust to apply
the estate of each individual to the discharge of the
several debts, to. the entire exclusion of- their joint
creditors, who, previous to .their bankruptcy, had a
legal and' equitable right to -satisfaction out of the
separate tstate of each?
Mr. Cooke has made a very good collection of the
decisions in England, .on' this 'question. It will be
found that a creditor of the partnership was first
permitted by consent to prove his debt before the
commission'ers of the individual bankrupt, and to,
receive dividends from the separate fund. It was
afterwards decided by the chancellor that he had a right

9UPREME COURT U. S.
so to do : and inL conformity with this decision vrs
the regular course of the court, until the year-1796,
jDuring.thiA.time, however, the chancellor, sitting, aa
chincellor, on a -bill suggesting equitable considerations for restraining the ordet he had .made, was accustomed to enjoin th. divjdondr whiqh he ,had. ordered, siftingin bankfuptcy. This would seem to
prove that, at law, the creditor. of the partnership
had a right tb his di.vidends from the separate fund,
but that equity would compel him first to exhaust the
joint fund.

Tycoonts
V.
O LEy.
\

in 1796, this whole subject was reviewed in the
case Ex,parte Elton, reported in's Ves. jun. This
case has been considered as overruling former decisibns ; but, in the opinion of the court, it confirms
the principle already stated. After stating his objection to the ,prevailing practice, because each order
carried in its bosom a suit in chancery, the chancellor
took time to consider the subject; and finally tletermined that the petitioner 6hould be permitted to
prove..his debt, and that his dividend should be set
apart, but not paid to hin. until an account should be
-taken of the joint fund.
It is perfectly clear that, in this case, the chancetot, for convenience, exercised, at the same time, his
common ,law and equitable jurisdiction. In conformity With the uniform exposition of the act, he
permitted'the partnership creditor to prove his-debt
before the commissioners, of the bankrupt, and dirtee.ed the dividend to be allotted to him out of the
separate fund; .and then, without'the expense of a
bill, exercising his equitable powers, he "suspended
.the pay~aen.t 'ofthis dividend, until .it should be ascertained how much of it a court of equit would
permit the creditor 'to receive. • This does not negative, btit aflirms,-' the legal righi 9 f a partnership
creditor to cqme on the separate fund.
It appears also to be admitted,- that ifI tht parti.
cular creditors should be satisfied without -exhausting
the fund, the residue might be paid to the partner-

FEBRUARYi

1809.

45

slip credliors. ThIs seems*to admit the legal right' Tucrrffa
ofthose creditors to :prove their debts,. nd to re- oxLEY.
c4ie Their dividends. It is equity, not law, which
can postpone them.
3t is the opinion of a majority of the court, that
tbecircuit court erred in 'rendering a-judgm*ent ou
thi special verdict for the sum of 143:dollars and 33
ces, instead of the sum of 16 dollars and 63 cents';
wbch was the balance after deducting the debt due
frcn H. arid T, Moore to the defendants in -that
cort. It is therefore- considered by the'court, that
thisaid judgment be reversed and annulled; and
thz judgment be -rendered for the plaintiffs in the
.ciruit court for the sum of 16 dollars' and 63 cents,
am thp costs in -the circuit court.
JudgTent reversed.

VOUNG -. THE BANK OF1 ALEXANDRfA.

]VRROR to the circuit -court of the district of Suits'brought
Caumbla sitting ip Alexandria, in Ai action of debt tie..akp!
upn-a prormissory note, negotiable in the ban' of-on
.ntets,promissory
- made.
Alm-afidria, made by Toung to Tiqton, and by him negotabe in
that bank, ore
"
enorsed to the bank.
-

entitled to trial

at the return
the

The onlh question now- argued, was whether the term of
cort below errea in ruling the .plaliitiff in error into writ.
a tiaf ai- the return term of the writ.
f
The bill of exceptions set fohi:th the eapia ad respoidenduin issued by the iiruit coUrt of the -districtof Columbia, ofi the fOth of November, 1807,
rettrnable " at the next couri.' The defendant below. *yas t-Aen on the 12th:of -NoVember. -The next.
courl was h%)uden by. law.'on the '4th Monday of NoVernr,

"

"*7.

