SUPREME COURT U. S.

M'KEEN -. DELANCY'S LESSEE.

v.

D)ELANCY'S

LEssEE.

Under the act

ERROR to the circuit court for the districkt.'of
Pennsylvania, in an action of ejectment..

f Pensvha-

i

o

71,

which requires

a deed to be

The only questipn was, whether the exempljfication of a the
deed from Allen to Delancy,
could be lawtrial
trial.
the
at
evidence
in
,f tie county fully read
where the
lands lie, it had
This question arose upon the following case
acknowledged
before
a iustice
oficpaednet

been the long
established
practice
bcfbre
the yecar
1775
toeeknr-cdg

William Alln, on the 27th of December, 1771,
being scised in fee of the land'in controversy, lying
deeds before a in Northampton county, by deed of bargain ;and sale
justice of the
supreme court of that date, conveyed th same to James Delancv
of theiprovince and Margaret his wife, in fee. The deed also conof
Pennsylvae
iin the c
e of Philadelphia
nia. And altho
d real state
countiesthe act (if 1715 and Bucks, and was acknowledged by the bargainor
does not au" in the city of Philadelphia, on the 7th of December,
thorize suchetas 1
2, before John Lawrence, one of the
justices of
it hasprevailed the supreme court of the province of Pennsylvania,
it is to be considered as a and recorded on the 11th of May, 1773, in the office
correctexposi- of the recorder of deeds for the city and county of
,ion ofthe staPhiladelphia; but npot recorded in the county of"
tute.
Under the Northampton, nor in the county of Bucks, nor in
same statute,
other
for recounty in' Pennsylvania offices
y o
if a deed conveyed lands i- cording' deeds being established in the said counties
several coun- of Northampton and Bucks, according to law, from
ties, and was
recorddcdin one the date of the said deed to the present time.
of thnse counties, -in exemplification of it
The circuit court admitted the exemplification to
-w-as
good
-vibe
read:o" in evidence;
and the verdict and judgment
aence as to thewee
'
rt_-•
were for the plaintiff below.
lands
therpucotlntics.
in error; but oi her husband Charles I. eatlett, with whom she had intermarried since the judgment below.
But the court overruled the motion, saying,
Tlint the act of congress, vol I. p. 62. § 22. dois not designate the
person upon whiom the citation shldbe served, bet only directs that
dhe advee
rparty
8hall have at least tidrty day' notice.
The citation served on the husband is wcHl.

6

The serviceis sufficlent.

FEBRUARY, 18o9.
Rodney, Attorney-General,
error.

23

for the plaintiff jn

MI'SEN

V'
LEssnn.

By. the laws originally agreed upon and adopted .
by William Penn and his followers, before theydleft
England, in May, 1682, section 20. (Appendix to
Laws ofPennsjlvania,p. 4.) it was declared, that ",to
prevent frauds and vexations within the said province," " all conveyances of. land made in the said
province"1"shall be enrolled or registered in the
public enrolment-office of 'the said province, within
the space of two months next after* the making
thereof, else to be void in law." Deeds made out
of the province were to be enrolledl in like manner
within six months.
This shows that it was the prevailing sentiment
among them that means should be taken to prevent
clandestine conveyances ; and fromthence'it may be
inferred that such was the intention and end of all
their laws requiring the enrolment of deeds.
By the act of 1683, c. 79. (Appendix, p. 9.) it is
enacted, " that -all deeds of sale, mortgages, settlements, conveyances, (except leases for a year,) shall
be declared and acknowledged in open court."
In 1688, a temporary law, to continue one year
only, confirmed deeds theretofore made and not
properly recorded, and allowed twelve months for recording deeds made out of the" province, and six
months for those made in the province; otherwise
they were to be void. The same act permits the
recording of bills, bonds and specialties, for safe
keeping, but expressly declares that such recording
is not necessary as to those writings.
In 1693 it was enacted that deeds-,w:re good and
valid, although never recorded; and ft Was declared
that no deeds. or other writings shall be required to
be recorded; but that such deeds and writings as
shall be enrolled.or registeied in the Roll's OfIce,
and the exemplification of the records of the same.

'c

24

SUPREME .COURT U. S.

in all dourts of judicature, shall be allowed and
DSLANCY's judged as valid as the original.
M'KEEZ

LESSEE.

Then came the ict bf 1715, c.9. (Laws of.Pennsylvania, p. 78.) the, I't section of which enacts,
" that there shall be an -office of record in each
county in this province, which shall be called and
styled the, ocefor recording.of deeds," and that the
recorder " shall record, in a fair and legible hand,
all deeds -and conveyances that shall be brought to
him'for thfafpuYpose, -according to the true intent
and me.anirtig .qf this act.'" The 2d and 3d sections
provide that all conveyances of land in the province
LL
mdy be recorded in the said offce," but before the
same could be recorded they were to be acknowledged or proved " before one of the justices of the
peace of the proper county or city where the lands
lie."
The 4th section enacts' "1that all deeds and conveyances made and granted out of this province, and
brought hither and recorded in the county where the
lands lie, (the execution thereof being first proved
by the oath or affirmation of one or more of the. witnesses thereunto, before one or -more of the justices
of the .peace of this province," or before any mayor,
&c. of the place where executed, certified, &c.)
"shall be as valid as. fthe same had been made gicknowledged or _proved in the proper county where
the lands lie in this province."
i'he 5th section enacts, "that all deeds made, or
to be made, and proved -or acknowledged and recorded as aforesaid,which shall appear so to be, by
endorsement *made thereon, according to the true
intent and meaning of this act, shall be of the same
force and e~ffect.here, 'for the giving possession and
seisin, and m.ing good the title and assurance of the
said lands, tenements and hereditaments, as deeds of
feoffment-witlh li'very and seisini or deeds enrolled
iTT any of the-king's courts of record at Westminster,
are or .shall be in the kingdom ofGreat 'ritain,:and the copies or exemplifications of all Aeeds -so
enrclled, being examined-by the 'ecorder, and certifihd under the seal of-the proper office, (which the

FEDRUARY

W6.

recorder' or keeper thereof is hereby required to .M,KiatN
a1fx there o,) shall be all6wed, hi all courts; where
"'
v.N
produced, and are hereby-declared'and enacted to be LrssEn.
as -good evidence, and as valid .and effectiual in law, '
'
as the original deeds'themselves, or asibargains- and
3ales enrolled in the said *cburtd at Wstnfintef-,
and-copies thereof, can be,- and that the same .may
be showed, pleaded and made use of according- 20'
The 6th section declares the force and effect of the
word. "grant, bargain and sell."
The 7th section d6clares the punishment for forging certificates- of acknowledging and recording.
The 8tl section enacts, "that no deed or'mortgage, or defeasible deed in the nature of mortgages;,
hereafter to be'made, shall be good or sufficient-to
convey or pass, any freehold or inheritance, or to
grant any estate therein for life, or'years, unless such
deed be acknowledged or proved, and recorded
within six months after'thd date thereof, where such
lands lie as her4in before directedfor other deeds." The 9th and 10th sections prescribe the mode of
acknowledging satigfaciion of mortgages.
The llth section appoints, recordersor'the r.sp'ective counties of Philadelphia, Bucks and Chester, which were then the only counties in the pro.
vince.
By this act no power was given to a judge -of the
supreme court. Indeed, no such court then existed.
The. supreme court was established by the act of
May 22, 1722, section Ii. but no' such power, is
given thereby'to the justices of that court.
The act ot 1775 expressly gives the power to the
justices of that court, from whence a strong inference is drawn that they had not the power before,
The expressions of the second section of that act are,
"that all such deeds and conveyances, which shall
be made .and executed out of this proviice, after th&
Vt1. V.

3

26

SUPREME COURT U. S.

4

DMr -

publication of this act, and acknowledged or proved
D1LANCY'S- in manner as directed by the laws heretofore for that
Lzssr.E.
purpose made, or proved by one or more of the subSscribing witnesses before any supreme judge of this
province, shall be recorded," &6 -itjs clear from
this mode of expression, that a deed acknowledged
or proved before a supremejudge, was not acknowledged or proved in manner as directed by the laws
theretoforefor that purpose made. Such an acknowledgment, therefore, prior to the year 1775, was not
legal, and did not, under any existinglaw, authorize
the recording of the deed; and the exemplification
of a deed from the records, not legally recorded,
cannot be evidence.
•This deed WVas acknowledged before a supreme
judge prior to the year 1775, and not before any
justice of peace of the province.
Again, it is clear from the purview of the act of
1715, that the proper office for recording deeds of
lands, was the office in the county where t. e lands
lie.
These lands lie in Northampton county, t it the
deed was recorded only in the office of the county
of Philadelphia. -This objection is as fatal as that
respecting the acknowledgment.
Xe-nis, contra.
There was a supreme court in Pennsylvania long
before the act of 1715. It is mentioned in the 9th
section of the act of March 27, 1713, c. 3. wl- re
an appeal from the sentehce of the orphans' cour is
given to the supreme court.
1. As to the place of record.
Part of the lands conveyed by this deed lie in the
county of Pennsylvania, in. which county the deed
was recorded. It-was therefore within the strict
letter of the law recorded in the county where the
lands lie. It was not necessary by the act that the

YEBRUARY, 1809.
deed -should be recorded in every county in which
any part of the lands. should lie. It 'as sufficient
if recorded in the county where any part of the lands
lie,s1Yk
But it was not necessary that it should be recordthe county where the lands or any- part of
ed itt
them lie,

. The object of tile act was not notice but safe keeping of the deeds. It does not require that any deed
should be recorded. It was intended merely for the
benefit of the grantee, *andfor -that purpose it was
immaterial in what public office the deed' was recorded. Before the act of -1715, the Roll's Office in
Philadelphia was the only place -of record. That
act simply provided that there should. be s'ich an
office in every county, to which people might with
Convenience resort to put their deeds on record -for
safe keeping.
By, the 1st section of the law, the recorder in each
county is 'bound to record all deeds which shall bi
brought to him for that purpose, whether, the lands
lie within or without the county. "The saidoffice,"
'in the 2d section, means either of the' said offices.'
No time is limited within which the deed must' be
recorded.
The whole tenor ot the act shows that the purpose of recording was merely for safe keeping.
Thus stood the law till the act of 1775 declared,
that unless deeds and mortgages should-be acknowledged, or proved and recorded, within a certain time,
in the counties where the lands lie, sich deeds or
mortgages should be void as to creditors and subsequent purchasers.
The provisions of this act show that no such provisions existed before. The evil complained of in
the preamble of the act, was the frauds upon creditors
and subsequent purchasers by means of secret -dec.ds

M-kni

V.
DELANCY',S
LEsszz.

28
-f'EKF-x
D LA Xey's

LMs szz.

'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

and mortgages. This evil could not have exiated
the object of the act of 1715 was to give notice.

The object of that act, therefore, was safe keeping.
The recording or the omission to rec6rd the deed
didmaot affect the title. It was therefore perfectly
immaterial in which of the offices the deed.should
be recorded. It was perfectly optional with the
grantee whether he would have his deed recorded at
all; and if he did choose to have it recorded, it was
equally optional with him in which of the offices it
should be reLorded.
2d. As to the acknowledgment.
It had heen the cotemporaneous and, uniform
practice from the year 1715 to th* date of this deed,
to aicknowledge deeds before a judge of ihfsupreme
court of Pennsylvania. That practice had never
been questionedv The grantor in the present deed
was the chief justice of that court and had been so
for 40 yeart eb"e. 'Re -anrd the judge wlho received the acknowledgmeit must have been perfectly satisfied of the practice, and that it had been unquestioned. Judge Peters, who sat in the trial of
this cause in- the conrt blow, stated, and the whole
bar admittett tie pratfice to be "-so. No person
could be better acquainted with-this practice than
judge Peters, whose father was secretary' of the.
land-office, and who was himself a large landholder,
There never was a -doubt sugg.e9'ted upon this
subject until the present case. If the practice be
now decided to be incorrect, it will cut deep into the
titles of Pennsylvania.
LIVINOSTON, J. I doubt whether this court can
take notice of such a practice uiless it -be spread
upon the record by a bill of exceptions, or found by
a special verdict. If we can, and if the practice be
so, I think it puts an end to the question.

Lewis." The-evidence of the practice was offered,
not lo the jury as a fact, but to the judge, to inform
him what had licen the construction uniformly put

EMBRUAR,

10'9.

upon the law by courts, judges and leglslators, and MCz-sH
DE.LANCY'S
S DE.
bW the whole people of the state.
MA RsALL$ Ch. J. 1-do not know how this ,
court can take notice of it as a practice or custom,
without the consent of'the parties; bue -I i:onsider
it as anexposition r construction of the law. If devisions of the.courts f Pennsylvania had been made
upon the question,they might be produced. " If n6
cases are reported, the court will take "other info?matiokas to the construction given tq the law by the
courts of Pennsylvania.

If such have "een the uniform ,decisions"of their
courts at the time,)'s there are no reports of casesf
if-the counsel agree as to the'construction given .by
the couits, this court can receive it ,as evidence of
those decisions. But if gtntlemen differ in iheir
statements, the court would not be willing to decide
as to the credit to be given to the one statement or
the other,

Ingersolt4 for the-plaintiff in error, said lie coulcl
not admit any statement' admitting ,thkx it hod been'
the *practiceto admit in. evidence exemplifications of
deeds not recorded in the county where the lands
lie.
L.wis named 27' cases in which e had been concerned as counsel, and in which such exeniplificafionshad been used in evidenge, and no objection evqtc
taken.
1b RSUALL, Ch. J.. That part- of the' argument
may be. omitted for the present, and'if the court
should not be able to decide the case without e vidence of the practice, we will decide whether we
will hear the statements on that subject.

Lewis.*Part of the lands lie. in Philadelphia county, where the deed was recorded. An exemplification ivould be good evidence in a c6ntest respecting
those lands, and if good evidence for one purposes
the other.
it ivill be good us t.o

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1'K~z

• v.
Lktsz

"..

-*.--

.- '

If the law authorizes a deed to be recorded in a
office
particular office, an exemplification from that
is good evidence in all cases. It would have been
good eSidehce in an action of covenant upon the
deed ; and there can be no difference -inan action
of ejectment. Gilb. Ev. 97. 99, 100. 2 Vin. Abr.
598. 12 Vin. 105. 107. 2 Ey. Cas. Abr.413.
Ingersoll, in reply.
The common law did not require any deed to be
recorded.. Before the act of 1715, the English register acts, and the acts for enrolment of deeds,
were well known in Pennsylvania: and they were
for the purpose. of notice. The evil to be remedied
was the frequency of clandestine conveyances.
The 1st section of the act does.not require the
recorder to record " all deeds and. conveyances
which shall be brought to him for that purpose," but
"all deeds and conveyances which shall be brought
to him for that purpose according to the true intent
and 2neaning of this act." that is, all deeds and conveyances of land lying inlhis county.
The 2d and 3d sections require the acknowledgment or proof to be before one of the justices of the
peace of the prol er county or city where the lands lie.
he power to certify acknowledgments was not given
to a judge of the .iupreme court until 1775, when
the express grant of the power was strong evidence;
that they did not already possess it.
There is no more reason that a foreign deed
should be proved and recorded in the tounty where
the lands lie, than that a domestic deed should be
s proved and :'ecorded. Yet the 4th section of the
act is, explicit 'vith regard -to foreign .deeds, that
they shall be so proved and recorded; and in order
to show that they meant the same thing in the case
of domestic deeds, the legislature say that a foreign
deed, so proved and recorded, shallbe as valid "as if
the same had been made, acknowledged, or proved,
in the proper county where the lands lie;" thereby
5

F;EBRUARY, 1809.

31

intimating, that the acknowledgment or proof in the
coutv where the lands lie, was the proper mode in
all other cases.
The 5th section immediately follows, and-declares
that all deeds " proved or acknowledged and recorded as aforesaid," shall transfer the possession,
and that exemplifications thereof shall be evidence.
Here the words "as aforesaid" refer to the description last ahtecedent, that is, in the county where
the lands lie. Again in the 8th section it is declared,
that no mortgage shall be good unless acknowledged
or proved and recorded where the lands lie "'as
herein before directedfor other deeds." This expression clearly shows that the. legislature had beforedirected that other deeds should be recorded whhere
the lands lie.
They had mentioned before but two other kinds
of deeds, yiz.foreign and. domestic. With regard
to foreign deeds they had been as explicit as in- the
case of.mortgages; and if any doubt could be raised
as to their expressions' relative to domestic deeds,
that doubt must be removed by the expressions ih
the 4thb.Ind 8th sections.
"2Rarch :f
1.
Ch. J. delivered the opinion of theviz.
follows,
as
court
MA'RSIIALL,

This case depends entirely on the acts of'the legislature of Pennsylvania, respecting the registering
of deeds.
The law-f -Pennsylvaria, on this*subject, had
varied at different tifbtes; but as it stood in 1715,
when ihe act passed which must decide this controversy, th8 recording of a deed was not necessary to
its validity; but deeds might be enrolled, and an exemplification was testimoiiy. in all courts.
The act of -1715 established an office of record in

M-z
DzTIvACY'
LEss,

SUP'iEME: COURT TY. -S

11U 4 V, S
-.1)LANCY

e.ch coUmtv in hich deeds were to be recorded,
and 'declared ax! exemnplification f~ova the, record to

Lrssn,.

be as good evidence as the original. This act,
does not make the recording. of a deed
essential to'its validity.

'h6wever,

To entitle a deed to be recorded, the act requires
that tt shall ble acknowledged- or proved " beforeone of the justices of the peac'e of the proper county
or city where the lands lie."
Ini this case the lands lie in different counties ; and
the deed .wasacknowledged before John Lawrence,
one of the justices of the supreme court of Pennsylvania; and wav recorded- in the office for the bity
and county of Philadelphia, in which-a part of.the
lan'ds lie. tr7he land, how v4r, for which this. suit
was brought, lies in a different county.
The first question which presents -itself- in this
cause ig,was this deed properly proved?
We re'this act of 171i'5 now, for the first time, to
be construed, the opinion, of this court would certainly be, that the deed was not regularly proved.
A justice of-the supreme court would not be deemed
a justice o'f the county, hnd the decision would be,
•that the deed was not properly pr6ved, and therefore not legally recorded.
But, in cobstruing the statutes of a siite on which
land titles depend, infinite mischief would ensue,
should this court observe a' different rule from that
which has been long established in the state; and
ii this case, the court cannot doubt that the courts
of Pennsyl'ania' considcr a justice of the suipreme
court as within th6 descripi6n of the act.
it is of some wagbt. that this deed was acknow.leIged by the chiei justice, wh6 certainly must have
been acquainted, with thp. construction g iven to the
act, ardthat the acknowledgment was taken 'before
xaother judge of the supreme- court. It is also re,

FEBRUARY; 1809.

collected thht the gentlemen of the bar, who sup- xM'zit
ported the conieyance, spoke pbsitively as 'to th& D .LAV's
tnxvd."aluderstanding of the siate, on , spoint1 -Lssa..
and- that "th6se'who controverted- the Usage on other.
points, did not contiovert it on this. But what is'
decisive with the court is, that the judge wvo presides in the circfiit court for thedistrict of Pennsylvania, reports -to us that this co nstruction -was
tniversally, received.
On this evidence the court yields the construction
whidh would be put-on the words of the-act, to that
which'the courts of the state have put on i.t a'Indon
which many titles may probably'depend.
The next question is, was this deed rqcorded in
such an office as to make the exemplification evidence .
Without.reviewing all the arguments whih havebeen urged from the Iar; or all the -sections o1 the
act, it may be su'fficient to observe, that this oourt is
satisfied.that,' where a single.tract.of land is conveyed; the. law requires the deed to.be recorded in the
office of the county in which the land lies;. buti'f
several tracts be conveyed, it appdars to this court
that neither the letter nor ,the spirit of the act requires that the deed should be recorded in each
county.

It is material in the construction of this act, that
the validity of the deed is not affected by omitting
to record it. Though not recorded, it is still binding
to every intent and purpose whatsoever. The only
legat effect produced by recording it is its preservation, by making a copy equal to the original.. The
principal .motive,. then, for requiring that it sliould,.
be proved before a justice of the particular county
in which the lanid lies, and recorded in that county,
is ihat which has been assigned at the bar. 'It is the
additional secuiity givern by; those provisions, that a
deed, never executed, might not .be imposed on the
recorder. This'object is as 'completely obtained by
placing the deed on the records of that cpunty in"
Vol,

.E

34
A'Kr
Dl3LArc4Y'S
LZSSEE.

*

SUPREME COURT.U. &.

which olie of the tracts of land lies; as it couldbe if
the deed conveyed no. other tract. The verity of
thie deed is-as completey secured in the one case as
in the other.
it appears to .the court also to be within the letter
of the law. This deed was unquestionably properly
admitted-ro record in the office of the city andcounty
of Philadelphia. It c6nveyid lands lying within that
city and county, and, on any construction of the act,
probeeds
might be there recorded. The'act then enrolled,
.to~say, that the copies of all deeds, so
"shall be allowed in all courts where produced,, and.
are hcreby declared and enacted to be as good evidence, and as valid and effectual in law,'as the original deeds themselves."
The whole deed, then, is evidence by the letter of
the act.. The whole is a copy from the record. If
the validity of the conveyance depended on its being
recorded in the county where the land lies, then a
deedmight be good. as to one tract, 'and *bad as to
another. '-But the deed is valid, though not recorded;.
and the question is, whether the copy is evidence as
to every thing It contains. The execution of- the
deed is one entire thing, And is proved so as to admit the instrument to record. The copy, if true in.
part, is true in the whole; and. if evidence in part,,
must, under theact, and on the general principle that
it is the copy of a record, be evidence in the whole.
There is no error in the judgment of the circuit
court; and it is affirmed with costs.,

JOHN AND JAMES TUCKER v. OXLEY,'ASSIGN LE OF T. MOORE, A BANKRUPT.

ERROR t6othe circuit court df the district. of Co-.
Unde. thebr31krupt law lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action-of-assumpin
f
oa the United
Staesa jntsit for gopds sold and' delivered, brought by Oxley,

