FEBRUARY, 1809.

311

"herefore orders that the judgement of the circuit K Es
Tim U.
court be affirmed with costs.

S.

THE UNITED STATrES v. RIDDLE.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Thelaw punishes the atColumbia, which had affirmed the sentence of the tempt,
not tho
district court restoring certain cases of merchan-intentiontodefi
of aud the reve
dise which had been seized by the collector Stinle
by false
Alexandria, under the 66th section of the collction invoices.
A doubt con.
law of 1799, vol. 4. ft. 388. because the goods Swere
eCerning the
not - i n v o i c ed according to the actual cost there- eonstructionof
law may be
of, at the place of exportation,"owith design to evade agood
greund
t of the duties.
seizure,
r
and authorize

part

The goods were consigned by a merchant of ac rtifiat of*
probable catte.

Liverpool, in England, to Mr. Riddle, at Alexandria,
for sale, accompanied by two invoices; one charging them at 671. 5i. 6d. the other at 1321. 14s. 9d.
with directions *to enter them by the small invoice,
and sell them by the larger.' Mr. Riddle delivered
both invoices and all the letters and papers to the
collector, and offered to enter the goods, in such
manner as he should direct. The collector informed him that he must enter them by the larger invoice, which he did. But the collector seized them
as forfeited under th 66th section of the collection
law of 1799, which enacts,. "that if any goods,
wares or merchandise, of which entry shall have
been made in the office of a collector, shhll not be
invpiced according to the, actual cost thereof at the
place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or hny part thereof, all such goods,"
&c. "s hall be forfeited." The same section contains a provision for the appraisement of the goods
by two merchants in case the collector shall suspect
that the goods are not invoiced at a sum equal to
that at whith they have been .usudlly sold in the.
placefrom whence they were imp brted, witha pro.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tim U. S.

V.

viso that such appraisement should not, upon the trial,
Ibe conclusive evidence of the actual and real cost

.of

the said goods at the place of exportation.
Rodney, Attorney-General for the United States,
contended, tiat as the goods were invoiced lower
than their actual cost, with intent to defraud the

revenue, they were not invoiced according to their

actual cost with the like intent; and the goods
having been actually entered, although not by the
fraudulent invoice, they were within the letter of
the law, and ought to be condemned. Besides, it
does not appear that the higher invoice was according to the actual, cost.
Siwann, contra.
The lower invoice was probably what the goods
cost the consignor, who manufactured them. The
higher invoice was what such goods were then
selling for at that place.
But even if a fraud was contemplated, it was not
carried into effect. No entry was' made, nor attempted to be made by -the consignee, upon the false
invoice. It was made ulon the true invoice, and in
conformity with the directions of the collector.
In this case we hope there will be no certificate
of probable cause. The conduct of the consignee
has been fair and honourable in every reect. A
doubt concerning the construction of a law is not
"a reasonable cause of seizure."
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect:

The court thinks this case too plain to admit of
argument, or to require deliberation. It is not
within even the letter of the law, and iiis certainly
not within its spirit. The law did not intend to
punish the intention, but the attempt to defraud the
revenue.

.FEBRUARY, .1909.
But as the construction of the law w a liable to
some question, the court will suffer the certificate
of probable cause.to remain as it is A doubt as
to the'true construction of the law is as reasonabje
a cause for seizure at a doubt respecting the fact.

Ki)Ew

ja'u.s.

Seatence affirinad.

HIMELY v. ROSE.

THIS was an appeal from so much of the final It is not neetsdntende of the circuit court for. tfe district-bf So'tih 7 ton take
.e~eptigns to
Carolina- rendered upon 'the mandate from this court the report of
if the
errors appear
issued upon the ieversal of tie fodrmer sentence of auditors,
that court, (see- ante, vol. 4. p. 292.) as affirmed the upon the fice
the court "to inquire Of the 'report.
report of auditors'appointed'by
whn
if acI
Tfthe/peoperand report whether any, and ifany, what deductons ty, ordered to

are to be allowed for freight, insirance and 'other be restored, be
expenses ivhich would have been incurred by the n°l -ie..
owners in bringing the cargo into the' United States,
and -ulsa to ascertain and report the interest to be
paid by the claimant to the appellanft," so far as that
report allowed interest to the *appellant, and disallowed-the expense o' insurance to the claimant.
This court, in reversing the former sentence of the
circuit court, decreed as follows :.that tlhSarah and
her cargo "ought to be I'estoIed. to' the original
owners, subject to those charges offreight.ipsurance
6iid other expenses which would-have been incurred
by the 6wners in bringing the cargo into the United,
States; svhich equitable deductions, the defendants
are at liberty to show in thi circuit. court. This
court is theefbre ofopinion, that the sentence of the
circuit court 'of South Carolina ought to 'be- rev
ersed, and the c6'use be'remanded 'to that court ir
order that a final decree" may be made thefein conformably to this opinion."
Voh V.

'Br

