s72
TuE U. S.

VOWELL.
yz

SUPREME COURT.

S.

In all cases too where additional duties have leen
imposed, the construction of the treasury has awayc
been, that the additional dutieo are to be paid if the'

vessel arrived at.theport after the day fixed by law,"
although she arrived withiu the districtbefore that
day.
-March 15.
MARSH, L, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect:

The distinction taken by the counsel for the defendants in error, between a- distict and a port of
entry, is correct. The duties did not accrue in the
fiscal sense-of the term, uritil the vessel arrived at
the port of entry. If the question had been doubt"ful, the court would have respected the uniform con.
struction which it is understood has been given by
the treasury department of the United States upon
similar questions. It is understood that in case of
an increase of duty, the United States have always
demanded and received 'the additional duty if. the
goods have not arrived at the port of.entry before
the tim-e fixed for the commencement of such additional duty, although the vessel may have arrived
within the collection' district before that time, The
same rule of construction is to be' observed when
there is a diminution of duty.
Judgment affirmed.

SLOOP SALLY v. THE UNITED STATES.

An appeal

THIS was an appeal from the sentencb of the

the disfrom
of district
trier court

court'for the district of _Maine, condemning

the 'district of the sloop Sally and cargo for violation of the revenue
Baine, in a laws of the Unmte States. The appeal was directly
ralty jurisdo, to thi* court.

case of ad i

FEBRUARY, 1810.7
Ri'e

S73

fy,
-ttorney-General.

SALLY

No appeal lies from'that court directly to bis. in

r,.

q case where that court acts in the capacity of a tion, doe not
district court. In such cas.es the appeal is expressly lie directly to
given to the circuit court for the district of Massa- t sre
chugetts. "United
ofStates,
the
chu~tts.asa-court
but to the-circuit- court for

B" the loth-section of the judiciary act of 1789, the dist ict of
vol. 1. . 54. it is enacted that the " district cburt Massehbusetts.
in-MainedistrIct, shall, besides -thejurisdiction herein, whereathe dis .

before granted, have jurisdiction of all causes (ex- trict court of
cept bf appeals and writs' of error) hferein after alitictcoort,
!a
pro- thetheappeal
shall
court,
made cQgnisable in •a circuit
'- "
- and
:lo
circuit
ceed therein, in the sam manher as a circuit court ;- tort for the
and wvrits of error shall lie from- decisions therein, district ' of
to the circuit court in the district of Mifassachusetts, Massachuseis.-

in the same manner as from other district -courts to
their respective circuit courts." ' Anil by the 21st
section it is enacted, " that from final decrees in adistrict' court in causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, where the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum or value of three hundred dollars, exclusive of
costs, an appeal shall be allowed t.o .the next circuit.
'ouft to be held in such'district. Providednevertheless, .that all such ippeals from final decrees as
aforesaid,from the district court of .Maine, shall be"
made to the circuit court, next to be. holden after
each appeal, in the district of MAfassachusetts."
By the act of March 3d, 1803, vol. 6. p. 315.
. 2. it is enacted, " that from all final judgments
or decrees rendered or to be rendered in any circuit court, or in any district court, acting as a
circuit court, in any cases of equity, of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or no prize,
an appeal, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, shall exceed the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, shall be allowed to the supreme court of the
United States," &c.
In this case the court below could only act in its
capacity of a district couxtt because such causes of

374

SUPREME COURT U. S.

SALLY
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction are exclusively
THE U. S. 'cognisable in a'district court.

C. Lee, contraj contended, that there was a repugnapiee between the act of 1789a, and that of 1803, the
latter declaring that appeals in such cases should be
directly to the supreme court.
But the Court was of opinion that this not being
a case -where the district court was acting as a
circuit court, 'the appeal ought to have been to the
.circuit court of Massachitsetts.
I

Appeal dismissed.

