VEBRUARY

1809.

15

as the case appears in the bill of exceptions, the court Coo*i
WOODROW.
below has not erred.

Judgment affirmed with costs.

1/ANDEVILLE AND JAMESSON z,. WILSON.

ERROR to the circuit court. of the district of A

ienme..
of
tile court bedefendant in error for goods low.
for the hire of a slave.
Quxre, whe•ther the court
ohtto per.

Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, hi an action of as- discretion
sumpsit brought by the
6old and delivered, and

The defendants below pleaded non.assumpserunt, aift taraed'.and the statute of limitations.
ments after
'andjudgmentupoa
demun'er.

To the'latter plea the pjaintiff replied, " that the In the stasaid money itx the several promises and undertakings tutu t
ex-nito.
aforesaid above mentioned in the declaration, at the, ception in flaof :aero
chats't$ actime of the making of the promises and i.nderta- 'our
kings aforesaid, became due and payable on an ac- coutts, applies

count current of tr.;de :And merchafidise had between 'dionswellofto asacthe siid plaintiff and the said defendants as merchants; sumpsit, as to
-and wholly concerned the trade- of merchandise; to actions
hoult. of acwit, at Alexandria aforesaid, in the county aforesaid, It extendsto
all accounts
and this he is ready to verify."
CurkelUt which
the,
concern

To which the defendants rejoined, " that in the trade of mer-

month of January, 1799, the partnership of Mande- ch,,tlis.
and .le
Jarihesson was dissolved, and 'ublic no- clned, by

the

of
cessation betice given of such dissolution, of which the said dealings
plaintiff.had a knowledge at the. time, and that at twcen the parthe time of the said dissolution of'the partnership tie, is Hot an
aforesaid, all accounts betwee i~iesdid plaintiff and alte ntsttbat
cebsay
the said Mandeville and .Jamesson ceased, and ally
of U16
since Which time no accownts have existed, or been items should*
continued, betwle& the plaintiff and the said defend- have been
ants, which the said defendants are. ready to verify." inarted irt-

The plaintiff surrejoined, " that the goods ,ata

ye-rs, nor that

the- cf.'Lartip.

"

SUPREME COURT. U. S.MAN1,t*

.r-..

OILSON;

should
aver
the money to
be due uion

fandmerchandise.n the said declaration mentioned,
were by the said plaintiff iold and delivered.'to the

efiil defendants, and the said negro in the said de-

cltration mentioned Was hired.by the plaintiffito the
defendants before the month of January, in the year

1799,, the time when the said defendants in their

an open ac- said rejoinder state their said copartnership was discountbetween

merchants.

solved, and this the .plaintiff is ready to verif."

To this surrejoinder the defendants demurred,
hand assigned for cause of demurrer, that'" the sur-

rejoinder is a -departurein this, that it is no answer
to the defendants' rejoinder."

Upon joinder in demurrer, the court below gave
jtidgment for the- plaintiff.
A'bilf of exceptions stated, that on the day on
which;the-cause was called for trial, the court per-

mitted the plaintiff to withdraw his gehdeal replication to the plei of the statute of limitations, and' to
'file the above pecialreplication. And that after the

court had givinjudgment upon the demurrer, it refused to permit the defendants to withdraw th.ir de-

murrer, and their rejoinder, and'to file a general rejoinder to the plaintiff's replication.

2 oungis for the- plaintiffs in error.
1. The plaintiff below ought not to have been permitted to withdraw his general replication, and to.re-

ply sp.ecially.
LIVINGsTo0,

J. Is that a proper subject for a

writ'of error?

r"oun.&s. Thera are other points; but I suppose
it is good. ground- for a writ of error. - It creates
delay ; and although amendments may be matter of
discredon with the couit, yet the court is bound to
exercise its discretion soundly and legally; it is a
disfection which this court will control.
2. The exception in the statute of limitations in,
far our of merchants' accounts, applies 'only to ac-

FEBRUARY, 18go.

17

counts current, where there have been mutual deal- MANPE
VI LLnE
v
ings, and where some of the items are more and
some lest than -five years' standing. In such case.s wILSON.
the last item shall draw all the.rest out of the statute.
But if all dealings between the parties have ceased
for more than five years -next before the commencement of the suit, the whole accouni'isjbarred.
An account whith has ceased to run is an., account
closed. An account closed is an account stated; and
it is expressly decided that an account stated is not
excepted from. the general operation of- the statute.
Besides, the exception of the statute is only in favour of actions of account, and not actions of assumpsit. 2 Ves. 400. Welford. v. Liddel. 4 Mlod.
105., hievly v. Bond. 2 Saund. 124; Webber v.
Tivill.*
'The replication is repugnant to the declaration;
for money due for the -hire of a negro cannot be
" money due on an account current of trade-andmlerchandise."
The declarationought to have stated the moqey.to
be due upon such an account.
3."The court below ought to have permitted the
defendant to withdraw his demurre and his rejoinder, and rejoin gencrally to the replication.

. .. Lee, contra, having cited 3 Wo9ddeson, 83.
85. as to the principal question, Was stopped by the
co.urt; as to the error alleged-in the permission given
by the court 'below to the plaintiff to amend before
trial, and the refusal to allow the defendints after
judgment upon the demurrer to withidraw it and take
issue' on the fact.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. observed thatthe permitting
amendments is a matter o fdiscretion. ie did not
nieali to say that a courtimay in, all cases permit -or
But see Serjeant llllams's note. to that case. in bis'edi tion of
Saunders's Iteports. The statute of Vir'nin , so lhr as it relates to .
the questions in- this'case, is precisely like the BritiSh stiatute of 21
J.e.C. 16. a. S.
Vol. V

18
_IA?-D.
VILLE
wV..sov.
k-v--

SUPREME COURT

1. S.

control. A case may
refuse amendments witdio
occur where'it would be error in a court, after having allowed one party to amend, to refuse to suffer
the other party to amend also before trial. But that
is not this case. After the parties have gone to trial upon a set of pleadings, and the judgment has been pronounced, it may be doubted whether the court can
It would
permit fhe demurrer to be withdrawn.
not be right in .all cases, after the party had taken
issue upon the law, and it has been decided against
him, to suffer him also to take issue upon the fact.
If it be permitted, it is a matter of great indulgence.
There is no ground for the objection taken to the
declaration in this case, that it ought to have averred
that the money was due on an account concerning
the trade of merchandise.
A declaration need not set forth the circumstances which take the case out of the statute of limitations.
roun.As cited 6 T. R. 691. Holt v. Scholefteld,
to show that when general-damages are given, if there
be one bad count in the declaration, the court will
arrest the judgment.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. But by the statute of jeofails in Virginia, under whose laws this case was
tried, the judgment shall be rendered for the pl intiff, upon a general verdict, if there be one good
count in the declaration.

On a subsequent day
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court,
That the exception in the statute applied to actions
of assumpsit, as well as to actions of account. That
it extended to all accounts current which concern
the trade of merchandise between merchant and
merchant. That an account closed by.hl :cessation
of dealing6 between the- parties is not an account

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

19

stated, and that it is not necessary that any of the
That the
items should come within the five years.
replication was good, and not repugnint to the declaration ; and that the rejoinder was bad.

MANDE,

VILLE
V.

Wmso..

Judgment affirmed with costs.:

FAIRFAX'S EXECUTOR v. ANN FAIRFAX.

Upon the issu.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
ofof phene a&.
ih
Columbia, sitting at A.lexandria, ii an action Om ienrav
assumpsit brought by the defendant in error against jury must find
specially the
the plaintiff in error, as executor.
' amount of as.

sets

in

the

Upon the issues.of non assumpsit and plene ad- hainds of the
*tb,
ministravit, the jury found a general verdict, which e'.,Z"c"
court cannot
judgwas recorded in this form: " We 'of the jury find rtender
the issues for the plaintiff, and assess the damages nlent upon the
If the -decbend.
"" verdict..
to two hundred and twenty dollars and ninety-five
ant below inthe
cents." Upon which verdict the judgment of
court was "that the plaintiff recover against the termniries ii,
ter tile ndjutgbedefendant her damages aforesaid in form aforesaid
en
sui
re the serst
her
about
assessed, and also her'costs by her
of the writ
in this behalf expended, to be levied of the goods and ""
of error, the
chattels of the said Bryan Fairfax, deceased, at the sei.vice of the
time of his death, in the hands of the said defendant et'tion ']lion
to be administered, if so much, &c. but if he hath sufciLb
not so much, then the costs aforesaid to be levied of
the proper goods and chattels of the said defendant;
and the said defendant in mercy," &c.The error relied upon bythe plaintiff in error was,
that the jury had not found the amount of assets in
his hands to be administered.
&wann, for the plaintiff in erroi, having cited Esp.
263. and the case of" footh's Executors v.
Armstrong, 2 Mash. 301., was stopped by the court,
who requested to hear Mr. E. 7-. Lee on the otheside.
N. P.

