TEBRUARY,' 1809.

281t

MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Tiz U.-S.
court, -that in such a case, where there has been a- Byv'&.s.
nonsuit, and a motion to reinstate" overruled, the
court could not' interfere.

Judgmetit affirmed.

YEATON AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE
SCHOONER GENERAL PINKNEY AND, CARGOi v. THE UNITED STATES.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the 1 a dmiral t
circuit court for the district of Maryland, which cases, an agcondemned the schooner General PinAney and car-the sentence.
,
ad the 1aU
of St altogether;
go, for breach of the act of conigress prohibiting
intercourse with certain ports of the island of St. is'to be heard
Domingo ; Passed February,28th 1806. ol. 8. p. in the appel:
11. This act was limited to one year; but by the act of late court as if
February 24th, 1807, it was continued until the end had been proof the then next session of congress, when it nounced.
If the law
under which
expired on the'26th of April, 1808.
the sentence
of condemna-

The schooner General Pinkney, on the 23d of ton was pro.
August, 1806, was cleared from Alexandria for nouncedbe r0i
pealed, aftii
St. -Yago de Cuba with a cago, but went to Cae
_YranFois in the islani of St. Domingo,-one of the the court be.
e.
On her leturn, she was seized low, ana
17th of Noveinber, 1806, and libelled on tence in ithe
of January, 1807, and condemned in the appellate sen-"

prohibitedports.

on the
the 5th

.

ciurt, no

of c~a.
a
district court on the 23d of July following, which tence
detonation

pronaoununlew
"special
I some
provision
be
claimants immediately appealed, in open court, to
the supreme court of the United States, then next made for that
purpose, b7
to be holden on the first.Monday
• of February, 1808, "zstatute.
condemnation was affirmed in the circuit court on be

the 7th of November, from which §entence the ced;

where the cause was -continued until the present
term.
. Vol. V.

282

SUPREME COUIT U. S,

-The only; question now argued ww, whether
court could now affirm the sentence of conthis
i u Z.
demnation, inasmuch as the law which created the
forfeiture, and authorized 'the condemnation, had
expired?

1nAT0a

0. Lee, Martin, Harper and roungs, for the ap-pellnts, contended that, in all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, an appeal sus.pends entirely the sentence appealed from; -and that iu the
appellate court- the cause stands as if no sentence
hadbeen pronounced. 1 Browne's Civil Law, 495.
1 Br. Parl. Cas. 70. 590. Rochifort v. Ntqgent.
50-.
2 Browne's Civil Law, 436 ,437.
2 Domat, 686.
3 Dal. 87. 114. 118. Penhallow v. Doane. 4
Cranch, 2. Yennings v. Carson. Id.' 443. United
States v. The Bketsey & Chat lotte. Parher, 72.
If then the case stands as if no sentence of condemnation has been passed, the question arises,
can this court .now proceed to condemn the vess'el
when there is no law authorizing a .condemna.
tion?
Tlq act of congress makes no provision for the re
covery (after the expiration of the act) of penalties
or forfeitures which had been incurred under that
act during its existence.
And, n such cases the law has always been understood to be, that the penalty or forfeiture cannot 6e enforced, nor the punishment inflicted. The
court has no longer any jurisdiction in the case.
2 East's Cr. Law, 576. 7/ones's case. I W. BI. 451.
Aifilier' case. 4 Dal 373. 1 Hale, 291. The'casa
of Me United States v. The cargo of the ship Sophia
Alu dalena, before 7udge Davis, at Boston, and a like
case before J7udge Hal, at Xew-Oreans. I Ceanchp
Oo. UnitedStates v. Schooner Peggyj,
Rodney, Attorney-Generol, on the part of the
United States, did tiot ontrovert the principles conte nded fdr on the other side, but in addition to the

FVBIIUARY, 1o809

283

authorities produced by the opposite counsel refer.
red the court to the opinion of Ch. J. Rlwoith, I
the. case of Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dal. 327. where
he says, " an appeal is a process of civil' law origin,
and removes a cause entirely, subjecting the fact-as
,%ell as the law to a review and retrialj" and to
the opinion of Mar.hall, Ch. J. in the case of Pennington v. Coxe, 2 Granch, 61,
March 7.
MARSHALL,
Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court to the, following effect:

The majority of the court is clearly of-opinion,

.that in admiralty cases an appeal suspends tht
tence altogether; and that it is not res adjudicaia
until the final sentence of the appellate court be
pronounced. The cause in the appellate court is
to be heard de novo, as if. no sentence had been
passed. ' This has been the uniform practice riot only
-ir cases of appeal from the district to the circdit
courts of the United States, but in this court 'alsq.
In prize causes, the principle has never been
disputed; and in the instance court, it is stated in
2 Browne's Civil'Law, that in cases of appeal ft is
.lawful to allege -what has not before been alleged,
and to prove what has not before been2proved.A
The court is, therefore, of opinion, that this cause
is to be considered as if no sentence had been pronounced ; and if no sentence had been pronounced.,
it has been long settled, 'on general principles,
that after the expiration or repeal of a law, no
penalty can bd enforced, nor punishment inflicted,
for violations of the law committed-while it w.s in
force, unless some special provision' be made Par
that purpose by statute4t

0 Clerk-e's Praxis, tit.
54. "Nam in appellatione a" sententia de-

finitiva lieet
non allegata allegare et non probata probate."

" The eases of .ihnot et i claimants of the schooner .Collector,
Ani Lewis, claimant of the schooner Gottenburgh w. United-States,

ucre reversed upon the same principle.

YFATk0
THF.-U.

284

SUPREME COURT U. S.

YATOX
The following sentence was then pronounced by
V.
M., . s, the court:
Thii cause came onto be heard on the transcript
of the record, and was argued by coun sel; on consideration whereof' the court is of opinion, that an
appeal from the sentence of a court of admiralty
brings the whole case before the appellate court unaffected by the sentence of condemnation from
which the appeal is made, and that a sentence
of condemnation cannot be pronounced on account
of a forfeiture which accrued under a law not in
force at the' time of pronouncing such sentence, unless, by some statutory provision, the right to enforce such forfeiture be preserved.
The court is, therefore, of opinion, that the sen.tence pronounced in this cause by the circuit court of
the district of Maryland, affirming the sentence of the
judge of the district court in this cause, be reversed.
and annulled; and the court, proceeding to pronounce the proper sentence, doth direct that th
libel be dismissed, and the property libelled be restored to the- claimants, they paying the duties
thereon if the same have not been already paid.
And, on the motion of the attorney-general, it is
ordered to be certified that in the opinion of this
court, there was probable cause of seizure.

THE UNITED STATES v. POTTS AND OTHERS.

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court
uOl1, for the district of Maryland. The uestion upon
he edge," are which the judges'of that court differed in opinion

cop.
perRolmd
Salo=
or

not liable

to

duties, altho' was,
imported uniWhether round copper bottoms
der the deuo.
of
mInation
M
ra cd Lot- edge are liable to the payment of

orm.'"

turned up at the
duty within the
meaning of the several acts of congress.

