FEBRUARY,

1809.

the said town, and who have'no otherproperty within the said town."

AL X&NDEn,

This is not, as has been said, a MoR,

.

direction to the officer of the corporation, butits a
description of the pre.cise case in which alone the
Temedy by motion is allowed. It being found that
Charles Alexander had property in the town from
which the Officer could have levied the tax assessed
on him; a motion for that tax was not sustainable.
If the corporation did not choose to risk levying the
tax by seizure, they might have instituted a suit to
determine their right.
This court isunanimously of opinion, that the circuit court erred in giving j udgmenit for the plaintiff
on motion, and therefore directs that the said judg-

ment be reversed and annulled.

JIENDERSON .m.MOORE

ERROR to* the circuit court of the district of The refusal t.
Columbia. ,

the court helow to grnt a
new trial is not

Upun the plea
• action of debt upon error.
On the plea of payment to an

a bond, for 500 dollars, dated in .17811 the defend- of payment to
that in the'yeir 1797
it
debt action
utpon of
" an
•
• o.to prove
ant offered evidence
condibond
of
received
he
had
that
the plaintiff acknowledged
the money of the defendant to the amounft of about tioned to pay
"
T
oe W
1,000 dollars,. of one Willoughby
Tibbs, out of

500 dollars, ev-

heidence may he
amount of a decree which the defendant had ob-'reeeived ot the
o'sum
tained against him for 3,000 dollars, and that te smallera
money *which he so received was in full of all his with an -aby the plaintiff
claims against' the defendant, the" plaintiff havilg knowledgment
paid for the defendant several sums of money. There that itwas in
full of all
anddemands;
.
was no settlement made, nor any receipt given,
Whereupon the plaintiff prayed the court to in- from such evidenqe, if un.
struct the jury,that if from the evidence they should.contradicted,
be satisfied thfat the bond had not been fully paid the jury may
off, no -declaration of the plaintiff's ' that his claims and ought to

against the defendant were all satisfied' would b

bar.to his recovery in this action; which instruction

infer pa-eot

SUPREME COURT U. S."
H .sDsoir
Dfn.

the court retusad to give as prayed, but diredted
the jury that if "they shbuld be satisfied by lhe evi.
Sdence, that the defendant, in the year 1797, paid the
ilaintiff a sum of money less than the amount mentioned in the, condition of the' bond, which the
plaintiff at that time acknowledged to be in full satisfaction of all his claims against the defendant,
such payment and such acknowledgment, are competent evidence upon the plea of payment, and that
the jury may and ought to presume therefrom that
the whole- sum mentioned in the condition of the
said bond has been paid to the plaiutiff,_iuless such
presumption be repelled by other evi'dence in the
cause; to which refusal and instruction the plaintiff
excepted."
The verdict being for the defendant, his counsel
moved the court for a new trial, and grounded his
motion upon sundry affidavits tending to prove that
the whole arrmunt of the bond remiained due to the
plainiiff, and that he was surprised by unexpected
testimony at the trial But the court refused to
grant a new trial.
Two errors were assigned.
i. That the court below refused a new trial.
2. That the court oughi to have given the instruction to the jury as prayed by the plaintiff.; and ought
not to have given the direction which they did.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. said that this court had decided at the last term, that a refusal by the court
below to grant a new trial was not error. -

The case being submitted upon the other point,
without argiurent,
MARisHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

eourt,

That there was no error in the opinion of the
court below. A part of the money due, on the'bond

FEBRUARY,

1809.

13

might have been paid before; ana such an acknow- HEI5DERSOX
V
ledgment,. upon receipt of a sum smaller than the
amount of the condition of the bond, was good evi- ,
dence upon the plea of payment.
Judgmeit affirmed with costs.

COOKE AND OTHERS-v. WOODROW.

ERROR to the circuit court of the distri " of In an action of
Columbia, in an action of trover brought by the "rover, if the
plaintiffs in error for sundry household goods.

A bill of exceptions stated that the plaintiffs on
the trial proddced in"evidence to support their title
to the goods, a certain paper writing signed by one
John Withers, to which one John Pierson had subscribed his name as, a witness, and offered parol

juigment be.
low
in fa.
yourbeof the
original defend.
ant, the value

Of th1iematter
indispute upon the writ of
error in the

suptee cute

is the
States,
evidence to prove that the subscribing witness "had .sum
claimed
as

upwards of a year ago left the district of Columbia,
and that before he left the said district he declared
s'ay,
thit he should go to the northward, that is 'to Sy
*to Philadelphia or N r-York, and said he had a
wife in New-York. That the said subscribing Witnes3 went from the said district to Norfolk, and that

damages inthe
declaration.
Due diligence
must
be used,
to obtain the
of
testimony
the:subscribiig.
witness.cb
be
inquiry
If
made
at thd
place . where
thewitness
last heard wras
of,

when he got there he declared that he should go on
further to the south, but where was not known,'and
that he has not been heard of by the witness for the
last twelve months. It appeared that a.subpcena had and

he cannot

beerr issued in this case, for the said subscribingf 1)e
found,
his
of evidcnce
witness, directed to the marshal of the district of hand writing
Columbia, but he iould not be.found in the said dis- many be adatir.
trict by the said marshal. The plaintiff then offer- ted.

edto prove the hand-writing of the subsclibing witness and of the said John Withers to the said writing, but the court refused to permit the plaintiffs
to produce evidence, of the hand-writipg of the
said subscribing witness, and refused to permit the
plaintiffs to prove the hand-w'riting of the said John
Withers, otherwise than by the testimony of the said

