SUPMEME COURT U. S.

2316
'o.DoxY
V.
TAYLOR.

that'Bodley and Hughes. ought, .uot to, receive z
conveyance for the lands within Taylor's survey,
aid not within his entry, but on the condition of
their consenting, to convey,.to him the lands they
hold which were within his entry and are not. included in his survey. But this is not a case of the
first imrpr.ssion. The court is compelled to believe
that the principle is really settled in. a manner- different from that which this court- would deem..cor•rect, It is. impossible to say how many tijles might
The very
be shaken by shaking the principle.
extraordinary state of land title in that; country,
has competled its judges, in a series of decisions,
to rear up an artificial pile from which no piece
can be taken, by hands, not intimately acquainted
with the building, withput end'angering the structure,
and producing a misdhief to. those holding under.
it, the extent of which may not be. perceived. The
rule as. adopted must be pursued.
Taylor, then, must he srveyed according to the
principles' laid down in this decree, and must convey to the plaintiffs below the lands lying within
his patent and theirs, which were not within hii entry.

TAYLOR AND QUARLES V-.BROWN.

E ROR td the district court for the Kentucky
The first sur.
c%.
- ',der a ..
ilitary laud district, in a suit i cnancety, wherein Tavlor and
,warat. in Qfarl s were compl'ainauts against Brown. The
was dismissed by the
bill of the complainants
.
tile prior iives
equiCourt below.
Both partieg claimed under military warrants
t3 ppropria
'The eertifi- upon the king's proclamation, for services rendered
cate ,f survey p
issuffirienteO. prior to !he year. 1.763.
ty. The survey is the ret

deiic that the
W21*1Lwsin
The.
-the aatrisin

the survibyor.

complainants claimed under a watrant h%
nzgus M'Donald, for 2,000 acres issued

Javour of

FEBRUARY, 1809.

235

the 5th of February, 1774. The defendan, clainjed TAYLOPL
V.
under a warrant in favour of. jethro.Suviner, tor
2,000 acres, issued the 3d 'of December, 1773..
WV'Donald?s survey was made on the 7th of July, That claase
"' land
1774. Sumner's was made on the 24th f June,-:I
l-+awof Virgi1775 and he obtained'a patent on the 5th of Janua- nia, ;vlicl( reevery
patent upon M'Donald s iurvey, quires
ry, 1780. The
survey to
be
was not issued uhtil the

loth of Janhary, 1792; recorded with.
in two months
afteritisinale,

so that the complainants had a younger warrant
Th e efent.
and+patent, but t-e elder survey, The defendant
had the- elder warrant and patent, but the younger

is merely d.
reciory to and
the
$11,,yor;

survey. M'Donalds' survey included 3,025 'acres;
Sumner's incluaed, 2,576 acres. The quantity co-

his neglect to
record it does
both surveys was 1,080 acres, of. which t invalidate

vered by
Taylor claimed 660, and Qu4rles, 200 ; it did 'not

appear who claimed
the other 220 acres, included
•
.the
in the interference

It is notneessa'l
that
deputy sur-

veyor

who

made the sur-

M'Donald's survey wa.riaaby Hancock Tay- veak

uthoulhd

a
lor, an assistant surveyor of Ffticastle'county, where p1
may
3 tIt.andItcertithe lands lay, who, before his return, to the office, be done front
was killed bv the Indians on the last of July, 1774, his notes, by
but-his field-books and papers kWere preserved by s
'urvy"r.
his attendants, and delivered to the principal surA subseveyor of the county, in September, 1774,.who made quent lucator
out a plat therefrom.
gilia, withou

notice location,
of toe
prior

The complainants' bfill charges, that the survey of cannot protect
Sumner was" fraudulently made, so as to interfere himslt by ob.
with M'-Donald's. . " he answer denies the fraud; tinthet e;:
and there was no evidence of fraud, or even of no- A surey inot

tice on the part of Sumner.
•

indlbes

ssei

land thaptowas
f~l. "diie.tZ-d
bo

P. B. Key and Rowan, for the complainants, (the surveyed by
plaintiffs in error,) contended, that the survey made the warrant.
by Hancock Taylor, and the plat and certificate of sur- "lhe patent
relates to the

vey made out by the principal surveyori were a good mneptiun o tiexecution of the warrant, and were a complete ap- tle; and there-"
tre, in a
propriation of the land surveyed, so as to give to of equity,coar
tie
M'Donald a prior title in e.quity; and that the sub- pIrtnk
who
hati first app.sequent-patent- related back to the survey, so as to priated" te
give to the' complainants a better -title in equity land has the
hP.. tle, vnthan-,the -defendants

236

SUPREME COUr U. S,

Pope and Swann, contra, contended,

'TAYLoR
V.

lIe own.
less his equity

isimpah-e'1 by
the
cireuinstances of the
case
.
The locator

I That it did not appear that M'Donald's warrant ever was, in the hands of the surveyor.
2. That the survey was not recorded within two
months after it was" made.

of a wairrant

undertakes
Imrelf to find

3. That the survey was not certified by, -ancock
Taylor, the assistant surveyor who made the survey.

waste and fi.

appropriated
lanl, and his
patrnt

issue

4.

That the complainants had a remedy by cavear;

uipnn his own

and having neglected to avail themselves of that

ment, and at
his own risk.
Hecoet
be

5. That the survey, both in law and equity, was
void as to all'but 2,000 acres.

infbrmation to
the
gOmere-

considered as
a
purchaser

witikout

n'

rice."
The equity
oflocator
the prAor
tends to the

remedy, they could not have relief in equity.

6. That the complainants have no equity.
1. Upon the first point
that the waradthttewr
on itt waa said
rakit isUpnex-rs
the only authority for the officer to survey

surplus
surveyed, land the land; and if he never had the warrant, the
as

wen as to the whole proceeding is void.
quantity men- therefore, that the officer had

It must be proved,
the warrant.

tinned In the

1%
arrant.

'he act of 1778, c. 14. § 6. requires that
every survey shall be recorded by the surveyor, in
a book kept by him for that purpose, within two
months after the same shall be made. This was a
condition precedent to the validity of the survey.
2.

3. The survey was not certified by Hancock
Taylor,- the assistant surveyor who nade the survey.
It is an incontrovertible position, that when the
law entrusts an officer to do an act in pais, he is
the only person who can certify the act done. A
deputy surveyor, or a deputy sheriff does not derive his authority from the principal surveyor, or
the high sheriff, but from the law. The principal
has only the appointment of the deputy; but his

FEBRUARY, 1809.

2311

authority to act as, and for the principal, is derived
from the law. There can be no evidence of a survev, but the certificate of the officer who made it.
If a man went to make a settlement, but shoula be
killed on the way, it is true, the act of God prevented, but still it was no settlement.
4. The complainants had a remedy by caveat,
when they might have established their title at law.
Having lost this remedy by their own negligence,
it is contrary to the principles of equity to aid them.
5. The survey was void as to the surplus, beyoid
the 2,000 acres authorized by" the warrant. As to
this surplus M'Donald was a mere volunteer; he
paid no consideration; it was a fraud upon the
state; and a mere survey, without the authority of
a warrnnt, can give no title in equity. Zfughes'&Rep.
21. 26. DoVherty v. Crow. Sneed's .XKentuchy
Case.-,, 9. Ward v. Kenton. Sugd. 200, 201, 202.
i Fonb. 318.
6. The complainants have no equity. The defendant was a purchaser for a valuable' consideration
without notice of any title or claim by M'Donald.
No fraud or notice is brought home to Sumner.
He purchased the land fairly; he has paid for it and
obtained the legal title; and he must hold it until
some other person shows a better title in.equity.
There is no evidence of notice,, even if the depositions can be read which are sent up ivith the record; of which there is strong doubt; for the jury,
according to the practicr in Kentucky, has found
all the facts in dispute between the parties.
Even if one of the depositions should contradict.
the answer, yet a court of equity will never decreeagainst the defendant's answpr, upon a single deposition,. unless it be strongly corroborated by circumstances.

TAYLOR

v.

SUPREME COURT-U. S.

23&
TAyLoL
Br.

[LiiINGSTONJ. Are those the depositions upon
which the j.ury acted in finding the facts? If they

are, 1, for myself, should consider the finding conclusive:; and that we could not look into the deposalgns.
MARSHA L, Ch.. J. When the first case of a
suit in chancery of -this kind came before this court
from Kentucky, the court was struck with the irregu.
laritv of the intervention of a jury to ascertain the
facts in any other mode than by an issue directed
by the court as a court of chancery; and as this
court is only authorized to proceed in chancerycases according to the' principles and usages of
courts of equitv, the court was disposed to disregard fact* thus found.

The court felt no difficulty in looking into the
deposiions, but their doubt was, whether they should
take into consideration the facts found. However,
as such a practice was said to have been established
in Kentucky, the court agreed to look into the facts
found where they were not incoisistent with the
depositions in the cause. I think the first case of
this kind which came up from Kentucky was that
of. Taylor and Bodley.]
If M'Donald ever had equity, he has forfeited
No step was taken to complete the title rom 1774 to 1792, a period of eighteen years.- 2 Wash. 106. Pickett v. Douddall. 2
lash. 121. Curry v. Burns. I Wash. 116. White
v, j/oneso

i)by his negligence.

The doctrine of relation applies only. to the
parties themselves, viz. to M'Donald and .he commonwealth of Virginia. It does not apply whcre
the rights of third persons are concerned. Co. Litt.
19o. Plowd. 188. 2 Vent. .200. 2 Wa ih. 113.
120,

21.

BRowan, in reply;
f. It was not necessary that the warrant should

FEBRUARY,, 1809.

239

have been in the hands of the surveyor. It was
sufficient authority to him tyto survey the land if he
knew that such a warrant existed. But if it were
necessary thatihe should have had it in his hands',
the presumption arising from his having made the
survey is strong that he had the warrant, and is
sufficient proof of that fact until the contrary be
proved. The bill avers that- the warrant was delivered to the surveyor. The answer does not deny
it, and there is no ,evidence that it was not. ' It is
a matter only between the complainants and, the
surveyor, and no other person can take advantage
of it. It was no injury to the defendant.
2. The recording the survey within two montls
was a duty imposed by law upon the surveyor, and
he was liable to a penalty if he neglected to do so;
but his neglect could not invalidate the. survey. It
does not appear upon the record that the survey was
not recorded within the two ,months. The pre.sumption is, that the officer did his duty till the
contrary appears. The act of 1748 requires the
surveyor to return a list of his surveys to the college of William and Mary, who were entitled. to
oprtain fees upon every survey. It cannot be con-.
itnded that the surveys were void if the list was
"not returned. There are a number of other things
recuired of the suiveyor by that act, yet it was
never supposed that his neglect'to do them would
vacate his 'surveys., The recording was not intended as notice to others, because the surveyor was
expressly forbidden by law to give a copy for twelve
months'. The only notice which the legislature intended should be given to subsequent purchasers
during that-period was the marking and bounding
the land.
The survey is the appropriation. Sumner had all
the notice which the legislature intended he should
have. The depositions show that the land was-actuaily marked and bounded ; 'and that the marks
and bounds were a miatter of public notoriety.

TAYLOU

V.

BROWV.

W

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The- act of recording was a 4uty whici the offi. cd, Was bound to perform. The complainants could
not 'compel him to perform it, and therefore they
ought not to suffer if he neglected it. The issuing
of the patent is strong evidence either that the survey was recorded in time, or that the want of such
record did not invalidate the title. The register of
the land-office was the person best acquainted with
all the prerequisites to a grant. After a lapse of
thirty years, all these prerequisites are to be preserved until the contrary appears.

T&VLalt

3. It was not necessary that the plat and certificate
should be made out by the same officer who madc
the-survey. Every thing that is done by a deputy
surveyor is suppdsed in law to be done by the prineipalb 'and when the principal himself undertakes to
act, there can be no question. The principal is-the
only officer known to the Jaw whose certificate can
be respected. If the deputy acts, it is in the name of
his principal. The making out of a plat and certifiCate from the field-boo'k is a mere mechanical operation. -It may as well be" done by another as by
the officer who actually ran the lines.
4. The- complainants were not bound to file their
caveat. The deliy is no argument -against their
laim. It appears froin the record that the patent
was nmad6 to the-heirs or 'devisees of M'Donald.
His death, and their minority, account for the apparent delay..
5. As to 'the surplus. There- never has been a
survey vacated in Kentucky because it contained
3nore land than the warrant required. If the lines
bad comprbhended less, the party must have been
the los'er. If they aomprehend more, it does not va- ,cate the survey. The case of Beckley v. Bryan,
Sneed, 107. is decisive as to that point.
6. As to the equity of the case. It is not necessary n 6 w to inquire bow thecourts in Kentucky
first obtained a chancery jurisdiction in caies of this

FEBRUARY, 1809.

241

kind. By a long course of practice, the question of
interfering surveys, or entries, has been a question
in equity. It is a mode of getting behind the patent.
An elder patent is only considered as a means of protecting the prior equity. Sneed, 231. 233. 248. 267.
283. 331.
The survey of M'Donald was a prior appropriation of the land. It was no longei wastevacant,
or unappropriated land. It was not a subject for
Sumner's warrant to operate upon. Lapse of time cannot enfeeble a claim. It either destroys it altogether,
or it has no effect.
If the court would restrict M'Donald to his 2,000
acres, where shall they be laid off? The impossibility of locating them, so as tb designate tht surplus, is a sufficient reason for not adopting the principle.
.March 1.
MARSHALL, Ch.

J. delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case the title of both parties originates in
surveys made by the surveyor of Fincastle county,
previous to the passage of the land law of Virginia.
Both surveys were made on military yarrants issued
under the proclamation of 1763. The survey under which the plaintiffs claim, being prior in poiat
of time, they have the first equitable title, and must
prevail, unless the objections made to that survey
be valid, or unless their equity is defeated by the
circumstances of the case.
Several objections have been made to the survey,
each of which will be-considered.
1. It is said that the warrant was not in possession of the principal surveyor when the survey was
made.

Vol. V.

1 h

TAvY..oU

Browx.

242
TAYLOR
V.
BROWN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The answer given to this objection is conclusiveu
The warrant is an authority to, and an injunction on,
the surveyor to lay off 2,000 acres of -vacant land
which had not been surveyed by order of council,
and patented subsequent to the proclamation. Whether acts under this authority are valid or void, if
the authority itself be not in possession of the officer, is perfectly unimportant in -this case; because
the court considers the certificate of the surveyor
as- sufficient evidente that the warrant was in his
possession, if, ii point of law, it was necessary that
it §hould be lodged in the office. That certificate
is in the isual form, and states the survey to have
been made by virtue of the governor's warrant, and
agreeably to his majesty's royal proclamation.
2.. The second objection is, that the survey does
not appear to have been recorded within two months
after it was made.
The opinion, that this omission on the part of the
surveyor avoids the title which accrued under the
survey, is founded on the 6th section of.an act
passed in the year 1748, entitled, "An act directing
the duty of surveyors of land." In prescribing this
duty the law, among other things, enjoins, the surveyor " to enter, or cause to be entered, in a book
well- bound, to, be ordered and provided by the'
court of his county, a true, correct and fair copy and
plat of every survey by him made during his continuance in office, within two months after making
the same."
This section is merely directory to the surveyor.
It does not mrke the validity of the survey dependent on its being recorded, nor does it give the proprietor any right to' control the conduct of the sur.
veyor in this respect. His title, where it can commence without an entry, begins with the survey;
and it would be unreasonable to deprivV him of that
title by the 'subsequent neglect of an officer, not appointed by himself, in not performing an act which
the law does not pronounce necessary to his title,

FEBRUARY, 1809.

243

the performance of which he has nbt the means of

'coercing.
If the omiision to record ihe survey in two months
--would avoid it, then the omission of any other act
Anjoine'd by the same section 'would equally avoid it.
.The- surveyor is directed to see the land "1plainly
bounded by natural bounds, or marked trees." Has
his conforming to this direction ever been inquired
into, in a contest respecting the validity of a surv.ey? Would any gentleman of the bar contend that
the land was not plainly bounded, and that, for this
reason, a- survey actually made was void? He is,.
within five months, to deliver to his employer a plat
add certificate. Suppose six months should elapse
before he complies -with this duty, is the survey
void? He is to certify th true quantity of land
contained in the survey. Would the gentlemen
from Kentucky be willing to adopt it as a principle
that every survey expressing a quantity more or less
than the true quantity is absolutely void? He is to
state the water-courses, and also the plantations next
:adjoining. Should any one of these be omitted, is
the survey void? He is to return a list of surveys
in the month of June annually to the clerk's office,
Should he fail "in this, are the surveys void? On
these points .it is impossible seriously to insist; and
the court can perceive no distinction between them.
They are all merely directory to the, officer, and
none of them affect a title which commenced before
they are to be performed. He is subjected to a
penalty for failing in any' one of these duties, but
his performing or omitting them is unimportant to
*the rights of those for whom surveys have been
made.
3. The third objection is of more weight. It is,
that the survey must be certified by the person who
made it, and can be*authenticated in no other manner.
That, in point of fact, this survey was certified
as made, is not doubted. But it is said that the

TAYLOR
BROWN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

244
TAYLOR
vimw.

plat and certificate want those appropriate form
which alone the law will receive as evidence of
Stheir

verity.

The survey was made by Hancock, Taylor, assistant surveyor of Fincastle county, from whose field.
notes, the plat and certificate were made out by his
principal, who also signed them. Hancock Taylor
was prevented from performing this duty by a
mortal wound received from the Indians. It is understood to be usual for the assistant, where surveys are actually made by him, -to sign the plat and
certificate, which are also signed by his principal.
The 46th section of the act, "for settling the
titles and bounds of lands, and for preventing unlawful hunting and ranging," enacts, "that every
survey of lands intended to be patented shall be made
and returned by a sworn surveyor duly commissioned for that purpose."
Let us inquire whether, under this section, the
plat and certificate must be m.ade out by the person
who made th~e survey, and whether a survey actually made by an assistant must be platted and certified by him.
It may be of somc importance, in the construction
of this section, to inquire whether the return alluded
to is to the office of the principal surveyor, or to the
land-office, out of which the patent is to issue.
In construing this section, the accomlanying sections afford us no aid. But the general object of
the act, and the allusion to patenting which is made
in the section, would lead to the opinion that returns
to the land-office were iii contemplation of the legislature. If we examine the laws generally, we shall
find that most usually the word "surveyor" is applied to the principal, and where the lav alludes to
the assistant, he is designated by the 'term "assistant surveyor." If the return directed by this section is to be made to the land-office, for the pur-

FEBRUARY, 1509.

245

pose of obtaining a -patent, then the principal sur.
'veyor is the person who is to certify it, and a survey
actually run by himself, or by his assistant, is to be
considered, in law, as a survey made by himself. It
is believed to be most usual for the plat and certificate retuined to the land-office, to be signed by the
principal and by his assistant; but this section seems
not to require both. Tfie signature of the assistant
is the justification to the principal for recording and
certifying the survey, and'is the best testimony that
it has been made; but the law does not require, in
terms, that where that best testimony. is unattainable, no other shall be received. So far as the section
which has been recited goes, the signature of the
principal surveyor sufficiently authenticated this plat
and that a patent has issued upon it, is proof thai
such was the opinion entertained in the land-office.
A patent certainly does not issue of course, unless
the papers on which it issues be regular. A plat
not legally authenticated is no plat, and the register
cannot justify issuing a patent on it.
This consideration certainly deserves some weight:
but if the court inspect this section, it seems, in fair
construction, to require only the signature of the
principal surveyor, who, consequently, judges, in the
first instance, af the testimony which will enable him
to certify a survey. If the signature of the assistant
can be dispensed with, then other testimony than
his signature may authorize the priicipal to certify
a survey; and if, in any possibl- case, other testimony can be deemed competent, it surely may in
this.
If the return directed by this section be under.stood 'to be a return to the office of the principal
surveyor, it isnecessary to inquire what it is that
the section exacts. It is, that the "survey shall be
made and returned by a sworn surveyor," not that
the plat shall be made out and certified to the principal by the assistant who run the lines. The
courses and distances -contained in the field-book of
the assistant, represent-to the principalas correctly

TAYLOIL

Bao

.

246
TAYLOR
BROW.

SUPREME COU)RT U. S.

and as intelligibly the survey actually made, as: the
plat and certificate could do. From these data he is
as capable of placing on his record:book a correct
plat, and of returning that plat to the -land-office, as
if the liaes of the survey had been placed on paper' by
the assistant himself. 'It would seem reasonable,
therefore, even on this construction of.the section;
in the actual ease where death has disabled the -assistant from platting his works, to consider the-Jaw
as satisfied by the delivery of those works to the
principal surveyor.
The "act directing the duty of surveyors of.
land" does notappear to this court to contain any
provisions which are opposed to the construction
here made of the preceding act of the same session. The 6th section of that-act, which-has been
particularly referred to. by counsel, prescribes the
duty of surveyors, but contains no direction respecting the signature of plats and certificates, except this: " Every surveyor making a survey of
land shall see the same plainly bounded by natural
bounds, or marked trees, and within five months after
survey, shall deliver to his employer a plat and certificate thereof."
It has never been understood that this plat and
certificate may not be delivered by the principal;
and other parts of this section show that the duties
enjoined, are- some of them to be perforined by the
principal. The section proceeds to say, "1and shall
also enter, or cause to be entered, in a: book well
bound, to be provided by the court of his county, a
true, correct and fair copy and plat of every survey
by him made." Now this book is the book of the
principal., It is, of course, his duty to superintend
the entries in it. They 'are to be " of the surveys
by him made." The survey made by the assistant,
is, then, to be entered by the principal as a survey by
h.m made. He'is also to return annually a list of the
surveys by him made, to the county court clerk's
office. This return is made by the principal. Certainly the list must include.all the surveys made by

FEBRUARY, 18.

247

his assistants. They also are considered as made by
hima, Upon a view ofthe whole section, the court
perceives nothing in it which renders it improper
for the principal to plat and' certify a survey made
by his assistant whose' field-notes are returned
complete to him, and who has- been disabled by
death from making the plat himself.
This construction is very muck strengthened by
the terms of the act of 1779. That act declares.
" that all surveys of waste and unappropriated land
made upon any of the western.waters before. the 1st
day of January, 1778," " by any county surveyor,
commissioned by the masters of William and Mary
college, acting in conformity to the laws and rules -of
government then in force, and founded eliher upon
charterS? &c. " or upon any warrant from the governor for the time being, fqr military service, in
virtue of a proclamation either from the king of
Great Britain, or any former governor of Virginia,
shall be and are hereby declared good and valid ;
but that all surveys of waste and unpatented lands
'made by any other peison, or upon - any other pretence whatsoever, shall be and are hereby declared
null and void."
Notwithstanding this declaration, we fiid that
patents have actually issued, under which both
parties in this cause claim, on-surveys made not by
the county surveyor in'person, but by his assistant.
It is perfectly well known that a great proportion
of the surveys recognised by this act have been
really executed by assistant surveyois. Upon what
prin' iple of construction are they brought within
the act? Clearly upon this. The law, so far as
respects the validity of the survey, considers the act
of the deputy as the act of his principal. A survey made by an assistant is, in law language, made
by the principal. And if this idea be taken up on
so material a clause as that which confirms or invalidates every surv ey previously madej and which is
expressed in terms much more explicit and decisive
than any of the clauses in the preceding acts, must

TAYL.

BRw,.

.

24

SYPREME COURT U. S.

Must not the

1 47'1-

not the idea be carried throughout?

Bnowm.

survey, in all cases, be considered in a legal point
of view as made by -the principal through the agency
of his deputy, and must not this principal be kept
in view in construing the laws upon the subject.
This survey, then, is, in law language, made by
William Preston. It is confirmed as a survey made
by him: The law recognises it as his survey. Assuredly, then, his certificate may authenticate it.
The act proceeds to say that " all and every person or persons, his, her or their heirs, claiminglands
upon any of the before recited rights, and under
surveyg made as herein before mentioned, (that is,
by a county surveyor,) against which no caveat
shall have been legally entered, shall, upon the plats
and certificates of such surveys being returned into
the land-office, together With the rights, &c. upon
which 'they were respectively founded, bd entitled
to a grant for the same."
To the court, it seems clear that the law authorizes a plat and certificate of survey from the person whorfi it contemplates as the maker of that
survey; that is, from the county surveyor. The
formal requisites of the law are complied with by
a plat and certificate' under his signature. He has
given it, in this case, on testimony, which the court
deems as full and complete as even the plat certified by the assistant who made the survey would
have been.
These are the objections which have been made
to the survey under which the plaintiffs claim.
After bestowing on them the uzmost attention, the
court is decidedly of opinion, that the survey of
M'Donald was and ought to be considered as a
good and valid survey.
4. The 4th objection to the plaintiffs' claim is
founded on their negligence.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

149

At law, this objection is clearly of no validity. TAYLOA
Row.
The proviso to that section of the act of 1779,
which has been considered, declares that such stirveys shall be returned to the land-office within
twelve months after the expiration of that session
of assembly, or should become void. The time for
returning them, however, was prolonged until this
patent issued. Consequently, a caveat to prevent
the emanation of the patent, because the survey
was not returned in -time, could not have been
maintained. If the survey of M'Donald came
within the law, the circumstance, that the subsequent survey of Sumner was made without notice
in fact, cannot alter the case. His warrant onlV
huthorized him to acquire vacant-land, and he took
upon himself to find lands of that descript;on.
.The principle, caveat emptor, is directly applicable.
5. The 5th objection made by the defendant -is;
that the patent of the plaintiffs contains surplus
land. The warrant, it is said, was an authority to
survey only 2,000 acres, and, for the surplus, the
survey was made without authority.
It is a fact of universal notoriety ini Virginia not
only that the old military surveys, but that the old
patents of that country generally contain a greater
quantity of land than the patents call for. The
aueient law of Virginia notices this fact, and pror
vides for the case. It prescribes the manner. in
which this surpliis may be acquired by other persons; and it is worthy of notice that the patentee
Inust himself reject the surplus before it can be
acquired by another, and, after having so rejected
it, he has the election to allot it in such part of his
patent as he pleases.
It is contended, however, that although a grant
containing surplus land might give a legal right to
§uch surplus, yet a survey could not be carried into
grant so far as such surplus appeared upon a caveat.
Vol. V.

250
TAyLonM

nfox.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

On this subject we find no act of Virginia under
the regal government. At that time the governor
Sand council constituted a branch of the legislature
and the general court .of the colony. They also
held -a distinct court in the council chamber for the
trial of caveats, their decisions on which were regulated by rules established by themselves. -These
rules, it is believed, are lost; and it is also believed
that the means of ascertaining satisfactorily what
they were, are no longer attainable. The land law
of 1779, was framed by mein who understood them,
and it is not unreasonable to suppose that, in drawing that law,- some respect was paid- to them. That
law. gives a caveat against a survey not returned to
the land-office within twelve months aftqr it is made,
or whose breadth shall not be one third of its length,
but givyes no caveat on account of surplus land contained in .a survey, nor does it indicate -the- idea
that, on a survey containing such surplus, a caveat
could not be supported.. If such survey is not
absolutely.. void for the whole, the *difficulty of
assigning the exact quantity is sufficient to have
induced legislative regulation, had it been contemplated.as the subject of a caveat. It would seem
that, .for security in this respect, the government
trusted to the oaths prescribed for surveyors and
chiin carriers.' It is also worthy of remark, that
the law of 1779 superadds to the restrictibns formerly imposed on taking up surplus lands contained
in any- patent, that it can only be done during the
life of 'the original patentee, and before any alienatien has been madc.
It is also to- be observed, that the act of 1779
confirms this survey, and it is understood thit no
previous entry was demed iiecessary to its validity.
Tbe-entiies made on treasury warrants are most
frequently in such terms that a survey for a greater
quantity of land might be considered as beigg so
far contrary to location, and might be restrained by
the locati6n ; but, wi ere there is no entry, the difliculty of restraining the survey is much increased,
because there exists no standard by-which to reduce
it., • Thcre is, indeed, a itandard as to quantity, but

FEBRUARY, t809.

251

not as to form and place. The survey is an appropriation of a certain quantity of land by metes and
bounds, plainly marked by an officer appointed by
the government for that purpose, and if would seem
that the government receives his plat and certificate
as full evidence of the correctness of the §urvey
This being the case, it is admitted by the governmnent to be an appropriation of the land it covers,
afd it is difficult to discern a rule by which the survey could be reduced on a caveat by the owner of
an interfering survey, unless the entry on which it
was made was in such terms that the excess might
be considered as surveyed contrary to location.
For to eve-y and to each part of the land surveyed,
its owner has an equal right.
Whatever rules might have been established in
the tribunal having jurisdiction of the subject, under the regal government, the caveat in this cause,
had one been entered, must have beeii regulated by
the act of 1779. That act gives validity to both
surveys; and although it directs caveats depending
in the council chamber, at the commencement of the
revolution, to be transferred to the general court,
and to be tried by the rules which governed when
they were entered, it subjects future caveats to the
law then introduced. Under this law, as has already been. stated, the court can perceive but one
principle on which a survey can' be reduced on a
"aveat, and that principle is inapplicable to this case.
In conformity with this opinion is that of the
1udges of Kentucky. Not a case exists, so far as
the court is informed, in which, on a caveat, .the
quantity of land in the survey of plaintiff or defendant has been considered as affecting the title, upon
the single principle of surplus. Yetthe-fact must
have often occurred. And in the case of Beckly v.
Bryan and Ransdale, the contrary principle is expressly lqid down. In that cause the court said,
" It is proper to premise that there is but one species of cases.in which any court of justice is.authorized by.our land law -to devest the ovner of a sur-

TAYLOR

BROWN.

,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
252
vey of the surplus included within its boundaries;
w.

namely, where ihe survey was made posterior to
an entry made by another person ,on the same land ;
and to do more would he unequal, and unjust, inasmuch as a survey which is too small cannot be enlarged.
This position, it is true, was laid down in a contest between a military survey and a patent on a
treasury warrant. But it is laid down in terms
equally applicable to a contest between two military
surveys; and the court does not understand that
the law has ever been otherwise understood in Kentucky.
The opinions delivered by the judges of -appeals
of Virginia in the case of Ycohnson v. Bunff ton,
2 Wash. 116. would incline this court very much to
the opinion that the same rule prevailed in the
In that
.council chamber before the revolution.
.case, under a warrant from Lord Fairfax for.300
acres of land, 450 acres had been surveyed, and
the excess appeared on the plat. This. survey had
lain in the office many years, and was clearly
forfeita'ble; but Lord Fairfax had not, taken ad,
vantage of the forfeiture. After his death a patent
issued on- a subsequent entry and survey, and the
patentee was decreed to convey to the person claiming under the prior entry. In delivering his opinion Judge Fleming said, "The first objection
made by the counsel for the appellant is, that the
survey does not pursue the warrant;- but I think
there is no weight in this, as the. variance' is oly1
-in the quantity. . If the land hd been imperfecfly
described, it might have been fatal."
Judge Carrington said, "He did not copsidev
the variance between the warrant and survey, as to
the quantity, as being of any consequence."
The President, who had been an eminent practi.fionen ih. the council chamber, said, "He- felt;no

FEBRUARY, 18O9.

.253

difficulty about the variance in the quantity of "the
land."
The rules established by Lord Fairfax were
known to conform to those of the crown, and the
-declarations of the judges in this case, all of whom
were acquainted, in some degree, with the usages
under the regal government, make a strong impression on this court in favour of the opinion that, in
the council chamber, the law was understood to be,
that excess in the survey was not to be regarded.
The law of this case, then, so far as respects the
state of title previous to the emanation of either
grant, appears to be with the first survey. It remains to inquire whether a court of equity will relieve against the legal title acquired by the first grant.
The principle on which relief is granted is, that
the patent, which is the consummation of title, does,
in equity, relate to the inception of title; and, therefore, in a court of equity, the person who has first
appropriated the land in contest has the best title,
unless his equity is impaired by the circumstances
of the case.
In this cause, the first patentee is said to be a pur,
chaser without notice. But, for the reasons assigned in a forrer part of this opinion, the court does
not consider him as clothed with that character.
His warrant authorizes him to survey waste and tinappropriated lands, and he undertakes himself to
find lands of that description. '1he government acts
entirely on his information; and the terms of his
grant are, that the lands were waste and unappropriated. It is not for him to say that he had misinformed the government, and had surveyed appropriated instead of vacant lands, and had t heitby
entitled himself to be considered as a purchaser
without notice.
Neither does the court conceive that the.plaintiffs

TAYtoa
"V.
Bitowm;

256
CALOn

V.

SUPREME-COUR'V .U. S.

have forfeited their right to comt into a court oi

equity, by their negligence.

in the case of I Wash. 116. the prior right of
the plaintiff had been absolutelv.forfeited, so that the
defendant had the first title both in equity and
law, And the plaintiff's bill was dismissed because
he failed to prove the .fraud which he alleged, and
which was, in that case, necessary to give the court
jurisdiction.
In. the case of Picket and Dowdale, and of Curric
aid Burns, there were both forfeiture and abandonment.
In the case of .7ohnson and Bronw, *3 Call, 259.
more than sufficient time hadelapsed between the
entry and survey of the plaintiff to produce a forfeiture ; but, by the old law, notice was to be given
by the sul, eyor before a forfeiture, could take place,
and this fact 'was not proved. During forty year
this entry had been totally neglected; and the court
wag of opinion that, after such a lapse of time,
the fact' of notice by the, surveyor might be presumed. This case then also turned on the principle of
forfeiture. There were, besides, a gieat many circumstances in Johnson's title which gave a strong
bias to the judgment of the court.
The difference' between the case under considerdtion, and those cited is apparent. But the case
of' Yohnson b. Buffington was miich stronger than
thi.o The prior survey was actually forfeitable, but
had not been 'forfeited; and in that Case, after a
riuch Ibnger time than exists in the present, a court
of equity supported ii against the eldest grant.
The general principles which have been relied on,
in this branch of the argument, cannot be considered
as applicable to a c-ise in which the act, which. ionstitutes the foundation of the charge of negligence,
was performed within the time allowed by statute

FEBRUARY, 1809.2

255

for its performance. The circumstances, which excused the ownersof military surveys for not returnhave been
ing them, Were before the legislature and
declared, by 1aw,4to be stufficient.
But it is contended that the plaintiffs can have no
equity beyond the 2,000 "acres contained in the warrant on which M'Donald's survey wismade.
If this court is to consider itself as merely substituted for a court of law, with no other difference
than the power of going beyond the pateini'this
question is already decIded. -But, iii the -case of
Bodley and Hughes v. Taylor, an .opinion was indicated that its jurisdiction, not being given by
statute; but assumned by itself, must be exercised
upon the known principles of equity. This Orpiniol
is still thought perfectly correct in itself. Its application to particular cases, and indeed its being considered as a rule of decision on Kentucky titles, will
depend very much on the decisions of-thar country.
For, in questions respecting title to real estate especially, the sanie rule ought certainly to prevail in
both courts.
But, in its equity, this case differs essentially
from Bodley and. Hughes v. Taylor. In that case,
Taylor bad the, eldest entry as well as the eldest
patent. In this, the eldest equitable right is with
him who holds the eldest* grant. In that case, the
variance between the entry and survey of. the elder
right is established by a set -of rules growing out of
expositions subsequent to the survey. In' this, the
eldes-t grant is founded on a survey made on land
which, in point of fact, was previously appropriated.
But, which is of great importance, in that case, the
terms of the subsequent location prove that.the locator considered himself 's comprehending Taylor's
previous entry. within his iocation, and, consequently, did not suppose so much of the land covered by
.his entry as being then subject to appropriation.
*Qu.wre,

ypultget ;

T.&r.o.
Z.

256
TA.Yvo

SUPREME COURT U. S.

He either did not mean to acquire the land within
Tylor's entry, or he is to be considered as a man
,
.watching for the accidental mistakes of others, and
preparing to take advantage of them. What is
gained at law by a person of this description, equity
will not take from him ; but it does not follow that
egity will aidhis views, and give more than the law
gives him, by allowing him to hold what he has leg'ally gained, while he demands what is legally lost.
In this case, ],'Donald supposed himself to be
appropriating, and in fact was appropriating, land to
whiclh no other had, at the tim;e, any pretensions.
"Inaddition to these strong differences, in equity,
hetween the two cases, no decision of Kentucky was
'showi to the court,,which was applicable to the, case
of B3odley and Hughes v. Taylor. But the case of
Beckly v.Bryan and Ransdale is conceived to be
an authority in point for this case. Fhe decision of
the court of appeals of Virginia, in the case of Buffington and Johnson is also considered as expressly
in point, .and is to be respected, because both these
sur.vrys, were made while the country in whicW.they
were made formed a part of Virginia.
It is thought not absolutely unimportant, in a
court.of, equity, that one of the circumstances has
occurred, which, at law, rescues the surplus land in
MI.Donald's patent from the possibility of being acquired by any other person. An alienation has
talten place.. The decree, therefore, of the court
fox the district of.Kentucky, is to be reversed, and
the defendant must bi- decreed to release to the
plaintiftt, respectively, the lands within Sumner's
patent which lie within the lines of the lund coirveyed by M'Donald's heirs to them respectively.

