FEBRUARY,

1809.

13

might have been paid before; ana such an acknow- HEI5DERSOX
V
ledgment,. upon receipt of a sum smaller than the
amount of the condition of the bond, was good evi- ,
dence upon the plea of payment.
Judgmeit affirmed with costs.

COOKE AND OTHERS-v. WOODROW.

ERROR to the circuit court of the distri " of In an action of
Columbia, in an action of trover brought by the "rover, if the
plaintiffs in error for sundry household goods.

A bill of exceptions stated that the plaintiffs on
the trial proddced in"evidence to support their title
to the goods, a certain paper writing signed by one
John Withers, to which one John Pierson had subscribed his name as, a witness, and offered parol

juigment be.
low
in fa.
yourbeof the
original defend.
ant, the value

Of th1iematter
indispute upon the writ of
error in the

suptee cute

is the
States,
evidence to prove that the subscribing witness "had .sum
claimed
as

upwards of a year ago left the district of Columbia,
and that before he left the said district he declared
s'ay,
thit he should go to the northward, that is 'to Sy
*to Philadelphia or N r-York, and said he had a
wife in New-York. That the said subscribing Witnes3 went from the said district to Norfolk, and that

damages inthe
declaration.
Due diligence
must
be used,
to obtain the
of
testimony
the:subscribiig.
witness.cb
be
inquiry
If
made
at thd
place . where
thewitness
last heard wras
of,

when he got there he declared that he should go on
further to the south, but where was not known,'and
that he has not been heard of by the witness for the
last twelve months. It appeared that a.subpcena had and

he cannot

beerr issued in this case, for the said subscribingf 1)e
found,
his
of evidcnce
witness, directed to the marshal of the district of hand writing
Columbia, but he iould not be.found in the said dis- many be adatir.
trict by the said marshal. The plaintiff then offer- ted.

edto prove the hand-writing of the subsclibing witness and of the said John Withers to the said writing, but the court refused to permit the plaintiffs
to produce evidence, of the hand-writipg of the
said subscribing witness, and refused to permit the
plaintiffs to prove the hand-w'riting of the said John
Withers, otherwise than by the testimony of the said

SUPREME COURT U. S.
OboKE
WOODR.

subscribing witness; to which refusal the plaintiffs
excepted."
6. Sinnts, for the plaintiffs in error, suggested that
this court must be satisfied by evidence (other than
the declaration) that the sum in demand exceeded
100 dollars, exclusive of costs; and cited the rule
made in the case of Course v. Stead's Executors,
ante, vol. 1. p. 17.
But MARSHALL, Ch.J. said, that that rule applied only to. cases where the property itself (and
not damages) was the matter in dispute--such as
actions of detinue, &c.
If the judgment below be for the plaintiff, that
judgment ascertains the value of the matter in dispute; but where the judgment below is rendered
for the defendant, this court has not, by any rule of.
practice, fixed the mode of ascertaining that value.
The poit
ntarising upon the bill of exceptions was
submitted without argument-,
MARSHALL, 'Ch.J. after stating the case as it appeared in the bill of exceptions, observed.

That the court had-iome difficulty upon the point.
The-general rule of evidence is,that the. best evidence must be produced which the nature of the
case admits, and which is in the power of the party.
In consequence of-that rule, the testimony of the
subscribing witness must be had if possible. But
if it appear that the testimony of the subscribing
witness cannot be had, the next best evidence is
proof of'his hand-writing. In the present case it
does not appear to the court that the tesimhony of
the subscribing witness could not have been'obtained
if proper diligence had been used foi that purpose.
It does not appear that tbe witness had ever left
Norfolk. It is not stated that any inquiry concerning him had been made there. If such inquiry had
been made, and he could not be found, evidence of
hi hand-writing might have been permitted. But

VEBRUARY

1809.

15

as the case appears in the bill of exceptions, the court Coo*i
WOODROW.
below has not erred.

Judgment affirmed with costs.

1/ANDEVILLE AND JAMESSON z,. WILSON.

ERROR to the circuit court. of the district of A

ienme..
of
tile court bedefendant in error for goods low.
for the hire of a slave.
Quxre, whe•ther the court
ohtto per.

Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, hi an action of as- discretion
sumpsit brought by the
6old and delivered, and

The defendants below pleaded non.assumpserunt, aift taraed'.and the statute of limitations.
ments after
'andjudgmentupoa
demun'er.

To the'latter plea the pjaintiff replied, " that the In the stasaid money itx the several promises and undertakings tutu t
ex-nito.
aforesaid above mentioned in the declaration, at the, ception in flaof :aero
chats't$ actime of the making of the promises and i.nderta- 'our
kings aforesaid, became due and payable on an ac- coutts, applies

count current of tr.;de :And merchafidise had between 'dionswellofto asacthe siid plaintiff and the said defendants as merchants; sumpsit, as to
-and wholly concerned the trade- of merchandise; to actions
hoult. of acwit, at Alexandria aforesaid, in the county aforesaid, It extendsto
all accounts
and this he is ready to verify."
CurkelUt which
the,
concern

To which the defendants rejoined, " that in the trade of mer-

month of January, 1799, the partnership of Mande- ch,,tlis.
and .le
Jarihesson was dissolved, and 'ublic no- clned, by

the

of
cessation betice given of such dissolution, of which the said dealings
plaintiff.had a knowledge at the. time, and that at twcen the parthe time of the said dissolution of'the partnership tie, is Hot an
aforesaid, all accounts betwee i~iesdid plaintiff and alte ntsttbat
cebsay
the said Mandeville and .Jamesson ceased, and ally
of U16
since Which time no accownts have existed, or been items should*
continued, betwle& the plaintiff and the said defend- have been
ants, which the said defendants are. ready to verify." inarted irt-

The plaintiff surrejoined, " that the goods ,ata

ye-rs, nor that

the- cf.'Lartip.

"

