FEtBRUARY, 1801.

57

0ess, be affirmed of an Fndorsor that he is indbted, - YZATO*.
and that he may be sued when the iiote b comes due, T
&o..
-without at all interfering with the laws of Virginia
on this subject: for a thing may be debitm..in presenti, and yet no cause of action-exist against hiir.;
he may lie- under a:present obligation to pay a s4%
of money, upon some contingency or future 'event.
And, with regard to his liability to be suedwvcien t14
note becomes due, it may be very correctly affirmed
that it is not due from him until the insolveny .of
the drawer cat be "shown. As to the "dawer,.th
note is due when it is made payable ; but the. princ-•
pies of the Virginia law add a contingency to. the
liability of the endorsor, so-that, in facbt his.undertaking is collateral and contingent, and the amount,
is not legally due from him until after the day 'of
payment, and provided the drawer should prove insolvent.

THE HOPE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PRO;
VIDENCE v. BOARDMAN ET AL.

ERROR to the circuit court for Tme district of'A corporaton
Rhode b.lan4d, in -an action upon a policy of insui--uargetecanrance.

The only questiop decided in this court was that
relatii¢ to the jurisdiction of the courts of the

United States.

cannot
in ffie
of the
States,
unless in con-zand
litigate
courts
lunited

the characterof
sequence

ofthe indicd-

The parties wer'e described in the declaration as Vose the body
" Williizm-Renderson Boardman, and Pa&cal politc, which
Paoli Pope, both of Boston, in the dis.trjt of Massa- aerb prochusetts, merchants and citizens of the State of .Massa- Per averments
chusetts, complain of The Hope 'Insurance Conhpa- upon the re.
follows:

incorporatedby cord.
ny of Providence, a company legally

the legislatureof the State of Rhode Itland and Providence Plantations,iZnd establishedat Providence im
sazd district?'
Vol; V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The question- of juarisdiction was not made in the
INS.
Co. &C. cOurt below.

IoVW
0D

V.
DMA N.

''',"'

Ingerell, for the plaintiffs' in error, contended,'
that the-jiirisdiction must appear upon the face of
the proceedings, according to the decision in the case'
of Binghamv..Cabot, 3 Dal. 382. And that it does
not appear-upon this record that the parties are citizens ofdifferent states; a corporation aggregate
cannot Be- a citizen of any state; and here is no
averment of citizenship of the individuals .who compose the corporation.
Adams, contra.
The whole 'argument against u.5 depends upon the
ingle casd of Bingham v. Cabot; for although in
other cases the same point has been decided, vet
the tubseqpient decisions are all founded upon that
case. Thet effect of that decision has been to exclude man)t cases upon nice questions of pleading,
which would otherwise have been clearly within the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
No exception was taken to the jurisdiction in the
court below; and this court would not willingly
turn us out of-court, after encountering all the risk,
ptpense, delay and labour of. a jury trial, upon an
exception, which, if taken in the first instance, might
have prevented all that risk, expense, and delay. In
the 'case of Abercrombie v. Dupuis, (ante, vol. i.p.
343.) the prevnt Chief Justive (lar.all) intimated
a doubt how Ahe question would then have been d'ecided if 4i- were 'a riew case, and. if the court was not
bound by the case of Bingham v Cabot, This doubt
shows that the court was not theft inclined to extend
the principle farther than that case warrants. At the
time the court decided the case of Bingham v. Cabot, the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States was an object of jealouty, and th*ere was pro'bably a desire on the part of the court to remove all
ground of suspicion, by deciding doubtful cases
digainst the jurisdiction. 'This circumstance probably induced them to be over scrupulous upon that

FEBRUARY, 109.
subject. But it is as much the duty of this court Ho- IUs.
CoV. to exercise jurisdiction in cases where it is given by
BOARDMAN.
to
a
States,_
United
the'
of
the constitutioii and laws
refuse, to assume it where it is not given.
The person who drew the declaration intthe pre.s6nt case seems to have been awal:e of the decision
in the case of Bingham v. Cabot, and to have intended to describe the parties in such'a mwaner as
to give the court jurisdiction,- The defendant is
described as '"acompany lekgally incorporatedby the.
legislatureof the State of Rhode Island and .Providence Plantations; and establishedat Prov'raencein
the saiddistrict."

The term citizen could not with propriety be ap

plied to a corporatihn aggregate. It could only be
a citizen by intendment of law. It is dnly a moral
person; but it may be a citi.en quoad hoc,'i."e. in
the sense in'which the term citizen is used in that
part of the c6nstitution which speaks of the jurisdiction of the judicial power of the United States.
The term is indeterminate in its signification. It
-has different meanings in different parts of the constitution. When it says " the citizens of each state
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several states," the term citizens
has a meaning different from that in which it is'used
in describing the jurisdiction of the courts.
To say that all the individual members of a body
corporate mnust be citizens of a certain description,
destroys the idea of a body. politic. It is the body
politic,, the moral person, that sues ; -and not the
individuals who compose the corporation. Its Rowers, its duties and capacities are different from those
of the individuals of whom it is composed. It car
neither 'derive benefit from the privileges, nor suffer
injury by the incapacities, of an of those individuals.
Thus the infancy of any or even of all the members of a body corporate does not affect the validity
of its acts. .Nor does' the al'enage of the members

SUPREME COURT U. a.
goPz Ixs. prevent the body politic from holding lands. A.
majority of the members of the bank of the United
Co.V.ke.
States are-aliens.
,BOARDMAN,.
The objection goes to exclude all .corporations
aggregate from the'federal courts. For if a corporation cannot be'a citizen it cannot be an alien. And
as the individual members are constantly changink
by the transfer of stock, it is impossible to ascertain
at any precise moment who are the individuals who
constitute the corporate body; and it would at any
time be in the power of a corporation defendant to
evade the jurisdiction of the court, by taking in a
new member who should be of the same state with
the plaintiff.
At all events it is an objection which ought to be
pleaded in abatement according to the course of the
common law, so that the plaintiff may have a better
declaration; and by that means much 'expense, time
and labour would be saved.
The regson of giving jurisdiction to the courts of
the United States in cases between citizens of different, states, applies with the greatest force -to the
case of a powerful moneyed corporation erected within, and under the laws of a particular state. If there
was a probability that an individual citizen of a
state could influence the state courts in his favour,
how much stronger ii the probability that they could
be iiifluenced in favour of a powerful moneyed institution which might be composed of the mosi influential characters -in the state. What chance for justice could a .plaintiff have against such a powerful
association in the courts of a small state whose
judges perhaps were annually elected, or held their
offices at the will of the legislature?
If the jurisdiction of the federal courts is limited
by the letter of the constitution, they have no jurisdiction in a case between a citizen of one state and
a citizen of another state; because the constitution
speaks of citizens, in the plural, so that there must

FEBRUARY, 1809.

61

'be more than one plaintiff, and more-than one ile-tTOPe ITM.fendant. So also there could be no jurisdiction if
0'* O.
one of the parties was a woman, because a woman BoARDMA r.
cannot be a citizfn; which is a term applicable only
to a male.
It is'not necessary that a person should be a citizen
to commit treason: it may be committed by an aliep.
Jfudge Vay, as an argument in favour ot the suability of the states, urged' that a corporation could
undoubtedly be stled in the courts of the United
States.*
THE COURT having, in the case of The Bank f the
UnitedStates v. DTvehux et al. decided that the right
of a corporation to litigate in the courts of the
United States depended upon the character (as to
citizenship) of. the members which compose the
body corporate, and that a body corporate as such
cannot be a citizen, within the meaning of the constitution, reversed the judgment, for want of jurisdiction in the court below.
*A similar question of jurisdiction beinginvolred in the case of The.
Bank oftie United ,rtates v Deveaux et W, and the counsel i n that
ease expressing a wish to be heard before this ease should be dcilded,
the com-tagreed to hear both cases at the *ame time; the further

arguments in this case were consequently blended with those in the
other.

THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES v. DEVEAUX-L'."AL.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
Georgia.

A corpori.
tu aggreg'ate,
OE

eulpi.srd

The declaration, or.petition, as it is there called, C""7SL,,sof one
a et,' e of
was as follows:

District of Georgia.
To the honourable the judges of the sixth circuit

another

i,

state

the circuit

eurt

of

the

United States.

