335

FEBRUARY, 18o9.

Y"ATON
V.

Fay.

YEATON v. FRY.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of ifthe insu-"
be "a.
of rance
a poucy
the" case upon
on
action
Columina, in •an
lst all risksi,
;
, .
-•.
_ )
insurance on the brig Richard, at andfrom Tobago Ckadd
to one or more ports.in the I-Vest Indies, and at andport&and B Nanioga exceptfron thence to Noejblk The-following clause wasd," a esse
sailing ignoinsuThis
"
policy.
of
the
ins.rted in the body
rance is declared to be made against all risks, bloc port
pad
aded ports and Hispaniola excepted." And at the is covered by
foot of the policy was the following memorandum the policy.

"Warranted by the assured free from any char-ge, isnot of
but
in consequence 6fpor4
ddmgae or loss, which
.
: may
- arise
the
iisk
seizure or detention of the property, for or on ac- capture
breaking
count of illicit oi prohibited trade."
blockade.

On the trial of the general issue, four
exception were taken in the court below

the
of
of

for
the

Copies of the
in
bills S-of proceedings
the vice-admiby the ralty court of

plaintiff in error.

Jamaica

are

ailmissible in
evidence when

1. The first was to the admission in evidence of certified under
the
of the
sealby
court
certain copies of the .proceedings and decree of the the
vice-admiraltv court at Jamaica, ordering a sale to deputy regb

pay the salvage of the brig.
'authenticated

The copies were trar,

who is

certified by the

by

the following certififates, ViZ. judge of the
"Jamaica, ss. I, Adam Dolmage, Esq. deputy of court, who is
Owsley Rowley, Esq. chief registrar and scribe of certified by a
Y)

notary public.

Depositions,
the acts, causes and
undera
- court of• vice- tak~en
- - of the
• • businesses
admiralty within the said island, duly constituted, commssio a

appointed and sworn, do hereby certif-, and moke sued at the in.
tnce of the
known to all whom it doth or may concmni, that the defen
1dant,
several- sheets
of paper writing hereunto annexed, may be read byin
in numberc

1nnumber-fifteen, and
from
"'
.
.. or numbered
.the
- marked
No. 1. to No. 15. inclusive, rio contain a true copy
and transcript of certain process itnd proceedings,'
had, moved, and prosecuted to" interlocutory dt-cree
in the said court, in a certain cause therein lately

. ptalti&f'
b
ahhough. the
plaintitr had
lotbotice of
the time and

place of taking
depending, entitled, " Brig Richard, Jacobs, mas- A essel.sail.
ter." In which cause 13Tnjamini Jacobs hath duly iug ignorantly

S36

SUPREME COURT U..S,

filed his claim thereto in the said court; and I fur.
ther certify, that I have carefully compared and
examined the same with the originals remaininsr of
to a blockaded record in rny office.
port, Is not
e
" In fait, and testimony of the truth whereof, I
turliable
to
of nations. the said Adam Dolmage have -hereunto set my
la"v
hand; and the seal of the said court of vice-admiralty
hath been cahsed to be hereunto affixed in the city
of Kingston, in 'the said island, the seventh day of
January, one thousand,.eight hundred and seven.
YZATON

V.

"ADis.

DOLMAGE,

Dep. Reg. Vic. Cu'r. .Adm."

Jamaica, ss. ,I,Henry John Hinchliffe,. Esq.
judge and commissary of the court of vice-admiralty, in the island of Jamaica, do hereby certify'
may concerni ,that
and make known to all whom it,
Adam Dolmage, Esq. who has signed and attested
the certificate hereunto annexed, is deputy registrar
of the said court of vice-admifalty, and that to all
acts and instrumehts by him signed and attested,
in such his capacity, due faith and credit is and
ought to be given in judgment, court, and without.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand,
and caused the seal of the court of vice-admiralty
aforesaid to be affixed, this sixteenth day of Septem.ber,1807.

(Seal.)

"

Henry John Hinchliffe."

£ Jamaica, ss. I, Robert Robertson, secretary, and
notary public, of this his majesty's island of Jamaica,
duly admitted, allowed and.sworn, dwelling inthe
city of Kingston, in the county of Surrey, aid island
aforesaid, do hereby certify and make known to all
whom these presents may concern, that Henry John
Hinchliffel Esq. by whom the annexed certificate
is signed, is judge and commissary of the court of
vice-admiralty of the island of Jamaica aforesaid,
and that to all acts and instruments in .writing by
him the s~tid "Henry John Hinchfiffe, Esq. attested,
due faith and credit is and ought to be given. In
testimony whereof, I: the 'said notary, have here-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

337

unto affixed my hand And seal of office, at Kingston YRA TO U
aforesaid, this fifth day of October, Anno -Dolnini FR.
I- "eft/
one thousand, eight hundred and seven.
(Seal.)

"Rob. Robertson, Sec. and N. Pub."

It was further testified by competent witnesses,
examined upon oath by the court, that the said Henry
J. Hinchiffe, in the year 1804, publicly sat as ajudge
of, and held the court of vice-admiralty in' Jamaica,
and inthat capacity condemned the vessel of one
of the witnesses, who, in the island, of Jamaica, received from his proctor a 'copy of the proceedings
in* the said court in his cause; which copy was
authenticated in the same manner as the paper now
offered in evidence, and under a similar seal; and
that upon producing that copy to the underwriters
in Alexandria and in Philadelphia, the loss was paid
-without delay. That similar papers, purporting to
be copies of proceedings in the.same court of viceadmiralty in other cases, had been received in this
country by other persons, and had been considered
by both -insurers and insured as authentic papers,
zndl9sses had been'paid thereon; and that the present
paper was shown to the .defendant, 'who did not
object to its authentication, but refused to pay the
loss for other reasons. But neither of the witnesses
had ever seen. the judge write; nor the aci of affixing"the seal of the court to any paper.
2. The second bill'of exceptions stated, in substance, that the defendant (the plaintiff in error)
piayed the court to instruct the jury, that if at the
time the brig Richard sailed from Tobago- for
Curraqoa, the latter island was actually blockaded,
and the brig turned away by the blockading force,
and afterwards lost, without again attempting
to enter Curraqoa, and in the prosecution of- her
voyage' to, Norfolk, -the plaintiff below was not entitled to recover, although no official notification of
suc blockade was ever published, and although the
tna4ter of the brig was ignorant of such blookadC
Vol. V

U a,

SUPREME COURtTU. S.
YZATOW
V.

FRY.

until he met with the bl6ckading'forde.
instruction the coint refused to give.

Whica

3. The third billof exceptions stated, that the plaiiitiff below-offered, to read in' evidence certain depositions taken in Tobago, tinder a commission issued
at the instance of the defendant, and the court, being satisfied that the plaintiff's attorney had agreed
to receive, and did Teceive and transniit to the
plaintiff, notice of thie time and place-of taking such
depositions, suffered the plaintiff to read them in
evidence to the jury.
4. The fourth bill' of exceptions was to the opinion
of the court given to the jury' at.the request of'the
plaintiff, that if at the tinie the brig sailed from
Tobago f -Curraqoa the latter island was not a
blockaded port by notifioatioh of the British governmeni-to the. American nation, but was blockaded
in fact, and if the master was ignorant of such blockade until he was warned off by the blockading force,
and being so warned he did noL again .attempt, to
enter the blockaded port, but changed his course
intending to come directly, to Norfolk, and in the
prosecutioA of such voyage to Norfolk was captu'Enred by a FTench cruiser, and recaptured by \.,a
glish vessel, carried into Jamaica, libelled, condemned and sold under a decree of the .vice-admiralty court of that. island, then such sailing from
Tobago for Currapoa, and from thence to'Norfolk,
was a lawful voyage within the meaning of the
contract of insurance, and not within the exception
in the policy, and the plaintiff was entitled to recover against the'underwriters an indemnity for the
'loss sustained by such capture, recapture and sale.
Toungs, for tme plintiff in error, contended,
1. That blockaded ports were absolutely excepted from the policy, and, consequently, there was no
insurance if the vessel sailed'for a blockaded port.
The exception amrants -to a warranty that the vesael shall not sail for a blockaded port; and the insu-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

339

red takles upon himself the chance of. the port being
-blockaded. ParA,'322. 367. Kenyon v. Berthow.
2. That the copy of the proceedings of the court
of 'vic'-admiralty, at Jamaica, -was not sufficiently
authenticated to be admitted in evidence. The act
of congress does not designate any mode of authentication of foreign papers, but has left that subject
entirely t6 the state legislatures. 4s the court be10w.was sitting at Alexandria,. it ought to have been
g6veriied by the act of assembly of Virginia of
December 8, 1792, (Revised Code, 168. fol. ed.)
which requires,* besides the attestation of a notary
public, "a testhmonial'from the proper officer of the
city, county, corporation, or borough where such notary public shall reside, or the great seal of such
state, kingdom, province, island, colony, orplace
beyond sea."
In the case of Church v. Hubbart,.2 Cranch, 238.
this court said, that foreign judgments were to be
authenticated, either by an exemplification under
the great seal,.or by a provied copy, or -by the certificate of. an officer authorized by law, which certi.care itself must be properly authenticated. The pr'per authentication, under the laws of Virginia, is
the testimonial mentioned in the act of assembly, or
the great seal of the .colony or island.
3. With regard to the depositions 'taken on behalf
of the defendant, and which the plintiff wished to
use on the trial, they ought not to have been read
for the plaintiff, because they had not been taken in
sich, a manner as to authorize the defendant to use
them against the plaintiff.
This cour- has determined that notice to an attorney at law is not such notice as is required by the
act of assembly of Virginia, for taking depositions,
and the attorney could not admit, or waive notice
but upon, record.

YEAT9N
r.

SUPREME' COURT, b. S.
YFATON
PaY.

.E. Y Lee and C. Lee, contra, Were stopped by th4
court as to the first pQint.
2. As:to thecopy of-the'proceedings in the co.urtof vice-admiralty, they took a distinction between
the proceedings of'mi icipal- courts, and courts of
the ljw of nations. The seals of courts of admi- •
ralty, in cases under the law of nations, aie ddinit-'
ted in evidence without further authentication, because the? are courts of the whole civilized world,
I Rob. 296.
-and every person interested is a' party.
The Maria. Gilb. Law of E.o 22, 23. * This war
admitted by the counsel on both ;ides in the case
of Churchv; Hubbart, referred to by the opposite
counsel.
Besides, these proceedings are authenticated- in
the manner provided by the 19th article'of the British-treaty of 1794.
fones, in reply.
The .exception ,n the policy, was .not inten'ded
merely to exclude the 'risk of attempting tb enter a
blockaded port, but exc*luded all risks if the vessel
should sail for fiport actually blockaded. The
trade with a blockaded, port is an illegal trade, and
there is an express warranty at the foot of the policy
against all losses arising from seizure for or on
account of illicit or prohibited trade, The exception, therefore, must have been intended to provide
for sonjething else. Can it be contended that if the
vessel had sailed for Hispaniola, ,the underwriters
would have been liable for a -loss, happenirdg in any
manner whatsoever? Yet blockaded ports,;and Hispaniola are equally excepted, and in the yVry same.
words.' A voyage to such a port is as much exclu-.
ded from the.policy asa voyage to Hispaniola. The,
exclusion of particular ports amounts to warranty
that the vessel shall not" sail to iuch ports ; and -ifa
warrtnty be not complied with, the uqnderwriters
are not bound, ywhatever may be the cause of-the

.FEBRUARY, 140

:'
.341

non.eomplianee,%and whether the loss liajpened in
consequence of such noix-compliance, or not.. It is
a condition'precedent; and an innoce h, an igfiorant,,
or a.compulsive violation of a. warranty? however
immaterial, avoicls the 4ontract of insurance. Park,
i18. 326. 363. 369. Mqrslhall, 348. 354.

Mfarck 13.
MARSMALL, Ch. J. deliteted the opinion of the
court as follows, yiz.,

The. material question in this case grows out of
an exception in a polipy of insurance.
The'plaintiff insured a specified sum on the brig
Richard, belonging to the defendant, " at and froi
Tobago to one or more ports in the West Indies,
and at and from thence to Norfolk ;" ahd the insurance is declaied to be made against "all r.ihs.
blockaded ports ;nd Hispaniola excepted.'
TIh Richard sailkd from Tobago for Curraqoa,
which was'then blockaded in fact, but the blockade
was not known at Tobago when the vessel saileUd

nor was it known to the captain until he was warnea

off by a British ' ship. of war. He theii saiied for
Norfolk;' but .6n his voyage was _aptkaf d by a
French privateer, by whom the vess'el was plundered
:to a considerable extent, -and ordered to St. Domingo for trial.
The *question is, whether this risk comes within

the exception contained in the- policv.

The counsel has considered the exception as a

*arranty; but the court cannot so .consider it. The
words'are 1he wbrds of the insurer, not of the in-

sured; and they'-take a particular risk ouc of the
policy wbich, but tibr the exception, would be corn"prehended in the contract.

YEATO

p

SUPRENIE COURT U. S.
YZATOW

What is that riskW

V.
Fny.

of insurance are generally the most informal instruments which are broughi into courts of
justice; and there are' no nstruiments which, are
more liberally construed,-in 6rder'to effect-the real
intention 6f the partieb, if that intention can be
clearly' ascertained.

SPolicies

In that part of the policy on which the present
controversy depends, a few words are 'given, to
which others must be subjoined in order to complete
the sense, and give a full description of.the risk
a'gainist which the underwriters were unwilling to
insure. These words are, "blockaded portd and
Hispaniola excepted."
It is.
reasonable to suppose that a voyage to Hisianiola was not insured.. The assured has "notice of
this, and if he sails for -Hispaniola, the voyage is entirely at his own risk. Against the risks of such &
yoyage, whatever they may be, the underwriters
Vill not insure. It is a specified place,.excluded, by
consent, from the policy. The perils attefiding the
voyage Are understood, whether they arise from the
sea, or otherwis6, and ar6 all excepied. The mo-.
tives for making the excepti6n do not'appear, nor'
can they be inferred from the instrument.
The plaintiff in error contends'that the'same reasoning applies, in its full extent, to the 6xception of
blockaded ports; but the court does not think so.
-Hispaniola is excepted absolutely fromthe policy;
but other ports are within the terms, of the 'voyage
insured, if thiey be not blockaded. " It is their character, as blockaded ports, which excludes -them
from the insurance. Their being excepted by this
character is. thought to'justify the opinion, that it is
the risk attending this character which produces .the
exception, and 'which is the risk excepted. The iisk
of a blockaded port, as a bldckaded port, is the risk
incurred by breaking the blockade. This is defined

FEBRUAR,

18o9.,

34S

ly public law. Sailing frdm Tol~ago for Curratoa,
knowing Currahoq to be blpckaded, would -have incuredi this risk, bat sailing for that port, without
stch knowledge, did not incur "it.
The underwriter had no objection to a voyage to
Cuira~oi, other than might arise from its being
blov:kaded. The dangers of the blockade, therefore,
were the particular dangers which induced the excelytion, and it seems to the court that the exception
bught not to be extended beyond them. if this be
correct, the cirduit court committed no error in refusing togive the opinion which was required by the
counsel on this point.
•The sentence in this case issufficiently authentieated to be received as evidence. Being a court
acting under the taw of nations, its proceedings-may
be proved accprding to the mode observed in the
present case; and were this doubtful, 'that doubt
would be reynoved by the circumstance that it is .the
form stipulated b/y treay.
The defendant is not pt liberty to -except to his
own depositions, because he does not produce proof
of his havink given notice to thie plaintiff. The admission of notice by the plaintiff is certainly sufficient; if notice to him was necessary, to *enablehim
to use the defendant's deposition.
The fourth bill of exceptions depends on the prinzciples stated by the court, in the first part of this
opinion.
There is no error in the judgnent of the circuit
tourt, and it is affirmed, with costs.

YEAxoTz

p'R.

