FEBRUARY. 1809.

33a

missory -note, at least where he cannot obtain payment at law, to sue a remote endorsor in equity.

.]RrDrLn
..
vrLLL..

Certainly, in .sidch a case, the defendqtnt -ha's a
right to insist on the other endorsors being made
parties, but he has not done- so; and, in this case,
the court does" not perceive that 'M'Clenachan is a
party so material in the cause, that a decr'ee may
not piroperlIk be made without him. "
reversed, and the defendants diThe decree is"
rected to pay the amount of the note to the plaintiffs.
'The -decree of the court was as follows:

-

This cause came on to be heard on'the transcript
of. the record of the circuit court for the 'county of
Alexandria, *andwas argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,:the codrt is of opinion, that the
decree of the said circuit court, dismissing the bill
of the plaintiffs, is .erroneous, and ought to be reversed; and this court doth reverse the same; and
this'cgurt,, proceeding. tor give such decree as the
said circuit court ought to have given,. doth decree
and order, that the defendants pay to the plaintiffs
the sum of 1, 00 dollars, that being the amount of
the note in the bill mentioned, together with interest
thereon from the time the- same becaine due.'

DULANY v. HOPGKIN-

endorsor
of a promissory
ERROR 'to the circuit court for the district of The
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of as- note -%io ensurnpsitby the endorsee of a promissory aote against dorses to give
to the
his immediate- endorsor. The notqe. was.made by credit
nl and who
lote,
iscounters~cuWellborn, on the 1st of January, i806, for-200 d
or order 120 days after redbyproperty
to Hodgkin
'payable-.
lars,
lpn
isthet
not
pledged,
date, negotiable at the bank of .Alexandria. On the liable

$54

SUPREME COURT U. S.

monve

trial, the plaintiff did not produce any evidence of a
suit against.th maker, norevidence.of his insolvenVXL.,
cy, but proved that the maker never was an inhabitant of -the district of Columbia, but resided in Albemote,norinan narle.county, in the state of Virginia; whereupon.
ac'tion for tho. the court, upon the prayer of the defendant, instructney had and
received, un- ed the jury that it was-still necessary for the plaintiff
les the plain- to prove . to the satisfaction of the jury, that he had
tiff show that
saifato o
j
that
thF inaker is. brought suit upon -the note against the maker, or
insolvent, or that a suit against him would have been fruitless,
that he" has bef6re he could resott to the endorsor. To which
brought* suit
which has pro- instruction the plaintiff' excepted.

ved fruitless.
It is not suffl-

cient to slicsw
The plaintiff also excepted to the refusal of the
that the maker court to instructthe jury that if they should be soof the note is

set

of the tisfied by the evidence, that at the time the note was
given, it was endbrsed 6 y the defendant with a-view
¢art.
of giving credit to the maker with the plaintiff, and
that it was so understood; and if they liould be
further satisfied by the evidence, that the maker left
in the hands of tie defendant funds to-pay the note,.
or otherwise counter-secured, him for becoming endorsor of the note, the plaintiff is entitled to recover
in this actiQn, although the maker should not be
proved to have been insolvent before the. note became due.

reach ofot"the
.process
the

The-declaration contained two counts; one upor.
the note, the other for money had and received.
The case was submitted, without argument, to the
court, who, after inspecting the record, on the next
day,
Affirmed the judgment, with costs.
5

