FEBRUARYi

1809.

45

slip credliors. ThIs seems*to admit the legal right' Tucrrffa
ofthose creditors to :prove their debts,. nd to re- oxLEY.
c4ie Their dividends. It is equity, not law, which
can postpone them.
3t is the opinion of a majority of the court, that
tbecircuit court erred in 'rendering a-judgm*ent ou
thi special verdict for the sum of 143:dollars and 33
ces, instead of the sum of 16 dollars and 63 cents';
wbch was the balance after deducting the debt due
frcn H. arid T, Moore to the defendants in -that
cort. It is therefore- considered by the'court, that
thisaid judgment be reversed and annulled; and
thz judgment be -rendered for the plaintiffs in the
.ciruit court for the sum of 16 dollars' and 63 cents,
am thp costs in -the circuit court.
JudgTent reversed.

VOUNG -. THE BANK OF1 ALEXANDRfA.

]VRROR to the circuit -court of the district of Suits'brought
Caumbla sitting ip Alexandria, in Ai action of debt tie..akp!
upn-a prormissory note, negotiable in the ban' of-on
.ntets,promissory
- made.
Alm-afidria, made by Toung to Tiqton, and by him negotabe in
that bank, ore
"
enorsed to the bank.
-

entitled to trial

at the return
the

The onlh question now- argued, was whether the term of
cort below errea in ruling the .plaliitiff in error into writ.
a tiaf ai- the return term of the writ.
f
The bill of exceptions set fohi:th the eapia ad respoidenduin issued by the iiruit coUrt of the -districtof Columbia, ofi the fOth of November, 1807,
rettrnable " at the next couri.' The defendant below. *yas t-Aen on the 12th:of -NoVember. -The next.
courl was h%)uden by. law.'on the '4th Monday of NoVernr,

"

"*7.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Youtc
THZ

g,

&c.

It further stated, that the counsel for the plaintifo
below, having filed his declaration at the return tcrn,
prayed' the court to fix a day 'for the trial of te
cause during the present term, and also to-rule the
defendant to plead at a short'day durifig the ttn,
and offered to consent that the defendant shoild
plead the general issue, aid under that plea gitdn
evidence any sp'ecial matter which he could plad
either in bar or abatement ;'to which the'defendnt'
objected; but the court ruled him'to plead the hxt
day, and upon the general isste bein& joined, rcnd
hipi to trial immediately.
By'thb gerieral irules or practice estiablished by he
circuit, co'urt it is ordered, that all proces issung
from that court, except executions, be'made retuya.
ble before the court in,term time; and that rutevbe
held in the clerk's office on the day after the rimg
of the court in each term, and on the same da3 in
each month thereafter duriig the vacation ; id tiat
all proceedings and orders' takei at the rules stall
conform as near.as'may' e to the rules of pro'ceedng
directed b7 an act of the assembly of Vifgifiia, ihtitled "1An act reducing into one the several rts
concerning the'establishment, jurisdiction and ponrs
of district courts," and the several acts atnencIg
the same. ,By that act, which-was passed Deeerer
12; 1792, it is cidered, that "1one month after he
plaintiff hath filed his declaration he may give a rile
to plead with'the clerk, and if the defendant.shalliot
plead accordingly at the expiration of such rule;the
plaintiff may enter judgment for his debt or dma;es
and costs." ",All rules to declare; pleadreply, .ejoin, or for other proceedings, shall be given reguarly from month t6 month; shall be entered in a- bok
to bc kept for tlat purpose, and shall expire bn the
succeeding rule day." By the 25th section of hat
act, it is provided that ip certain cases 'the stiriff
may take the engagement pf an attorney of the curt,
endorsed on the writ, that he will appear for th, defendant, ," and such appearance shall be enteredwith
the clerk in the office, on the first lay after th' end
of-the court to which -su6hprocess i' returnable,tuhich

FEBRTARY, 1809.

47

iq kveby declaredto te the appearanceday in allprocess returnable, to any day of the court next pre-

YOUO
Tim BANK,.

cedihg."

B' the act of congress of 27th of February, 1801,
it isieclared that the laws of Virginia, as they then.
exised, should be and remain in forte in that part
of tit district of Columbia which, was ceded by
Virgia to" the United States.
Bythe act of congress. of the 3d of March, 1801,.
§ 3. iis enacted, that the ircuit court for the county ofAlexandria, shall possess and exircise the
samie powers and jurisdiction civil and criminal as
was.t1*n possessed and exercised by the district
'cbuitsof Virginia.
By he act of assembly of Virginia, passed on
the 23cof November, 1792, and -hich incorporate.d
'the bark, it is ordered, that in suits brought by the.
bank, tpon notes made negotiable therein, an issue
shall be made up, and trial had at the return tefm of
the writ.
"unr's, lor tne plaintiff in error.
Tie act of 27th of Febtuary, 1801, conferred, on.
the circuit court for the district of Columbia, no other
powers than, those which had been giten generally
to thd circuit courts of the United States, by the act
.passed in tid same session, vol. 5. p. 237. § 11.,and
by that act no such power is given to those, courts
in respect to the debts due to the bank.
The 3d section of the act of the 3d of March,
1801, relates .to- criminal jurisdiction only, or if it"
relates to the civil jurisdiction, it is not clear- that
the, district courts Of Virginia could exercise the
power, because those courts were established after
the act incorporating the bank.
When this case was before this court 'at the last
term, upon the motion to quash the writ of error

.

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IoU-o
TE lK
&c.

this coutt decided that so much of the charfr as
took away the right of appeal from -the debtos to
the bank, in the courts of Virginia, did not aply to
Sthe courts of the United States; and a distiation
was taken between the rights which the bank- hd as
a body corporate and its remedies derived'rom
.particular provisions in its charter. 'The sumnary
trial is nothing more than a form of remedy iven
by its charter, 'dnd cannot be binding upo- the
courts of the United States. The proviso n the
16th.secteion "of the act of the 27th of Febuiary,
101, onlIy save the' right s, not the remedies, of the
corporatio .
.SimmsAnd Swann, contra.
The act incorporating the bank of Alexaniria is
a public act, .and obligatory up-n all the Oirts of
-Virginia.' :By the act of congress of the 2vthof February, 1801, it is adopted, together with ill the
otherlaws'of Viiginia, as the law within the county
of-Alexandria; and is.therefore as binding upon the
cir.tit coprt.of th6. district of Columbia, as it was
upon the'courts of- Virginia; but lest any doubt
should-exist on the subject, the act of congress of
the 3d of March, 1801, declares, that the:ci:cuit
*cQurt of that district "shall possess and exercise
thefiame powers and jurisdictidih, civil and crirrinal,
.a3is now possessed and exercised by the district
courts of VirgInia." There has.never been a doubt
but that the district courts of-Virginia had jurisdiction, in cases in which the banlk was plaintiff, and was
bound, if requested, to compel the defendant to go
0t trial at the- reuirn teim.' The clause in the charter pf the bank i an exception to the general law,
upon the. subjet f judicial proceedings ; "but the
ezception is equally.yalid, with the general rule.

Jones, in reply..
The bank has not brought the case within the act.
The writ is not returnable'until the return day; and
the return day is not.until after the 'rising of the

14EBRUARY, 1809.

45

coilrt sothat the bank is not entitled to a trial untit

the .5econd term after issuing the .writ. The wiritis

.*,ouzd.

V.EAN,

returaable to the nexi cour'; but the offier has the
wjhole term to return it i14, and may delay it utitil
the very last moment of the session.
Adrc6.1O.
MARSLA&LL,.Ch. J. delivered the opinioil of the

court to the follqwing effect:
The writ being returnable to the court, is returna,
bie the. first day of the court, It was known to-the
legislature of Virginia that the appearate day 'for
-all process was the day after the term*, When,
therefore, they directed that a trial shoald he ha4
at:the return -term,1 they must have intended that
-this coe should be an.exception to the general rule.
Judgment .affirmea.

YEATON. v. THE BANk OF AEXANDRIA.

ERROR t( the• dircuit
court •of tile di'triet of.
bank
" "•
, Co- of Tle
Alexandri*
laImbia, in an action .o.f 'assumpsitbrought by the de- oa ,ain;.o,
fendant's in error against the plaintiff in errora
as en-

a'ftin,-a.-a

en.
tle prodorsor of a.prQmissory note for the abcommodation gaiast
dorsorofa
of It. Young, the maker.'
misanry note

The declaration contained two counts.

made negotia.
ble in -that

One upon bank,. without

suing;
the
form, and firt
the endorsement
• of. the note, in the usual
.
mfaker
Ot. prn
without any averment of the insolvency of the ma- vi,. IN itlsol,
ker, or of any steps taken to enforce payment from vent, although
him. The other was for money- had and received. thee wasore
the accommo-

The same questions arose in this case as in the atker of anth
preceding case of Tozng v. The Banh of Alexanaria, notwithstandingthatin
was 1 gilla
but the only question argued in this cause, .'
tile Virira4
whether,an endorsor of a promissory note to the bauk 'licd
coutruet
VoL. V.

