FEBRUARY, 1809.

61

'be more than one plaintiff, and more-than one ile-tTOPe ITM.fendant. So also there could be no jurisdiction if
0'* O.
one of the parties was a woman, because a woman BoARDMA r.
cannot be a citizfn; which is a term applicable only
to a male.
It is'not necessary that a person should be a citizen
to commit treason: it may be committed by an aliep.
Jfudge Vay, as an argument in favour ot the suability of the states, urged' that a corporation could
undoubtedly be stled in the courts of the United
States.*
THE COURT having, in the case of The Bank f the
UnitedStates v. DTvehux et al. decided that the right
of a corporation to litigate in the courts of the
United States depended upon the character (as to
citizenship) of. the members which compose the
body corporate, and that a body corporate as such
cannot be a citizen, within the meaning of the constitution, reversed the judgment, for want of jurisdiction in the court below.
*A similar question of jurisdiction beinginvolred in the case of The.
Bank oftie United ,rtates v Deveaux et W, and the counsel i n that
ease expressing a wish to be heard before this ease should be dcilded,
the com-tagreed to hear both cases at the *ame time; the further

arguments in this case were consequently blended with those in the
other.

THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES v. DEVEAUX-L'."AL.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
Georgia.

A corpori.
tu aggreg'ate,
OE

eulpi.srd

The declaration, or.petition, as it is there called, C""7SL,,sof one
a et,' e of
was as follows:

District of Georgia.
To the honourable the judges of the sixth circuit

another

i,

state

the circuit

eurt

of

the

United States.

62
-'1AiN

V.

Where the

SUPREME COURT U. S.

S.' court'of the United States, in and for the district
aforesaid.
ju-

risdictiown, the

The petition of The President,DirectorsandCo m

pany, of the Bank of the United States; which said

courts -of tileo
United States bank was,established -underan act ofcong-ress entidepends,
o -a
the charnot
s' Vted " An act to• incorporate the subscribers to the

ter of the pac"

Bank of the United States," passed the 25th day of

ties,
but upl,

Pebrtary, 1791, showeth,

tie nature of
the case, the
circuit courts
derive no ju
rjsiction from
the judiciary

That Peter Deveaux and Thomas Robertson, both
of the city of Savannah, Esquires, have endamaged
your petitioners inthe sum of three thousand dollars
set, except in for this, to wit, thatthe said Thomas Robertson, then
controVeesy
acting under authority from the said Peter Deveaux,
b6tween citi- on the 20th day of April, 1807, at Savaninah, in the
ens of state
district aforesaid, and within the jurisdiction of this
claiming lands honourable court, with force and arms entered into
under rants the house and prenises of your petitioners,at Saranfrom different
sta, s.

nah afor'esaid, and then and there seized, took, and

No right is detained, two boxes (the goods and chattels of your

conferred- on

the bank, by peitionrs) 'containing each' one thousand dollars in

silver, hen and there found in the possession of your
petitioners, and being' of the value of two thousand
and 'four doflars, and carried the same away, and
%ion nggregte converted and disposed-thereof to their own use, and
e1111ot,
corporateit, its
a-other wrongg to your petitioners then and there did
Pat
a against the peace of the district, and to the great
.Citin.
damage of your petitioners, therefore your petitioners say they are injured, and have sustained damage
to the value of three thousand dollars, and therefore
they bring suit. And your petitioners aver that they
are citizens of the State of Pennsylvania, and the
sgi.d Peter Deveaux and Thomas Robertson are citizens of the State of Georgia. Wherefore your
petitioners pray process, &d.
its set (if incorpoiation, to
sue in the federalA court-.
eorpoi-a-

And the said Peter and Thomas, by R. L. their
attorney, come and defend the force and injury,
when, &c.' and pray judgment of the declaration
aforesaid, because they say that the sixth circuit
court of, the United States ought not to have and

FEBRUARY, 18o9.
enteitainjurisdiction of the said declaration, and the
matters therein contained, for that the said president,
directors and, company of the bank of the United
States aver themselves to be a body politic and corporate, and that in that capacity these defendants
say they cannot sue or be sued, plead orbe impleaded
in"this honourable court, by any thing contained in
the constitution or laws of the same-United States,
and this they are ready to verify; wherefore, for want
of jurisdiction in this behalf; they pray judgment,
and their costs, &c.
To this plea there was a demurrei and-joinder,
and judgment in favour of the defendants upon the
demurrer.
Binney, for the plaintiffs in error.
In the year 1805 the State of Georgia passed a
law to tax the Branch Bank of the Unites States, at
Savannah. ,The bank having refused to pay the
tax, the state officers entered their office of discount
and deposit, and took and carried away two thousand dollgrs, for which the bank of the United States
brought their action of trespass in the circuit court
of the United States for the district of Georgia.
The plea to the jurisdiction does not deny that the
plaintiffs were citizens of the State of Pennsylvania,
but relies upon the fact that the plaintiffs sue as t
body corporate.
The record presents two questions.
1..
-Whether a body politic, composed .exclusively
of citizens of one state, can sue a citizen of another state in the circuit court of the'United States.
2. Whether the bank of the United States has not
a peculiar right tosue in that court.
The objections to this right are two.

-. That the*individual character of the member.

BANK

-D, '-

U. S.

STIPREME COURT U. S.
BAvx u.-s. is so "voIlylost iii that of the corporation, that the
V.
court cannot take notice of. it.
2. That the suit neing in a corporate capacity, it
is impossible by the pleadings to .bring into qudstion the fact of citizenship of the individual members,
The answer to* the first objection embraces three
propositions-.
1. That ifi many instances, the character, situatiom
and attributes of the members of a corporation, are
brougIt into notice in judicial proceedings against
the corporate body.
2. That even if it were otherwise, still the spirit
'of the federal constitution and laws demands, that
t'he citizenship of the members should be noticed, a's
wll to affect the question of jurisdiction as for
other purposes.
3. That the constant practice in the circuit courts,
'and the tacit approbation of this court, -have .sanctioned their jurisdiction in such cases.
'i z What is a corporation aggregate ? It is a collection of many individuals united into,one body,
,inder a special~name, having perpetual succession
under an artificial form, and vested, -by the policy
of the law, with the capacity of acting-in severalrespects as an individual. i Kyd. on Corp; 13. .To
say that it is an " ens civile, a Jus hiabendi et agendi,
-an ens rationis; a mere metaphysical being-, and th'at
it rests only in consideration and intendment of law,"
are.terms calculated to mislead the understanding.
A corporation is composed of natural persons; it
is a visible, tangible body; and although the whole
collectively have- faculties in law which the indi:viduals have not, yet it does not follow that-the whole
body may not be- seen, examined, sifted, and contemplated, as any 'other body of individuals having

FEBRUARY, 1809.

65

collectively a particular faculty. 11 Co. 98. b. The BA.Ni U. S,
V.
na'individuals hold their rights as members in their
tural, and not in a politic capacity. A corporatiow.
is a mere collection of men having collectively certain faculties.
When the president, directors and company of a
bank areassembled, the corporation is visible. Iall
the members should die, or surrender the;f charter.
to the .king, the corporation would be extinct. A
corporation must exist by means of natural persons;
and the law will examine whether the natural 1persons
claiming to be-members have all the.necessary. qualifications according to their charter. If any individual member does 'not -possess them, he is to be
disfranchised.
If a suit were brought against a corporation it
would be a decisive bar that all the .members were
dead.
A corporation as a "faculty" has no flocal habitation," though it-has a 11 name." If it is an ens
rationis only, it cannot be said to reside anywhere;
and it certainly occupies nothing; yet habitancy, residence, and occupation may be predicated of a corporation aggregate. The residence and inhabitancy
of the particular members have been taken into consideration, and have been deemed to impart thesecharacters to the corporation.
Coke, in his exposition of the statute of 22
Hen. VIII. c. 5. concerning the repairing of decayed bridges-in highways, (2 hist. 697. 703.) says,
" the persons to be charged by this act are comprehended under this onlv word " inhabitants." " Every corporation and body politic residingin any county," &c. " or hav.fig any lands or tenements in any
shire," &c. " qu x propriis manibus et sumptilus possident et habent, are said to be inhabitants there within the purview of this statute." In the case of Rex
v. Gardner, Cozvp. 83. it was decided that a corporation aggregate was an inhabitant or occupier of
-Lord

Vol. V.

I

SUPREME COURT U. S.
,&N u. S. certain lands, and therefore liable to be taxed for
V.
them under the act of 43 Eliz. c. 2.
DEVEAUX.

It must be an inhabitant or resident where its
members or officers inhabit or reside. If an action
be brought against the corporation in respect of its
residence or occupation, it must be comperent to the
corporation to show that it does not so reside or
occtipy, which can only be done by showing that this
is not true of its members or officers.
But the characters of individual members are in
niany cases examined for the purpose of settling the
very question of jurisdiction.
The division of corporations into ecclesiastical
and lay, is t'amiliar. There is nothing in the name
or patent to distinguish them. I Bla. Com. 470. An
ecclesiastical corporation is subject to the ordinary
alone. His court alone has jurisdiction of proceedings by or against the corporation. I Bla. Com. 480.
A lay corporation is visited by the founder. The
king is the- founder of all civil corporations, and he
visits them in the king's bench. '
SBy
ascertaining the characters of the members of
the corporatidn alone can it be decided whether the
corporation be lay or ecclesiastical; aid, consequently; whether the king's bench or the ordinary has
jurisdiction. Blackstone says, that an ecclesiastical
corporation is where the members that compose it
are entirely spiritual persons ; and that the universities of Oxford and Cambridge are not ecclesiastical
-corporatibns, ". being, coinposid ,f more laymen than
In this question of jurisdiction, therefore,
clergy.
is always involved the. character of ihe individual
members who compose the body.
. The members of a corporation are further noticed
in chancery, and are. compelled as individuals to
execute a trust, which at common law they were not
bound to do. Gilb. Uses, 5. 174. 1 .Kyd, 73. 2 Leon.
122. A corporation trustee is the same in chancery

FEBRUARY, 1809.

6T

as an individual, or number of individtials. 2 Ves.
jun. 46. Attorney-Generalv. Foundlin.g Hospi'(a.

BANK

Dv. A

The rule seems *to be, not that the individuals,
confer their private privileges upon the body corporate, but that as often-as justice or convenience require that the c6rporation should be.considered as
composed of natural persons, the individuals are
disclosed, and their character -becomes the subject of
legal contemplation.
2. The spirii ot the constitution and laws of the
United States,. demands that the citizenship of the
members of a corporation should be noticed in orde r
to decide the question of jurisdicti6n, as well as for
other- purposes.
Llhe constitution has conferred on the courts of
the United States jurisdiction in two classds of cases.
1. Where the peace of the confederacy might be
involved.
2. Where the state tribunals could not be supposed to be impartial.
The one upon the ground that the union was an-"
swerable for the misconduct of its me-mbeis, who,
by unjust- decisions against aliens, might furnish a
just ground of war.
The other to preserve the real equality of citizens
throughout the union, by guarding against fraudulent laws and-loeal prejudices, in particular states.
The design of the' constitution was to' retain jurisdiction in those. cases where substantially these
great interests were to be affected. It cannot be
supposed that it was to be'retainedonly Where there
was a nominal character, alien or citizen, and abandoned where substantially aliens or 'citizens were
concerned, but whose namei did not appear. -It is
unimportant by what name citizens are by the laws

U. S.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T.S. of their own state permittedto sue, they are still ctiand the
DBFUx. zens, and entitled to that substantial justice,
benefit of those independent tribunals, which were
,
intended to be secured by the federal constitution.
The constitution does not speak of the name on record; of the 7Aominal party; it speaks of " controversies" " between citizens of different states." The
question is not, what names appear .up6n the record,
but between whom is twe controverslr who are the
real litigants.

BA1sV.

Jn conformity with.the spirit of the constitution,
the federal courts have always inquired after the
real pa'rties. Although the nominal parties are really
persons competent to sue in those courts, .yet they
will inquire into the cl.aracter of the real litigants,
and if they find them unable to sue there, they will
dismiss the suit. 4 Dat. 330. Mand/ied'sLessee v.
Levy. They will allow no fiction to give jurisdiction
to the court where the substance is wanting. Can
it be admitted then that they will allow'the jurisdiction to be excluded by a name, if the substance
e.ists which gives jurisdiction ?
If a state be substantially aLparty, is the jurisdiction cut off if her agent brings a suit? 'The case
of Fefler v. Lindsey, 3 Dal. 415.o clearly implies
the eonitrary.
It is the privilege of citizens of one state to have
theJr controversies with.citizens of another state tried
in the federal courts. The constitution guaranties it
to them. It cannot be taken away, because they are
.authorizedto bring'one joint :uit in a particular name,
instead of bringing it in the names of each individual. Their corporate name is given them as a benefit, and ought not to be converted into an injury.
Besides, if the bank cannot sue, they cannot be sued
in'the federal courts; nor any other corporation.
The consequence is, that if a citizen of Georgia
would sue the bank of the United States, at Philadelphia, he must go into, the state courts. If he
Would sue the corporation of Philadelphia, he must

FEBRUARYj 1809.

69

sue in the state courts; nay, even in the county court
of Philadelphia itself.
But it is not more a question of jurisdiction than
of right. If you cannot inquire who are the members of a corporation, whenever a right depends upon
the question of citizenship, that right cannot be enjoyed by a corporation.

BANX U. 9.

If citizenship of the members cannot give jurisdiction, neither can their aliena'e. •A corporation composed of aliens cannot sue in the federal courts.
Neither the East-Izdia Company/, the Bank of England, nor even a sole corporation, such as the
Chamberlain of London, can sue in those courts; ior
in his corporate capacity he is not an alien.
An alien cannot sue a domestic corporation unless
in the state courts. Although you permit an obscure alien to sue a citizen in the federal courts, yet
you deny that privilege to a corporation consisting
of a great number of aliens.
Again: by the constitution, the jurisdiction of the
federal courts is to extend to " controversies between citizens of the same state, claiming lands
under grants of different states;".yet a corporation
"of Pennsylvania -claiming lands under Virginia,
against a citizen of Pennsylvania claiming the same
lands under Pennsylvania. must go into the courts
of Pennsylvania, and cannot get ir-to the federal
courts.
This would be a result clearly contrary to the intention and spirit of the constitution, which meant
that no man claiming land by title adverse to a state
should be obliged to resort to the courts of that state
to try his title.
The argument from inconvenience is very strong.
Lord Coke says pluriaunm valet. When other reasoning is niearly on an equipoise, it ought to turn the*
scale.

DFvEUX.

SUPREME COURT Ua. S.
BANI V. U.S.

The. court cannot consider the individual membe.s

D VEAux. as citizens for any purpose; if it cannot for that of

1

jurisdiction.
ow is it under the act of congress for registering vessels? Laws of the U. S. vol. 2. p 147. A
corporation cannot hold an American registered
vespel. An insurance company to whom an A4vaerican vessel is abandoned must forfeit her register,
although every !member of that corporation be an
American citizen. A foreign corporation, although
composed entirely of aliens, may yet hold lands in
this country, although an alien cannot.
3. The practice of the courts of the United States
has been uniform and never questioned. This court
has decided a great number of cases in which a
corporation has been a party. It is no answer to
these to say that there was no plea to the jurisdiction; for none was necessary. Whenever the court
sees that it bas not jurisdiction, or that its jurisdiction does not appear upon the record, it dismisses
the suit. And in every case where a corporation is
a party, the title of the suit alone was sufficient to give
the court information.
But this point r.ay be considered as alhmost, if iilot
quite, decided by the case of The Banh of No, th
America. v. Turner, 4 Dal. 8. where the plaintiffs
were described in the same manner as the present
plaintiffs, and Ch. 7. Ellsworth, in delivering, the
opinion of.the cQurt, says,' " the plaintiffs are -eell
described as citizens of Pennsylvania." '
The second objection is, that by no form of pleadings car the citizenship of the members be put in
issue.
But if the citizenship be material, it may be
averred; and if averred, it may be put in i'sue. The
materiality bf he averment is indeed~the only question.

FEBRUARY, 1809.

71

2. The second question upon this record'is, whether the bank of the United States has not a peculiar right to sue in the federal courts?
This right depends upon two questions;
1. Whether congress could, under the constitution,
give such a jurisdiction to the circuit courts? And,
2. Whether congress has given it?
1. The judicial power of the United States is coexterisive -with the legislative. It extends to all
cases arising under" the laws, of the United States.
Ever), case in which the bank of the United States
is a party 'must be a case arising under those laws;
for the only capacity which the bank has to sue or
be sued is derivedfrom a law of the United States.
No contract can be made with the bank, no trespass
can be committed upon its'property, without involving the question of its existence as i corporate body,
and of its rights, powers and-duties, allof which depend upon the laws of the United States.
.Congress, therefore, had a right to give to the circuit courts of the United States cognisance of all
cases in which the bank should be a party.
2. Have- they done it ?
The 3d section of the act of congress which incorporated the bank, gave them the power and capacity " to sue" ' in courts of record, or any other
place whatsoever."
If they have a right to sue in courts of recora,
can it be presumed, that congress meant to exclude them from the courts of the United States ?
the only courts over whom congress could exercise
any control, and to whom alone they could imperatively impart jurisdiction. If the bank has a capa*cityto sue in the circuit courts, the circuit courts. are
bound to take cognisance of their suits.

BANKV.U. S.
DEvLAvux.

SUPREME COURT U" S.
BANKV. U. F

DMvAux.

=

=

The presumption that congress meant to give
such jurisdiction to the circuit courts is fortified by
the reasonableness of the jurisdiction, the extensiveness of the institution, and its character as an agent
in the fiscal operations of the United States; by
the danger of an attack from some of the states; by
the jealousies of state banks; by the inconvenience
of discordant decisions upon the construction of
their charter, and the certainty that all' cases in
which the bank is a party must involve questions
arising under the laws of the United States.
P. B. Key, contra.
Two auestions arise in this case.
1. Whether a body politic, a corporation aggregate,
created by a law of the United States, is competent
to sue in the circuit courts of the United States.
2. Does the averment of citizenship give jurisdiction to those courts.
1. The hrst point depends upon the constitution
and laws of the United States.
The 2d section of the 3d article of the constitution designates the limits of judicial authority
which congress could confer on the several courts
of the United States, but it confers no powers on the
circuit courts. It defines the limits which neither
congress, nor the courts erected by congress, can
transcend. It was within the discretion of congress
to organize courts, and -grant them powers to the
whole extent of the constitution; but they were under no obligation to do it.
The questi6n then, is, not what powers might congress give to, the circuit couits, but what have they
given.
By the judiciary,ltut of 1789, vol. I.p. 55. 10.
the circuit court bas original cognisance of civil.

1PEBRUARt 1809.
sults, in three cases only. 1. Where the United BANKU.S.
States ia plaintiff; 2. Where an alien is a party; DzvzAvx.
and, 3. Where the suit -is between a citizep of the ,.O-qe
state where the suit is brought, and a citizeu of
another state.
The president, directors and company of the bank
of the United States do not answer to either of those
cases. They are neither the United States, nor a4
4~eb, nor a citizen of a state.
'

They are. a corporation aggregate, consisting of
many natural persons, created by the act of congress
of the 25th of February, 1791,vol. i.p. 283. under tile
name and sxyle of" The President, IDirectors and
Comany of the Bank-of the United States," and by
that name only can they' sue and be sued. The pre.
sent suit is brough-.by them in their corporate name
and capacity.
A corporation aggregate is an artVi~cial,invisible
body, existing only in contemplation of law. It has
no analogy to a natural person. It has no organ
but its "eah It cannot sue, or be sued, for any personal injury. It cannot be outlawed. - It is not-sub.
ject to an attachment of contempt.' It never dies.
It cannot be a citizen of any state,'because it cannot
owe allegiance. It cannct commit'treAson nor felony,
It"can have no residence,. because it,is an artificial,
invisible, intangible"body. It cannot appear in person, but ;nust appear by attorney. For all these
reasons it cannot come within the description of
those who are entitled -to sue in the circuit courts of
the United States. Neither, residence nor inhabitancy is- sufficient to give jurisdiction. It must be a
citizen, possessing political rights, and owing alle.
giance to some state.
The bank has mistaken its proper course. Wherever the only. ground of jurisdiction is a qtestion
upon the construction of the constitution, or of 4
law, or treaty of the United States, the only remedy is by writ of error from this court to the high,
110, V

K

SUPREME COURT 'T. S.
U. S. eat state tribunal having cognisance of the cause,
IDuVEAuX. agreeably to the provisions of ihe 25th section of the
\judicigry
act of 1789. ""Fol. 1.. 63.
1JA'r2-

If an act of congress could authorize any person
to sue in the federal courts, on the ground of its being a case arising under a law of'the United States,
it would be in the power of congress to give unlimited jurisdiction to its courts. But it is only vwhexi
the state courts disregard or misconstrue the constitution,. laws, or treaties, of the United States, that
'he federil courts have cognisance under that clause
of the constitution which,,declares that the- judicial
power shall extend to all cases arisihg under the constitution, laws and treatieg, of the United States.
It is supposed to be absurd to say that the 'United
States have erected a tbody corporate, and given it
a power to sue and be sued in any courts but those
of the. power creating the corporation. But there
is- nothing absurd in the idea. Persons are daily becoming citizens of the United States, under an lct
of congress, and yet they have no right to sue in the
federal courts except in particular cases, and under
special circumstances; if the bank can bring itself
within one of those cases, and clothe itself with th'is6
special circumstances, it may sue in those courts.
But it is cdntended that ithas brought itselfviithin
one of those cases, by the averment that the president, directors and company of the bank of the United
States are citizens of the state of Pennsylvania, and
the defendants citizens of the state of Gborgia.
This averment cannot give jurisdiction; becaute,
1. It is repugnant and void; and,
2. It is contrary to their own showing on the face
of the declaration.
1. It is repugnant because- the suit is brought in
the corporate name. The corporation is the 'plaintiff,

FEBRUARY, 1809.
aund it is absurd and. impossible to. say that a corporation aggregate is a citizen or citizens.: The body
Politic is the plaintiff, ahd not the individual stockholders.
2. It is contrary- to their own showing, because
they.have in.the declaration expressly averred themselves to be a-body corporate, and to sue in that capacity. 'and an avertnent relative to the individual
aharacters of the stockholders is in contradiction to
the corporate character in which they sue. No corporation aggregate can derive aid from the personal
character of its members; nor does it incur any disability from the -disabilities of the -individuals.who
compose the society. Neither the infancy, coverture,
nor oqtlawry of the.individuals can affect the body
rorporate,
It is laid down in the books that "an averment
contrary to that which appears to the court, shall
not avaiL" Corn. Dig. tit. Pleader.
*But it is said that you may raise the veil which
,the corporate name interposes,. and see who stand
behind it. You may scrip them,:f the corporate capacity in. which they sue, to give the court a jurisdiction wvhich they cannot claim in their corporate
capacity.
But the name of a corporation is. not a mere acci.
dent. It is ubstance. . It is the hnot of its combina.
tion. It is its essence. It is the thing itsef. 1 Tuck.
"
BI. 474, 475.
As to the case of ejectment from 4 Dal.333. the
nonjinal plaintiff must have the same character, as
to citizenship, as his lessor; and the court will be
astute to see that no deception be practised upon
them to give them a jurisdiction which they could
not otherw.ise exercise.
The authority from ! Inst. 697. only proves that
a corporation aggregate mRy be adjudged to b& an

BAR

U. .
V.

76
SUIPRFNIk COURT V. S.BAt U.8., inhabitant in respect to its holding of lands, abd so
as to render those lands liable to taxes for the repaif
9DEVEAUX.
of bridges and highways under the statute of 22 .
''
VIII. C.5i
In the ease of The King v. Thf Inhabitantaof St.
BartholomeWs, in 4 Burr.2435. Lord Mansfield said
the corporation were not occupiers. And in Rex v.
Gardner, Cowp. 84. the que tion was whether a cora
poration, seised in fee for its own profit, was ratable
to the.poor, under a law which taxed all inhabitants.
The court decided that inasmuch as persons seised
in fee were always assessed as inhabitants of the
land, if'there was no other tenant upon it, a corporation seised in fee should, pro hac vice, be deemed an
inhabitant within the meaning of that statute. But
this goes but a little way towards proving that a corporation: aggregate may be a citizen for the purpose
of giving jurisdiction to the federal courts; or towards establishing the point that the court will inquire into the individual circumstances of the members of a corporation, for ;he same purpose.
Of still less weight is the doctrine respecting the
visitatorialpower in England. That power is given
for the express purpose of examining the yualiflcao
tions of the members, to see whether the charter of
the corppration has been adhered to in the election
of memhbers, and.whether the corporation has acted
consistently with the purposes of its creation. It is
hot a power to examine the character of the individuals to asceilain whether the corporation has a
right to sue in a certain ourt.
At law, a corporazuzl cannot be a trustee.

And

a court of equity acts in personas to compel the.
members to perform their corporate functions; but
even this doctrine depends upon the mere dictum of
a lord chancellor6
In the case cited irom 4 Dal. 8. tle question
respedcng the "averment of citizenship was not
?aised. The. gentlemen of the bar were -not very

VEBRUARY, 18o.

77

iaesirous of raising questibns as to the jurisdiction
of. the federal courts.

BANK U. S..

D VVxEA.

If denial of justice be a cause of war, as is alleged, the persdn who claims it must preserve an entirety of character; he must not associate himself
with others who have no right to claim it in that form.
Foreign nations have no right to prescribe the mode
of administering justice to their subjects in this coun-

try. If they have the same resort to the same courts
ivhich our own citizens enjoy, they cannbit complain.
But it is said that the death of all the members of
.acorporation is a fact which may be pleaded; that
cannot be. pleaded unless you can go into the
question who were the last members of thd corporation. And if you can plead any thing respect-ng
the individual members, you may plead their citizenship. But if this, be true, it must be leadeU in
adifferent manner. The name of each individual must
And it m ay
be set forth, andhis death averre&
well be doubted rhdther even such h plea would be
good; and whether the only remedy would not be
by quo warranto; or arule to show cause.
If the averment in the declaration relate to the
body politic, it is repugnant. If to the individual
members, it-is immateriah No issue could have
been taken upon it. It does not name a single individual member of the corporation. If they had
named every individual, it would have appeared
that some of them were citizens of Georgia. If
the defendanthad pleaded that 'A. B., one of the
members, was a citizen of Georgia, it would have
been a bad pleas because immaterial and argumentative.
Yones, on the same side, cited Co. Litt. 66. b.

10

Co. 32. b. 1 Ld. Raym. b0. 2 'Cranc/i, 445.
Burr. 1054. 1 Bi. Com. 497. 512. 10 Co. 30.
BL. Conz. 502. 1 Leach's Cr. Law, 287.

2
1

This cause being argued in connection with the

-

i4

-SUPREME COURT U. S

u. S.cages" of The Hope Insurance Company of Providence against, Boardman et a., ante, p. 57. and The
.
Maryland Insurance Company against Wood, post,
r

SANC

in the latter of which Mr. Harper was counsel for
the defendant in error, he was permitted 'to reply
,to the arguments of the plaintiffs in error in this
case.
Hqrper, in reply.
The point of jurisdiction gives rise to two ques"
tions.
1A As to the form of the averment.
2. As fo'the effect of the incorporation on the
original character of the members.
1. In the case of The Maryland Insurance Con.
pany against Wood, the averment is, " The Ma.yland Insurance Company, citizens of the state of
.Matryland."
This does not mean that the corporation, as such,
is a.citizen of Maryland, but that the individuals
who-compose it are citizens. It is the same thing
in'substance as to say,"' The Maryland Insurance
Company, a corporate body composed of persons
who are citi~ens of Maryland."
t is objected that such an averment cannot be
true; but it is surely pbssible that all the members
of a corporate body may be citizens of one state',
and with regard to insurance companies it is almost
always true. But if not true, the contra:y may b.e
shown;
It is also objected that the averment is defective,
because it does not name the individuals who are
affirmed to be citizlens.
But it may be answered that they need not bie
named, because they hatve anthority to join in"the

FEBRUARY, 1809

70

suit in their corporate name, and therefore in that BANK
name may make the a;crmdnt. There is no' uncertaility, becausd it is averred that they are all citizens. 'But if it were necessary to aver that some
werd citizens,'ifi that case it would be necessary to
show who they. were.' "If the fact be not as averred,
it may be 'pleaded, and the plea may state that A.,
B. and C. are rpembers of thb corporation, and are
citizens of another. state.
2. As to the eftect of the incorporation.
The question is not whether a corporation can be
a citizen in its corporate capacity.
But whether, by becoming members of the corporation, thd individuals who compose it lose, in their
corporate affairs, those privileges which as individuals they possessed before.
This leads us to inquire'into the nature and objects of an incorporatiou.
1. Of its nature.
It is a privilege conferred on a number of ,individuals. The corporate body is 'the form undet
,Which the privilege °is enjoyedand exercised. The
individuals are the substance. It is a ifction of law;
the individuals are the realparties., It is a trustee;
the individuals are the cestui que trusts.
It is a privilege conferred and accepted. "B t
neitlher the grant nor the acceptance deprives the
party accepting it "of other privilege& which he
before possessed, unless' they be incompatible with
each'other.
Thus th law confers on infants the privilege of
being fre9 -from the obligation of their contracts;
and it takes from them the privilege of acquiring
rights under those contracts, because these two
privileges are incompatible; "but it does not take

U.

8.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Du u.s
V.

from them the privilege of suing for rights derived
otherwise than from their contracts;

So a 'vomal , by entering into wedlock, acquire3:
the privilege of being free from arrest for debt0
And she renounces the privilege of making contracts, because that would be incompatible; but she
does not renounce the privilege of taking land by

descent, gift or devise.
So a man, by entering into civil society, acquires
the privilege of being prdfected by the society; and
he renounces the privilege of seeking, by his own
force, redress for his wrongs, because incompatible.
But he does not renounce the privilege of defending.
himself against personal violence.
The privileges, of a corporation are,.
1. To ,ue and be sued by a corporate name,
2. To have perpetual succession by the transfOt
or transmission of the shares, 1go.

3.. To make contracts by w.hich the sepairate
property or persons of the individuals shall not be
bound.

These privileges are not ibcompatible with that,
pom claimed....
But an incorporation is not only a privilege, but
it is a privilege conferred on individuaks. ,ln4ivi4
duals are the basis and essence of the corporation. It
capnot subsist without them. -The law must take
notice of them. "It must thke notice of their .cha.
racter and'privileges as individuals. The existence
of the corporate body cannot be known'without ta.
king notice of the individuals. The moai"impor.
tant of its privilege.s, that of perpetual succession0 ,

-depends .upon it.

If the law cannot notice the privileges of indi-

FEBRUARY, 18og.

viduals, neither can it. notice their obligations or

BANl U. S.

disabilities.

DEVEAUX.

It may happen that all the members bf a corpora.
tion may be infants or femes covert. Suppose in an
action brought by this corporation the statute of li,
mitations should be pleaded, could not the plaintiff
reply the infancy or coverture ?
,Again, suppose a corporation to have existed and
made a contract'in Pennsylvania with a citizen of
Maryland; suppose that- all the members came into
Maryland, and after remainingthere some iime rejurped to Pennsylvania; and that three years afterwaids the corporation brought suit in Maiylond,
on the contract; could not the statute -oflimitations
be pleaded ? And if the, plaintiffs should reply absence from-the state, might not-the defendant rejoin.
•the special matter?
Suppose all the members of a corporation to be
outlawed, could not the outlawry be. pleaded to an
action brought-by the corporation?
'Suppose the corporation to hold land, and all the
members to be attainted of treason, would not the
land be forfeited?
Suppose a corporation to be compQsed entirely of
alien enemies, could such a corporation sue? Might
-not the special matter be pleaded?
The corporate body is theform; the individuals
are the substance. The purpose of the incorporation
is to enabI individuals to transact business more
conveniently for their mutual benefit. -"hidividual
benefit is the object.. The incorporation is the instrulnent and means, like the fictitious lessee, and
casual' ejector; in ejectment.
The construction contended for would sacrifice the'

Vol. y.

L

V.

SUPREME'COURT U.
BAN

U. S.

V.

.

substance to, the forfb, and would make the means
defeat the end.

DnVEAUX.

Thd corporation is aflction of law*; the-iutividual
memberi are the real parties. But fictions of law
are introducied for the benefit of the real partids, not
for their injur'; and they are to be so moulded as,
to answer the purpose. . Fictions of law never must
shut out the truth. But the construction contended
for woild set up a fiction against the truth. The
paftias here are in fact citizerps of different states;
but this 'fction, it is'saidaust preclude them from
averring thefact.
The corporate body is a truaieeo The-indIvidual
members are the cestui'que trusts.' It is like infant
al)d prochein anti.
Suppose a man,.seised in fee of lans in Pennsylvania, mortgages it to a citizen of that stile, and
then devises it in fee to a citizen of Maryland in
trust for a feme covert also acitizen of Maryland
and her heirs. The trustee dies, and his heir on
whom the trust descends, is a citizen of Pennsylvania. Thefme, covert dies, leavipg issue citizens of
Maryland, tpon whom the trust estate descends.
Cannot the issue, joining the heir of the truste6,
bring.a bill to redeem in the cirbuit court of Pennsylvania? Would not the court look to the real
parties ?
Again, suppose an infant citizen of Marylahd sues
in the circuit court of Pennsylvania, by a prchein
ami who is a citizen of Pennsylvania, has not that
court jurisdiction of the case ?
2. Of the object of the incorporation.
It is to confer additional privileges and advantages, not to take away those-formerly held. To the
privilege of suing in the feder a courts in their xx

FEBRUARY, 1809.

83

dividual capacity, was superadded the privilege of
so suing in their corp'orate capacity.

The true construction is, that they should sue.and
be sued in their corporate capacity, to the. whole
extent, and in as benelcial a manner, as in their individual capacity,
The*conistruction contended- for would restrict the
privilege of suing;' and would take away one of its
most important properties.
One great object in allowing citizens of different
states to sue in the federal courts, was to obtain a
unifoymity of decision -in cases of a commercial nature. The most numerous and impdrtant Glass of
those cases, and the class in which it is most important to have uniform rules and-principles, is that of
insurance cases. They are almost wholly confined
to corpo:ations, though most frequefitly, in faci, between citizens of different states.
Ingersoll, on the same side, and also in.-reply t6
the argument of Mr. Adams, in the case of The Hope
Insurance Company v. Boardman et at.
The character of the. corporation must follow the
characitr of its members. The averment of the'
ditizenship of its members is sufficient. But it is
clear that a corporation aggregate cannot be a citizen.
An averment of residence is not sufficient. I Qranch,
343. Abercrombie v. Dupuis. The place of its pstablishment does not make it a citizen. It is not necessary, under its charter, that all the members of
The Hope Insurance. Company. of Providence should
be citizens of the state of Rhode Island. The declaration in that case does not even aver either the corporation or its merbers to be citizens of any state
vhatever. If any one of the members be a citizen
of the state in which the suit is brought, the federal
court has no jurisdiction. -aGranch, A.67. Strawbridge v. Curti.ss.

DANK U. S.
DEVEAx.

84

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It is a bold proposition to gay that no corporation
sue in the federal courts. It would be in hoscan
D.v*~x
~tility to the spirit of the constitution, and would deprive the citizens of one state of that chance of
justice in their contests with citizens of another
state, which the constitution intended -to secure to
all; and this merely because they have been enabled
to sue under a fictitious name.
3ANIC U. S.

Every corporation aggregate must be composed
of natural persons, and courts of law will take notice
of them as members of the corporate body. If a
suit be brought by or against the inhabitants of an
incorporated town, the court will inquire whether
any of the jurors or witnesses are inhabitants. So
a corporate body may own an American registered
ship, and one of the corporation may take the necessary oaths.
Numerous cases have already been decided in the
federal courts, in which a corporation has-been a
party, involving the right of property to the amount
of millions. What will become of all these cases ?
In all the cases within the last, five years writs of
error will be brought.
In ejectment, the court, on a question of jurisdiction, always inquires who are the real parties.
The constitution declares that the judicial power
shall extend to " contro'iersies" -Lbetween citizens
of different states." It is necessary, therefore, that
the court should inquire between whom the .real
controversy exists.

March 15.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows:

Two points have been made in this cause.
i. That a corporation, composed of citizens of

FEBRUARY, 1809.

85'

one state, may sue a citizen of another state, in the
federal courts.
&. 1 nft a right' to sue in those courts is conferred on this bank by the law which incorporates it.
The last point will be first considered.
The judicial power of-the United States, as defined inthe constitution, is depcnderit, 1st. On the
nature of the case; and, 2d. On the character of the
parties.
By the judicial act, the jurisdiction of the circut
courts is extended to cases where ihe constitutional
right to plead and be impleaded, in the courts. of the
union, depends on the character of the parties; but
where that right depends on the nature. ot the case,.
the circuit courts derive no jurisdiction. from that
act, except in the single case of a.controversy betweeft citizens of the same state, claiming lands under grants from.different states.
Unless, then, jurisdiction over this cause has been
given to the circuit court by some other-than the judicial act, the bank of the United States had not a
right to sue in that court, upon the principle that
the case arises under a,law 'of the United States.
The plaintiffs contend that the incorporating act
confers thisjurisdiction.
That act creates the corporation, gi es it a capa.
city to make contracts and toacquire property, and
enables it "to sue and be sued., plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered, defend and be defended, in courts of record, or any other place whatsoeverY.

This power,, if not incident to a corporation,'is
conferred by every incorporatink act, and is not understood to enlarge the jurisdiction of'any p.articu-:
lar court, bat to'give a capacity to.the corporation to

R3ANK

1. I,

D vsAux.

86
B.&Y, U.S.
DaVEALUX.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

appear, as a corporationl in any court which would,*
by law,- have cognisance of the cause, if brought by
Sindividuals. If jurisdiction is given by this. clause
to 'the federal cogrts, it is equally given to all courts
having original jurisdiction, and for all sums however small they may be.
But the 9th article of the 7th section.of the .ct
furnishes a conclusive argunment against the construction for which the plaintiffs, contend. That section
subjects the president and directors'in their individual capacity, to the suit of any person aggrieved
by their putting into circulation more notes than is
permitted by law, and expressly authorizei the
lbringing of that action in the feileral or state coUrts.
This evinces the opinion of congress, that the
right to sue does not imply a 'right to sue in the
courts of the union, tinless it be expressed. This
idea is strengthened also by the law respecting patt at rights. That law expressly recognis~s the right
6" the patentee t.o sue in the circuit courts of the
United States.
The court, then, is of opinion, thatno rightlis conferred on the bank, by-the act of 'incorporation, 'to
sue in the federal courts.
2. The other point .isone of much more diffi'culty.
The jurisdiction of this court being limited, so
far as respects the chiracter of the parties in this
particular case, "to contioversies betweei citizens
of different tates,"'both parties must be citizens, to
come wlthim the. description.'
That inyisible, intangible,. and-artificial being, that
mere legal entity, a corporation aggregate, is certinly not a citizen ; and, consequently,,cannot stie or
be sued in the courts of the- United States, unless the
rights of the members, in this respect, can be exercised in their corporate, name. If the corporation
6

t'EBRUARY, 1809.

87

he considered as a mere faculty, and not as a company
of individuals, who, in transacting their joint concerns, may use a legal name, they must be excluded
from the courts of the union.
The duties of this courts to exercise jurisdiction
where it is conferred, 'and not to usurp it where it
is not conferred, are of equal obligation. The
constitution, therefore, and the law, are to be expounded, without a leaning the one way or the other,
according to those general principleg which usually
govern' in the constructi6n of funiitamental or.other
laws,
A constitution, from its- nature, deals ifi generals,
not in detail. Its framers cannot perceive minute
distinctions which ai'se in.the progress of the nation,
and therefore confine it to.the establishment of broad
and general principles.
The judicial- department was introduced into the
American constitution under impressions, and
with views, which- are too apparenf not to be perceived by all. However tue the fact may be, that
the tribunals of the sfates will administer justice as
impartially as those of the niation, to parties of every
description, it is not less true that the constitution
itself either entertains apprehensions on this subject,
or views with such indulgence the possible fears and
apprehensions of suitors, that it has established national tribunals for the decision of controversies between aliens and: a citizen, or between citizens of
different states. Aliens, or citizens of different
states, are not"less -susceptible of these apprehensions, nor canthey be supposed to be less the objects
of constitutional provision, because they are allowed:
to sue by a corporate name. That name, indeed,
cannot be an alien or a citizen; but the persons whom
it represents may be - the one or the ot.her; and the
controversy is, in fact and in law, between those persons suing in their corporate character, by their corporate name,'for a corporate right, and the individual
against whom the suit may be instituted, Substan-

nimm U.s:
V.

DEVEAUX.

SUPREME COURT U.
-*AZIX V. S.

V.

DEVSA uX.

.

tially and essentially, the parties in such a case,
where the members of the cdrporation are aliens,
or citizens of a different state from the. opposite
party, come within the spirit and terms of the jurisdiction conferred by the constitution on the national
tribunals.
Such has been the universal understanding on the
subject. Repeatedly has this court decided causes
between a corporation and an individutal without
feeling a doubt respecting its jurisdiction. Those
%decisionsare not cited as authority; for they were
made without considering this particular point; but
they have much *eight, as they show that this point
neither occurred to'the bar or the bench; and that
the comspon understanding of intelligent men is in
favour of t1e right of'incorporated aliens, or citizens of a dift1 rent state from .the defendant, to sue
in the national courts. It is by a course of acute,
'metaphys.ical and abstruse reasoning, which has been
most ably employed on this occasion, that this opinion is shaken,
As our ideas of a corporation, its privileges and
its disabilities, are derived entirely from the English
books, we resort to them for aidi.in ascertaining its
character. It is defined as a mete creature of the
law, invisible, intangible,, and incorporeal. Yet,'
when we examine the subject further, we find that
corporations have been included within terms of
description appropriated to real p6-rsonss
The statute of .Henry VIII. concerning bridges
and highways, enacts, that bridges and highways.
s
shall be made-and repaired by the "inhabitant of
the city, shire, or riding," and that the justices shall"
have power to tax every "inhabitant of such city,"
&c. and that the collectors may " distrain every
such inhabitantas shall be taxed and refuse payment
thereof, in his lands, goods -and chattels."
Under this statuite those haVe bden construed inhabitants who hold lands within the city where the

FEBRUARY,

1800.

89

4ridge to-be'repaired lieq, although they reside else.
where.
Lord Coke says, 0 evbry corporation and body
politic residing in an' county, riding, city, or town
iorporate, or having lands or tenemelats in any shire,
quo propriis manibus et sumptbus possident. et ha.
bent, are said to be inhabitants there, within the purview of this statute."
The tax is not imposed on'the person, whether he
be a member of the corporation or not, who may
happen to reside on the lands; 'but is inmposed on
the corporation itself, and, consequently, this ideal
*existence is considered 4s an inhabitant, when the
general spirit and purpose of the law requires it.,,
in the case of The King v. Gardner, reported by
Cowape, a corporation was decided, by the court of
king's bench, to come Within the description of
"occupiers or inhabitants." In that case the poor
rates, to which the lands of the corporation were declared to be liable, were.not assessed to the- actual
occupant, for there was none, but to the cQ-rporaitioni,
And the principle established by the case appears to
be, that the poor rates, on vacant ground belonging
'to a corporation, may be assessed to the. corporationi
as being inhabitants or occupiers of that ground. In
this case Lord Mansfield notices andoyerrules an inconsiderate dictum of Justice Yates, that a corporation could not be an inhabitant or occupier,
These opinions are not precisely in point; but
they serve to show that, for the geneial pu pose4
and objects of a law, this itivisible, incor oreal creature of the law may be considered as having corporeal qualities.
It is true that as far as these cases, go they serve
to sho*k that the corporation itself, in its incorporeal
character, 'May be considered as an inhabitant or an
occupier; and the argument from them would be
more strong in favour of considering the corporatiol
Vol. V.

A

U.s.
DEvSAVx.

B3ii

.90

SUPREM4 COUJRT U. S.

1I, fl: U. S. itself as endowed. for Ahis special purpose with the

ev..

claracter of a zitize, 'than to consider the character of the individuals who compose it as a subject
Which the cQurt can inspect, when-they use the name
of the corporation, for the purpose of asserting
their corporate- rights. Still the cases show that
this technical definition, of.Ja corp'oration does-not
,uniformly circumscribe its capaditiesb but that courts
,for- legitimate purposes will" 'contemplate it more
substantially.
There is a case, however, reported in 12 Mod.
Vhicli is thought p'recis~ly in point. The corporation of London brought a suit against Wood, by
ttheir corporate naie, in. the mayor's court. 'The
suit was brought b'y the mayor and.. commonalty,
and was tried before the mayor and aldermen: The
judgment rendered in this cause was broughi before
thecourt of king's bench and reversod', because the
court was deprived-of its jurisdictioi by thq zharacter of th individuals who were members of the
corporation.
In that case the objection, that a corporation was
an invisible, intangible thing, a mere 'incorporeal
legal entity, in which the characters of the individuals who composed it were completely merged,.was
urged and. was considei-ed.. The judges unanimously declared that they could lok beyond tfie
c6rpo'rate name, and notice the chaiacter of the individual. In the opinions, Which were 'delivered
deriazim, several cases are 'put vhih "sgryeto illustrate the principle, and fortify'the decision.
The case of The .ifayor and Cbmmonaltyv. Wood,
is the stronger, because it is on the poix't of jurisdiction. It appears.to the cotirt to be a full authority for the case . tiow under consideration. It
seems not possible to distinguish -them f-om each
other.
If, then, the congress of the United States had,
in terms, enacted that incorporated .aliens might sue

FEDAUARY,".0o9.

91

a citizen, or that the incorporated citizens of one BANK U.S.
state might sue a citizen of another ttate, in the fe-

deral courts, by its corporaie name, this court would
"ilot have felt itself justified in declaring that such a
law transcended the conititution.
The controversy is substantially 'between alien's,
suing by a corporate name, and a citizen, or between.
citizens of one state, suing by. a corporate name,
'and those of another state. When these are said-to
be substantially the parties to .the controversy, the
court does.'not mean to liken it 'to the, case of a

trustee. A truste6 is a real person capable of being
a citizen or an alien, who has the whole legal estate
in himself., 'At law, he is the real proprietor, and
he re'presents himself, and sues in his own right.
But inthis case the corporate name represents persons who are members of the corporation.
If the constitution would authorize, congress to
give'the courts of the union jurisdiction in this
case,.in consequence of the character -of the members of'the corporation then th6 judicial act ought
to be construed. to. give it. For- the term citizen
oulit to ,e unddrstood as it is u'sed in the constitution, and as it is used.in othier laws. That is, to-describe the 'real persons who come into court, in this
case, under their corporate name.

That corporations comp6sed of citizens dire considered.by the legislat6re as citizens , under certain,
circumstances, is to b'e strongly inferred from thek
registering'act." It never c6uld be intended that an
American registered vessel, abapdified to an, insu-"
rai~ce company composed of. citizens, should lose
her character as. an Americin vessel; and' yet this
would be the consequence of 'declaring that the
members of the corporation'wiere, to every -intent.
and purpose, out of view, and merged in the corporation.
The court feels' itself authorized by the 'case in
12 Mod. -on a question of jurisdiction, to -look to

Divr..

.

0
Nt s.
U.

biEVEAux.

SuPREtit C(tURT U. S.

the character of the individuals who compose tbh
corporation- and they think that the precedtnts of
this court, though they were not decisions oi argument, ought not to be absolutely disregarded.
If a corporation may sue in the courts of the
union, the court is of opinion that the averment in
this case is sufficient.
Being authorized to sue in their corporate name,
they could make the averment, and it must apply td
the plaintiffs as individuals, betause it could not -be
true as applied to the corporation.
Judgment reversed; plea in abatement overruled
.ind cause remanded.
Judge LIVINGSTOIT having an interest in the
questi6n, gave no opinion.

MATTHEWS v. ZANE'S LESSEE

PRROR to the supreme court of the state of
Trhe lands in.
btalded witlinI Ohio for the county of Muskingum, in an action of
the -Zaieville
i.strict hy the ejectment brought by Zane's Lessee against Matqef of the ad thews, in which both parties claimed title under the
Oarch,
t803, laws of the United States. The question of juristould not after that date, diction in this
be sold at the vol 4. t. 382.)
Marietta landoffice.

case was settled at last term. (Ante,

The remaining question was, whether the plaintiff
in error, or the defendant, had ine title to the west
fraction of, section No. 15. in township No. 12. in
range No. 13. in the state of Ohio.
This question arose upon a special verdict, which
dtated the following facts.
On the 7th of February, 1804,- the office of re-

