FEBRUARY, I809.

257
Tim U. S.
V.
ARTHUR.

HE UNITED STATES v. JOHN ARTHUR AND
ROBERT PATTERSN.

-

ERROR to the Kentucky district court of the

J

The want of

United States, in an action of debt on a liond for oye

of the

- cundition of al
bond in plea
otfperformance
is tfat|. -

6,000 dollars.

The capia.s, ad respondendum issued on the 28th Upou ,iemurthe judgof June, 1803, returnable to the first konday- of rer,
ment of the

July in the same year, and was served on the 30th enurt must be
ag.dnst thepar.
of June.
ty
mitswhthe com.
first

The declaration was in the usual form of an ac- error.
tion of debt for the penalty of the bond with a profert, but without setting forth its condition or any
breach thereof.
The defendants, without praying oyer, pleaded as
follows: " And the defendants, by their attorneys,
come and defend the wrong and injury when and
where, &c. and for plea say they have well and truly
kept and performed, and have faithfully executed
and discharged, all and singular the duties enjoined
on them by the laws of the Uited- States, and the
conditions in the writing obligatoryi n the declaration mentioned, and this they are ready to verifv,?
The plaintiffs replied, that they ousght not to be
barred, &c. because they say "that the said defendatlts have not well and truly kept the several conditions in the said writing obligatory, as they in pleading have alleged, but have broken the same in this,
to wit, that the said John Arthur, although duly
appointed to the office of collector of the revenue
for the first division of the first survey of the district of Ohio, as stated in the said cQotdition, had
not, at the time of executing the said writing obliga,tory, executed and discharged, nor after the execu,
Vol. V.

Xk

258
THE
V.

AnT
\~.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

tion thereof, did he continue to eaecute and discharge faithfully all the duties of said office; and
UR.
failed to settle his accounts with the proper of.
-alo
cer according to law for more than six months previous to the institution of this suit, and also failed
to pay over to the proper ojpcer the duties which
were. collected, or the duties which by law, and the
accounts renderedby the said 7ohn, he was- bound to
collect and pay over; and is in arrearto the said
United States in the sum of *sixteen thousand, one
hundred and eighty one dollars and fifteen cents; due
from and unpaid by him in his said office of collector as aforesaid; and this the said plaintiffs prau
may be inquiredaf by the country."

U.S.

To this replication the defendants demurred specially, "Because this suit is prosecuted under the
14th section of the act of congress passed in -the
month of July, 1798, c. 88, entitled, , An act to
regulate and fix the compensation of the officers employed in collecting the internal revenues of the
United States, and to enstire more effectually the
settlement of their accounts,' which section is in the
following words, to w1t: ' The bond of any supervisor or other. officer of the revenue, who shall
.neglect or refuse, for more than six months, to make
up and render to the proper, officer, his accounts of
all duties collected *or secured, pursuant to such
forms, and regulations as have been, or shall 'be,
prescribed, according to law, or to verify such accounts on oath or affirmation, if thereto required, or
to pay over the moneys which shall have been collected, shall be deemed forfeited, and judgment
thereon shall and may be taken at the return term
on motion, to be made in open court, by the attorney of the United States, unless sufficient cause tn
the contrary be shown to, and allowed by,'the court ;
provided always, that the writ or process in such
cake shall have been executed at least fourteen days
before the return day thereof;'
"And the plaintiffs, in assigning the breach in the
following words, to'wit; 'And also failed to pa7

FEBRUARY, 1809.

259

over to the proper officer the duties which Were collected, or the duties which by law, and by the
accounts rendered by the said John, he was bound
to collect and pay over,' have assigned the .said
breach neither within the letter nor the meaning of
the said section of the said act of congress; but
the same id calculated to charge the said defendants
with, the amount of the duties due within the said
first division of the first survey of the district of
Ohio, whether the same is collected or secured, or
not, or whether they could or might have been collected or not."
This demurrer being joined, the judgment of the
court below was in favour of the defendants; and
the United States brought their writ of error.
Rodney, Attorney-General, for the United States..
Whether the replication be good, or not, the defendants have committed the first error in pleading,
and therefore the judgment of-The court below ought
to have been against them. The plea is bad for
want of oyer of the bond, and of the condition, the
performance of which is pleaded; as in the case of
Wallace v. The Duchess of Cunberland, 4 Term Rep.
370. where the defendant, after praying oyer of the
bond and condition, omitted to set forth the recital
which preceded the condition; and the court said
that the plaintiff -might have signed judgment as for
'want of a plea.
But the replication is good in substance; and if it
contain more than is necessary, the surplusage will
not vitiate it. 4 Dal. 440. A replication may be
bad in part, but good upon the whole. This replica:
tion states matter sufficient to entitle the plaintiffs to.
maintain an action upon the bond; and even if it
afterwards state something which is inaccurate, it
will not vitiate the whole. 3 Term Rep. 376. Dufo
field v. Scott. Buller's opini6n. The breach need
not be assigned in the words of the cpndition. It

THz U.4"

V.

A RTHUR

260

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Tim 1u.S. is sufficient if a substantial breach bb set forth.
Doug., 367. Ep. N. P. 209.
V.
A demurrer admits all matters of fact although
infornally pleaded, if the tight of the matter sufficiently appears. 1 Tidd's Prac. 649. (London edit.)
klfob. 233,
The action is not necessarily brought under the
14th section of the act of July, 1798. That section
does not prevent the United States from bringing
actions in any other manner.
Pope contra.
The first error is in the declaration. No action
can be maintained upori an official bond, until the
condition be broken; and unless the declaration
show the condition to be broken, it shows no cause
of action in the United States. The act of congress
.only authorizes a suit to be brought upon such a
bond when the obligor has failed in his official duty,
and such failure is a part of the plaiiitiff's title to
sue.

In the ease of Stoddert v, -k'Clanaghan,in the
court of appeals of Kentucky, Sneed's Cases, 359. the.
court saidi as the plaintiff could only sue in his own
name, upon a bond given to the governor, by virtue
of the act of assembly which"gives a right of action
upon such a bond to a person injured, the plaintiff
ought in his declaration to have averred himself to
be a person injured; otherwise he does not show a
title in himself to sue.
LIVINGsToN, J. How does it appear that this
is an official bond, and not a bond for a debt simply?
Pope. The bond of a public officer upon which
a suit is brought is always a part of.the record.
Rodney, in reply.
This case is not like that of Stoddere and XM'Chr-

FEBRUARY, 1809.

261

Wtghan. In that case the name of the plaintiff did
could
not appeair in the bond, and the only fact whichthat
he
was
give him a right to sue upon.the bond
was a person injured. But in the present case the
plaintiffs are the obligees of the bond, and the defendants under their hands and seals have acknowledged themselves to stand indebted to the
plaintiffs in the amount of the penalty of the bond.
If they would take advantage of the cond ion of
the bond they must show it.

February 24a
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the bpinion of the
court, to the following effect:

If this case depended upon the replication, the
Judgment of the court must be in favour of the de- fendants. It is certainly bad, inasmuch as it charges
the defendants with moneys not collected. Bat
tipon a demurrer the judgment is to be against the
_party who committed the first error in pleading.
-The want of oyer is a fatal defect in the plea of
the defendants ; and the court cannot look at any
subsequent proceeding. The plea was bad-'when
pleaded. The judgment must be reversed, ant'. the
tause remanded for further proceedings.
Judgment reversed.

Txz U. S.

AWV.
Atm

,,

