FEBRUARY, 18o9.

363,

AeLs
goods and chattels hhall be pretended to have
been made to any person with whom, or those claim- NoRwooD.
ing under him, possession shall have remained by the ..-- '-m./
space of five years, without demand made and pursued by due process of law on the part of the pretended lender'" "the same shall be taken, as to the creditors and purchaMserd of the -persons aforesaid so
-remaining in possession, to be fraudulent within
this act, and that the absolute- property it with.the
possession; unless such loan" ",were declared by will,
or by deed, in writing proved and recorded as
aforesaid."
C. Lee.and B.,

7. Lee, contra, contended,

That the possession of Jamesson, which was- -ad-verse to Norwood, could not be conDected with
Turner's possession, which was under Norwood, so
as to make the case a fraudulent loan within the
statute.
And of that opinion was the court.
Judgment affirmed

SLACUM v. SIMMS AND WISE.
A majgstrate
ERROR to the circuit court for the district o1 who has re.
s deed
ceived
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.
or" trdst
from
The former judgment of the court below having
neen reversed in this court at February term 1806,
ante, vol. 3. p. 300. and remanded for further proceedings, the following statement .of facts, in the
nature of a special verdict, was agreed upon by the

parties.

,an

insolvent

debtor,is
deed

which
frau-

dulent in law
creditors,
issto
icompetent
to sitas a aagistrate in the

discharge of
the debtor under the -insol,

That the defendants executed the bond in the vent law of
declaration mentioned. That the defendant Simms, thedischargeso
being in custody under the execution mentioned in obtained is not

SUPREME. COU
8L-Acui
g91MM.
discharge
due courve

U. S.

the- conditiori of- the b6nd, Afterward ohined h1
dis charge as an insolvntdebtor, by authqrity- of
tthe act of assembly of Virginia entitled " Am act
in for reducing into one the several acts concerning es:offo
ecutions, and for the relief of insolvent debtors."
That' he was discharged from the prison bounds by
warrant from'Amos Alexander and Peier-Wige, jun.
two of the aldermen or justices of the corporation
of Alexandria,, before whom Simms delivered in'a
schedule of his estate, and took the oath of an insolvent debtor in the manner prescribed by the.ict,
and being go discharged, he departed out of"prison
bounds, apd not before, -or in any other manner.
That the -defendant, Peter Wise, jun. is thesame
Peter Wise who acted as one of the justices, and
who signed the warrant 'of discharge,, and that
Simms, beforetaking the oath, executed a deed conveying all his property, real and personal, to-John
Wise, and the said-Peter Wise, in trust, for the benefitof the creditors oi Simms, who, notwithstanding
the- said deed, afterwards, and after- hi discharge,
exeicised acts "ofownership over the property. That
Pefer Wise never acted under the deed of trust.
Ths the deed of trust was made by Simms with a
view of preventing the effect of the plaintifPs execution, and was fraudulent in law, but such fraud was
without the participation 6f the said Peter Wise.;
and -without his privity, other than" that the said
deed was exhibited'to the said magistrates, and discussed by- counsel before them, at the time the
schedule was delivered, and'the 6ath administered.
That 'no escape ,warrant was ever applied for in
consequence of Simms's departing from the prison
hounds. That if the law be for the plaintiff as to both defendants, or either of them, judgment to be entered
for 2,570 dollars and 90 cents, to be discharged by the
payment of 1,820 dollarg and 20-ents, damages and
costs against such defendant or defendants severally;
but if the law be for either or both of the defendants,

FEBRUARY. "oi

S6t "

then Judgment to be entered for sniwh dife1dant or
defendants severally.
The schedule referred to in the statement, was
as follows: 1I have neither real or personal property, but what has been- conveyed by a deed of
trust to John Wise aid. Peter Wise, junm..i the use
of my .creditors, as-will appear, reference being had
to said. deed.
" fesse Simmas.

(Signed)
"August

soth, 1800."

The court below decided the law; for both de.
fendants;. and the plaintiff sued out his writ of rrov.
Swann, for'the plaintiff in error.
The case now presented is different from what- it
,formerly was. It will now be conitended'that Simms
Was not discharged by due course of law.
1. Because Simms was guilty of fraud in effecting
his discharge, and Wise knew it; and, by his conduct, contributed to assist him in it. Fraud is~a
questiori of law and fact. It is'not" necessary that
it should be exprjpssly averred. It is an ioference of
law from the facts. Russel v. Hamilton,, I Granch,
209. 1 'Burr. 396. 474. 3 Co. 77. 79. Penner's
"ease, .Esp. N. P. 245. Bultler, 173. "
2. Because Wise was not competipt -to act'as a
magistrate in discharging Simms. He was directly
interested; for by discharging Simms he discharged.
himself from the obligation of his bond. An interested person is not competent to act as a judge.
12 Mod. 669. Mood's case. Com. Die. tit. Yustiees,
1.3.
The defendant.must show all the proceedings to
be regular ani correct, It is not like the case of a

sr.&cux
V.

11 * OVRTX. S.
SURM~
t-C
S.

judgment of a competent court, which will be affirm.
ed unless the error be apparent on the proceedings.,
The proceedings are in pais, there can be no
writ of error. This is .the 6nly mode in which the
procedure 9anbe corrected.
C. 4ee and ,7ones, contra.

iYraud is never to be presumed; and it is not
found. It was a mere ministerial act, which is not
void by reason of interest.
This is not the mode by which the plaintiff chin
avail himself of the fraud, if it be one. The discharge
is primd facie good.
It is expressly found that Wise did not paiticir
pate in the fraud which Sfimms contemplated by
his deed. He never acted under the deed as a
.trustee.' His only knowledge of the fact was in
his capacity of magistrate. As a magistrate he had
ino discetion; he was bound to grant the warrant of
discharge upon the debtor's taking the oath, and delivering the schedule.
All the authorities cited in Comyns' Dijest confine the incompetence to cases where the judge is
a party upon:record.
If a legal.proceeding of this kind may be vacated
at any subsequent time, by showing h remote collaterl interest in the magistrate, there can be io
security for property. The distinction is between
a direct interest as party, and a consequential interest. If the interest do not appear upon the
record, the only remedy is by prohibition. As
long as -the proceeding remains unreversed by a
c6mpetent tribunal, i.t is valid. Hard, 503. Brdohs
v. Eail of Rivers. 12 Co. 114. Earl of Darby's
case. byer, 220. a. Sir . Bacon's case. 1 Leon.
184. Cro. Eliz. 717. Errish v. Reeves. 8 Co. 118.
Bonham's 'caoe. Co. Litt. 141. 4 Corn. Dig. tit.
7ustices,i & T. I Salk. 398. 12. Mlod. 587..2 Salk.

FEBRUARY,

1809.

367

423.
.yeen v. Rodgers. 2 Salh. 607. Sty.- 137.
Smithv. Hancdck. Sty. 209.

Swann, in reply.
It is immaterial whether it be a ministerial or a
judicial act. 'Sheriffs, witnesses, jurors are all rendered incompetent by interest; aid a fortiori is a
judge.
farch I5.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of
the court to the following effect:

The former case between these parties presented
the single. circumstance of fraud in Simms, t1e
principal debtor, in which Wise had no share as it
was then stated.
The decision in that case does not A.ffect the present. It 'ishere stated that the defendant Wise
was one of the maigistrates who grantedthe discharge, and Who received a conveyance from Simms
of all his estate, &c.
It cannot be doubted that if there had been a
combination between the surety of the indolvent and
themagistrate to grant the discharge, such surety
could never plead that discharge in bar of this action. Such would have been the law if Peter Wise
the surety had been a different person from Peter
Wise the magistrate. But being the same Person,
he is clearly incompetent. He is directly interested,
and his interest appears upon the record.
But the case is stronger when we consider the irre-,
gularity of the schedule of property delivered by
Simms at the time of his discharge.
The whole schedule is in these words: "I have
neither real or personal property, but what has been
conveyed by a deed of trust to John Wise and Peter

StAcf'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Wise, jun. for the use of my creditors, as will ap-

tAzcu

pear; reference being had t6 the said deed."

&"

He does not directly affirm that it is, or is not,
-his property. He might have taken the oath although
fie knew that the property contained in the deed
remalned in himself. The schedule, therefore, was not
such as the law requires. The transaction is fraudulent upofi the face of it.
The discharge, being, granted by an incompetent
tribunal, is wholly void.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES v. 'VOWELL AND
MiCLEAN.

Duties upon , ERROR to the circuit court of the Unlied States,

goods import- for the district of Columbia, in an action of debt
ed, do not ac-

crue until their upon a bond given by the defendants in error to the
arrival at ihe United States, for duties on a cargo of sale from St.

e4""'
PO,,t
up- Ubes, which arrived and came to anchor within the
Theofduty
on salt,
uhich
collection district of Alexandria, sixteen mile; below
Deceased
with the the towfn ikodport of Alexandria, on the
2d off-e
th 23d
sist of'December, i0so, was cember, 1807, but did not arrive- at, the port of
nbt ohargeable Alexandria until thefrst of 'J-anuar , 1808.
upon a cargo
thich arrived

xvithin the cot-' The collector of Alexandria refused to permit the
beforetha-day, cargo to be' landed until the duties were secured,
ar- Vowell contended that the salt was not subject to,
but
didthe
notport
rjV__at
duty*
untl
entry
of
the lst of Ja"
The fats being ipecially pleaded, and admitted
nuary, 1308.
in-the replication, t6 which there was a general demurrer, the .only question *as, whetmer, as the duty
upon salt ceased wvith the 31st of,:December, 1807,
this cargo, which arrived within the district, but nbt

-lection district

.5 .

