COAL COMPANY

V. BLATCOFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

COAL COMPANY V. BLATCHFORD.
1. In controversies between citizens of different States, where the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States depends upon the citizenship of the
parties, if there are several co-plaintiffs, each plaintiff must be competent to sue, and, if there are several co-defendants; each defendant
must be liable to be sued in those courts, or the jurisdiction cannot be
entertained.
2. Executors and trustees suing for others' benefit form no exception to this
rule. If they are personally qualified by their citizenship to bring suit
in the courts of the United States, the jurisdiction is not defeated by
the fact that the parties whom they represent may be disqualified; and
if they are not personally qualified by their citizenship, the courts of
the United States will not entertain jurisdiction, although the parties
they represent may be qualified.
3. The cases of Browne v. Strode (5 Cranch, 303) and JlceNut v. Bland (2
Howard, 10) commented upon and explained.
4. When the citizenship of the parties is averred in the bill of complaint, and
it thus appears that some of the plaintiffs are disqualified by their citizenship from maintaining the suit, the defect may be taken advantage
of by demurrer, or without demurrer, on motion, at any stage of the
proceedings. A plea in abatement is required only when the citizenship averred is such as to support the jurisdiction of the court and the
defendant desires to controvert the averment.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Pennsylvania. The case was this:
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act enacts:

"That the Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance . . .
of all suits of a civil nature, &c., where an alien is a party, or
the suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State."

With this provision in force, R. M. Blatchford and J. B.
Newman filed their bill for the foreclosure of a mortgage
executed by the Susquehanna and Wyoming Valley Railroad and Coal Company to them as trustees, to secure the
payment of the company's bonds and for the sale of the
mortgaged property. The mortgage conferred upon the
plaintifl the usual rights and powers of mortgagees, and
contained stipulations authorizing them to use different

Dec. 1870.]

COAL COMPANY V. BLATCHFORD.

173

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

remedies in case default was made in the payments provided.
The bill stated that the'defendant was a corporation created and organized under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania; that the plaintiff, Blatchford, was a citizen of the
State of New York; that the plaintiff, Newman, was a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, and that they as trustees
sued solely for the use of Henry Beckett, an alien and a subject of the Queen of Great Britain, and Joseph Loyd, a citizen of New Jersey, both residing in New Jersey. The defendant demurred to the bill on the ground that the plaintiff
Newman and the defendant corporation, being citizens of the
same State, the court had not jurisdiction of the cause. The
court overruled the demurrer, and an answer and replication
having been filed, the case was heard on the pleadings; and
a decree rendered for the plaintiffs. From this decree the
appeal was taken; and the question presented for consideration here was whether the jurisdiction of the Federal court
depended upon the citizenship of the trustees, who were the
plaintiffs, or of the parties for whose benefit the suit was
averred to have been brought.
Mr. Theodore Cayler, in support of the jurisdiction:
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, when it is founded
upon the citizenship of the parties, rests upon that of the
real and not of the nominal parties to the suit. This is decided in Browne v. Strode,* where this court says that the
courts of the 'United States have jurisdiction in a case between the citizens of the same State, if the plaintiffs are only
nominal plaintiffs, for the use of an alieh. By a law of the
State of Mfississippi sheriffs were required to give bond to
the governor for the fithful performance of their duty. "The
fact that the governor and the party sued are citizens of the
same State, will not," say this court, in McEutt v. Blandt
"oust the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, provided the party for whose use the suit is brought is a
*5 Cranch, '303.

t- 2 Howard, 10.

COAL COMPANY V. BLATCHFORD.

[Sup. Pt.

Opinion of the court.

citizen of another State." So again the court declares in Wormley v. Wormley,* that the court will not suffer its jurisdiction
in an equity cause to be ousted by the circumstances of the
joinder or non-joinder of merely formal parties, who are
not entitled to sue or liable to be sued in the United States
courts. In Irvine v. Lowry,t the doctrine of Brown v. Strode
is strongly affirmed.
In this case nothing can be actually decreed in favor of
Newman, the party referred to in the demurref. Both he
and Blatchford, his co-trustee, are, in the language of Judge
Baldwin, in Irvine v. -;owry, "the mere instruments or conduits through whom the legal right of the real plaintiff
could be asserted."
At all events, the objection should have been taken by
plea in abatement. It is too late when coming on demurrer.
Mr. .E. F. Hodges, for the appellant, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 vests in
the Circuit Courts original jurisdiction of suits of a civil
nature, at law and in equity, when the matter involved exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred
dollars, in three classes of cases: 1st, when the United
States are plaintiffs or petitioners; 2d, when an alien is a
party; and, 3d, when the suit is between a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another
State.
In the last two classes the designation of the party, plaintiff or defendant, is in the singular number, but the designation is intended to embrace all the persons who are on
one side, however numerous, so that each distinct interest
must be represented by persons, all of whom are entitled to
sue, or are liable to be sued, in the Federal courts.t In
other words, if there are several co-plaintiffs, the intention
of the act is that each plaintiff must be competent to sue,
* 8 Wheaton, 422.

Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267.

t 14 Peters, 293.

Dec. 1870.]

COAL ComPANY v. BLATCHFORD.

175

Opinion of the court.

and, if there are several co-defendants, each defendant must
be liable to be sued, or the jurisdiction cannot be entertained. Executors and trustees suing. for others' benefit
form no exception to this rule. If they are personally qualified by their citizenship to bring suit in the Federal courts,
the jurisdiction is not defeated by the fact that the parties
whom they represent may be disqualified. This has been
repeatedly adjudged. It was so adjudged as early as 1808,
in Chappedelaine v. Dechenaux,* where the complainants,
though citizens of France, brought suit, one as residuary
legatee and the other as administrator de bonis non of a testator, who had been a citizen of Georgia, against the defendant, who was a citizen of that State. Counsel, on opening
the question of jurisdiction, was stopped by the court, Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall observing that the impression of the
court was that the case was clearly within the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States; that the plaintiffs were
alien!; and, although they sued as trustees, they were entitled to sue in the Circuit C6urt. This ruling was followed
in C/dldress v. Ernory;t and in Osborn v. The Bank of the
United States, the Chief Justice laid it down as a universal
rule that, in controversies between citizens of different
States, the jurisdiction of the Federal courts depended not
upon the relative situation of the parties concerned in interest, but upon the relative situation of the parties named in
the record.
These a:nthorities are conclusive of the present case. The
defendant is a corporation created under the laws of Pennsylvania. One of the plaintifih, Blatchford, describes himself in the bill as a citizen of the State of New York, and
the plaintiff Newman describes himself as a citizen of Pennsylvania, and they both describe themselves as trustees, who
sue solely for the use of Henry Beckett, an alien and a subject of the Queen of Great Britain, and of Joseph Loyd, a
citizen ofNew Jersey. The demurrer of the defendant raises
the objection that the plaintiff, Newman, is a citizen of the
* 4 Cranch, 307.

t" 8 Wheaton, 669.

COAL COMPANY

v.

BLATCUFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

same State with the defendant, and that the court has in
consequence no jurisdiction of the case. If there were no
other parties, the suit clearly would not lie, for the eleventh
section of the Judiciary Act only authorizes a suit between
citizens of different States, not between citizens of the same
State. And the objection, according to the constru.ction we
give to that section and to the authorities cited, is equally
available when a disqualified party is joined with others who
are qualified.
The cases of Browne v. Strode,* and McNutt v. _Bland,t upon
which the plaintiffs rely, do not aid them. In the first case
the action was on a bond given by an executor for the faithful execution of his testator's will, in conformity with the
statute of Virginia, which required all such bonds to be
made payable to the justices of the peace of the county
where administration was granted, but allowed suits to be
brought upon them at the instance of any party aggrieved.
The object of the action was to recover of the defendant, a
citizen of Virginia, a debt due by the testator to a British
subje'et, and was brought in the name of the justices of the
peace of the county, who were also citizens of that State.
It was held that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
In .McNuttv. Bland the action was on a bond given by a
sheriff of a county in Mississippi. By the law of that State
sherifls were required to execute bonds to the governor of
the State and his successors, conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of their office, which bond could
be prosecuted at any time by any party injured until the
whole amount of the penalty was recovered. The action in
the case cited was brought in the name of the governor for
the use of citizens of New York, against the defendants,
who were citizens of Mississippi. Upon demurrer it was
held by this court that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
"In this case," said the court, "there is a controversy and
suit between citizens of New York and Mississippi; there
is neither between the governor and the defendants. As
* 5 Oranch, 303.

t 2 Howard, 10.

Dec. 1870.]

COAL COMPANY v. BLATCHRO11D.

177

Opinion of th court.

the instrument of the State law to afford a remedy against
the sheriff and his sureties, his name is on the bond and to
the suit upon it, but in no just view of the Constitution or
law can he be considered as a litigant party; both look to
things, not names; to the actors in controversies and suits,
not to the mere forms or inactive instruments used in conducting them in virtue'of some positive law." The court
then cites the case of Brozvne v. Strode, and states the principle, on which it was decided, to be, "that where the real and
only controversy is between citizens of different States, or
an alien or a citizen, and the plaintiff is by some positive
law compelled to use the name of a public officer who has
not, or ever had any interest in or control over it, the courts
of the United States will not consider any others as parties
to the suit, than the persons between whom the litigation
before them exists."
There is no analogy between these cases and the case at
bar. The nominal plaintiffs in those cases were not trustees, and held nothing for the use or benefit of the real parties in interest. They could not, as is said in Mcffutt v.
Bland, prevent the institution or prosecution of the actions
or exercise any control over them. The justices of the
peace in the one case, and the governor in the other, were
the mere conduits through whom the law afforded a remedy
to the parties aggrieved.
In the case at bar the plaintiffs are the real prosecutors
of the suit. They are parties to the mortgage contract negotiating its terms and stipulations, and to them the usual
rights and powers of mortgagees are reserved, and to them
the usual obligations of nortgagors are made. The right to
use different remedies is expressly provided upon default in
the payments stipulated, and the adoption of either rests at
the option of the plaintiffs. So long as they do not refuse
to discharge the trusts reposed in them, other parties are
not authorized to institute or prosecute any proceedings for
the enforcement of the mortgage, or to exercise any control
over them.
The case is not one where a plea in abatement was reVOL. X1.

12

UNITED STATES V. O'KEEFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

quired to raise the question of citizenship. Here the citizenship of the parties is averred in the bill of complaint, and
the consequent defect in the jurisdiction of the court is apparent, and a defect of this character thus disclosed may be
reached on demurrer or taken advantage of without demurrer, on motion, at any stage of the proceedings. A plea in
abatement is required only where the citizenship averred is
such as to support the jurisdiction of the court and the defendant desires to controvert the averment. The question
of citizenship constitutes no part of the issue upon the
merits.
It follows, from the views expressed, that the decree of
the court below must be REVERSED, and that the cause must
be remanded with directions to the court to dismiss the bill

FoR

UNITED STATES V.

WANT O(' TURISDICTION.

O'KEEFE.

1. By the proceeding known as a " petition of right," the British government accords to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute
claims against it.
2. Accordingly, British subjects, if otherwise entitled, may recover by process in our Court of Claims the proceeds of captured and abandoned
property; a privilege granted only to the citizens or subjects of such
foreign governments as accord to our citizens the right to prosecute
claims against such governments in their courts.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By act of Congress of 1855,* establishing the Court of
Claims, persons are authorized to sue the United States.
The words of the enactment are:
APPEAL

"And the said cburt SHALL hear and determine all claims
founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of
an executive department, or upon any contract, .express or implied, with the governipent of the United States, which may be
suggested to it by a petition filed therein."
* 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

