EDMONDSON

v.

BLOOMSEIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

convicted thereon, but shall have judgment of respondeat
ouster, and may plead over to the felony the general issue,
not guilty.* And this is the effecf of the judgment of reversal rendered by the Supreme Court of Tennessee in this
case; so that in no sense can that judgment be deemed a
final one. The case must go back and be tried upon its
merits, and final judgment must be rendered before this
court can take jurisdiction. If after that it should be
brought here for review, we can then examine the defendant's plea and decide upon its sufficiency.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

EDMONDSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.
A clause in the will of a woman who died in 1803-" My certificates that are
in the hands of my brother Ben, I desire may be given to my husband, to dispose of as he may think proper "-held not to include warrants for a large
amount of bounty lands, though the words certificates and warrants, of
the sort in question, were sometimes used synonymously; the same
brother having had in his bands at the time of the making of the will
some other instruments more properly called "certificates;" the testator
having devised all the lands she possessed to her husband 4 during his
life;" a settlement of her estate on the basis that the warrants did not
pass as certificates, having been long acquiesced in by the party now
complainant, and "evidence of the most satisfactry character having
been introduced by the respondents, showing that the land warrant was
never in the hands of the brother prior to the date of the will, or at
any other time."

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Ohio, in which court John Edmondson and Littleton
Waddell in right of his wife Elizabeth, sister of the said
John, filed a bill against Adam Bloomshire and others, to
compel a conveyance of certain lands in Ohio, alleged to be
in the possession of the defendants. The court below dismissed the bill, and the complainants appealed.
APPEAL

* 4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 888.

Dec. 1870.]

EDMONDSON v. BLOOMSHIRE.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

Both in the court below and here several interesting and
difficult questions were raised; and fully and ably argued by
Messrs. It. Stanberry and J. B. Baldwin, for the complainants,
and Messrs. William Lawrence and J. W. Robinson, contra:*
But the case as passed on -by the court avoided a decisione
on these, and placed the judgment on the meaning of a peculiar and badly expressed will, and certain facts which
explained it. The case, therefore, presenting nothing of
interest, the arguments of counsel upon the construction of
the will and evidence are suppressed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Volunteer forces for the" public service in the war of the
Revolution were, in many instances, furnished by the States,
and all such, as well as the regular forces, were paid for
their services to a large extent in continental money, which
so depreciated in a short time as to become almost valueless.
Troops for that service were raised by the State Of Virginia, known as the Virginia. line on continental establishment, and they also were paid for their services in that
currency; and in order to afford relief for the loss which
the troops sustained in that way, thd legislature of the State,
at the November session 1781, passed an act directing the
auditor of public accounts to settle and adjust the pay and
accounts of the officers and soldiers of that line, so as to
make their claims for pay and subsistence equal to specie,
such adjustment to cover the period from the first day of
January, 1777, to the last day of December, 1781; and the
directions to the auditor were that he should issue printed
certificates to the respective applicants for the balance found
due to them in such adjustment, payable on or before the
first day of January, 1785, with interest at the rate of six
per centum per annum.f
Directions were also given to the auditor in the same act
that he should in like manner settle and adjust the accounts
* See Appendix.

t" 10 Hening's Statutes of Virginia, 462.

EDMONDSON

v.

BLOOMSHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

of all officers and soldiers of the said line who have fallen
or died in the service during that period, and the provision
was that their representatives should be entitled to such
certificates, and all other benefits and advantages therein
granted to the officers and soldiers in the line at the date of
the act.*
None of these matters are the subject of controversy, and
it is also alleged and admitted that William Rickman, of
Charles City, Virginia, was a deputy director general in the
Virginia line on continental establishment; that he served
three years or more as -such director, and that he thereby
became entitled also to Virginia military bounty-lands.

On the seventh of August, 1778, William Rickman made
and published his last will and testament, by which he gave
and bequeathed to his wife, Elizabeth Rickman, all his
estate, both real and personal, in fee simple, and appointed
his wife, together with Benjamin Harrison, her father, and
her brother, Benjamin Harrison, Jr., the executors of his
will so made and published. Three years afterwards the
testator died, leaving the said last will and testament unreyoked and in full force, and the same was subsequently duly
proved and admitted to record.
Application in behalf of Elizabeth Rickman, as the widow
and executrix of her deceased husband, was afterwards made
to the auditor of public accounts to settle and adjust the
pay and subsistence accounts of the testator as an officer in
the-Virginia line on continental establishment, and on the
twenty-eighth of February, 1784, the requested adjustment
was made. By that adjustment the auditor of public accounts found that there was a balance due to the deceased,
or to his legal representatives, of one thousand seven hundred and twenty-two pounds nineteen shillings and two
pence, and the record shows that the evidence of the indebtedness of the State to the deceased for that amount was
delivered to B. Harrison on the same day the adjustment
was made.
10 Hening's Statutes of Virginia, 468.

Dec. 1870.]

EDMONDSON

v. BLOOMSHIRE.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Prior to that adjustment, to wit, on the twenty-ninth of

November, 1783, the House of Delegates of Virginia passed
two resolutions which it becomes important to notice.
1. That the petition of Elizabeth Rickman praying that
the auditor of public accounts should 'settle and adjust the
pay and accounts of 'her late husband was reasonable,sbowing satisfactorily that the adjustment was largely influenced
by the legislature.
2. That Elizabeth Rickman, widow of William Rick-man,
be allowed such a portion of land as the rank and service of
the deceased merit:
Pursuant to the second resolution the governor of the
State, Benjamin Harrison, on the twelfth of January, 1784,.
executed a certificate that Elizabeth Rickman, widow and.
executrix of William Rickman, director general, is entitled,
to the proportion of land allowed a colonel in the continental line who has served three years, and on the following
day a warrant for six thousand six hundred and sixty-six
and two-thirds acres was issued to her, signed by the register
of the State land office.
Five years later she intermarried with John Edmondson,.
and they afterwards, during the succeeding year, united in
executing a.deed of-trust or post-nuptial agreement to her
brother, Carter B. Harrison, of all her estate, real and personal, or to which she was entitled under the will of her
former husband, for her separate use and advantage, her
heirs, executors, and administrators, the husband stipulating
therein that she might dispose of the same by her last will
and testament as she should see fit to do.
On the third of May, 1790, Elizabeth Edmondson madeher last will and testament, which was olographic, and on
the first day of 'January, 1791, she died, leaving her will in
full force, and on the twentieth of the same month the will
was proved and admitted to record in the county where she
resided at her decease.
Absolute title to the lands embraced in the warraut signed
by the lanl register is claimed by the complainants, upounthe
ground that the same were devised in fee siinple by Eltoi
VOL. XI.

25

886

EDMONDSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

beth Edmondson to her husband, John Edmondson, by her
last will and testament, but the respondents deny that her
will when properly construed contains any such devise, and
insist that the will, if it made any disposition of those lands,
only devised to the husband a life estate in the same, and
that the fee simle title to the same, inasmuch as the testatrix died without issue, descended to her brothers and sisters, under whom they claim, as alleged in the answer.
Unless the course of descent was broken by the will of
the testatrix, it is clear that her brothers and sisters became
the owners of the lands embraced in that warrant, as it is
conceded that she died without issue.
Afterwards, in the year 1795, the said John Edmondson
married again, and the record shows that he had three children by the second wife, one of whom died before the father
without issue, leaving John and Elizabeth, the latter having
since intermarried with Littleton Waddell, the other complainant and appellant in the case before the court.
Before his decease, John Edmondson, the father of the
two appellants, John and Elizabeth, also made a will and
devised all his property to his three children, one of whom,
as before stated, died during the lifetime of the father. His
will bears date on the third of October, 1802, and the pleadings show that he died on the first day of December foll6wing, leaving the two children before named as his principal
devisees and sole heirs-at-law. They, together with the husband of Elizabeth, claim the lands in controversy upon the
ground that the same were devised to the father of John
and Elizabeth by the will of his first wife.
Defences of various kinds are set up in the answer, but in
the view taken of the case it is not necessary to enter into
those details, as the court is of the opinion that the decision
of the case must turn upon the construction of the will of
Elizabeth Edmondson, deceased, it being conceded that she
held the title to the lands in controversy under the warrant
granted to her for the same by the State.
Proofs were introduced by both parties, but the Circuit
Court was of the opinion that the complainants were not

Dec. 1870.]

EDMONDSON

v. BLOOMSHIRE.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

entitled to recover, and entered a decree dismissing the bill
of complaint. Whereupon the complainants appealed to
this court, but the appeal was dismissed, it appearing on the
face of the record that the transcript was not filed in this
court during the term next succeeding the allowance of the
appeal.*
Since that time a new appeal has been allowed to the complainants and they have-removed the cause into this court,
seeking to reverse the shme decree from which the first appeal was taken. Pending the present appeal a motion to
dismiss was filed by the respondents, which was heard at
the same time with the merits, but the questions involved
in the motion will not be decided, as the court is of the
opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the
bill of complaint for the want of equity is correct.
Motions of the kind are usually determined before proceeding to examine the merits of the controversy, but the
court deems it proper to adopt, a different course on the
present occasion for the following reasons, among others
which might be. mentioned: (1.) Because differences of
opinion exist in the court as to the proper disposition to be
made of the motion, irrespective of the fact that the case
has been twice heard upon the merits. (2.) Because the
respondents, when the case was here bfore, went to final

hearing without making any objections to the regularity of
the appeal.
Affirmative relief, it is true, eould not be granted to the
complainants without first disposing of some of the questions involved in the motion, but inasmuch as an affirmance
of the decree of the Circuit Court will effect substantially
the same result as a dismissal of the appeal, the court is not
inclined to decide the preliminary questions.
Letters of administration on the estate of Elizabeth Edmondson were granted to John Edmondson, the husband of
the deceased, as no executor was named in the will. Several bequests to the husband were made by the testatrix in
* Edmondson v.Bloomshire, 7

Wallace, 306.

EDMONDSON V. BLooMSHIRB.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

the will which need not be noticed, as they furnish no aid
in the solution of the question presented for decision. Those
clauses relate to certain articles of personal property which
she gave to her husband forever, and to certain slaves which
she gave to him "to dispose of as he may think proper."
Preceding the clause disposing of the articles of personal
property the will contains the following devise: "I give to
my dear husband, John Edmondson, all the land I possess,
during his life," but the will contains no residuary clause of
a general nature. Enough appears to show that the testatrix
owned real estate, as she devised the house and land where
they lived, at the death of her husband, to one of her brothers, and to another brother she gave, at the decease of her
husband, a certain other tract described in the will as having been purchased by her first husband, but the will does
not in terms make any ultimate disposition of the lands devised to her husband during his life except those two pareels, and the complainants do not controvert the proposition
that the lands.in question, if they were devised to the husband under that clause of the will, descended at his decease
to the brothers and sisters of the testatrix, as contended by
the respondents. They deny, however, that the lands in
controversy, or any portion of the same, were devised to him
by that clause. On the contrary, they rely 'upon another
clause in th6 will as the foundation of their claim, which
follows the bequests before mentioned to her husband and
certain other bequests of like kind to her brothers and sisters
and other relatives, specifying ihi
each of the several bequests
the name of the legatee.
Having devised all the land she possessed to her husband
during his life, and made those bequests, the testatrix provides as follows: "My certificates that are in the hands of
my brother Ben, I desire may be given to my husband to
dispose of as he may think proper." Founded on that clause
in the will, the theory of the complainants is that the warrant signed by the land agent for the six thousand six hnii-

dred and sixty-six and two-thirds acres of bounty-lands was
devise I to their father, and that at the decease of the testa-

Dec. 1870.]

EDMONDSON

V.

BLOOMSHIRE.

889

Opinion of the court.

trix he became the owner in fee simple of the lands surveyed
and located under that warrant, and that they, as the devisees in his will and his sole heirs-at-law, are the lawful
owners of the lands in controversy.
Support to that theory is attempted to be drawn from
the fact that the governor, before the warrant was signed,
granted 'acertificate in which he certified that the widow
and executrix of the deceased claimant was entitled to the
proportion of land allowed to a colonel of the continental
line who had served three years, but the decisive answer to
any such attempt is that the certificate of the governor was,
on the following day, deposited in the proper office as the
legal foundation of the laud warrant, where it has ever since
remained.
Most of the introductory allegations of the bill of complaint are admitted by the respondents. They also admit
that Elizabeth Rickman, before her marriage with J.ohn
Edmondson, obtained the certificates for the balance due her
first husband for pay and subsistence as director general in
the continental line, and also for the interest due on the
same, and that she also obtained the warrant for the lands
in controversy, but they utterly deny that the word certificates as used in the clause of the will under which the complainants claim means or intends the warrant in question or
the lands described in the pleadings.
Persons having claims to bounty lands were required at
that time, by the laws of that State, to exhibit their vouchers
to the executive, and if found to be correct and the claim
was allowed, it was the duty of the governor to issue .a certificate to that effect to the register of the land office, and
the register, upon the filing of that certificate, was required
to grant the warrant*
More than six years before the testatrix made .her last
will and testament in which she uses the phrase "my certificates that are in the hands of my brother Ben," the cer.
11 Hening's Statutes of Virginia, 83; Swan's Land Laws, 118.

EDMONDSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tificate as to the bounty lands had been surrendered to the
register of the land office, and the land warrant ii] question
had been issued in its place, and there is no evidence that
the land warrant or the certificate which preceded it was
ever in the hands of any one of the brothers of the testatrix.
Undoubtedly the certificate for the balance due for pay

and the subsistence accounts arising from the depreciation
of the currency in which the original clainiant was paid and
the certificates for the interest on the same did pass by that
clause in the will to the husband of the testatrix, and the
proofs are satisfactory that those certificates were in the
hands of her brother Benjamin af the date of the will.
Those certificates bear date on the twenty-eighth of February, 1784, and they were immediately delivered to the
brother named in the will as having them in his hands,
where they remained to the date of the will of the testatrix
and to the time of her death.
Certified copies of the certificate signed by the governor
as the foundation for the land warrant are ekhibited in the
record as given by the register of the land office, which
shows that it could not have been in the hands of her brother
at the date of the will, as it had been in the register's office
more than six years before the will was executed. Suppose,
however, that it appeared that the land warrant had been in
the possession of her brother, from its date to the time when
the testatrix died, still it would be difficult, if not impossible, to hold that the signification of the word certificates, as
used in the will, is sufficiently'comprehensive to include that
instrument, as the word certificate seems to have an appropriate and direct reference to the instruments of evidence
issued to the testatrix for the back pay and subsistence accounts of her former husband, as before explained.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the words certificate and warrant are sometimes used in the statutes of
the State as words of equivalent import, but the examples
put do not relate to the same subject, and if they did it
would not be difficult to show that the words are there used

Dec. 187O.]

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT.

891

Syllabus.

rather as conferring an alternative authority than as words
of synonymous signification. Be that as it may, still it is
evident that the word certificates was used by the testatrix
as referring directly to the instruments in the hands of her
brother, which were given in the adjustment of her claim for
the balance due to l4er former husband to make his pay as
director-general equal to what it would have been if he had
been paid in specie.
Strong confirmation of that view is derived from the
cdurse pursued in the settlement of her estate and the long
acquiescence of the complainants in the pretensions of the
respondents and those under whom they claim. Evidence,
however, of the most satisfactory character was introduced
by the respondents showing that the laud warrant never was
in the h'nds of her brother prior to the date of the will, or
at any other time, but it is not deemed necessary to enter
into those details, as we are all of the opinion that the land
warrant, if it passed to the husband by the will, passed under
the devise which gave him during his life all the land which
the testatrix possessed, that it did not pass to him by the
other devise, and that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of complaint is correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT, ASSIGNEE.
1. Courts cannot assume, in their instructions to juries, that material facts
upon which the parties rely are established, unless they are admitted,
or the evidence respecting them is not controverted.
2. An agreement between persons insolvent and a bank, whereby the insolvents, for the purpose of securing their existing indebtedness to the bank,
as well as to obtain future advances, promise its president to deliver to the
bank, whenever it may desire, the entire stock of goods which they may
have at the time on hand in a store kept 'by them, the goods being in
the meantime retained in their possession, is void as against their other
creditors..
3. Such an agreement does not create any lien upon the property, or entitle
the bank to any preference over other creditors in the event of the
debtors being afterwards proceeded against under the Bankrupt Act

