Dec. 1870.]

CASE v. TERRELL.
Syllabus.

would then have presented clearly all the propositions to
which the attention of the court below was callea1, and in
relation to which it is insisted errors were committed.
For any error in relation to the facts a writ of error is not
the proper remedy. If all the testimony given were set out
in*the record we could not examine it with the view of determining whether it is sufficient to support the judgment.*
If sufficient, the remedy was a motion for a new trial, or by
having the facts specially found. In the latter case a writ
of error would lie to correct the wrong, if any were done.
According to the statute the finding of the court stands as
would the general verdict of a jury, and has the same effect.
The plaintiff in error is in the same position as if he were
here complaining that the jury erred in overruling the points
and propositions which were argued to them in his behalf,
and had found for the plaintiff when they should have found
for the defendant. The evidence was closed, and the court
was sitting in place of a jury when his exceptions were taken.
We are all of opinion that the propositions upon which
the plaintiff in error insists are not so presented that we
can take cognizance of them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CASE V. TERRELL.
1. No judgment for the payment of money can be rendered against the
United States in any court other than the Court of Claims without a
special act of Congress conferring jurisdiction.
2. A receiver of a National bank, whose operations have been suspended by
the Comptroller of the Currency for causes specified in the National
Currency Act, in no sense represents the government, and cannot sub.
ject it to the jurisdiction of the courts.
3. Nor can the Comptroller of the Currency, though he be sued himself and
submit to it, subject the government to the jurisdiction of the ordinary
courts to determine the conflicting claims of the United States and other
creditors in the funds of such a bank.
* Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 1.

CASE

v. TERRELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. It is doubtful if he has a right to submit himself to the control of the
courts in the discharge of duties specially intrusted to him by law.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
Terrell and others, creditors of the First National Bank
of New Orleans, which had failed and been put into liquidation, brought this bill in chancery in the court below against
one Case, who on the failure of the bank had been appointed
receiver of it, llurlburd, Comptroller of the Currency of the
United States, and one May and Beauregard, citizens of
Louisiana.
The prayer for relief was that a certain admitted debt due
to the United States from the bank be ascertained; that they
(the United States) be charged with certain sums, and required
to account for them, and that a writ of injunction issue restiaining the comptroller from making a dividend of the
funds of the bank until this account be adjusted.
Case and Hurlburd, the receiver and comptroller as aforesaid, appeared and answered; the answer of the latter being
put in for him by the district attorney, and neither signed
by Hurlburd nor sworn to by him. In it,
"He submits, on behalf of the United States, to the decision
of the court the claims of the United Stat.es to priority bf payment over the allowed claims of the creditors of said bank that
are not disputed."
The final decree, besides making a general order on the
comptroller to distribute the funds of the bank in his hands
ratably among its creditors as the law directs, decreed against
the United States in favor of the creditors of the bank for the
sum of $206,039.91, and that no claim of the United States
shall have any priority in the distribution of the funds of the
bank except as to the bonds pledged to secure its circulation.
From this decree, Case, the receiver, and Hurlburd, the
comptroller, appealed.

Mr. B. If. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Sir. C. I. Bill,
Assistant Attorney-General, for Hurlburd, Comptroller; Mr.
Case, proprid persona, by brief.

Dec. 1870.]

CASE v. TERRELL.
Opinion of the court.

Nessrs. J.T A. Campbel andH . Kelly, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is seen, from. the bill and decree, that while the United
States was not made a defendant, and while it is well settled
that it could not be sued in the court below, the only relief
prayed by the bill was relief against the United States, and
the only decree rendered which was not merely formal was
a decree against the United States for over $200,000, and a
further decree barring the right to assert her priority as a
creditor of the bank in the distribution of its funds.
It is strange that in any court professing to administer the
English system of equitable jurisprudence such a decree
could be rendered against any one not made a party to the
suit, and who had in no manner appeared in the case; and
it is alm'ost incredible that in any Federal court of this Union,
except the Court of Claims, a moneyed judgment could be
rendered against the United States.
The contrary has been so repeatedly decided that it is a
waste of time to reargue the proposition, which will be found
fully asserted in the recent cases of De Groot v. Uitited States,*
United States v. Ec1cford,t The Siren,t and The Davis.ยง In
the case of United States v. .Ecfordit was held that, although
in a suit in which the United States was plaintiff, a set-off
could be pleaded and allowed, yet no judgment could be
rendered for a balance found to be due to the defendant by
the verdict of the jury, either in the Circuit Cou'rt, where
the case was tried, or in the Court of Claims, where suit had
been brought on the verdict. It is true, that in the two last
cases cited above it was held that in a case in admiralty,
where the res was rightfully before the court, and was taken
into possession by its officer without the necessity of suit or
process against the United States, it could be subjected to
certain maritime liens, though the ownership was in the
government. But in these cases the government came into
court of its own volition to assert its claim to the property,
*5 Walluce, 419.

t46 Id. 484.

$ 7 Id. 152.

j 10 Id. 15.

CASE

v. TERRELL.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

and could only do so on condition of recognizing the superior rights of others.
We are quite at a loss to know on what principle the
jurisdiction in the present case is asserted, for the briefs for
the appellees are devoted wholly to the merits of the controversy. But we must suppose that it is claimed on the ground
that the receiver and comptroller, both of whom appeared
and answered the bill, represent the United States, and can
subject the government to the jurisdiction of the court.
As to the receiver, the claim, if any such be made, is not
worth serious "consideration. He represents the bank, its
stockholders, its creditors, and does not in any sense represent the government.
Nor can such authority be conceded to the Comptroller of
the Currency. It may very well admit of doubt whether it
is within his competency to submit himself, in the exercise
of duties specially confided to him by acts of Congress, to
the control of the courts, and especially of those which can
assert no such jurisdiction by reason of their territorial
limits. We are not called upon here to decide this question.
But we have no hesitation in holding that however he may
submit himself to the jurisdiction of those courts, and consent to be governed in his official action by their decrees, so
far as they affect rights of parties who may come into court
and be impleaded in the same suit, he has no authority to
subject the United States to such jurisdiction, and to submit
the rights of the government to litigation in Uny court, without soihe provision of law authorizing him to do so.
There is no analogy in the case before us to suits against
officers of the customs or of the internal revenue to recover
for illegal assessments or collections of taxes or duties, for
they are suits against the officer for a tort or for money had
and-received, and when a judgment is rendered against him
the government protects him by paying it, because the
money was received for its use. But this is by virtue of
statute, and the mode of proceeding is pointed out and well
defined, and the remedy is limited to cases where the mode
is strictly pursued.

Dec.1870.]

d- sE

v.

TERRELL.

Opinion of the court.

In the answer filed for the comptroller in this case he
says, or is made to say (for it is neither signed nor sworn to
by hin), that he "submits, on behalf of the United States,
to the decision of the court the claims of the United States
to priority of payment over the alleged claims of the creditors of said batik that are not disputed."
We have already said that the comptroller has no power
to subject the United States to such jurisdiction.
But he here seems only -to submit the question of the
government's claimto priority of payment, while the court
not only decides against this priority, but renders a further
decree requiring repayment of money had and received from
the bank, and the payment of money which the United
States is supposed to have assumed to pay in a contract with
private parties not before the court. If the government is
liable to the bank or its receiver or its creditors, for either
of these claims, it would seem that it would be, in the first
case, on an implied contract for money had and received,
and in the second, on the express contract to pay as alleged.
When such liability is denied, or payment is refused, the
Court of Claims has jurisdiction, and no other court has.
The United States cannot be subjected to litigation growing
out of its relations to these banks in all the various courts in
which their affairs may be the subject of judicial controversy.
But it is useless to pursue the matter further. The only
substantial relief asked by the bill, or granted by the decree,
is against the United States. The manifest purpose of the
proceeding was to subject the government to a tribunal
which could rightfully exercise no jurisdiction ifi the premises. It was no party to the suit, nor did any party represent its interests who had authority to bind it.
DECREE REVERSED,

with directions to the court below to
DISMISS THE BILL.

