Dec. 1870.]
Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. KAHN.
STEWART V. KAHN.
Statement of the case.

STEWART V. KAHN.
1. In writs of error under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
which gives jurisdiction to this court to review no error but such as appears on the face of the record, &c.--where the writ is to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, the code of which State enacts tbat-" When the
defendant alleges on his part new facts, -these shall be considered as denied by
the plaintiff: therefore neither replication nor rejoinder shall be allowed,"
a question was held to appear sufficiently on the face of the record
when the petition for review in the Supreme Court of the State set out
that the question was raised in the court below and decided against,
and when the Supreme Court on the question being thus before it decided the case in the same way.
2. The act of June 11th, 1864, "in relation to the limitation of actions in
certain cases," is not prospective alone in its operation. Under it, the
time which elapsed while a plaintiff could not prosecute his suit by
reason of the rebellion, whether before or after the passage of the act,
is to be deducted from the operation of any State statute of limitations.
3. The act applies to cases in the courts of the States as well as to those in
the Federal courts.
4. Thus construed it is constitutional.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being

thus:
On the 10th August, 1860, Bloom, Kahn & Co., of which
firm one Levy was a member, all parties being resident
traders in New Orleans, gave their promissory note to A. T.
Stewart & Co., resident traders of New York, payable March
13th, 1861. Payment was refused on demand at maturity.
Very soon after this, that is to say, in April, 1861, the late
rebellion broke out, and from the 15th of that month, when
its existence was announced by proclamation from President
Lincoln, until some time after, May 4tb, 1862, at which date
the government troops took possession of New Orleans.*
the ordinary course of judicial proceedings was so interrupted by resistance to the Jaws of the United States, that
none of the defendants could have been served with process
if suit had been brought on the note against them.
On the 11th of June, 1864, Congress passed this act, en* See The Circassian, 2 Wallace, 141.

494

STEWART V. KAH9N.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

titled "An act in relation to the limitation of actions in
certain cases:"
"That whenever, during the existence of the present rebellion, any action, ciiil or criminal, shall accrue against any person who by reason of resistance to the execution of the laws of
the United States, or the interruption of the ordinary course ofjudicial proceedings, cannot be served with process for the commencement of such action or arrest of such person,' Or whenever, after such action, civil or criminal, shall have
accrued, such person cannot by reason of such resistance of the
laws, or such interruption of judicial proceedings, be served with
process for the commencement of the action"The time during which such person shall be beyond the
reach of judicial process shall not be deemed or taken as any
part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such
action."

On the 16th April, 1866, the Federal courts being now
re-established in New Orleans, Stewart & Co. sued Bloom,
Kahn & Co. on the note. These set up what is called in
Louisiana "the prescription of five years;" equivalent to
that which is elsewhere known as a statute of limitation,
barring an action after five years. No replication to this
plea was put in. The Code of Practice in Louisiana bars
replications generally. This code enacts that
"When the defendant in his answer alleges on his part new
facts, these shall be considered as denied by the plaintiff; there.
fore neither replication nor rejoinder shall be admitted ;"
And by the settled practice of the State what was embraced in the defendants' answer was open to every "objection of law and fact the same as if specially pleaded."
The plaintiffs therefore were to be considered as denying
the validity of the State statute of prescription which the
defendants had set up in their plea, and as declaring that in
virtue of the act of Congress above quoted it was suspended
by the rebellion.
The court in which the suit was brought gave judgment

Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. KAHN.
Statement of the case.

for the defendants. The plaintiffs then filed a petition in
the Supreme Court of Louisiana for a rehearing of the case,
and, among other things represented in the petition, that in
the court below

"They mainly relied upon the act of Congress entitled 'An
act in relation to the limitation of actions in certain cases,' approved June 11th, 1864, as a complete answer to the plea of
prescription set up by the defendants."
The petition for rehearing also declared that the plaintiffs
had filed a written brief in the said District Court, which
the rules of that court required them to file, setting out the
said act of 1864. This petition was inserted in the record.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana affirmed the judgment
in the court below, in these words:
"This is an action upon a promissqry note. The defendants
pleaded the prescription of five years. The note fell due on the
13th of March, 1861,, and the citations were served on the 18th
day of April, 1866. More than five years having elapsed after
the maturity of the note- before the citations were served on
the defendants, the plea of prescription must be sustained. It'
is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the judgment
of the lower court be affirmed, and that the appellant pay the
costs of the appdal."
The plaintiffs now brought the case here.
Prior to the 5th of February, 1867, there was but one enactment on the subject of bringing judgments from the Su-preme Courts of States to this court, the well-known 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.* On the day first
above mentioned, however, Congress passed another act on
the subject;t following, in most respects, the language of
the old act, though changing it in some places and leaviug
out one whole clause in the old act. The important parts
of the two acts are here set out in parallel lines; words in
the act of 1789 omitted in the act of 1867 being inclosed in
* I star. at Large, 85.

t 14 Ib. 8.

STEWART V. KI AHN.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

brackets, and words variant in the two enactments being put
in italics:

*JudiciaryAct of 1789.

JudiciaryAct of 1867.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That a final judgment or acted, That a final judgment or
decree in any suit, in the high- decree in any suit in the highest.
est court [of law or equity] of court of a State in which a dea State in which a decision in cision in the suit could be had,
the suit could be had, where is where is drawn in question the
drawn in question the validity validity of,a treaty or statute
of a treaty or statute of or an of, or an authority. exercised
authority exercised under the under the United States, and
United States, and the decision the decision is against their
is against their validity, or validity, or where is drawn in
where is drawn in question the question the validity of a statute
validity of a statute of, or an of or an authority exercised unauthority exercised under any der any State, on the ground of
State, on the ground of their their being repugnant to the
being repugnant to the Consti- Constitution, treaties, or laws
tution, treaties or laws'of the of the United States, and the
United States, and the decision decision is in favor of such their
is in favor of such their validity, validity, or where any title, right,
or where is drawn in question the privilege, or immunity is claimed
construction of any clause of the under the Constitution, or any
Constitution, or of a treaty, or treaty or statute of, or commission
statute of, or commission held un- held, or authority exercised under
der the United States, and the the United States, and the dedecision is against the title, cision is against the title, right,
right, privilege or exemption privilege, or immunity specially
specially set up or claimed by set up or claimed by either
either party, under such [clause party under such Constitution,
of the said] Constitution, treaty, treaty, statute, commission [or
statute, or commission, may be authority], may be re-examined
re-examined and reversed, or and reversed or affirmed in the
affirmed in the Supreme Court Supreme Court of the United
of the United States upon a States, upon a writof error...
writ of error, . . . in the same in the same manner, and under
manner and under the same- the same regulations, and the
regulations, and the writ shall writ shall have the same effect
have the same effect as if the as if the judgment or decree
"SE c. 25. And be it further en-

Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. K AHN.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

judgment or decree complained complained of had been ren.
of had been rendered or passed dered or passed in a court of the
in a Circuit Court. [But no United States."
other error shall" be assigned or
regarded as a ground of reversal
in any such case as aforesaid,
than such as appears on the
face of the record, and immediately respects the beforementioned questions of validity or
construction of the said Constitution, treaties,' statutes, commissions, or authorities in dispute."]

The case being now in this court, two questions were
made:
1. Of jurisdiction in this court.
2. Assuming jurisdiction to exist, the correctness of the,
judgment below.
Mr. . T. Herrick, for the dismissal, and in support of theruling below:
It is said in the brief of the opposing counsel, that in the.
Supreme Court below the plaintiffs set up and insisted upon
the act of Congress of 1864, as a. bar to the prescription.
We remember no such fact. The matter must be decided
by the.record. Certainly there is nothing of record to shov
that any question respecting the statute of limitations of theUnited States of June 11th, 1864, was raised or relied upon
before the Supreme Court of Louisiana, as a ground of re-covery.* Although the act of 1867 is broader than the act
of 1789, it must be construed with it; and thus construed.
there is nothing which contemplates a writ of error for any
other matter or thing than that which appears on the face of
the record. It was not the intention of Congress by thenew act to create any new method of trying cases in error.
* Medberry et al. v. The State of Ohio, 24 Howard, 413.
VOL. ZI.

82

STEWART V. KAHN.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

A petition to the Supreme Court stating that a particular
statute was relied on in the inferior court, does not prove
that it was so relied on; still less does it prove that it was
relied on in the court above.
Moreover, if the writ is to have the same effect under the
act of 1867, "as if the judgment or decree complained of
had been rendered or passed in a court of the United States,"
it will not benefit the plaintiffs in error, because if this case
had been tried in the Circuit Court of the United States, in
the absence of bills of exception, there is nothing on which
to base an examination of the question; much less to reverse
the judgment of the lower court.
On the merils: The act of Congress of 1864, in relation
to the limitation of certain actions, was meant to bind the
courts of the United States alone. This is to be inferred,
because as will be conceded, there is no grant of power in
the Constitution of the United States to Congress, to prescribe rules of property or practice for the government of
the courts of the several States, and because as to matters
not intrusted to the government of the United States, the
State courts are considered as courts of another sovereignty.*
As Congress cannot create the State courts, as it cannot
establish the ordinary rules of property,, obligations, and
contracts, nor in general, denounce penalties for crimes and
offences, in the several States, it cannot prescribe rules of
proceeding for such State courts.
On the other hand, there is no inhibition in the Constitution of the United States upon the individual States to pass
statutes of limitation even where such statutes of limitation
bar the judgments of sister States.t
The act suspended the statutes*of limitation, in the cases
given, both as to crimes and civil actions. This shows that
Congress was legislating for the courts and 6fficers of the
United States, over which it has jurisdiction; for certainly
a State could not bring a writ of error to this court, to re* Ableman -. Booth, 21 Howard, 516.
t McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 328.

Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. KAHN.
Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

verse a judgment of its own courts, which should hold that
a criminal offence was barred by the statute of limitation,
notwithstanding the impossibility of arresting the offender,
for the cause assigned in the statute?
If our view of the purpose of Congress is not correct,
then we deny the power of Congress to pass suich an act.
If Louisiana was a State of this Union (and this court has
not failed to consider it as such, as is shown by the numerous writs of error which it has allowed to the State court,
and considered), Congress could not constitutionally repeal
or suspend State laws, or any subject-matter reserved to the
States.
Mr. S. M. Johnson, contra:
Under the peculiar practice of Louisiana, it is next to impossible to raise in the pleadings constitutional or legal
questions. The plaintiffs had a right to urge any denial
whatever to the plea of prescription of the defendaus, the
same as if it had been set up in replication. The statute of
prescription must be pleaded, because the law itself makes
it optional to invoke it or not; but the~question whether
such statute is in force or has been suspended, or whether
it exists at all or not, may be raised by the plaintiff, without
spreading upon the record his grounds of objection.
The defendants pleaded a law of that State, and it was
clearly the duty of the court to decide upon the validity of
that law. They did decide that it was valid, when confessedly it was not valid. That was their error, and it was an
error which deprived us of essential rights, the enforcement
of which we had invoked in the courts of Louisiana, and
which we are here to insist upon.
Perhaps, therefore, even under the Judiciary Act of 1789,
and even if there were no petition in the record showing
that the matter turned on the act of 1864, this court might
have jurisdiction.
But the petition which is made part of the record does
show specifically "the before-mentioned question of the validity or construction" of a statute of the United States; to

STEWART V.

[Sup. Ct.

IKAHN.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

wit, the said statute of 1864. We are thus brought directly
within the language even of the act of 1789:
"Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of any
State, &c..... .on the ground of their being repugnant to the
laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such
their validity."
But this proceeding in error is instituted under the act of
1867, which is in addition to and amendatory of the act of
1789. The act of 1867 makes a material change in the law
of 1789. All that part of the last-named act which required
that the matters involved in the case must have been discussed and decided upon in the lower court, and must appear
of record, is omitted in the act of 1867. The requirement,
that questions raised shall appear of record under the act of
1789, was intentionally omitted from the act of 1867, to
meet the contingency of a case like this, where the State
judges manifestly intended to defeat an appeal to this court
by refusal to notice the questions raised in the pleadings.
As to the merits, the case is completely settled by .anger
v. Abbott,* itself acted upon and in effect affirmed by The
Protector.t
Mr. Justice SWAYNTE delivered the opinion of*the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana. The record discloses the following case: On
the 16th of April, 1866, the plaintiffs in error, citizens and
residents of the State of New York, brought suit against the
defendants in error in the fourth District Court of New Orleans, upon a promissory note made at New York on the
10th day of August, 1860, by the defendants, under their
firm name of Bloom, Kahn & Co., to the plaintiffs, by their
firm name of A. T. Stewart & Co., for the sum of $3226.24,
payable at the office of A. Levy & Co., in the city of New
Orleans, with the current rate of exchange on New York,
* 6 Wallace, 532.

t 9 Id. 687.

Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. RAHN.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

seven months from date- The plaintiffs, by their petition,
claimed also to recover a few dollars for the balance of an
account. The note was duly protested at maturity for nonpayment. On the 28th of the same month of April the defendant, Levy, filed his answer, wherein he alleged that he
knew nothing of the correctness of the note, or account, and
demanded full proof. He also pleaded the statutory prescription of that State of five years as a bar to the action.
The other defendants, Bloom, Kahn & Adler, answered subsequently. They denied all the allegations of the petition,
and also set up the defence of prescription.
A statute of the State provides, that when "new facts"
are alleged in the answer' "neither replication nor rejoinder
shall be admitted." The facts are "considered as denied
by the plaintiff."*
Kahn was examined upon interrogatories, and answered
that the defendants' firm was constituted as alleged in the
plaintiffs'petition, and that their place of business at the
date of the, note was Clinton, Louisiana. Another witness
testified that he had known the defendant, Levy, since the
year 1854 or 1855; that Levy had resided in New Orleans
since that time, and was there during the period of the rebellion. At the trial the plaintiffs submitted this testimony,
and the note and protest, to the court. It does not appear
that any evidence was offered touching the account. The
court gave judgment for the defendants. Upon what ground
it was given is not disclosed in the record.
The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of the State.
In that court they insisted that the act of Congress of June
11, 1864, entitled "An act in relation to the limitation of
actions in certain cases," interrupted the running of the prescription, and entitled them to recover. The Supreme Court
affirmed the judgment of the District Court. The record
shows they held that "more than five years having elapsed
after the maturity of the note before the citations were served
* Code, Art. 829.

STEWART V. KAHN.

[Snp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

on the defendants, the plea of prescription must be sustained." It is clear that the judgment was given solely
upon this ground. The case wouhl have been more satisfactorily presented if a bill of exceptions had been taken at the
proper time, and the material facts in that way placed upon
the record. But enough is shown to develop clearly the
action of the Supreme Court of the State, and the point we
are called upon to review. There is no coitroversy as to
the facts. Under the circumstances, a refusal on our part
to exercise the jurisdiction invoked would involve a sacrifice
of substance to form and unwarrantably defeat the ends of
justice.
Our attention has been called to the second section of the
act of Congress of February 5, 1867, amending the Judiciary
Act of 1789.* That section is to a great extent a transcript
of the 25th section of the prior act. There are several alterations of phraseology which are not material. A change of
language in a revised statute will not change the law from
what it was before, unless it be apparent that such was the
intention of the legislature.t But at the close othe second
section there is a substantial addition and omission.

The

addition in no wise concerns this case, and need not be remarked upon. The omission is of these words in the 25th
section of the original act: "But no other error shall be regarded as a ground of reversal in any such case, as aforesaid,
than such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately respects the before-mentioned questions of validity
or construction of the said Constitution, treaties, statutes,
commissions, or authorities in dispiite."I
It is a rule of law that where a revising statute, or one
enacted for another, omits provisions contained in the original act, the parts omitted cannot be kept in force by construction, but are annulled.§
* 14 Stat. at Large, 385.

t Theriat v. Hart, 2 Hill, 381, note; Douglass v.Howland, 24 Wendell, 47.
$ 1 Stat. at Large, 85.
§ Ellis v. Paige et al., 1 Pickering, 43; Nickols v. Squire, 5 Id. 168;
Bartlet v. King's Executors, 12 Massachusetts, 537.

Dec.1870.]

STEWART V). K AHN.

Opinion of the court.

Whether the 25th section of the original act is superseded
by the second section of the amendatory act is a point not
necessary in this case to be determined; for, conceding the
negative, the question before us is within the omitted category, is presented by the record, and is the only one we are
called upon to consider. It is alike within the section in
question of the original and of the amendatory act. In
either view there is no jurisdictional difficulty.
In Hanger v. Abbott,* this court held that the time during
which the courts in the States lately in rebellion were closed
to the citizens of the loyal States is, in suits since brought,
to be deducted from the time prescribed by the statutes of
limitations of those States respectively, although the statutes
themselves contain no such exception, and this independently of the act of Congress of 1864. In the case of /'1ie
.Protector,tthe same rule was applied to the acts of Congress
of 1798 and 1803, fixing the time within which appeals shall
be taken from the inferior Federal tribunals to this court.
The case before us was decided prior to the decision of this
court in Hanger v. Abbott, with which it is in direct conflict.
But apart from the act of 1864, it would present no ground
of Federal jurisdiction. Hanger v. Abbott came into this
court under. the 22d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or
if that section is superseded, under the second section of the
amendatory act of 1867. Its determination, therefore, depends necessarily upon the construction and effect to be
given to the act of 1864.
The note upon which the suit is founded matured upon
the 13th of March, 1861. The prescription of five years expired on the 13th of March, 1866. This action was commenced on the 16th of April, 1866, one month and three
days after the period of limitation had elapsed.
The act of 1864 consists of a single section containing two
distinct clauses. The first relates to cases where the cause
of action accrued subsequent to the passage of the act The
second to cases where the cause of action accrued before its
* 6 Wallace, 532.

t" Id. 687.

STEWART V. KAHN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

passage. The case before us belongs to the latter class.
The first clause of the statute may, therefore, be laid out of
view. The second enacts that "whenever, after such action
-civil or criminal-such have accrued, and such person
cannot, by reason of such resistance of the laws, or such interruption of judicial proceedings, be arrested or served with
process for the commencement of the action, the time during
which such person shall be beyond the reach of legal process
shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited
by law for the commencement of such action."
A severe and literal construction of the language employed might conduct us to the conclusion, as has been
insisted in another case before us,* that this clause was intended to be made wholly prospective as to the period to be
deducted, and that it hasno application where the action
was barred at the time of its passage. Such, we are satisfied,
was not the intention of Congress. A case may be within
the meaning of a statute and not within its letter, and within
its letter and not within its meaning. The intention of the
law-maker constitutes the law. t The statute is a remedial
one and should be construed lilerally to carry out the wise
and salutary purlposes of its enactment. The construction
contended for would deny all relief to the inhabitants of the
loyal States having causes of action against parties in the
rebel States if the prescription had matured when the statute
took effect, although the occlusion of the courts there to
such parties Might have been complete from the beginning
of the war down to that time. The same remarks would
apply to crimes of every grade if the offenders were called
to account under like circumstances. It is not to be supposed that Congress intended such results. There is no
prohibition in the Constitution against retrospective legislation of this character. We are of the opinion that the meaning of the statute is, that the time which elapsed while the
* See infra, 511, United States v. Wiley, the case immediately succeeding,-REP.
t United States v. Freeman, 3 Howard, 565; Same v. Babbit, 1 Black,
61; Slater r. Cave, 3 Ohio State, 80.

Dec. 1870.]

STEWART V. KAHINI.
Opinion of the court.

plaintiff could not prosecute his suit, by reason of the rebellion, whether before or *afterthe passage of the act, is to be
deducted. Considering the evils which existed, the remedy
prescribed, the object to be accomplished, and the considerations by which the law-makers were governed-lights
which every court must hold up for its guidance when seeking the meaning of a statute which requires constructionwe cannot doubt the soundness of the conclusion at which
we have arrived.
On the 15th of April, 186i, President Lincoln issued his
proclamation announcing the existence of the rebellion, and
calling for volunteers to the number of 75,000 to suppress
it. On the 19th of the same month he issued a further
proclamation, announcing the blockade of Louisiana and
other States in rebellion. By a proclamation of the 16th of
August, 1861, be declared that the States named in it, Louisiana being one of them, were in a state of insurrection
against the United States, and forbade all commercial intercourse between them and the other States of the Union.
This proclamation was authorized by the 5th section of the
act of July 18, 1861. The authority of the United States
was excluded from the entire State of Louisiana from the
date of the first proclamation down to the month of May,
1862, when the city of New Orleans and a small strip of
adjacent territory lying along the Mississippi River below
that city was reclaimed from the dominion of the rebels by
the military forces of the United States. Even then no court
there, State or Federal, was open to the plaintiffs. Levy
was there, but the other defendants were elsewhere in the
State whither the arms of the United States had not penetrated. But, without pursuing the subject further, here was
a period of more than a year to be deducted, according to
the act of Congress, from the time necessary, under the State
law, to create a bar, and this defeated the prescription relied
upon by the defendants.
But it has been insisted that the act of 1864 was intended
to be administered only in the Federal courts, and that it

'506

STEWART V. KAHN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

has no application to cases pending in the courts of the
States.
The language is general. There is nothing in it which
requires or will warrant so narrow a construction. It lays
down a rule as to the subject, and has no reference to the
tribunals by which it is to be applied. A different interpretation would defeat, to a large extent, the object of its enact-'
ment. All those who could not sue in the courts of the
United States, including the loyal men who were driven out
by the insurrection and returned after it ceased, and those
of the same class who remained at home during the war,
would be deprived of its benefits. The judicial anomaly
would be presented of one rule of property in the Federal
courts, and another and a different one in the courts of the
State, and debts could be recovered in the former which
would be barred in the latter. This would be contrary to
the uniform spirit of the National jurisprudence from the
adoption of the Judiciary Act of 1789 down to the present
time.
The act thus construed, it is argued, is unwarranted by
the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void.
The Constitution gives to Congress the power to declare
war, to grant letters of marque and reprisal, and to make
rules concerning captures on land and water; to raise and
support armies, to provide and maintain a navy, and to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the
Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.
The President is the commander-in-chief of the army and
navy, and of the militia of the several States, when called
into the service of the United States, and it is made his duty
to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Congress
is authorized to make all laws necessary and proper to carry
into effect the granted powers. The measures to be taken
in carrying on war and to suppress insurrection are not defined. The decision of all such questions rests wholly in the
discretion of those to whom the substantial powers involved
are confided by the Constitution.

Dec. 1870.']

BTEWART V).

'AIN.

Opinion of the court.

In the latter case the power is not limited to victories in
the field and the dispersion of the insurgent forces. It carries with it inherently the power to guard against the immediate renewal of the conflict, and to remedy the evils
which have arisen from its rise and progress. This act falls
within tie latter category. The power to pass it is necessarily implied from the powers to make war and suppress
insurretions. It is a beneficent exercise of this authority.
It only applies coercively the principle of law of nations,
which ought to work the same results in the courts of all
the rebellious States without the intervention of this enactment.* It promotes justice and honesty, and has nothing
penal or in the nature of confiscation in its character. It
would he a strange result if those in rebellion, by protracting the conflict, could thu§ rid themselves of their debts,
and Congress, which had the power to wage war and suppress the insurrection, bad no power to remedy such an evil,
which is one of its consequences. What is clearly implied
in a written instrument, is as effectual as what is expressed.t
The war power and the treaty-making power, each carries
with it authority to acquire territory.1 Louisiana, Florida,
and Alaska were acquired under the latter, and California
under both. The act is within the canons of construction
laid down by Chief Justice Marshall.§
This objection to the statute is untenable.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State is REThe cause will be remanded to that court, with
VERSED.
directions to overrule the plea of prescription, and to proceed in the case
IN

* .Hanger v. Abbott, 6

CONFORMITY TO LAW.

Wallace, 532.

t United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.
A
American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters, 511.
]McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 316.

