Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.
Syllabus.

plains. What the court did rule was, that Hoeppener's statements, made after he had conveyed the land to others, could
not be admitted to invalidate his deeds. Surely such a ruling
requires no vindication.
Finding no error in the record, the judgment is
AFFRMED.

LUDLOW v. RAMSEY.
1. In a collateral proceeding, to set aside a sale made under a judgment of
another court, it must be shown that such court had no jurisdiction of
the case. It is not enough to show mere errors and irregularity.
Hence it is not enough to set aside, in a collateral proceeding, a sale
made under the attachment laws of Tennessee, that the affidavit on
which the attachment issued did not state, as the code of Tennessee
directs that such affidavits should do, that the claim to secure which
the attachment process was prayed was "a just claim ;" it stating such
facts, however, as made the justice of the claim inferable almost as of
necessity.
2. The doctrine of Dean v. Nelson (10 Wallace, 158), that judicial proceedings on a mortgage carried on within the Union lines, against a person
driven, by way of retaliation for outrages committed by others, outside
of those lines and prohibited from returning within them, does not
apply to a person who went and remained voluntarily in rebellion.
Such a person cannot complain of legal proceedings regularly prosecuted against him as an absentee.
3. A party bad attached, in a State court, the property of a person who had
left his home and engaged in the rebellion. Afterwards, on information by the government filed in a District Court of the United States,
for confiscation of the property under an act of Congress, the attaching
creditor intervened, as the act allowed him to do, to 'protect his prior
right and secure his claim from the proceeds of the forfeited property
when sold. The proceedings in confiscation having been terminated by
a pardon to the person whose property had been proceeded against, the
proceedings in attachment in the State court went on, and a purchaser
of the property under them was put into possession by a writ of possession from the State court. Held, that whether such writ was issucd by
the State court in contempt of the Federal one or not was a question
which could not be passed upon by a Federal court in a suit by the
original owner of the property to set aside as void a sale made under
the proceedings in attachment, and that such proceedings could not be

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

deprived of their legal validity by the ineffectual attempt at confiscation supervening upon them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Tennessee, the case being thus:
The code of Tennessee of 1857-8, under its chapter on
"Attachments," enacts that a plaintiff after action fbr any,
cause has been brought may, when the sum claimed exceeds
$50, on giving bond, &c., sue out an attachment at law or
in equity against the property of a defendant in the following cases:
"Where he is about to remove or has removed himself from
the State.
"Where he absconds or is absconding or concealing himself
or property."
The code continues:
"In order to obtain an attachment, the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney, shall make oath in writing stating the nature and
amount of the debt or demand, and that it is a just claim."
Subsequent sections provide for notice of the attachment
by publication, declaring that the attachment and publication are in lNeu of personal service.
With these provisions of the code in force, Mrs. Cynthia
S. WNhite, having a suit pending against one Ramsey, applied, September 18th, 1863, to the State Chancery Court
at Knoxville, Tennessee, for an attachment against a portion of the said Ramsey's property. The affidavit filed was
thus:
"Your orator, Cynthia S. White, a citizen of Knox County,
respectfully represents unto your honor that she holds a bond
on J. G. Ramscy, dated July 17th, 1860, payable six months

after date, with lawful interest from date, for $300, a copy of
which note is hereunto appended, the original of which shall be
produced in the final hearing of this cause. Your orator shows
that the said Ramsey has left this State, or so conceals himself
that the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him.

Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW v. RAMSEY.
Statemcnt of the case.

He was the owner of a considerable estate, both real and personal,
in Znox County. The premises considered, your orator prays
that the said J. G. Ramsey be made a party defendant to this
bill; that process of subpoena and attachment issub, and that a
sufficient amount of said estate be attached to satisfy your orator's
demand. She prays for publication, and, on the final hearing,
she prays for the sale of said property, and for an account, if
necessary."
A copy of a note, such as was described in the affidavit,
was annexed to it, but as the reader will have observed,
nothing is said in the affidavit as to the justness of the debt
to secure which the attachment was prayed for.
Having given the requisite bond an attachment was issued,
and a house and lot in Knoxville, belonging to Ramsey, was
duly attached, as appeared by the sheriff's return to the writ,
no personal property being found. At the January rules,
1864, order of publication was made in the Knoxville Whig,
a newspaper published in Knoxville, to notify the defendant
to appear on the first Monday of April, 1864, and make defence, or that judgment would be taken pro confesso against
him. In October Term a decree was rendered for the amount
of the debt, and directing the master to sell the property
attached. The master duly advertised it for sale, and bid it
off, January 3d, 1865, to one Vail for $5100. The sale was
reported to, and confirmed by, the court, and a writ of possession was issued, but was opposed by persons occupying
the premises. Subsequent proceedings, however, were taken,
which finally resulted in putting Ludlow into possession, he
having purchased the property of Vail.
Ramsey now filed a bill (subsequently amended) in the
court below against Ludlow, to set aside the sale thus judicially made of the house and lot, and to recover the rents
and profits. His allegation was that the property was sold
for $5100, a sum which was not more than half its value, to
pay a claim of $382; that he had another house just beside
the one sold of less value than it, and two farms not far ofT.
a limited number of acres of which might have been sold;
all of which the sheriff certainly knew of; that he himself

584

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

knew nothing of the institution of the suit until long after
the sale was made, and the decree confirmed.
He alleged further, that the proceedings by which the
property was sold were null and void. Referring to the
publication in the newspaper at Knoxville, giving him notice
to appear and defend the original suit, or that judgment would
be taken pro confesso against him, his bill alleged that he left
Knoxville shortly before the Federal troops arrived; that at
the time when the attachment was sued out, and when the
publication was made, he was in no situation to see or know
of the same; that Tennessee was held by Federal troops, and
he in the country held by the Confederate troops; and that
no newspapers that were published within the Federal lines
were allowed to be sent into the Confederate lines; that there
were no mail facilities between them, and the only communication was by a flag of truce; that a great civil war was
raging between the Confederate government and the United
States, and martial law existed in the State of Tennessee, and
civil courts were only held by the will of military commanders. In his amended bill he alleged that when the attachment was issued, and the proceedings had, he was known to
be one of the enemy of the party governing by arms the
locality of the court, and that it was known that he could
not have notice of the suit, could not appear at the court,
and could have no communication with others at the place
of the court, &c.
The bill further set forth that in September, 1864, the
United States seized the property in question as forfeited,
and in October of the same year filed ai information against
it; that Mrs. White had asked and obtained leave to intervene, and did intervene in December, 1864, prior to the date
of the sale under the attachment, and it charged that by
filing the said intervention in the District Court, M[rs. White
had virtually abandoned her attachment suit in the Chancery
Court, and that she relied upon having her debt made in the
District Court, as provided by the act of Congress which
authorized the seizure; and that these proceedings in the
District Court gave the United States a prior lien upon the

Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.
Argument in support-of the absentee's title.

property, the same as if it had been seized by the United
States prior to the issue of the attachment bill in the Chancery Court, and that the Chancery Court had no authority
to proceed with the sale of the said property, and have the
sale confirmed after the said proceedings had been commenced in the District Court of the United States.
As respected the facts it seemed that the property was
estimated variously from $6000 to $10,000; that the complainant had another house and lot close by of less value,
and a farm; that he had been engaged in rebellion against
the United States, and on that account had left Knoxville, the
place of his residence; and though no record of the proceeding in the District Court for forfeiture was produced, it
was yet admitted by the defendant that the mere facts of
seizure, information, and intervention alleged, were correctly
alleged, but it appeared also that Ramsey produced to the
District Court a pardon from the President for his complicity in the rebellion, and that the proceedings being thus
ended, the purchaser under the attachment obtained possession of the property under a writ of possession issued from
the Chancery Court of the State.
The court below held that, "for want of a sufficient affidavit," the attachment issued at the suit of White was insufficient; that the Chancery Court of the State acquired no
jurisdiction; and that all the proceedings therein "were
null and void," -and that as they had no other effect than to
throw a "cloud" upon Ramsey's title, the removal of it the
court regarded as ground for jurisdiction and relief, and
granted the relief prayed for. Ludlow accordingly brought
the case here.
Messrs. Lander and Moore, in support of the decree:
The case is one of such extreme hardship that the court
will scan with eagle eyes the regularity of the proceedings
by which the title set up is sought to be maintained. A
valuable lot in Knoxville, worth more than thirty times the
amount of the debt due to White, was levied on when there
were other pieces of property not a stone's throw from it far

586

LUDLOW v. RAMSEY.

[Sup.

at.

Argument in support of the absentee's title.

less valuable; yet abundantly sufficient to pay the debt, notoriously known to be the property of the appellee. Yet
this valuable piece of property was levied on and sacrificed.
Now we say:
1. The affidavit upon which the attachment was obtained,
does not meet, in form or in substance, the requirements
of the law as expounded in numerous cases.* The language'
of McKinney, J., in one of them, Thiompson v. Carper,thas
been often cited, and seems conclusive of the case.
2. Ramsey obtained his pardon from the President of the
United States, and whatever may have been his sympathies
with the rebellion, he has a legal right to allege the fact of
the existence at the time of a public war, and that being
within the lines of the rebel authorities, he had no possible
opportunity to defend the suit against him, nor to obtain
any information of the existence of such a proceeding.
This court has recognized the war of the rebellion to have
been a public war, and the fact that Ramsey before the
Federal army took possession of the country around Knoxville had resided there and voluntarily left it and gone to
another State, although it might have some weight in determining his status in a proceeding by the government against
him, cannot avail Ludlow in a suit of this kind.
The law has been settled with respect to parties situated
as these parties were during the war. In Dean v. Nelson,j
the court say that "the defendants were within the Confederate lines, and that it was unlawful for them to cross those
lines." Two of the defendants there had indeed been expelled from the Union lines, and could not return, so that
an attempt may be made to distinguish that case from this,
but as the report in that case states, "the other had never
left the Confederate lines." As to him, Dean v. Nelson cannot be distinguished from this case; and even as to the other
two, why had they been expelled? only in retaliation on
* Woodfolk v. Whitworth, 5 Caldwell, 561; Thompson v. Carper, 11 Humphrey, 542; Morris v. Davis, 4 Sneed, 453; Smith v. Foster, 8 Caldwell, 140;
Haynes v. Gates, 2 Head, 598.
t 11 Humphrey, 542.
: 10 Wallace, 158.

Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW v. RAMSEY.
Opinion of the court.

rebels. They were as faulty as the one who remained all
the time in the rebel lines. Yet of all three the court say
in -Deanv. Nelson:
"A notice directed to them, and published in a newspaper,
was a mere idle form. They could not lawfully see nor obey it.
As to them the proceedings were wholly void and inoperative."
8. Prior to the sale under the attachment Mrs. White intervened in the proceedings for confiscation, and by virtue
of the provisions of the act of Congress had the privilege
of asserting aniy right that she had. iNow when the proceedings in the District Court were quashed, Ramsey, who
had been pardoned, and all whose guilt had been wiped
away, became possessed of his property. The State court had
no power to vacate the order thus restoring his estate to
him, and in giving it to Ludlow in virtue of the sale under
the attachment, it acted in contempt of the Federal judiciary.
Messrs. Maynard and N'elson, contra,for the appellant.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opihion of the court.
As the bill in this case is a collateral proceeding to set
aside the sale, mere errors and irregularities in the original
proceeding will not suffice. It must be shown that the court
had no jurisdiction. We had occasion, recently, in the case
of Cooper v. Beynolds,* which came-from the same district as
this cas , and also arose upon an attachment, to examine this
question, and it is unnecessary to repeat what was then said.
The question is, did the court acquire jurisdiction of the case?
It is not denied that it has general jurisdiction of attachments
in such cases. The code expressly says, that any person
may sue out an attachment in the Chancery Court, upon
debts or demands of a purely legal nature, except causes of
action founded on torts, whenever the amount in controversy
is sufficient to give the courtjurisdiction.t Fifty dollars gives
the court jurisdiction, and the amount here is over $300.
The judge below, in his decree, relies on the want of a suf*
* 10 Wallace, 808.

t 8461.

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ficient affidavit. We have compared the affidavit with the
requirements of the statute, in the light of the cases cited
by the appellee's counsel, and we see in it no defect which
should make the proceedings null and void. True, it does
not say that the debt is a just claim; but it states the amount
of the debt, and that it is on the defendant's note or bond,
a copy of which is appended, showing that it was made
under the defendant's seal, and contained a promise to pay to
the complainant or order three hundred dollars, six months
after date, for value received, with interest from date. This
is a particularity beyond the requirement of the statute, and
more than compensates for the omission of the statement
that it was a just claim. The dictum of Judge McKinney,
in 11th Humphrey, 545, so often quoted, that "it should be
stated in the affidavit, and alleged in the attachment, that a
suit has been commenced by the plaintiff against the defendant, the nature thereof, the tribunal in which it is depending,
the amount of damages laid in the action, and that the cause
of action stated is just," relates to an ancillary attachment
in a suit brough*t for an unliquidated demand, and is suggested by him as a sufficient affidavit in such cases, in which
it is impossible for the plaintiff to swear (as he can do in
debt.) to the precise amount due. In this case the complainant not only swears to the amount due, but exhibits a copy
of the defendant's bond or note, under seal, in effect admitting the debt and promising to pay it. We cannot believe
that the courts of Tennessee would hold such an affidavit
defective even, much less so absolutely void as to vitiate all
the subsequent proceedings.
The writ of attachment appears to be in due form and to
have been regularly served on the property; so that the
court became fully possessed of jurisdiction over the case.
Our attention has not been called to any other defect in the

proceedings that amounts to anything more than a mere
irregularity, unless the points next to be considered should
be regarded as doing so.
First. It is averred by Ramsey in his bill in the present
suit that at the time when the attachment was sued-out, and

Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.
Opinion of the court.

when the publication was made in the newspaper at Knoxville notifying him to appear and defend the original suit, or
that judgment would be taken pro confesso against hir, he
was in no situation to see or know of such publication, and he
makes various allegations in confirmation of that statement,
that lie was in the country held by Confederate troops, &c.*
Oii these allegations the question arises, Why was the
complainant in the country held by Confederate troops?
Why could he not return to Knoxville? Why could he not
have communication with that place? It was his place of
residence. He says that he left Knoxville a short time before the Federal troops arrived. Why did he leave? Was
he forced to leave, and was his return forbidden? Could
he not have returned at any moment by submitting to the
authority of the United States? Was not his absence a voluntary one? The order of publication was made at the
January rules, 1864. President Lincoln's proclamation of
amnesty was issued on the 8th of December previous, offering pardon and amnesty to all persons who would take the
oath of allegiance. Then what obstacle existed to prevent
the complainant's return? The causes alleged were certainly insufficient.
This case differs from that of Dean.v. Aeson, decided at
the present term. In that case Nelson and his wife were
driven out of Memphis by a military order and were not
permitted to return, and the proceedings'to foreclose their
property took place during their enforced absence. The
other defendant, May, was only nominally interested, and
iad always been within the Confederate lines. But if, as in
this case, a party voluntarily leaves his country or his residence for the purpose of engaging in hostilities against the
former, he cannot be permitted to complain of legal proceedings regularly prosecuted against him as an absentee,
on the ground of his inability to return or to hold communication with the place where the proceedings are conducted.
That would be carrying the privilege of contra non valentern
* See supra, p. 584.-REP.

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to an unreasonable extent. We think it cannot be set up in
this case.
In the next place, it is alleged that the jurisdiction of the
Chancery Court was displaced by proceedings to confiscate
the property in the District Court of the United States, and
a seizure made for that purpose, by order of the district,
attorney, on the 21st of September, 1864. No record or
transcript of the alleged proceedings in the District Court
was given in evidence in this suit; at least, none appears in
the record before us. It is conceded that no confiscation
took place. Ludlow, the respondent below, the appellant
here, admits that proceedings were commenced by information filed October 10th, 1864; but states and shows that
Cynthia S. White intervened to protect her interest and insist on her prior levy, made almost a year before the seizure
in behalf of the United States; that Ramsey pleaded the
President's pardon, and thus obtained a release of his property and an end of the confiscation proceedings; and that a
writ of possession was afterwards awarded by the Chancery
Court on the application of Ludlow, and possession was delivered to him accordingly in execution of the decree of said
court. It is said that these proceedings were in contempt
of the District Court. Though that be so, the matter is not
before us, and we cannot adjudicate upon it. If the United
States authorities had the right to seize the property, and
take it out of the hands of the law, as a preliminary step to
proceedings for confiscation, it would nevertheless seem to
be the right of the Chancery Court to reassume possession
when the confiscation proceedings failed and came to an
end. And though the writ of possession awarded by that
court may have been irregularly issued (which it is not
necessary for us to decide), Ludlow, the purchaser of the
chancery title, was in fact put in possession, and as between
him and Ramsey, he has the better title. An ineffectual
attempt at confiscation, supervening upon the chancery proceedings, cannot deprive those proceedings of legal validity.
DECREE REVERSED.

