FORSYTH V. WOODS.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

FORSYTH V. WoODS.
1. Semble, that a debt incurred by the members of a partnership individually,
even in a matter where the firm is to profit, will not, in case of bankruptcy of the firm, let the person to whom the debt was incurred come
for a dividend uponi the assets of the firm as distinguished from the assets.
of the individual partners.
2. The acceptance of letters of administration being a trust-(granted because of the confidence reposed in the grantee)-a loss sustained by a
surety in the administration bond, who has entered into the suretyship
under a representation from a firm of which the administrator was a
member, that they intended to take into the possession of the partnership all the assets of the intestate, to make the administration a matter
of partnership business, and to share as partners the gains and losses
resulting from the administration, so that in signing the bond he would
become the surety of the firm and not of the individual partner, cannot
be recovered by the surety from the firm. Such a transaction is against
the policy of tlhe law.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being thus:
Woods, assignee in bankruptcy of the firm of E. P. Tesson
& Co. (which was composed of E. P. & E. M. Tesson) sued
Forsyth in assumpsit to recover from him a balance in account.
Forsyth pleaded a special plea in bar. The plea averred
a joint request made by the individuals who composed the
firm of E. P. Tesson & Co. to him, soliciting him to become
a surety of one of those individuals in an administration bond.
It also averred a joint representation made to him by them,
that they intended to make the administration a matter of
partnership business, to take into the possession of the partnership all the assets of the intestate, and to share as partners the gains and losses resulting from the administration,
so that in signing the bond he would in effect become the
surety of the firm, and not merely a surety of the partner
to whom the grant of letters of administration might be
made. The plea further averred that, moved by the joint
request, and relying upon the joint representations aforesaid,
be did become a surety in the administration bond, and that

Dec. 1870.]

FORSYTH V. WOODS.
Argument for the surety.

afterwards (the partnership having taken possession of all
the assets of the deceased intestate, and having become
bankrupt), he was compelled to pay to the legal representatives and next of kin of such intestate a large sum of money,
in consequence of the default of the administrator. It still
further averred, that under similar circumstances, after like
request and representations, the defendant became a surety
in an administration bond of the other partner, to whom
administration of another estate was committed by the probate court, and that he was compelled to pay money for
that administrator's default. The plaintiff demurred generally, and the court below sustained the demurrer. The
defendant, Forsyth, now brought the case here. Whether
the facts pleaded showed a legal liability of the partnership,
as such, to repay what the defendant had been compelled to
pay in consequence of his suretyship, was the question presented by the record. If they did, the defendant had a setoff to the plaintiff's demand; if they did not, the demurrer
to the plea was rightly sustained.
. The Bankrupt Act, whose provisions were a good deal
discussed in the argument, provides that "the net proceeds
of the joint stock shall be appropriated to pay the creditors
of the partnership, and the net proceeds of the separate
estate of each partner shall be appropriated to pay his separate creditors." The joint stock does not go to pay the
separate. creditors, except when tlere is a balance of such
stock after payment of the joint debtors.
Messrs. T. T. Gantt, . H. Calrlisle, and J D. McPherson,
for the plaintiff in error, argued:
That the defendant having assumed a liability for and at
the express request of the bankrupts, and the defendant
having had to pay money in discharge of this liability, the
money so paid was in contemplation of law paid for them,
and at their request.
That the liability of the firm had occurred before bankruptcy, viz., at the time when the defendant became surety
for the partner.

FORSYT

v. WooDs.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

That the payment made by the defendant could be, and
ought to be, properly set off in this action.
Mr. S. S. Boyd, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
If it be conceded that such a joint request as is pleaded,
followed by an assumption of obligation and a consequent
payment of money in pursuance of it, raised an implied
promise on the part of those who joined in the request to
reimburse the defendant, it is, perhaps, still not clear that it
was a partnership promise, creating a debt of the partnership, and therefore entitled to priority in bankruptcy over
private debts of the partners. It is not pleaded that the
firm of E. P. Tesson & Co. requested the defendant to assume
the obligation he took, though it is averred that the persons
who constituted the firm made that request, and it is not
certain that a promise by a partnership and a promise by
the individual partners collectively have. the same effect.
If a firm be composed of two persons, associated for the conduct of a particular branch of business, it can hardly be
maintained that the joint contract of the two partners, made
in their individual names, respecting a matter that has no
connection with the firm business, creates a liability of the
firm as such. The partnership is a distinct thing from the
partners themselves, and it would seem that debts of the
firm are different in character from other joint debts of the
partners. If it is not so, the rule that sets apart the property of a partnership exclusively, in the first instance, for the
payment of its debts may be of little value. That rule presumes that a partnership debt was incurred for the benefit
of the partnership, and that its property consists, in whole
or in part, of what has been obtained from its creditors.
The reason of the rule fails when a debt or liability has not
been incurred for the firm as such, even though all the persons- who compose the firm may be parties to the contract.
But the substantial fault of the plea in thib case is, that,
at best, it sets up an illegal contract, which the law will not-

Dec. 1870.]

FORSYTH v. WOODS.
Opinion of the court.

enforce. The promise, if any, of the firm was to indemnify
the defendant for doing an act planned and intended to
enable his principal in the administration bond to commit a
gross breach of trust. The arrangement was entered into
in order that the partnership might obtain the possession of
all the effects, goods, chattels, rights, and credits which had
belonged to the intestate decedent, and which were assets
that the administrator only had the right to hold. It was
also a part of it that the administration should be conducted
by the fira and not by the person to whom the probate
court committed it. To this arrangement the defendant
became a party, and he signed the bond in view of it, and
in order that it might be carried out. This appears from
the plea. It needs no argument to show that the transaction
was against the policy of the law and plainly illegal.
Letters of administration are a trust. They are granted
by the probate court or ordinary because of confidence reposed in the grantee. They require him to take exclusive
charge of the personal property of his intestate and to bring
to its administration his own personal attention and judgment. He has no right to allow others to control it or to
share in its administration. If he does, he exposes it to unnecessary hazards and subjects it to the disposition of persons in whom the officer of the law has reposed -no confidence. To permit a mercantile or a banking firm, of which
the administrator is a partner, to take the assets of the decedent's estate into its possession and to share in the disposition of them is to invite what the plea shows happened in
this case, misappropriation and loss. It is a gross breach
of trust, a violation of legal duty. It must be, therefore,
that any contract which has for its object such a faithless
abandonment of the duties of an admiiiistrator cannot be
enforced in a court of law.
It is not to be said that the implied promise of the partners or the firm was only collateral to the illegal arrangement. It was a part of it. The signing of the bond.and
the promise to indemnify were both not only in view of a
contemplated transfer of the administrator's duties to the

488

EUEKA COMPANY v. BAILEY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

partnership, but they were means avowedly selected for that
end.
It follows that the plea set up no debt to the defendant
due from the bankrupt firm which is recoverable at law and
which can be made available as a set-off. The demurrer
was therefore correctly sustained.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

EUREKA COMPANY V. BAILEY COMPANY.
1. A contract in writing may be binding on a corporation though a private
seal of one of its officers was used instead of the corporate seal, and
though no record may be found authorizing the officer to make the contract, if other evidence proves that he had such authority, or that the
company ratified his act afterwards.
2. A patent from the government cannot be impeached for fraud in procuring its issue in any other mode than by a direct proceeding to set it
aside. But it may be shown in a suit on a reissued patent that it covers
matter not part of the original invention.
8. When parties have, after long negotiation, with full opportunities for
knowing what they are doing, entered intocontracts for the use of inventions covered by rival patents, and no fraud or imposition is alleged,
the case of a party sued in such a contract must be very clear, who denies the validity of the patent for which he has agreed to pay a royalty.
4. And when such a party has furnished under the contract a model of the
machines which he proposes to make, on which he agrees to pay a royalty, he cannot deny that such machine contains matter covered by the
patent, unless he alleges and proves circumstances which would set
aside the contract for fraud, mistake, or surprise.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
The Bailey Company was the owner of. a reissued patent
for an improved washing and wringing machine, the original
of which had been issued to John Allender. There had
been several surrenders and reissues of this patent, the last
of which was on the 22d July, 1865. The Eureka Company being engaged in the manufacture of clothes-wringing
APPEAL

maachines under other patents, one S. B. Rindge, its treasurer,

