HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ful analysis of the whole record. It turns in every point
upon simple questions of fact. There is not a doubtful
question of law involved in the entire record. That this
court should be compelled to undergo the labor of finding
the truth in such a mass of testimony, a duty much nore
appropriate to a master, or to some other tribunal than this,
and which in common-law cases is peculiarly the province
of the jff,'y, is itself a hindrance and obstruction to public
justice by the delay which it interposes to the hearing of
other cases. We do not feel that this burden should be further increased, and the time of this court, due to other parties and to more important interests, be consumed in writing
and delivering opinions which, if they attempt to go into
examination of the facts to justify the decision of the court,
will be equally tedious and useless.
[The.learned justice, without going, in the opinion delivered, into analysis or argument, then stated in a general
form, and by way of result, the history of Mann's transactions while cashier and agent of the bank, as the court considered that the same appeared on the evidence; adding
that it seemed pretty clear to this court that a certain $20,000
of which Mann had defrauded the bank did become real
estate, which was now held in the name of his wife, and
announcing in conclusion that as the decree of the court
below was founded upon that same view of the case, it was
affrmed.]
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.
1. Although a former statute is impliedly repealed by a subsequent one
plainly repugnant to it, or so far as the later statute's making new provisions is plainly intended for a substitute for the earlier one, yet a
repeal is not to be implied where the powers or directions under the
later acts are such as may well subsist together with those under the
earlier.
2. Held, on an application of this principle, that the act of July 20, 1868,

:Dec. 1870.]

DENDERSON'S

TOBACCO.

Statement of the case.
imposing taxes on distilled spirits and tobacco, did not repeal the proviso to the 2.5th section of the Internal Revenue Act of March 2, 1867,
which limits to twenty days the time for commencing proceedings to
enforce forfeitures.
3. But ihe proviso has no application to any other forfeitures than such as
are provided for in it.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
This was an information under the act of July 20, 1868,*
entitled "An act imposing taxes on distilled spirits and
tobacco, and for other purposes," to enforce a forfeiture,
under the revenue laws, of certain caddies of tobacco which
had been seized on the 17th of August, 1869, and which
were claimed by Henderson & Co. The information contained three counts. The first was, in substance, that since
the first day of January, 1868, to wit, from January 1, 1868,
to August 17, 1869, the claimants, being the owners of a
tobacco factory, with its furniture, manufactured, prepared,
and placed in caddies, manufactured leaf tobacco, and sold
and removed the same without placing on the caddies the
proper revenue stamps, and without having paid the special
tax required by law; but that they did place on the caddies
of tobacco so manufactured and so sold and removed, half
stamps, that is to say, revenue stamps cut in two parts, each
part of said stamps being used on separate caddies, and
each half stamp so covered by a whole stamp as to make
the half stamp so used resemble and be taken for a whole
stamp. The second count was for substantially the same
offence. The third was for making false and fraudulent entries of the amount of tobacco sold by them annually, and
false and fraudulent entries of the quantity manufactured
by them, and false and fraudulent reports of their annual
sales, in violation of their duty under the law.
The claimants pleaded to this information that it was not
filed until more than twenty days after the caddies had been
seized by the collector for the alleged violations of law. To
the plea there was a demurrer, which was overruled by the
15 Stat. at Large, 156, N 69 and 70.

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.

[sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

court and the information was dismissed. The record was,
therefore, supposed to present the question whether proceedings to enforce a forfeiture for such violations of the revenue laws as were charged in the information must be commenced within twenty days from the time of the collector's
seizure, and this was the only point argued. The claimants,
in support of an affirmative answer to this question, relied
upon the proviso to the 25th section of the act of Congress
of March 2, 1867,* entitled "An act to amend existing laws
relating to internal revenue, and for other purposes." This
25th section enacted that the owner, agent, or superintendent of any still, boiler, or other vessel used in the distillation
of spirits, who should neglect or refuse to make true and
exact entry and report of the same, or to do, or cause to be
done, any of the things by law required to be done concerning distilled spirits, shall, in addition to other fines and penalties by law provided, forfeit for every such neglect or r~fusal all the spirits made by or for him, and all the vessels
used in making the same, and the stills, boilers, and other
vessels used in making the same, and all materials fit for use
in distillation found on the premises. It also authorized the
collector to seize such spirits, vessels, and materials, and
hold them until a decision thereon according to law. Then
followed this proviso:
"Provided, that proceedings to enforce said forfeiture shall be
commenced by such collector within twenty days after the seizure
thereof; and the proceedings to enforce said forfeiture of said
property shall be in the nature of a proceeding in rem in the
Circuit or District Court of the United States for the district
where such seizure is made, or in any other court of competent
jurisdiction."
The 9th section of the same act enacted that "all proceedings relating to forfeiture and sale of distilled spirits
shall apply to tobacco, snuff, and segars."
In answer to this it was contended, on behalf of the United
14 Stat. at Large, 483.

Dec. 1870.]

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.
Statement of the case.

States, that the proviso relied upon by the claimants was
repealed by the act of July 20, 1868. It was admitted that
the act of 1868 contained no words expressly repealing either
the act of 1867 or that of 1864, to which the one of 1867
was a supplement; but the argument was that it covered the
ground of the preceding statute, and that no limitation was
contained in the latter statute with regard to the time in
which the proceeding of forfeiture shall be commenced.
There was no doubt that the latter act did change numerous provisions of the former act, and in so far cover its
ground. In the sections under which this information was
filed there were provisions for the punishment of persons
manufacturing tobacco or snuff in violation of the internal
revenue laws not in the former acts' and which did not make.
reference to the proceedtngs for the punishment of the illegal manufacture of distilled spirits.
The act of 1868 repealed in terms* "all acts and parts of
acts inconsistent" with its own provisions; enacting, however,
"That all the provisions of said act shall be in force for levying
and collecting all taxes properly assessed, or liable to be assessed,
or accruing under the provisions of former acts, the right to
which has already accrued or which may hereafter accrue under
said acts, and for maintaining, continuing, and enforcing liens,
fines, penalties, and forfeitures, incurred under and by virtue
thereof. And this act shall not be .construed to affect any abt
done, right accrued, or penalty incurred under former acts, but
every such right is hereby saved; and all suits and prosecutions
.for acts already done in violation of any former act or acts of
Congress relating to the subjects embraced in this act may,be
commenced or proceeded with in like manner as if this act had
not been passed."
This section, it was considered by the government, indicated the broad extent to which the former revenue acts bad
been revised by the act of 1868, so that Congress considered
that penalties under them would be lost without such a
saving clause.
*

105.

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

There was, however, nothing in the act of 1868 regulating
or defining in any way the manner of proceeding in cases of
forfeiture, and unless certainof the provisions of the previous
acts were to be regarded as still in force, there was left apparently no guide, nor statute now in force, in important parts
of the revenue practice. These were set forth in different
sections among the first fifty-two of the act of 1864; amended
by acts of 1866 and 1867. So section 3d of the act of 1867
provided certain rules under which district attorneys were
to report certain things to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. Section 4th placed under the control of the commissioner real estate acquired by the United States under the
revenue laws. Section 7th authorized the commissioner to
appoint detectives, &c., while section 8th provided a penalty
for failure to pay tax when due. to provisions were made
on the subject of these sections in the late act.
Mr. B. ff. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. _. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States; Messrs. B1eC0ary, Miller, and.Mcarary, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended, on behalf of the United States, that the
proviso relied upon by the claimants was repealed by the act
of July 20, 1868.
If this is so, it was a repeal by implication only. That act
contains no words expressly repealing either the act of 1867
or that of 1864, to which the one of 1867 was a supplement.
On the contrary, the repealing clause, which it does contain,
indicates plainly the intention of Congress to leave in force
some portions of former acts relative to the same subjectmatter. The 105th section enacts, "that all acts and parts
of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby
repealed." This is an express limitation of the extent to
which it was intended former acts should cease to be operative, namely, only so far as they are inconsistent with the
new act. It is quite inadmissible to engraft upon this express declaration of legislative intent an implication of more

Dec. 1870.]

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.
Opinion of the court.

extensive repeal. Statutes are, indeed, sometimes held to
be repealed by subsequent enactments, though the latter
contain no repealing clauses. This is always the rule when
the provisions of the latter acts are repugnant to those of
the former, so far as they are repugnant. The enactment
of provisions inconsistent with those previously existing,
manifests a clear intent to abolish the old law. In the
United States v. Tynen,* it was said by Mr. Justice Field, that
' when there are two acts upon the same subject, the rule is
to give effect to b6tb, if possible. But if the two are repug-.
nant in any of their provisions, the latter act, without any
repealing clause, operates to the extent of the repugnancy
as a repeal of the first; and even where two acts are not, in
express, terms, repugnant, yet, if the latter act covers the
whole subject of the first, and embraces new provisions,
plainly showing that it was intended as a substitute for the
first act, it will operate as a repeal of that act." For this
several authorities were cited, some, of which have been
cited on the present argument. This is, undoubtedly, a
sound exposition of the law. But it must be observed-that
the doctrine asserts no more than that the former statute is
impliedly repealed, so far as the provisions of the subsequent
statute are repugnant to it, or so far as the latter statute,
making new provisions, is plainly intended as a substitute
for it.' Where the powers or directions under several acts
are such as may well subsist tpgether, an implication of repeal cannot be allowed.t
If now, in the light of these principles, the act of July 20,
1868, be examined and compared with the acts of 1864 and
1867 (the latter being an amendment of the former), there
will be found in it nothing incofisistent with the authority
given by the amended act of 1867 to the collector to seize
and hold property subject to forfeiture, or with the proviso
that directs the mode of procedure to enforce forfeitures,
designates the courts in which proceedings may be instituted, and limits the time within which they may be cor* Supra, 92.
- Dwarris on Statutes, 674, etseq.; Goldson v.Buck, 15 East, 377.
Vol. XI,
42

HENDERSON'S TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
k

menced. It cannot be said that all the powers and limitations mentioned in the proviso may not subsist in entire
consistency with everything prescribed in the act of 1868.
Undoubtedly, that act was intended to be a revision of
former acts relative to spirits and tobacco. And in some
particulars it made changes. It introduced new provisions
respecting the mode of paying the tax on spirits and tobacco,
and it prescribed some new penalties for new offences, but
it made no provision respecting the mode of enforcing penalties and forfeitures. It cannot, therefore, have been intended as a complete substitute for all former acts relative
to its subject. There are many provisions of the acts of
1864 and 1867 which it left untouched and unsupplied. Indeed, the first fifty-two sections of the act of 1864, amended
as they were by the acts of 1866 and 1867, without which
the revenue laws cannot be executed, are*not attempted to
be supplied. There is, therefore, no reason for holding that
any other provisions of the acts of 1864 and 1867 have been
repealed than such as are plainly inconsistent with the provisions of the act of 1868. There is nothing in this latter
act repugnant to the proviso upon which the claimants rely.
But the proviso of the 25th section of the act of 1867,
which limits to twenty days the time for commencing proceedings to enforce forfeitures, has no application to any
other forfeitures than such as are provided for in that section. Those are, as we have seen, forfeitures for neglect or
refusal to make certain true and exact entries and reports,
and forfeitures for neglect or refusal to do any of the things
by law required to be done concerning distilled spirits (or
tobacco). They are forfeitures for acts of omission or neglect.
To proceedings to enforce them, the limitation was applied.
It was made applicable to no other. The proviso speaks
of proceedings. to enforce said forfeiture, and plainly contemplates no seizure or forfeiture for any different offence
than those previously mentioned in the section. This information is founded upon no such neglect or refusal. The
forfeiture claimed is for affirmative acts of the claimants;
for active offences first made grounds of forfeiture by the

Dec. 1867.]

CO0K v.BURNLEY.
Syllabus.

act of 1868. Each count charges positive fraud-the first
and second, frauduleut use of stamps, unknown under the
act of 1867; and the third count charges fraudulent entries
and fraudulent reports. It may well be that a distinction
was intended to be made. Passive violations of law, mere
neglect, may have been regarded less culpable than active
transgression. All the causes of forfeiture enumerated in
the sixty-ninth section of the act of 1868, upon which all the
counts in the information are based, are of the latter character. We cannot hold, therefore, that the limitation of the
proviso to the 25th section of the act of 1867, which the
claimants have pleaded, is any protection to them. It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the
information must be reversed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
REVERSED, AND THE CAUSE IS REMANDED
FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

COOK V. BURNLEY.

1. The title of Juan Cano, a colonist in the empressario grant of Martin
De Leon, and to whom the commissioner of that colony conveyed a
league of land April 11, 1835, was a good title. The case of Whiie v.
Burnley (20 Howard, 235), thus deciding, affirmed.
2. A suit pending in a State court between parties not the same as in a suit
here cannot be pleaded in abatement in the Federal courfs; nor can a
suit pending be pleaded in abatement after a plea to the merits; nor
where it is insufficient in law.
8. In the case of a deposition taken de bene esse under the 30th section of the
Judiciary Act, the omission of the magistrate to certify that he reduced
the testimony to writing himself, or that it was done by the witness in
his presence, is fatal to the deposition.
4. On a question of limitations and possession, a statement by a witness in
a deposition taken de bene esse and without notice, that "he knew that
the defendant and his tenants had continued possession" from a date
specified, held to have been properly excluded, as being testimony to a
matter of law and fact mixed; the witness having already testified to
the fact of the defendant's possession and of that of his tenants, naming
them, and of the time they held possession, and when they left the
premises

