:Dec. 1870.]

LEON v. GALCERAN.
Statement of the case.

LEON

v. GALCERAN.

1. A suit for mariners' wages inyersonam is maintainable at common law,
And is within the excpption of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act
defining the admiralty jurisdiction.
2. Itis no objection to the jurisdiction of a State court in such a suit that.
the process of sequestration or attachment has been used to bring the
vessel on which the services were rendered under the dominion of the
court, for the purpose of subjecting it to such judgment as might be
rendered in the cause.
8. And a bond given to relieve the vessel so sequestered or attached is prop.erly sued on in a State court.

GALCERAN and two other sailors brought each a suit in
Tersonam, in one of the State courts of Louisiana, against
Mfaristany, owner of the schooner Gallego, to recover mariners' wages, and had the schooner, which was subject to a
lien and "privilege" in their favoi, according to the laws
of Louisiana, similar in some respects to the principles of
the maritime law, sequestered by the sheriff of the parish.
The writ of sequestration was levied upon the schooner,
which was afterwards released upon Maristany's giving a
forthcoming bond, with one Leon as surety, for the return
of the vessel to the sheriff on the final judgment. Judgments having been rendered by default against Maristany,
the owner, in Tersonam, for the amounts claimed, with the
mariner's lien and privilege upon the property sequestered,
a writ of ft. fa. was issued and demand made without effect,
of the defendant in execution, by the sheriff, for the return
of the property bonded. On the return of the sheriff that
the property bonded could not be found, suits (the suits below) were brought in the same court by the three sailors
against Leon, to enforce in personam against him the obligation of the forthcoming bonds, and judgments were rendered iapersonam against Leon, the surety, in their favor,
for the amounts fixed by the original judgments. From
the judgments thus rendered in the court below (that having been the highest court in Louisiana where a decision in
the suit could be had), Leon took these writs of error.

LEON V.

GALCERAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments in favor of and against the jurisdiction.

Messrs. Cushing and Drew, for the plaintiff in error.
Even if the State court could entertain a personal action
against the owner, it had no jurisdiction over the vessel by
conservatory writ and proceeding in rem to enforce a maritime lien by seizure before judgment. This is settled in
The Moses Taylor,* and in The Eine v. Trevor.t Having no
jurisdiction, therefore, over the vessel in a proceeding in
rem, the judicial bond given in that court for its delivery was
null and void; and the court having no authority of law, or
jurisdiction over the subject-matter, the order of the court to
bond is also an absolute nullity.
"The rule, that as one binds himself he shall remain
bound, may be true in mere conventional obligations, but
the effect of judicial bonds must be tested by the law directing them to be taken. That which is superadded must be
rejected and that which is omitted supplied. So, if there be
no law authorizing such a bond to be taken, or if the prerequisites required for the taking thereof be not fulfilled,
the bond will not bind; there is error, and the consideration
fails."t

Galceran, by briefsigned proprid persona, contra:
The right of mariners tobring suits inpersonam against the
owners of the vessel on which they have earned their wages,
in the State courts, is expressly reserved to them by the Judiciary Act of 1789, under the proviso, "saving to suitors, in
all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where the common
law is competent to give it."
This is the right which has been exercised in this case.
The State court had jurisdiction over the subject-matter of
the controversy, inasmuch as the suits were brought in personam, which is clearly a common law remedy, and judgments obtained personally against the owner of the vessel.
The writ of sequestration was issued as a mesne or conservatory process, to preserve intact pendente lite, a lien and
privilege granted by law, and to secure the presence of the
4 Wallace, 411.
t lb. 555.
: 2 Hennen's Louisiana Digest, new edition, p. 1023, verbo 6.

*

Dec. 1870.]

LEON V.

GALCERAN.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

vessel within the territorial jurisdiction of the State court,
until after the final judgments, to be then subjected to execution and sale to satisfy said judgments; and inasmuch as
the writ was only resorted to as a means of enabling the
State court more effectually to exercise its lawful jurisdiction and to secure in advance the execution of valid personal
judgments on transitory property pledged by law to their
payment, it follows that the writ was as lawful a.q the suit
itself, to which indeed it was a mere appendage or incident,
and as the writ offi. fa. issued on the personal judgnents and
of which the writ of sequestration was the mere precursor.
The only thing which the Federal Constitution and the
Judiciary Act of 1789 seem to have taken away friom the
State courts is the "cognizance of civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," when the same are sought to bebrought solely in rem against the offemding vessel itself as a
party defendant to the suit, according to the peculiar forms
of the proceedings in rem of the admiralty courts, the judgments and sales of which are binding on the whole world,
erga omnes.
The writ of sequestration has no analogy whatever with
the admiralty process, as understood and defined by writers
on admiralty law.*
It cannot be pretended that vessels are not liable to seizure
under executions issued upon judgments rendered by State
courts.* How, then, can it be contended that a writ of attachment or any other m'esne or conservatory process, which
only anticipates and subserves the writ of ft. fa., cannot be
lawfully resorted to, when sanctioned by the State law, to
prevent the departure of the vessel pendente lite, in order to
subject it afterwards under execution to the payment of
the creditor's personal judgment, for which she is legally
pledged ?
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Mariners in suits to recover their wages, may proceed
against the owner or master of the ship in personam, or they
* See article 269 and following of the Louisiana Code of Practice.

LEON

V.

GALCERAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

may proceed in rem against the ship or ship and freight, at
their election.
Where the suit is in rem against the ship or ship and
freight, the original jurisdiction of the controversy is exclusive in the District Courts, as provided by the ninth section
of the Judiciary Act, but when the suit is in personam against
the owner or master of the vessel, the mariner may proceed
by libel in the District Court, or he may, at his election,
proceed in an action at law either in the Circuit Court, if
he and his debtor are citizens of different States, or in a
State court as in other causes of action cognizable in the
State and Federal courts exercising jurisdiction in common
law cases, as provided in the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act.*
He may have an action at law in the case supposed either
in the Circuit Court or in a State court, because the common law, in such a case, is competent to give him a remedy,
and wherever the common law is competent to give a party
a remedy in such a case, the right to such a remedy is reserved and secured to suitors by the saving clause contained
in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
Services, as mariners on board the schooner Gallego, were
rendered by each of the appellees in these cases, and their
claims for wages remaining unpaid, on the eighth of August,
1868, they severally brought suit in personam against Joseph
Maristany, the sole owner of the schooner, to recover the
respective amounts due to them as wages for their services
as such mariners.
Claims of the kind create a lien upon the vessel under
the laws of that State quite similar to the lien which arises
in such cases under the maritime law. They accordingly
applied to the court where the suits were returnable for
writs of sequestration, and the same having been granted
and placed in the hands of the sheriff for service, were levied
upon the schooner as a security to respond to the judgments
which the plaintiffs in the respective suits might recover
* 1 Stat. at Large, 78; The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 642, 644

Dec. 187 0.]

LEON V. GALCERAN.

Opinion of the court.

against the owner of the vessel, as the defendant in the
several suits.
Such a writ when duly issued and served in such a case
has substantially the same effect in the practice of the courts
of that State as an attachment on mesne process in jurisdictions where a creditor is authorized to employ such a process
to create a lien upon the property of his debtor as a security
to respond to his judgment. INeither the writ of sequestration nor the process of attachment is a proceeding in rem, as
known and practiced'in the admiralty, nor do they bear any
analogy whatever to such a proceeding, as the suit in all
such cases is a suit against the owner of the property and
not against the property as an offending thing, as in case
where the libel is in rem in the Admiralty Court to enforce
a maritime lien in the property.
Due notice was given of the suit to the defendant in each
case, and he appeared and made defence. Pending the suits
the schooner, which had previously been seized by the sheriff
under the writ or writs of sequestration, was released on
motion of the defendant in those suits and was delivered
into his possession, he, the defendant, giving a bond to the
sheriff, with surety conditioned to the effect that he would
not send the property out of the jurisdiction of the court
nor make any improper use of it, and that he would faithfully present the same in case such should be the decreeof
the court, or that he would satisfy such judgment as should
be recovered in the suit.
Judgment was recovered by the plaintiff in each case
against the owner of the schooner, and executions were
issued on the respective judgments, and the same were
placed in the hands of the sheriff. Unable to find any property of the debtor or to make the money the sheriff returned
the execution unsatisfied, and the property bonded was duly
demanded both of the principal obligor and of the present
plaintiff in error, who was the surety in each of the forthcoming bondg.
Given, as the bonds were, on the release of the schooner,
they became the substitute for the property, and the obligors

LEON

v.

GALCERAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

refusing to return the same or to satisfy the judgments, the
respective judgment creditors instituted suits against the
surety in those bonds. Service having been duly made, the
defendant appeared and filed an exception to the jurisdiction
of the court in each case, upon the ground that the cause of
action was a matter exclusively cognizable in the District
Courts of the United States, but the court overruled the
exception and gave judgment for the plaintiff, whereupon
the defendant sued out a writ of error in each case and re.moved the same into this court.
Briefly stated, the defence in the court below was that the
action was founded on a bond given for the sale of the
schooner seized under admiralty process in a proceeding in
rerm, over which the State court had no jurisdiction raLione
materim, "and that the bond was taken coram non judice and
is void." Enough has already been remarked to show that
the theory of fact assumed in the exception is not cbrrect,
as the respective suit4 instituted by the mariners were suits
in personam ugainst the owner of the schooner and not suits
in rem against the vessel, as assumed in the exception. We'e
the fact agsupposed, the conclusion assumed would follow,
as it is well-settled law that common law remedies are not
appropriate nor competent to enforce a maritime lien by a
proceeding in rem, and consequently that the jurisdiction
conferred upon the District Courts, so far as *respects that
mode of proceeding, is exclusive.
State legislatures have no authority to create a maritime
lien, nor can they confer any jurisdiction upon a State court
to enforce such a lien by a suit or proceeding in rem, as practiced in the admiralty courts, but whenever a maritime lien
arises the injured party may pursue his remedy by a suit in
personam or by a proceeding in rem at his election. Such a
party may proceed in rem in the admiralty, and if he elects
to pursue his remedy in that mode he cannot proceed in any
other form, as the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts is
exclusive in respect to that mode of proceeding, but such a
party is not restricted to that mode of proceeding, even in
the Adr: iralty Court, as he may waive his lien and proceed

Dec.1870.]

LEON V. GALCERAN.
Opinion of the court.

inpersonam against the owner or master of the vessel in the
same jurisdiction, nor is he compelled to proceed in the admiralty at all, as he may resort to his common law remedy
in the State courts, or in the Circuit Court, if he and his
debtor are citizens of different States.
Suitors, by virtue of the saving clause in the ninth section
of the Judiciary Act conferring jurisdiction in admiralty
upon the District Courts, have the right of a common law
remedy in all cases "where the common law is competent
to give it," and the commo:- law is as competent as the admiralty to give a remedy in all cases where the suit is in
personam against the owner of the property.
Attempts have been made to show that the opinion of the
court in the case of The Moses Taylor,* and the opinion of
the court in the case of The -Hinev. Trevor,t are inconsistent
with the views here expressed, that the court in those cases
do not admit that a party in such a case can ever have a
remedy in a State court, but it is clear that every such suggestion is without foundation, as plainly appears from the
brief explanations given in each case by the justice who delivered the opinion of the court. Express reference is made
in each of those cases to the clause in the ninth section of
the Judiciary Act which gives to suitors the right of a
common law remedy where the common law is competent
to give it, and there is nothing in either opinion, when the
language employed is properly applied to the subject-matter
then under consideration, in the slightest degree inconsistent with the more elaborate exposition of the clause subsequently given in the opinion of the court in the case of The
.Belfast,t in which all the members of the court as then constituted concurred. Those explanations are a part of the
respective opinions, and they expressly recognize the right
of the suitor to his common law action and remedy by attachment as provided in the saving clause of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
Common law remedies are not competent to enforce a
maritime lien by a proceeding in rem, and consequently the
* 4 Wa Ace, 411.

t lb. 555.

1 7 Wallace, 642.

LEON V. GALCERAN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

original jurisdiction to enforce such a lien by that mode of
proceeding is exclusive in the District Courts, which is precisely what was decided in each of the three cases to which
reference is made. Authority, therefore, does not exist in a
State court to bear and determine a suit in rem, founded upon
a maritime contract in which a maritime lien arises, for the
purpose of enforcing such a lien. Jurisdiction in such cases
is exclusively in the District Courts, subject to appeal as
provided in the acts of Congress, but such a lien does not
arise in a contract for materials and supplies furnished to a
vessel in her home port, and in respect to such contracts it
is competent for the States to create such liens as their legislatures may deem just and expedient, not amounting to a
regulation of commerce, and to enact reasonable rules and
regulations prescribing the mode of their enforcement.*
Even where a maritime lien arises the injured party, if he
sees fit, may waive his lien and proceed by a libel in personam in the admiralty, or he may elect not to go into adnfiralty at all, and may resort to his common law remedy,
as the plaintiffs in these cases did, in the subordinate court.
They brought their suits in the State court against the
owner of the schooner, as they had a right to do, and having
obtained judgments against the defendant they might levy
their executions upon any property belonging to him, not
exempted from attachment and execution, which was situated
in that jurisdiction.
Undoubtedly they- might also resort to the bond given
when the schooner was released, but they were not compelled to do so if the sheriff could find other property belonging to the debtor. By the return of the sheriff it appears
that other property to satisfy the executions could not be
found, and under those circumstances they brought these
suits against the surety in those bonds, as they clearly had a
right to do, whether the question is tested by the laws of
Congress or the decisions of this court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 643; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 529.

