THE SAPPHIR.E.[SpCt

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

Apply those rules to the present case, and it is clear that
the findings are not sufficient to support the judgment, and
that there should be a new venire, giving the defendants an
opportunity to show, if they can, that the bonds were fraudulent in their inception, and the plaintiff an opportunity to.
show, if he can, that he paid value for the coupons at the
time bf the transfer.

THE SAPPHIRE.
1. A foreign sovereign can bring a civil suit in the courts of the United
States.
2. A claim arising by virtue of being such sovereign (such as an injury to
a public ship of war) is not defeated, nor does suit therefor abate, by a
ehange in the person of the sovereign. Such change, if necessary, may
be suggested on the record.
3. If an injury to any party could be shown to arise from a continuation of
the proceedings after a change in the person of the sovereign, the court
in its discretion would take order to prevent such a result.
4. If a vessel at anchor in a gale could avoid a collision threatened by
another vessel and does not adopt the means for doing so, she is a participant in the wrong, and must divide the loss with the other vessel.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California.
The case was one of collision between the American ship
Sapphire and the French transport Euryale, which took
place in the harbor of San Francisco on the morning of
December 22, 1867, by which the Euryale was considerably
damaged. A libel was filed in the District Court two days
afterwards, in the name of the .EmperorNapoleon 117, then
Emperor of the French, as owner of the Euryale, against the
Sapphire. The claimants filed an answer, alleging, among
other things, that the damage was occasioned by the fault
of tbe Euryale. Depositions were taken, and the court decreed in favor of the libellant, and awarded him $15,000, the
total amount claimed. The claimants appealed to the Circuit Court, which affirmed the decree. They then, in July,
1869, appealed to this court. In the summer of 1870, Na-

Dec. 1870.]

THE SAPPHIRE.
Argument against the right of Napoleon III.

poleon III was deposed. The case came on to be argued
here February 16, 1871. Three questions were raised:
1. The right of the Emperor of France to have brought
suit in our courts.
2. Whether, if rightly brought, the suit had not become
abated by the deposition of the Emperor Napoleon III.
8. The question of merits; one of fact, and depending
upon evidence stated towards the conclusion of the opinion
(see iifra, pp. 169, 170), where the point is considered.
Mr. C. B. Gooderich,for the appellant:
1. The sovereign of a country, the public rights or property of which have been destroyed, or injured, by a citizen
of another country, cannot maintain suit against such citi-,
zen, in the judicial tribunals of the country to which such
citizen belongs, to recover compensation for the injury. The
remedy, and the only remedy, of the foreign sovereign is by
diplomatic correspondence and arrangement between the
two countries. The repose of nations, and their intercourse
with each other, cannot be maintained, if sovereign rights
are to be ascertained and adjudicated by a suit, in the name
of the foreign sovereign, against a private citizen by whom
they may have been violated.*
The case before the court illustrates the propriety of the
principle and reason upon which the position is taken. The
claimants cannot call upon Napoleon, to answer interrogatories, upon oath, under the admiralty rule which requires
libellants to aiiswer. The owners of the Sapphire, in their
answer, say that the collision was caused by the fault of the .M-ench
transport. Admitting this to be true, still they cannot obtain
a warrant for the arrest of a vessel belonging to the navy of
France,t and which is in our harbor in the charge of an
officer of the French navy.
* Duke of Brunswick r. The King of Hanover, 6 Beavan, 1; S. C., 2
House of Lords Cases, N. S. 1; Hullet v.The King of Spain, I Dow & Clark,
169; S. C., 1 Clark & Finelley, 833; Prioleau v.United States and Andrew
Johnson, Law Reports, 2 Equity Cases, 659.
t Brown v.Duchesne, 19 Howard, 183.

THE.

SAPPHIRE.

[Slip. o~t.

Argument in favor of the right of Napoleon III.

There should in every proceeding be a mutuality of remedy. In the case of specific performance, whenever from
personal incapacity, the nature of the contract, or any other
cause, the contract is incapable of being performed, against
one party, that party is equally incapable of enforcing it
against the other, though its execution in the latter way
might in itself be free from the difficulty attending its execution in the former.
The case of Prioleauv. United States and Andrew Johnson,*
presents in its result -difficulties atteuding a suit in the name
of a foreign government, which can be surmounted only by
holding that a foreign sovereign eanjiot maintain suit in the
courts of another country, against its citizens, for the purpose of vindicating his sovereign rights. In the assertion
of individual private rights he may have suit.
The cases cited say, that a foreign sovereign, by the institution of a suit, submits to the jurisdiction of the court divested of his sovereign rights; must answer to a cross-bill,
upon oath; make discovery, or. put some one forward, as
party to the suit, who can. This shows that his sovereign
rights cannot with propriety become the subject of a suit.
2. But supposing that the suit could yet be maintained if
Napoleon III were now Emperor, it would seem certain that
it cannot be continued, he being now deposed, and reduced
to the state of a private person. The Euryale is a vessel of
the French government; a government with which he has
nothing whatever now to do; being banished and a fugitive.
3. [The counsel then discussed the question of fact.]
Mr. C. Cushing, contra (a brief of Mr. Melton Andrews being
submitted on the merits), stated that suits had been maintained
in Great Britain, in the name of the United States, within
the last five years, in the following cases, he himself having
been counsel in the same, namely: The Sumter (Admiralty),
The Rappahannock (Admiralty), The Gibraltar (Admiralty),
The Tallahassee (Admiralty), The Alexander (Admiralty),
* Law Reports, 2 Equity Cases, 659.

Dec. 1870.]

THE.

SAPPHIRE.

Opinion of the court.

Prioleau (Chancery), Wagner (Chancery), Tait (Law), Gudgeon (Chancery), Blakely Company (Rolls), and in British
America, in the case of Boyd and others (Chancery), and
The Georgia (Admiralty).
Indeed the right of a government to sue in the courts of
Great Britain is a right recognized from the time of Rolle's
Abridgement (Temp. James I).*
The courts in England hold, indeed, that a sovereign cannot be forced into court by suit, and to that extent some of
the cases cited oil the other side go. But they admit that,
if a foreign sovereign appears in court voluntarily as plaintiff,
the defendant may then sue him by cross-bill or otherwise.
Thatis not to deny his right to sue, but only to declare, its
consequences.
2. The right to sue having been in this case one in which
the name of the late Emperor was used only as representing
the governnient, survives his deposition. Substitution on
the record of the name of any new government of France,
is matter as of course.
3. [The counsel then discussed the question of fact.]
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question raised is as to the right of the French
Emperor to sue in our courts. On this point not the slightest difficulty exists. A foreign sovereign, as well as any
other foreign person, who has a demand of a civil nature
against any person here, may prosecute it in our courts. To
deny him this privilege would manifest a want of comity and
friendly feeling. Such a suit was sustained in behalf of the
King of Spain in the third circuit by Justice Washington
and Judge Peters in 1810.t The Constitution expressly extends the judicial power to controversies between a State, or
citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens, or subjects, without reference to the subject-matter of the controversy. Our
own government has largely availed itself of the like privilege to bring suits in the English courts in cases growing
Title "Court de Admiralty," E. 3; S. C., 1 Rolle's Reports, 133.

t

King of Spain v. Oliver, 2 Washington's Circuit Court, 481.

THE SAPPHIRE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

out of our late civil war.

Twelve or more of such suits are

enumerated in the brief of the appellees, brought within the
last five years in the English law, chancery, and admiralty
courts. There are numerous cases in the English reports
in which suits of foreign sovereigns have been sustained,
though it is held that a sovereign cannot be forced into court
by suit.*
The next question is, whether the suit has become abated
by the recent deposition of the Emperor :Napoleon. We
think it has not. The reigning sovereign represents the
national sovereignty, and that sovereignty is continuous and
perpetual, residing in the proper successors of the sovereign
for the time being. Napoleon was the owner of the Euryale, not as an individual, but as sovereign of France. This
is substantially averred in the libel. On his deposition
the sovereignty does not change, but merely the person
or persons in whom it resides. The foreign state is the true
and real owner of its public vessels of war. The reigning Emperor, or National Assembly, or other actual person
or party in power, is but the agent and representative of
the national sovereignty. A change in such representative
works no change in the national sovereignty or its rights.
The next successor recognized by our government is competent to carry on a suit already commenced and receive the
fruits of it. A deed to or treaty with a sovereign as such
enures to his successors in the government of the country.
If a substitution of names is necessary or proper it is a
formal matter, and can be made by the court under its general power to preserve due symmetry in its forms of proceeding. No allegation has been made that any change in the
* King of Spain v. Hullett, I Dow & Clarke, 169; S. C., I Clarke & Finelly,
B33; S. C., 2 Bligh, N. S. 31; Emperor of Brazil, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 801;
Queen of Portugal, 7 Clarke & Finelly, 466; King of Spain, 4 Russell,
226; Emperor of Austria, 3 De Gex, Fisher & Jones, 174; King of Greece,
6 Dowling's Practice Cases, 12; S. C., 1 Jurist, 944; 'United States, Law

Reports, 2 Equity Cases, 659; Ditto, lb. 2 Chancery Appeals, 582; Duke of
Brunswick v. King of Hanover, 6 Beavan, 1 ; S. C., 2 House of Lords Cases,
1; De Haber v. Queen of Portugal, 17 Q. B. 169; also 2 Phillimore's Inter-

national Law, part vi, chap. i; 1 Daniel's Chancery Practice, chap. ii,

ii.

Dec. 1870.]

THE SAPPHIRE.

Statement of the case as respects merits, in the opinion.

real and substantial ownership of the Euryale has occdrred by
the recent devolution of the sovereign power. The vessel has
always belongea and still belongs to the French nation.
If a special case should arise in which it could be shown
that injustice to the other party would ensue from a continuance of the proceedings after the death or deposition of a
sovereign, the court, in the exercise of its discretionary
power, would take such order as the exigency might require
to prevent such a result.
The remaining question relates to the merits of the case.
And on the merits of the case, as presented by the record,
we think that the court below erred in imposing the whole
damage upon the Sapphire. We think that the Euryale was
equally in fault, and that the damage ought fo be divided
between them. It is not our general practice to scrutinize
very carefully the weight of evidence in cases of collision,
where the evidence is substantially conflicting, and where

both District and Circuit Courts have concurred in a decree
upon the merits. Our views upon this subject will be found
quite fully expressed by Mr. Justice Clifford in the case of
The Balirnore.* But this case depends upon a narrow point,
the evidence on which is in our view so decidedly adverse to
the sole liability of the Sapphire that it becomes our duty to
notice it.
The Euryale came to anchor in the harbor on the 14th of
December, about six hundred yards from the wharf. She
was of four hundred and fifty tons burden, drew thirteen feet
of water, and had out fifty-six fathoms of chain, and an
anchor weighing 3500 pounds. The Sapphire, of thirteen
hundred tons burden, came to anchor about the 18th of
December, about thr~ee hundred yards (as alleged both in
the libel and answer) to the southeasterly of the Euryale, at
a point farther up the harbor, and farther from the wharf.
She had out about fifty fathoms of chain, and an anchor
weighing 8600 to 8800 pounds, and she was heavily laden,
drawing about twenty-three feet of water.
* 8 Wallace, 882.

TiE. SAPPHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

On the night of the 21st of December it commenced to
blow pretty strong from the southeast, by midnight blowing
a six-knot breeze, and it kept increasing up to the time of
the collision at five o'clock the next morning, when it seems
to have been blowing a gale. At half-past three in the
morning the tide changed from ebb to flood, the direction
of flood-tide being southeasterly, directly contrary to that of
the wind. And the captain of the Euryale says (and he is
not contradicted) that the wind was twice as strong as the
tide. The weight of the evidence is that the Sapphire, under
the force of the wind, dragged her anchor and got inside of
the Euryale; that is, between her and the city. At a few
minutes past five the collision occurred.
The libellant insists that the Sapphire was in fault in two
points: 1st, in anchoring too near the Euryale in the first
instance; 2d, in not having out sufficient anchors. We
think that the first charge is not sustained. Experienced
pilots testified that two hundred and fifty yards distance is a
good and sufficient berth in that harbor. And it is to be
noted that the master of the Euryale made no complaint of
too great proximity, although she and the Sapphire were
lying in the same relative position for several days. On the
other point, we agree with the District and Circuit Courts
that the Sapphire was in fault. Had a second anchor been
put out at an earlier period the collision in all probability
would not have occurred. Indeed, the captain of the Sapphire gave orders to the first officer that if she was likely to
start, to put the second anchor dowo. But it was not done
till the collision itself broke the ring-stopper and let it down.
A more careful watch -would have led to the discovery of
the vessel's having started, and would have prevented the
catastrophe which ensued.
But we are also* satisfied that the Euryale was not free
from fault. The captain was not on board. The first officer,
though on board, was not on deck from eleven o'clock until
after the collision. Le INoir, the third officer, was officer of
the deck that night. He was called up by the head, or chief,
of the watch at three o'clock to observe that the Sapphire

Dec. 1870.]

THB SAPPHIRE.
Opinion of the court.

was approaching nearer to them than she had been. He
attributed it to her letting out more chain, and returned
below, and did not come on deck again until five o'clock, a
few moments before the collision, when it was too late to
avoid it. The instant he came on deck he ordered done
the thing that could have saved them had it been done
earlier-the jib to be hoisted. It would have sheered the
vessel off, and allowed the Sapphire to pass her. Such is
the testimony of the libellant's own witnesses. It is the
judgment of the first officer of the ship. Why was not this
done-before? Why was not the officer, on such a night, in
such a gale, at his post? At four o'clock the man in charge
of the watch saw the Sapphire approaching, and says he
made a report to that effect. The first officer says that no
report was made to him. But the third officer, who was
officer of the deck, does not say that it was not made to him.
If the fact was not communicated to the proper officer, that
was in itself a fault. If it was communicated and not attended to, the case of the libellant is not bettered.; But the
evidence is very strong that the officer received the information. Deveaux, the head of the watch, says that lie reported
the fact at four o'clock; and Bioux, who had charge of the
watch between four and five o'clock, says that between those
houirs he saw the Sapphire with the wired astern, and heading the current, coming towards' the Enryale; that she continued to approach gradually, and that he reported this to
Mr. Le Noir between four and five o'clock. Here, then,
was a clear neglect of proper precautions for an entire hour
immediately preceding the collision.
We caunot avoid the conviction that there was a want of
proper care and vigilance on the part of the officers of the
Euryale, and that this contributed to produce the collision
which ensued. Both parties being in fault, the damages
ought to be equally divided between them.

Decree of the Circuit Court

REVERSED,

and the cause re-

mitted to that court with directions to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

