Dec. 1870.]

ST. Louis v. TiE FERRY

COMPANY.

423

Statement of the case.

which laid down that as the law for Louisiana with an express limitation in the power of the coure to modify it, and
that it had invaded the rule long received as an axiom, that
the descent, alienation, and transfer of real estate was governed rightfully by the law of the State wherein it lay. We
are quite satisfied that Congress had no such intent in passing the act of 1867.
The effort to support the course of the marshal, by showing that he acted under a rule of the court, is hardly worth
consideration. The mere circumstance that for a few months
that officer, acting under the construction of the act of
1867, which we have just shown to be erroneous, had advertised only in the newspapers selected by the clerk of
the House of Representatives, did not constitute a rule of
the court.
We are of opinion that the sale should have been set aside
for want of the advertisement in the parish where the land
lay. The judgment of the Circuit Court affirming the sale

is, therefore, REVERSED, and the case remanded with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

ST. Louis v. THE

FERRY COMPANY.

The ferry-boats of a corporation incorporated in one State, and carrying
passengers, &c., forward and back across a river to a city situated in
within the
another State, are not taxable under a law taxing boats ",
city," in a case where the relation of the boats to the city- was simply
that of contact, as one of the termini of their voyage; und the place
where they were laid up when not in use, and where their pilots and
engineers resided, and where the real estate of the corporation including
a warehouse was situated, was on the oppo.te shore and in another State.
This is not altered by the facts that the boats were enrolled in pursuance of our navigation acts at the city; that the ferry company bad an
office there; that its president, vice-president, and other principal officers
lived there; that the stockholders mainly resided there, and none in
the State opposite; that there the ordinary business meetings of the di-

424

ST.

Louis v. THE FERRY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
rectors were held, and its moneys received and disbursed, and the corporate seal kept.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.

A statute of Missouri enacts that "shares of stock and
all other interests held in steamboats, keel-boats, wharfboats, and all other vessels," shall be taxable for State purposes; and by its charter the city of St. Louis has authority
to tax all property within the city, so taxable.
In this state of statutory enactment the city authorities of
St. Louis laid a tax on the value of all ferry-boats used by
the Wiggins Ferry Company, in ferrying passengers and
cargo on the Mississippi River, between the city of St. Louis,
Missouri, and East St. Louis, in Illinois, on the opposite
shore. The ferry company refused to pay the tax, on the
ground that these boats were not "property within the city,"
and the question was whether they were so or not.
The case as found by the court below (to which it had
been submitted under the act of March 3d, 1865),* was this:
The ferry company was incorporated by the laws of Illinois, and had its principal office in St. Louis, Missouri.
There its president, vice-president, treasurer, superintendent, and other chief officers resided; there the ordinary
business meetings of the directors were held, and there the
seal of the corporation was kept. The company's minor
officers, such as engineers and pilots on its ferry-boats, resided in Illinois, opposite the city of St. Louis, where its real
estate was situated, also its warehouse and some other property. The ferry-boats, when not in actual use, were laid up
by the Illinois shore, and were forbidden, by a general ordinance of the city of St. Louis regulating ferries and ferryboats, to remain at the St. Louis wharf or landing longer
than ten minutes at a time. The city exacted from the company an annual ferry license, which was paid. It permitted
the company to erect landing or wharf-boats at its wharf or
public landing, for the convenience and exclusive use of its
The reader who does not recall the provisions of this act may see them,
supra, towards the bottom of page 141.

Dec. 1870.]

ST. Louis v. TiE FERRY COMPANY.

425

Statement of the case.

ferry-boats, for which wharf-boats the city charged the company a stipulated annual wharfage, which was also paid.
The company was assessed and taxed for the value of these
wharf-boats within the city limits, in addition to the ferry
license and wharfage.
The stockholders of the ferry company resided mainly in
St. Louis. Some, however, resided in Ohio, some in New
York, and some elsewhere, but none in Illinois. The meetings of the company as a corporation for the election of
directors had been generally held in Illin*ois, but the meetings of the diiectors for the election of its officers and appointment of its employees had been generally held in St.
Louis, Missouri. All the principal business of the company
done by its directors, superintendent, and other agents, had
been transacted in St. Louis. The money collected and
received by it for ferriages and other dues were kept in St.
Louis, and the books of the company were kept there, and
some of the disbursements of the company were thewe made
by its treasurer.

The personal property belonging to the

company, assessed for taxes by the city, for which these
suits were brought, consisted solely of its already mentioned
ferry-boats. On these as well as on its other property it was
duly assessed in Illinois, and paid taxes there. The ferryboats were enrolled at St. Louis under the laws of .the United
States; that is to say, under the acts of 1789 and 1792, which
require every vessel to be registered in the district to which
she belongs, and declare that her home port shall be that at
or near to which her owner resides.
Upon this same state of facts, the Supreme Court of Missouri, in The City of St. Louis v. Wiggins Ferry Company,* had
adjudged that the company was bound to pay the tax.
The court below decided that the ferry company, being a
corporation created by the State of Illinois, and the ferryboats not being within the limits of St. Louis except as they
habitually touched at its wharf for the delivery of passengers
and cargo, was not taxable for its boats by the city, as prop* 40 Missouri, 580.

426

ST.

Louis v. THE FERRY

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

erty within it. The fact that the principal business office of
the company was in St. Louis, and that the ferry-boats were
enrolled at the port of St. Louis, under the United States
laws, did not, as the court below considered, essentially
change the case. Judgment having been accordingly entered

for the ferry company, the city excepted to the law as declared by the court upon the facts, and tendered its bill of
exceptions, which was signed and scaled.

Mr. J. Jf. Krum, for the plaintiff in error:
Were these boats "within the city" of St. Louis?

That

is the only question in the case.

The enrolment at the port of St. Louis is not indeed conclusive as to the situs of the property. It may but indicate
the domicile or home port of the vessels, but it is a circumstance to be considered in connection with the other facts in
determining the question at issue.

What are these other facts? The managers of the boats
resided in St. Louis, and there received and disbursed the
earnings of the boats, keeping their office there, and the
ferry company itself keeping its principal office there. These

facts, takeu in connection with the fact that the boats had
already been enrolled at the last-named port, lead to the conclusion~that the property was "within" the city of St. Louis.
It is manifest that all the practical, life-giving, and fiscal
operations of this corporation were performed within the
city of St. Louis. There was its head and the centre of its
operations.
The payment of the tax in Illinois neither proves nor

tends to prove that the situs of the property was in that
State. Nqor does the payment of a ferry-license to the city
of St. Louis and of a wharfage tax on the wharf-boats of the
company show anything contrarv to our view. These are
matters foreign to the question.
The question now before this court was adjudicated in
The City of St. Louis v. "VigginsFerry Company. The facts
in that case were the same as in this. That decision is a
decision of the court of last resort of Missouri, construing

Dec. 1870.]

ST. Louis v. THE FERRY COMPANY.

427

Argument against the tax.

and giving effect to its laws in respect to property situate

within and owned or claimed by a resident of the State. The
refusal of the court below to conform its judgment to the
decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri is good ground
for reversing the judgment inthis case.
Messrs. 17i.
Blair and F. A. Dick, contra:
The boats were not "within the city."
A. corporation actually and 1,ermanently resides within
the State by whose law it is created; and there has the legal
status of a citizen and inhabitant of such State, where only
its stockholders can assemble and act as one bodv.*
The officers and agents of the company who actnally remain with and control the boats do not reside in Missouri,
"but opposite the, city of St. Louis, where its real estate is
situated, also its warehouse and some other property." The
boats when not running are laid up at the same place; and
it is contrary to the city ordinance concerning ferry-boats,
when on the St. Louis side, that they remain there " longer
than ten minutes at a time." The point of departure on
each trip of the boats was from the port where she was laid
up and at rest. To that port each-boat returned, and when
it so* returned, and not until then, was such trip at an end.
Under such a state of facts there is no room for a construetive presence in St. Louis or a constructive possession of the
boats by the general or fiscal officers of the company.
The home port of a vessel, when owned by one persbn,
is that at or near which the owner usually resides; and this
is not changed by her enrolment at another port, especially
when the first-named port is not a port of enrolment. This
company, as we have said, being created by Illinois, resides
there.t
But there are higher grounds on which to rest the unlawftilness of the tax. It is imposed upon a National vessel engaged in commerce between two of the States on a navigable
* Insurance Co. -. Francis, supra, 210.
t The Golden Gate, Newberry, 308; Hays v. Pacific Steamship Co., 17
Howard, 690.

428

ST. Louis

v.

THE FERRY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

river. Vessels so engaged are subject only to National taxes
and regulations, and are expressly withdrawn from State
taxation. A tonnage tax is simply a tax upon vessels, and
belongs exclusively to the National government under the
provisions giving power to Congress to collect taxes and
duties and to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States; and having belonged to the
States befbre the adoption of the Constitution, was surrendered by them in the clause saying that "no State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage."
[The learned counsel went into a full argument on this
point.]
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error instituted five suits in the St. Louis
Circuit Court for the recovery of taxes alleged to be due
from the ferry company to the city. Upon the petition of
the company t!hey were removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States for that district. In that court, by the
consent of the parties, the causes were consolidated and
thereafter proceeded to trial as one case. The counsel upon
both sides entered into a written stipulation waiving ajury,
and the cause was submitted to the court, pursuant to the
act of Congress of March 3d, 1865. The court found the
facts specially, and the finding is a part of the record.
Judgment was given for the defendant. The city excepted
and has brought the case here for review.
The bill of exceptions was unnecessary. The facts having
been specially found by the court, they are before us for
examination as if they were embodied in the special verdict
of a jury. The question presented for our consideration, as
prescribed by the statute, is, whether they are sufficient to
support the judgment. The bill of exceptions gives them
no effect which they would not have had without it, and
raises no question which would not have been as well presented if it had not been taken.
The controversy relates to taxes imposed by the city upon
the ferry-boats of the defendants, used in conveying freight

Dec. 1870.]

ST. Louis v. THE FERRY COMPANY.

429

Opinion of the court.

and passengers across the Mississippi River between the
city of St. Louis and the opposite Illinois shore. The company was required to pay a specific sum for a license, and a
tax was imposed upon its wharf-boat, attached to the city
landing. Both were duly paid. Payment of the taxes upon
the ferry-boats was refused, and the several suits, consolidated into the one before us, were instituted by the city to
recover the amount claimed to be due.
In the jurisprudence of the United States a corporation is
regarded as in effect a citizen of the State which created it.
It has no faculty to emigrate. It can exercise its franchises
extra-territorially only so far as may be permitted by the
policy or comity of other sovereignties. By the consent,
express or implied, of the local government, it may transact
there any business not ultra vires, and, "like a natural person, may have a special or constructive residence, so as to
be charged with taxes and duties or be subjected to a special
jurisdiction."* It is for the local sovereign to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which its presence by its agents
and the conducting of its affairs shallbe permitted.t
It has been said that the power of taxation for the purposes
of the commonwealth is a part of all governmental sovereignty and is inseparable from it. It is for the legislature to
decide what persons and property shall be reached by the exercise of this function and in what proportions and by what
processes and instrumentalities taxes shall be assessed and
collected. The authority extends over all persons and property within the sphere of its territorial jurisdiction. When
called into activity there can be no limit to the degree of its
exercise except what is found in the wisdom of the lawmaking power and the operation of those conservative principles which lie at the foundation of all free government.1
* Glaize v. South Carolina Railroad Co., 1 Strobbart, 72; Cromwell's
Executors v. Charleston Insurance and Trust Co., "2Richardson, 512.
t Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 588; Lafayette Insurance Co. v.
French, 18 Howard, 405.
McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 428; Providence Bank v.
Billings, 4 Peters, 563.

ST. Louis

v. TiE FERRY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Where there is jurisdiction neither as to person-nor property, the imposition of a tax would be ultra vires and void.
If the legislature of a State should enact that the citizens or
property of another State or country should be taxed in the
same manner as the persons and property within its own
limits and subject to its authority, or in any other manner
whatsoever, such a law would be as much a nullity as if in'
conflict with the most explicit constitutional inhibition.
Jurisdiction is as necessary to valid legislative as to valid
judicial action.
In the eye of the law personal property, for most purposes,
has no locality. Mobilia sequuntur personam; immobilia situm.
Mobilia non habent sequelam. In a qualified sense it accompanies the owner wherever he goes, and he may deal with
it and dispose of it according to the law of his domicile. If
he die intestate, that law, wheresoever the property may be
situate, governs its disposal, and fixes the rights and shares
of the several distributees.* But this doctrine is not allowed
to stand in the way of the taxing power in the locality where
the property has its actual situs, and the requisite legislative
jurisdiction exists. Such property is undoubtedly liable to
taxation there in all respects as if the proprietor were a resident of the same locality.t The personal property of a
resident at the ploce of his residence is liable to taxation,
although he has no intention to become domiciled there.t
Whether the personal property of a resident of one State
situate in another can be taxed in the former, is a question
which in this case we are not called upon to decide.ยง
Upon looking into the enactments under which the taxes
in question were assessed, it is obvious that their purpose
379; Broom's Maxims, 501, 502; In re
* Story's Conflict of Laws,
Ewin, I Crompton & Jervis, 156.
t International Life Assurance Company v. Commissioners of Taxes, 28
Barbour, 318; Hoyt v. The Commissioners, 23 Id. 228; Story's Conflict of
Laws, 550.
+ Finley v. Philadelphia, 32 Pennsylvania State, 381.
J Wilson v. The Mayor of New York, 4 E. D. Smith, 678; Hoyt v. The
Commissioners, 23 New York (Court of Appeals), 228.

Dec. 1870.]

ST.

Louis v. THE FERRY O0MIPANY.

431

Opinion of the court.

was not to tax the property through the proprietor, but to
tax the things themselves by reason of their being "within
the city." The point for us to decide, therefore, is, whether
they are covered by the legal provisions under which the
taxes were imposed. If the taxing officer acted without
authority the taxes were invalid, and the city is not entitled
to recover in this action.
The boats were enrolled at the city of St. Louis, but that
throws no light upon the subject of our inquiry. The act
of 1789, section 2,* and the act of 1792, section 3,t require every vessel to be registered in the district to which
she belongs, and the fourth section of the former act, and
the third section of the latter, declares that her home port
shall be that at or near which her owner resides.

The solu-

tion of the question, where her home port is, when it arises,
depends wholly upon the locality of her owner's residence,
and not upon the place of her enrolment.$
The company has an office in Illinois. Its minor officers,
such as engineers and pilots, lived in Illinois, where its real
estate, including a warehouse, was situated. The company
had also an office in St.. Louis. Its president and vice-president and other principal officers lived in the city, and there
the ordinary business meetings of the directors were- held,
and the corporate seal was kept. The court found that the
boats, "when not in actual use, were laid up by the Illinois
shore, and were forbidden, by a general ordinance of the
city of St. Louis regulating ferries and ferry-boats, to remain
at the St. Louis wharf or landing longer than ten minutes at
a time." A tax was paid upon the boats in Illinois. Their
relation to-the city was merely that of contact there, as one
of the termini of their transit across the river in the prosecution of their business. The time of such contact was
limited by the city ordinance. Ten minutes was the maximum of the stay they were permitted to make at any one
time. The owner was, in the eye of the law, a citizen of
1 Stat. at Large, 55.
t Ib. 287.
3 Kent, 133, 170; Hill v. The Golden Gate, Newberry, 308; S. B. Superior, lb. 181; Jordan -v. Young, 37 Maine, 276.
*

UNITED, STATES V. HOWELL.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

that State, and from the inherent law of its nature could
not emigrate or become a citizen elsewhere. As the boats
were laid up on the Illinois shore when not in use, and the
pilots and engineers who ran them lived there, that locality,
under the circumstances, must'be taken to be their home
port. They did not so abide within the city as to become
incorporated with and form a part of its personal property.*'
Hence they were beyond the jurisdiction of the authorities
by which the taxes were assessed, and the validity of the
taxes cannot be maintained.t In our opinion, thb facts
found are sufficient to suppoet the judgment.
It has been insisted ably and learnedly by the counsel for
the defendant in error, that the taxes in question are taxes
upon the tonnage of vessels engaged in interstate commerce,
and are prohibited by the Constitution of the United States.
No argument as to this aspect of the case has been submitted
by the counsel upon the other side. We have not found it
necessary to consider the subject, and we express no opinion
upon it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.
1. The sixth section of the act of February 25th, 1862, to punish the counterfeiting of treasury notes is not void for repugnancy in its reference
to uttering or passing such counterfeited notes.
2. Nor is an indictment pursuing the language of the statute bad because it
describes the note passed by the prisoner as a false, forged, and counterfeit note of the United States, issued under the authority of that statute
or of other statutes authorizing the issue of such notes.
3. The words "false, forged, and counterfeit," necessarily imply that the
instrument s6 characterized is not genuine, but only purports to be, or
is in the similitude of such an instrument, and this implication is according to good usage and is supported by adjudged cases.

ON a certificate of division between the judges of the
Circuit Court for the District of California.
* Hays v.Pacific Steamship Company, 17 Howard, 599; City of New
Albany v.Neekin, 3 Indiana, 481.
t Railroad Company v.Jaclison, 7 'Wallace, 262.

