INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

statute was raised, either by the record or the argument.
Being satisfied, in that case, that the tax was illegal, and
that the mandamus ought to have been granted, we felt
bound to reverse the judgment of the State court; and
nothing in the present opinion is intended to call that decision in question.

The writ of error in this case must be
DISMISSED.

INSURANCE COMPANY v. FRANCIS.
An averment in a declaration that the defendant is a corporation created
by an act of the legislature of the State of New York, located in Aberdeen, Mississippi, and doing business there under the laws of the State,
is not an averment that the defendant is a citizen of Mississippi.

THIS cause came up by writ of error to the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It came into the said District Court in this wise:
One Francis had brought suit in the Circuit Court of
Monroe County, Mississippi, November Term, 1866, against
"The Germania Fire Insurance Company of the City of
:New York," upon a policy of insurance. The company appeared to the suit, and demurred to the declaration. The
plaintif, at August Term, 1867, petitioned for the removal
of the cause "to the Circuit Court of the United States, held
in or at Oxford, in the Northern District" of Mississippi,
averring that the petitioner, the plaintiff, is a citizen of Illinois, and "that said defendant is a corporationwith agents and
officers in said State of Mississippi here residing and transactingthe
business of insurancefor ?bhich said company was incorporated."
And thereupon the judge of the Circuit Court of Monroe
County ordered "that the case be removed from that court
to the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Mississippi, as prayed for."
This removal was made in pursuance of a statute of March

Dec. 1870.]

INSUR'ANCE COMPANY v. FRANCIS.
Statement of the case.

2, 1867,* which authorizes a transfer from a State court to
a Federal court of suits in any State court "in which there
is a controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit
is brought and a citizen of another State," if the plaintiff "will
make and file in such State court an affidavit, stating that
he has reason to and does believe that from prejudice or
local influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in such
State court."
The defendant, then in the District Court, moved to strike
the case from the docket for want of jurisdiction.
The motion was overruled, with leave to the plaintiff to
file a new declaration in the District Court.
At June Term, 1868, of said District Court, the plaintiff
filed a declaration against the defendant as "The Germania
-FireInsurance Company, a corporation located in the City of
Aberdeen and State of Mississippi,by its agent, .: D. Spratt,
summoned, &c."
The defendant thlen pleaded to the jurisdiction of the District Court, because at the time the suit was lrought, and
at the time it was removed, the plaintiff was a citizen of
the State of Illinois, and the defendant was a corporation
created by the laws of New York, having its domicile and
principal place of business in New York.
The plaintiff demurred, whereupon it was "ordered by
the court that the demurrer of said plaintiff be extended to
the declaration, aiid as to said declaration and the averments
as to the said citizenship of said defendant that said demurrer be sustained and the plaintiff have leave to amend the
declaration."
Whereupon the plaintiff amended and declared against
the defendant as "The Germania Fire Insurance Company,
a corporation created by an act of the legislature of the State
or New York, located in the city of Aberdeen and State of
Mississippi, by its agent H. D. Spratt, and doing business in
said city of Aberdeen and State of Mississippi, in the district
aforesaid, under and by virtue of th6 laws of the' State of
Mississippi, summoned, &c."
* 14 Stat. at Large, 558.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. FRANCIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

To this the defendant filed four pleas to the jurisdiction,
among them one because the plaintiff was a citizen of Illinois, and the defendant a citizen of New York.
The plaintiff demurred. The demurrer to the plea just
mentioned was sustained, and the defendant excepted. The
demurrer was not sustained as to one of the other pleas, and
the defendant filed pleas to the merits, and the case was tried,
and the plaintiff got verdict and judgment. The statutes
of Mississippi, it appeared, authorized the location of foreign
insurance companies in the State, upon certain conditions
specified in it, one of which was that they would engage in
writing to be suable there.*
Messrs. Carlisleand McPherson,for the plaintiffin error:
The question is here raised, whether the Federal court
acquired jurisdiction by the transfer ordered and made, as
hereinbefore stated.
The act of Congress under which the cause was removed
from the State to the Federal court authorizes the transfer
only when one party is a citizen of the State in which the
suit is brought, and the other party is a citizen of a different
State.
In the case at bar neither in the declaration nor elsewhere
was it made to appear that either party was a citizen of
Mississippi. On the contrary, the declaration filed in the
District Court averred in express terms that the plaintiff
was a citizen of Illinois, and also averred in legal effect that
the defendant was a citizen of New York, by averring it was
a corporation created by an act of the legislature of New
York.t
The averment that the defendant was doing business in
Mississippi, under the laws of that State, can have no effect
upon the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, which under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States depends solely
on citizenship.
* See Revised Statutes of Mississippi, Chapter on Insurance.
t Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286; Louisville
Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 Howard, 497.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

COMPAxY V.FRANCIS.

213

Argument in support of the jurisdiction below.

1r. T. A. .Hendricks,with a brief of Messrs. B. I.Bishop and
D. T. Voorhees, contra:
The jurisdictional facts in this case are contained in the
averments in the petition and declaration. These averments
are substantially the same, and present the question whether
a corporation with agents and officers residing, located, and
doing business in a State under and by virtue of its laws,
and suable there, is a citizen of that State, under the act of
March 2d, 1867 ?
Neither of the cases cited on the other side establish a test
or criterion for the locality of the citizenship of a corporation,
nor do they describe a similar state of facts to those existing
in this case. In this case the insurance company was "created by the State of New York, and has its principal place
of business there." But, in point of fact, it was so created
not to exist in New York alone-not, in the words used in
Letson's case, "to perform its functions under the authority
of that State," but expressly "to perform its functions" in
other States, and under their authority, wherever it could
get permission. This latter purpose is quite consistent with
the former in the case of an insurance company, and at this
day the purpose of most insurance companies is to do business in other States. Three of the very latest insurance
cases before this court show this,* and the court will judicially notice the fact.
In pursuance of its. charter, this company had gone into
Mississippi as follows:
(a) In the words of the petition, and not denied by the
plea, it was "a corporation with agents and officers in said
State of Mississippi, here residing and transacting the business of insurance, for which said company was incorporated."
This, as disclosed by the record, and as inferable from the
nature of an insuranbe company, was no temporary or incomplete residence. It had there just the same residence
for the same length of time and the same character of resiPaul v. Virginia, 8 Wallace, 168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Id. 410; Liverpool Insurance Co. v. Massachusetts, Ib. 666.

INSURANCE CoMPANY v. FRANCIS.

[Sup. 6t.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction below.

dence, "by its officers and agents," that it had in New
York. Lord Coke says:
"Every corporation and body politic residing in any country
siding, city, or town, corporate or having lands or tenements in
any shire, qua propriis manibus et sumptibus possident ct hiabent,
are said to be inhabitants within the purview of the statute."
This corporation had, therefore, the quality of RESIDENCE
in Mississippi.
(b) It had removed and assumed an existence there "under and by virtue of the laws of Mississippi." That a corporation -can have no legal existence beyond the limits of
the State incorporating it has been repeatedly decided, and
is true if there is no further action on the part of other
States. But when a corporation created by one State for
the express purpose of transacting its business in such other
States as will admit it, by the express statutory periussion
and authority of another State, sends its officers and agents
into such State, or appoints citizens and regidents of that
State its officers and agents, accepts the laws and conditions
annexed by that State to its admission-one of which is that
it shall be suable there, and to which it in writing expressly
consents, which is what the statutes of Mississippi exact, and
which we may assume is what was done by this companythen it would seem both in fact and in law to exist in that
State and to be a citizen there for the purpose of suing and
being sued, which is the only quality or attribute of citizenship a corporation has ever been held to possess. It has,
therefore, the capacity of being sued in that State.
(c) It bad, of course, assented to the conditions in the
statutes of Mississippi, and in return" it was authorized and
empowered by Mississippi to do business there. Its power
"to perform its functions" in the State of Mississippi-to
exist there-are, therefore, derived from that State, and it
has to that extent at least its INCORPORATION (by which is
meant its grant of power) from the State of Mississippi and
has that quality of citizenship there.
The act of March 2d, 1867, under which the suit was

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCIS.

215

Opinion of the court.

removed is a remedial statute and should be liberally construed. It was not intended as a jurisdictional statute; it
merely provides for a change of venue on account of "prejudice or local influence." Viewed in this light, the word
citizen may be construed as used in the same sense as
"residcnt," " inhabitant," or "person," all of which words
have repeatedly been held to include corporations, This
view does not violate the constitutional provisibn which
gives jurisdiction "between citizens of different States;"
for, under the argument of the plaintiff in error itself, the
plaintiff and defendant are citizens of different States.
But in respect to all the pleas to the jurisdiction no question remains, the defendant having filed the general issue
and .otber pleas to the merits, and having gone to trial upon
them. In De Sobry v. l'cholson,* this court held that, "the
objection to jurisdiction upon the ground of citizenship, in
actio~Ns at law can only be made by a plea in abatement.
After the general issue it is too late. It cannot be raised at
the trial upon the merits," and that the general issue waives
the plea in abatembnt.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinlon of the court.
The act of Congress of March 2, 1867, which allows a
plaintiff, under certain circumstances, to remove his cause
from the State to the Federal court, authorizes the transfer
only when one party is a citizen of the.State in which the
suit is brought and the other party is a citizen of a different
State. In this case, while it appears on the face of the deelaratiou that the plaintiff is a citizen of Illinois, it does not
appear that the defendant is a citizen of Mississippi. This
being so, it is not necessary to notice the subsequent pleadings, because if the court can see, on the case made by the
plaintiff in his declaration, that the District Court acquired
no jurisdiction over it, it is bound to reverse the judgment

and direct the District Court to remand the cause to the
State court in which it was instituted.t
* 3 Wallace, 420.

t Pollard & Pickett v. Dwight et al., 4 Cranch, 429.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. FRANCIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

If the declaration had averred the citizenship of the parties to be as the law requires it, the jurisdiction of the District Court would have attached, and we would be required
to look further into the record in order to ascertain whether
the defendant had raised the question of jurisdiction in season to avail itself of the objection in this court.*
The declaration avers that the plaintiff in error (the defendant in the court below) is a corporation created by an
act of the legislature of the State of New York, located in
Aberdeen, Mississippi, and doing business there under the
laws of the State. This, in legal effect, is an averment that
the defendant was a citizen of New York, because a corporation can have no legal existence outside of the sovereignty
by which it was created.t Its place of residence is there,
and can be nowhere else. Unlike a natural person, it cannot change its domicile at will, and, although it may be
permitted to transact business where its charter does not
operate, it cannot on that account acquire a residence there.
As, therefore, the declaration is, on its face, bad in not
showing that one of the parties to the si'it was a citizen of
Mississippi, it follows that the transfer of the cause was not
authorized by law, and that the District Court had no jurisdiction to try it.
JUDGMENT OF THE DISTRICT COURT REVERSED, and the cause
remanded to that-court with instructions to transmit it to
the Circuit Court of Monroe County for further proceedings
IN

CONFORMITY TO
LAW AND JUSTICE.

* De Sobry v. Nicholson, 3 Wallace, 423.
t Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black3 286; Louisville
Railroad Vo. v. Letson, 2 Howard, 497.

