THE PROTECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE PROTECTOR.
An arpeai dismissed because taken in the name of William A. Freeborn 4Co.; the court holding that no difference existed between writs of error
and appeals as to the manner in which the names of the parties should
be set forth.
ON motion to dismiss an appeal; the case being this:
By the 22d section of the Judiciary Act it is enacted that
decrees in civil actions may be brought here by writof error.
By the 32d section of the act it is enacted:

"That no summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment, or other proceeding in civil causes in any of the courts of
the United States, shall be abated, arrested, quashed,or reversed,
for any defect or want of form, but the said courts respectively
shall proceed and give judgment according as the right of the
cause and matter in law shall appear unto them, without regarding any imperfections, defects, or want of form in such writ,
declaration, or other pl~adings, return, process, judgment, or
course of proceeding whatsoever, except those only in cases of
demurrer which the party demurring shall specially set down.
.
. .And
the said courts respectively shall and may
from time to time amend all and every such imperfection, defect,
and want of form, except, &c., and may at any time permit either
of the parties to amend any defect in the process or pleadings, upon
such conditions as the said courts respectively shall in their discretion and by their rules prescribe."
An act of March 3, 1803, enacts that decrees in admiralty
must, if brought here, be brought by appeal, and enacts:
"Such appeals shall be subject to the same rules, regulations,
and restrictions,as are presented in law in cases of writs of error,
and that the said Supreme Court shall be and hereby is authorized and required to receive, hear, and determine such appeals."
In this state of statutory law William A. Freeborn, James
F. Freeborn, and Henry P. Gardner, of the city of New

Dec. 1870.]

THE .PROTECTOR.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

York, merchants, filed a libel in the District Court for the
Southern District of Alabama against the ship Protector.
That court dismissed the libel "at the costs of the libellants,
and ordered execution therefor to issue against the libellants." This decree was confirmed by the Circuit Court.
An appeal was then taken to this court. The petition for
appeal was entitled William A. Freeborn &-Co., and prayed
for an appeal in the name of William A. Freeborn & Co.
The allowance of the appeal was in the same name and
style. The bond recited the appeal in the name of William A. Freeborn & Company. The citation also directed
the party to appear in the cause wherein William A. Freeborn & Company were appellants.

Who constituted the Co. or Company, nowhere appeared
in the proceedings on appeal.
Mr. Phillips, for the appellees, now moved to dismiss the
case for want of jurisdiction.
In support of his motion: There is no doubt that if this
were a writ of error, the writ would have to be dismissed as
vicious.* Is the rule different when applied to appeals?
When a decree is joint against several all must appeal, without there is a summons and severance, and, as a consequence
of this, whether the cause is to be removed by writ of error
or appeal, all the parties must be named in the process by
which the removal is eflected.t By searching the record in
the case we could doubtless gather the fact, that the three
named libellants did compose the firm of William A. Freeborn & Co., and a like result might have been obtained in
all the cases in which the court has dimissed writs of error.
Mr. Blount, contra, opposed the motion, and moved on his
side:
1st. To amend the proceedings on appeal by the libel in
the cause; and 2d, to amend the libel so as that a"decree
* Deneale v. Stump, 8 Peters, 526; Smith v. Clark, 12 Howard, 21.

t Owings v.Kincannon, 7 Peters, 403.

[Sup. Ct

THE PROTECTOR.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

might be rendered for interest and damages above the demand.
1st. It has been frequently decided that on an appeal to
the Supreme Court in an admiralty cause, the cause is before
that court as if in the inferior court. The libel here setting
forth the names of all the parties who compose the firm of
William A. Freeborn & Co., the whole record and proceedings being before this court, and the trial being de novo, the
case is one for amendment under the thirty-second sectiona section most remedial in its intent and broad in its language. It is the settled practice in admiralty proceedings
where merits appear upon the record, but the libel is defective
to allow the party to assert his rights in a new allegation.*
2d. In Weaver v. Thompson,t an appellee in admiralty was
allowed to amend his libel in the appellate court so as to
make a claim there for damages above costs, caused by a
vexatious appeal.
The court having taken the matter into advisement,
GRANTED THE MOTION TO DISMISS;

an opinion, as given further

on, being read from the bench, and holding that there was
no difference in respect of the manner in which the names
of the parties should be set forth between writs of error and
appeals.
Mr. Carlisle hereupon submitted a motionfor reargument,with
a brief, thus.
1. In granting the motion to dismiss, it has been assumed
that the same rule is applicable as in cases of writs of error.
But it is respectfully submitted that this is not so.
The act of 1803 provides, " That such appeals shall be subject
to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed
in law in case of writs of error, and that the said Supreme
Court shall be, and hereby is, authorized and required to
receive, hear, and determine such appeals."
low it would render the act nugatory if there were to be
no difference, after its passage, between writs of error and
* The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 244.

t I Wallace, Jr., 8,43.

Dec. 1870.]

THE PROTECTOR.
Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

appeals. The very object of the act was to recognize and
establish these as two distinct modes by which the appellate
jurisdiction.might be acquired; and the inherent distinctions between the one proceeding and the other were to
be observed, notwithstanding the general language above
quoted, which general language was intended to apply only
as to the substantial conditions on which the right to appeal
should attach. The appeal must be always prayed and
allowed in the court below or by a justice of the Supreme
Court; and in either case these proceedings form part of the
record in the court below, and are not, as in cases of writs of
error, process out of this court. Copies only come here with
the transcript, and this court is required to receive them
only as parts of that transcript, and as "proceedings in that
cause."
It would seem, therefore, that the reason of the rule, in
cases of writs of error (viz., that it is an original writ and a
new suit) does noit apply. The whole record-appeal, allowance, and all-comes together as the same old suit; and it
would be strange indeed if the appellate court, which is required to receive, hear, and determine the suit, should have
any difficulty in ascertaining who are appellants and who
appellees.
In the case of a writ of error there is nothing to amend
by. In the case of an appeal there is everything. Here is
simply an abbreviated description, not repugnant to the
record, but plainly pointing to it, and is made certain by
being filed iii the cause below, and being sent up as part of
the proceedings in that cause.
2. The order dismissing this appeal proceeds on the
ground that the defect is a jurisdictional one. But it is submitted that a distinction is to be observed between jurisdiction of the subject-matter shown by the record [the case] -and
jurisdiction of the parties. No consent, stipulation, or waiver
can confer jurisdiction of the first kind; nor can it confer
jurisdiction of the parties, unless it appears that the court
may take jurisdiction between such parties. But it is submitted that all mere inforrmalities and irregularities may be

THE PROTECTOR.

[Sup. OL

Opinion of the court.

cured by the voluntary appearance of parties of whom the
court may take jurisdiction in a proper case. If it were
otherwise, then it is hazarding nothing to say that an examination of the records of this court would show hundreds
of decrees and judgments, in most important causes, to have
been and to be mere nullities for want of jurisdiction. To
avoid the waiver of such an objection to the jurisdiction,
it is the common practice and understanding of the bar
that the appearance must be expressed and limited to be
"special;" and, to avoid questions of fact in this respect, not
many terms ago, the clerk, by direction of the court, caused
the precipe to be used in such cases to be printed, using the
word "special."
The opinion originally read, and which had been retained
until the motion to reargue was disposed of, was now delivered to be reported.
Mr. Justice NELSON had thus delivered it:
The motion made by the appellees to' dismiss the case
from the docket for want of jurisdiction, is grounded upon
a defect of the title of the parties in the appeal as allowed.
The title is, " William A. Freeborn J. Co. v. The Ship Protector
and owners." This defect in a writ of error has been held
fatal to the jurisdiction of the court since the case of Deneale
et al. v. Slurnp's .Executors,* down to the present time.t Nor
can the writ be amended, according to repeated decisions of
this court.t The only question before us is, whether the same
rule applies to appeals in admiralty. Originally, decrees in
equity and admiralty were -brought here for re-examination
by a writ of error, under the twenty-second section of the
Judiciary Act. This was changed by the act of March 3,
1803, by which appeals were substituted in place of the writs
of error in cases of equity, admiralty, and prize; but the act
* 8 Peters, 526.
t The Heirs of Wilson v. The Life and Fire Insurance Company of New
York, 12 Id. 140; Smyth v. Pevine & Co., 12 Howard, 827; Davenport v.
Fletcher, 16 Id. 142.
$ Porter v. Foley, 21 Howard, 393; Hodge et al. v. Williams, 22 Id. 87.

Dec. 1870.]

THE PROTECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

provides "that the appeals shall be subject to the same rules,
regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law in cases
(fwrits of error."
In Owings et al. v. Andrew .Kincannon,* the appeal was dismissed because all the parties to the decree below had not
joined in it. Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion
of the court, referred to the case of Williams v. The Bank of
the Udigtlates,twhich Was a writ of error, where it was held
that all the defendants must join, and applied the same rule to
the case of an appeal. He cited the act of 1803, and observed
that "the language of the act which gives the appeal appears
to us to require that it should be prosecuted by the same
parties who would have been necessary in a writ of error."
But the case of -Francis0. J. Smith, appellant, v. Joseph W.
Clark et aL,, is more direct to the point before us. It was
a motion to docket and dismiss in the case of an appeal,
under the 43d rule of the court. The certificate of the clerk,
upon which it was founded, described the parties as in the
title above. Chief Justice Taney, in giving the opinion of
the court, stated that the certificate conformed to the rule in
all respects but one, and that was in the statement of the
parties. The respondents were stated to be Joseph W. Clarke
and others, from which it appeared that there were other respondents, parties to the suit, who were not named in the
certificate. He then referred to the case of a writ of error,ยง
where it was held that all the parties must be named in the
writ, and the name of one or more of them, and others, were
not a sufficient description; and, also, to the case of Holliday
et al. v. Baston et al.,J where the same principle vas applied
to a writ of error docketed under the 43d rule, and observed
the same reason for requiring all the parties whose intertsts
were to be affected by the judgment, to be named in the
writ of error, applied with equal force to the case of an
appeal from a decree. And the motion to.'docket and dismiss for the above defect was overruled. The opinion of
the court in the present case is, that no distinction in respect
f- 11 Wheaton, 414.
Deneale v. Stump, 8 Peters, 526.

* 7 Peters, 403.

1 12 Howard, 21.
jJ4 Howard, 645.

UNITED STATES V. TYNEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

to the question before us can.be made between the case of
an appeal under the act of 1803, and of a writ of error; and
that the decisions referred to directing the dismissal of the
latter from the docket for want of jurisdiction, apply with
equal force to the former. This result disposes of the motions on the part of the appellant to amend the petition of
appeal, citation, and bond, and also the motion to amend
The libel.
MOTION TO DISMISS GRANTED.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE (with whom concurred Mr. Justice
BRADLEY) dissenting:
I dissent from the conclusions announced by the court in
this case. The defect objected to is, in my judgment, amendable under the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and
I think an amendment should be permitted to be made.

UNITED STATES V. TYNEN.
1. When there are two acts of Congress on the same subject, and the latter
act embraces all the provisions of the first, and also new provisions, and
imposes different or additional penalties, the latter act operates, without
any repealing clause, as a repeal of the.first.
Accordingly, the thirteenth section of the act of Congress of 1813 "for
the regulation of seamen on board the public and private vessels of the
United States," which defined certain offences against the naturalization laws, and prescribed their punishment, was held to be repealed by
the act of Congress of 1870, "to amend the naturalization laws, and to
punish crimes against the same, and for other purposes,". which declared not only that the commission of the several acts mentioned in
the thirteenth section of the law of 1813 should constitute a felony, but
that also a great number of other acts of a fraudulent character, in connection with the naturalization of aliens, should constitute a similar
offence, and made the infliction of a larger punishment for each offence
discretionary with the court.
2. By the repeal of an act, without any reservation of its penalties, all
criminal proceedings taken under it fall. There can be no legal conviction, nor any valid judgment pronounced upon conviction, unless
the law creating the offence be at the time in existence.

