MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

usual connection with another which is known, and on this
principle the jury should have been allowed to consider this
evidence.
As this case will have to go back for a new trial, and as
the poiiit was raised in the court below, it may be proper to
observe that no witness can be asked what the course of
trade is in reference to this particular business. This would
be either opinion or hearsay. He can only be allowed to
tell his personal experience on the subject about which he
is called to testify. It is only through the aggregated testimony of all the witnesses that the fact can be proved, which
so connects itself with the plaintiffs' business as to require
from him an answer.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO.

MEADER ET AL. v. NORTON.
1. Nothing more is contemplated by proceedings under the act of Congress
of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in California, than the separation of lands owned by individuals from the
public domain. A decree confirming a claim to land rendered in such
proceedings, even when followed by a patent of the United States, is
not conclusive upon the equitable rights of third persons. They can
assert such rights in a suit in equity against the patentee and parties
claiming under him with notice.
2. In a suit at law a patent is conclusive evidence of title against the
United States and all others claiming under the United States by a
junior title. Until the patent issues the fee is in the government, but
when it issues the legal title passes to the patentee. Persons therefore
claiming the land against the patent cannot have relief in a suit at law,
but courts of equity have full jurisdiction to relieve against fraud or
mistake, and that power extends to cases where one man has procured
the patent which belonged to another at the time the patent was issued.
3. In 1839 three sisters obtained from the governor of the Department of
California a grant of land, which was approved by the Departmental
Assembly, and official delivery of possession was given to them. Some
years afterwards the husband of one of the sisters, named Bolcoff, sup.
pressed or destroyed this grant and fabricated a pretended grant to
himself of the land, and also certain other papers intended to prove the

Dec. 1870.]

MEADER V. NORTON.
Statement of the case.

genuineness of such fabricated grant. Upon these papers the sons of
Bolcof. he having died, obtained a confirmation of their claim, under
said pretended grant, to the land, the land commissioners acting upon
the supposition that the fabricated papers were. genuine, no question
as to their genuineness being raised before them ; and upon such decree
a patent of the United States issued t6 the claimants. The fabricated
character of these papers being discovered, the grantee of the rights of
the three sisters brought a suit in equity to have the defendants holding
under the patentees declared trustees of the legal title, and to compel
a transfer of that title to him: Held, that the suit would lie, and that
upon proof of the fabricated character of the papers the complainant
was entitled to a decree against all the defendants who had purchased
with notice of the claim of the sisters, and had not obtained conveyances
or releases from them.
4. Laches and the statute of limitations cannot prevail as defences where
the relief sought is grounded on a charge of secret fraud and it appears
that the suit was commenced within a reasonable time after the evidence of the fraud was discovered.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Cali-.

fornia.
This was a bill in equity, filed in the court below by C.
E. Norton, to have the defendants, Meader and several
others, declared trustees of certain real property situated in
the State of California, and to obtain a decree that they convey to him the legal title held by them to the premises.
The case as presented by the record was thus:
Three sisters, named respectively Maria Candida, Maria
Jacinta, and Maria Los Angeles Castro, on the 13th of
February, 1839, applied by petition to J. B. Alvarado, then
Mexican governor of the department of California, for a
grant of the land known as the Rancho El Refugio, situated
in that part of California now known as the county of Santa
Cruz.
This petition was immediately referred by the governor
to the administrator of the adjoining mission with directions to make a report upon the same. On the 10th of
March following that officer reported that the land solicited
could be granted, and on the 16th of the same nioth the
governor made a provisional concession of it to the petitioners; a concession which was subject tb further action

444

MEADER V. KoRTON.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

in the premises. To guide him in such further action, the
governor directed the prefect of the district to report to him
upon the subject. The prefect reported that a grant in fee
of the land solicited could be made to the parties, as it was
vacant and was not claimed by any one. Accordingly, on
the 8th of April following (1839), the governor made a
formal cession of the land to the three sisters by name, referring to the previous proceedings, and declaring them
owners in fee and directing that the proper grant or title
papers (titulo) issue to them, and that the proceedings in
the case be retained for the information and approval of
the Departmental Assembly. These proceedings were numbered 131. In the order of concession of the governor, the
name of one of the sisters, Maria de los Angeles, was erased,
and over the erasure was written the name of Jos6 Bolcoff.
This concession or grant of the governor was approved by
the Departmental Assembly on the 22d of May, 1840. The
approval in the records of the Assembly has in it the number, 131, and gives the date of the concession, and mentions
the three sisters by name as the parties to whom the concession was made. Oil the 13th of June fbllowing the governor ordered a certificate of the approval to be given to the
three sisters.
At this time one Jos6 Castro was prefect of the first district, within which district the land granted was situated,
and he kept a record or minute of the grants of land made
in his district. His book of registry is now in the archives
in the custody of the Surveyor-General of the United States
for California. In this registry is entered a minute that on
the 8th day of April, 1839, the governor granted to the
three sisters the place called El Refugio. In this registry
there is also a similar minute of eight other grants, all of
which are found in the archives, and each has a memorandum indorsed upon it that it has been entered in the registry.
The memoranda on these eight grants and the entries in the
registry correspond.
There is also in the archives an index of grants made between 1838 and 1845, by a clerk in the office of the secre-

Dec. 1870.]

MEADER V. INORTON.
Statement of the case.

tary of state of the department, and under his direction,
which is commonly known as "Jimeno's Index." This Index gives the number of the espedientes, the names of the
grantees, and the designation of the land granted. Upon
the index against No. 131 is the entry of a grant of land
designated as El Refugio, and the name of Josd Bolcoff is
written over an erasure. It was admitted that originally
the names of the three sisters were written there.
This was the documentary evidence which the complainant produced to show that a grant of the rancho El Refugio
was issued to the three sisters, under whom he claimed by
sundry mesne conveyances. Parol evidence produced by
him related chiefly to the possession of the premises since
the concession of the governor, and various alleged admissions and acts of the sisters. It was also in evidence that in
1839 or 1840 the possession of the land was officially delivered to the three sisters, and that in this proceeding, called
a delivery of juridical possession, Jos6 Bolcoff appeared on
behalf of the sisters, and represented them.
The defendants asserted title to the premises through Jos6
Bolcoff; and of some portions of the premises they also alleged a conveyance or release from the sisters.
As documentary evidence of title they producedFirst. A paper purporting to be a grant of El Refugio to
Jos6 Bolcoff, by Governor Alvarado, .bearing date on the 7th of
April, 1841.

. It was shown that there was no trace of any such document as this in the archives of the department, except what
appeared over the erasure in the index of Jimeno.
Second. A certificate of Governor Alvarado, dated July 28th,
1841, stating that the grant made on the 8th of April, 1839, in
favor of Yos6 Bolcoff; was approved on the 22d of May, 1841, by
the Departmental Assembly, and purporting to quote the language of the proceedings of that body. The certificate concluded by stating that it was issued to the party interested for
his security, in consequence of the decree of the 13th of June
preceding, existing in the espediente.

MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

It is to be noticed by the reader that the certificate states
that the grant made on the 8th of April, 1839, in favor of
Josd Bolcoff was approved on the 22d of May, 1841, while
the alleged grant to Bolcoff produced bears date the 7th of
April, 1841. The certificate purported further to quote the
language used by the Departmental Assembly in this approval. It was shown that there was no session of the Assembly in 1841; at least, that there was no evidence in the
archives of the department that there was a session in that
year, and if the year was erroneously given, and the approVal of May 22d, 1840, was intended, that related only to
the grant to the three sisters, who were therein designated
by name, and no such language as that given was found on
the journals of the Assembly.
Third. A document purporting to be a record of juridical
possession, given to Bolcoff, July, 1842.
This document bears the signature of the prefect of the
district and two attesting witnesses. It appeared in evidence
that one of the witnesses was unable to write, and that the
body of the entire document was in the handwriting of Bolcoff. The other witness testified that he added his signature in 1851, when the document was presented to him by
Bolcofi with a request that he should sign it, inasmuch as
he had not done so when the possession was given; that at
this time the document had not the signature of the prefect
or of the other witness, and Bolcoff stated that he was going
to-them for their signatures. Both of these witnesses testified emphatically that there never was but one juridical possession of the premises, and that this was delivered to the
sisters. Bolcoff made oath before the land commission, that
the document was signed by all the parties in the year 1842.
Fourth. A diserio or sketch of the tract El Refugio; and
Fifth. A patent of the United States, bearing date on the
4th of February, 1860, issued to Francisco and Juan Bolcoff upon
the confirmation of the alleged grant to Jos6 Bolcoff.
In 1822 one of the sisters, Maria Candida, intermarried
with Jos6 B)lcoff, and in 1839 Maria de los Angeles inter-

Dec. 1870.]

DEADER

V. NORTON.

Statement of the case.

married with one Majors. The three sisters lived together
as members of the family of Bolcoff upon the land granted,
Los Angeles until her marriage, and Jacinta until 1850,
when she became a nun, and had not since resided upon the
premises. Since some time in 1850, Majors and his wife
had occupied a portion of the tract, claiming possession
under the concession to the sisters.
In 1852, Francisco Bolcoff and Juan Bolcoff, sons of Jos&
Bolcoff, presented a petition to the board of land commissioners, created under the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851,
to ascertain and settle private land claims in California, for
a confirmation of the claim to El Refugio, asserted by them
under the alleged grant to their father. In support of their
claim they relied upon the alleged grant of Alvarado, of
April 7th, 1841, his certificate of approval by the Departmental Assembly, the record of juridical possession, and the
sketch, which are mentioned above, with parol evidence of
possession and cultivation. .No question was raised before the
board as to the genuineness of these documents, and in January,
1855, the claim was cofirned. An appeal from the decision
was dismissed, and on the 4th of February, 1860, a patent
of the United States was issued thereon.
. In 1852 Majors presented for himself and on behalf of his
wife a petition to the board for a confirmation of her claim
to one-third of the tract, under the cession to her and her
sisters. In support of the claim they produced the petition
to the governor, the reports thereon, the provisional grant
of March 16th, 1839, the formal concession of April 8th,
1839, and the order of the governor of June 18th, 1840, that
a certificate of the approval of the Assembly be issued to
them.
The board rejected this claim, holding, in substance, that
there was no evidence that any grant was issued to the sisters; that the decree of concession found in the archives was
not proof of the delivery of a title to the parties interested;
that until a document as evidence of the concession was
issued and delivered to the grantees the favorable action of
the Departmental Assembly did not establish their title, and

MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

the concession was.not completed, and the property continued part of the public domain, subject to the disposition of
the authorities of the government. And the board observed
that this was the view of the governor and Departmental
Assembly, as he had, notwithstanding the decree of concession to the sisters, made two years afterwards, a grant of
the same land to Bolcoff, which had been approved by the
Assembly.
The entire decision proceeded upon the supposition that
the documents offered as evidence of Bolcoff's title were
genuine, and that the officers of Mexico possessed the power
to re-grant lands which had been once granted, without
their previous surrender by the first grantee, where the final
title-papers had not been issued to the grantee, although
such grant had been approved by the Departmental Assembly. The board in its opinion also spoke of a want of proof
of performance of the usual conditions of cultivation and
inhabitation; but this view was held upon the supposition
that the residence and cultivation of Bolcoff and his wife,
and that of her sisters, were under different grants. The
commissioners held, in confirming his claim, that the proof
showed cultivation of and residence upon the land. Subsequent to the action of the board upon these claims, the
registry of the prefect was discovered, and this discovery
and other circumstances led to a critical inspection and examination of the documents upon which the claim of Bolcoff
was founded, and finally to the bringing of this suit.
The position taken by the complainant was this: that a
former grant, a titulo, or some documentary evidence of
title based upon the concession of April 8th, 1839, was on
the same day issued to the three sisters; that this titulo or
grant passed into the custody of Bolcoff, and was some years
afterwards suppressed or destroyed by him, with the intent
to defraud the sisters of the property granted to them, and
to secure the title to himself; that in the execution of this
intent, the documents presented to the board of commissioners, the grant purporting to be issued to him, the certificate of the approval of the Departmental Assembly, and

Dec. 1870.]

MEADER V. NORTON.

Statement of the case.

the record of juridical possession, were fabricated by him,
or others at his request, and the erasures made in the decree
of concession to the sisters, and in Jimeno's Index; and that
a claim confirmed, and a legal title obtained by these rheans,
should be controlled for the benefit of parties equitably entitled to the property.
The defendants in the court below did not deny that the
decree of concession was made to the sisters, but they contended that the interest of the sisters was exchanged with
Bolcoff for an interest in a tract of land of which he had
obtained a graht, and that inconsequence of this exchange
the grant of El Refugio was issued at their request to him.
instead of being.issued to them. The agreement was stated
to have been this: that Majors and wife should relinquish
to Bolcoff their interest in El Refugio, and allow him to.
obtain a grant therefor in his own name; and in exchange
for this that Bolcoff should relinquish to Majors his interest
in a ranch known as St. Augustine, of which he had obtained
a grant in 1833, and allow Majors to obtain a grant for the.
same, he paying Bolcoff in addition the sum of four hundred.
dollars. And it was alleged that this agreement was made.
after the intermarriage of Majors and Maria de los Angeles,,
and immediately carried into execution; that Majors and wife
took possession of St. Augustine, and that afterwards, on
the 7th of April, 1841, Maria Candida went personally to
the governor and stated the agreement, when the governor,.
at her request, issued the grant to Bolcoff alone, and that the
erasures in the decree of concession and in the Index were.
at that time made by Jimeno, the secretary of state.
This statement of the defendants was contradicted byMajors, and was inconsistent with facts disclosed by the.
records. Majors obtained the ranch St. Augustine from
Bolcoff by direct purchase, and the transfer to him was made
before his marriage, and before the sisters had petitioned for
El Refugio. The transfer to him is indorsed on the espedielite of St. Augustine in the archives, and bears date on the,
14th of January, 1839.
The alleged grant to Bolcoff of April 7th, 1841, made no,
VOL. xI.

29

MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

allusion to any purchase or exchange with the sisters, or of
any abandonment of their rights. It recited that he himself
had petitioned for El Refugio.
The court below held that the documents upon which the
claim of Bolcoff was founded were all false, and were fabricated by Bolcoff, or some one at his instigation, to defraud
the sisters of their property and secure the title to himself;
that by the false and fabricated documents, and the suppression or destruction of the grant to the sisters, a confirmation of the claim under the alleged grant to Bolcoff was
obtained, and the legal title secured to his children; when
in truth the real title was in the three sisters, and should
have been adjudged to them; and it held that, under these
circumstances, the patentees and all persons holding under
them with notice of the claim of the sisters, should be decreed to surrender the title.
Besides insisting upon the genuineness of the alleged
grant to Bolcoff, and other documents produced in support
of his title, the defendants relied, as a defence to this suit,
upon the following grounds:
First. That the-claim of the complainant was a stale claim,
and barred by the statute of limitations.
Second. That the complainant had no standing in court,
by reason of the non-presentation of the claim of two of
the sisters to the board of land commissioners for confirmation, and the rejection, by the board, of the claim of the
other sister. And,
Third. That the defendants were bond fide purchasers of
some portions of the property for a valuable consideration,
without notice of the claim of the sisters; and for other
portions had conveyances or releases from them.
The court below held:
1st. That to claim any benefit of the statute of limitations
the defendants were required to state facts sufficient to bring
the case within its operation, and then to insist that by reason of those facts the remedy of the complainant was barred,
and that this had not been done by them in this case.

Dec. 1870.]

. .MEADER
V. NORTON.
Opinion of the court.

2d. That the presentation or non-presentation by the sisters of their claim under the grant to the board of land coinmissioners had nothing to do with the equitable relations
between them and third parties; which relations were never
submitted to the board for adjudication.
3d. That whilst equity would reach the perpetrator of the
fraud in this case, and parties acquiring the property under
him without consideration or with notice of the rights of
the real owners, it would extend its protection to purchasers
in good faith for a valuable consideration without such
notice.
The court below therefore directed that an interlocutory
decree in favor of the complainant be entered and a reference
be had to a master to report which of the defendants were
bona fide purchasers, without notice of the claim of the sisters, and what parcels were so purchased, and also of what
parcels the interest of the sisters or of any of them had been
conveyed to the defendants, with all necessary particulars;
and that upon the coming in and confirmation of his report
a final decree be entered directing the defendants to transfer
to the complainant their title to all parcels, and undivided
interests in parcels, not thus acquired and held.
The case accordingly went to a master, and his report
having been confirmed a final decree was entered, fiom
which the defendants appealed to this court.
Messrs. W. ff. Lamon and W. G. X. Davis, for the appellants; Mr. W. Xi. Stewart, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Claims to lands in California by virtue of any right or
title derived from the former government were required to
be presented to the land commissioners, and authority was
vested in the commissioners to decide upon the validity of
such claims and to certify their decisions, with the reasons
for the same, to the district attorney for the district.
Applicants for such confirmations were required to present their claims to the commissioners when sitting as a

MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

board, but the act of Congress made no provision for notice
to any adverse claimant, and the proceedings before the commissioners were wholly ex parte unless opposed by the district attorney.
Power to review such decisions was vested in the District
Court, on petition of the claimant in case of rejection, or of
the district attorney in case of confirmation.*
Specific regulations were enacted as to the form of such
petitions, and the provision was that the District Court
should proceed to render judgment upon the pleadings and
evidence in the case, and upon such further evidence as
might be taken by the order of the said court, and that the
court on application of the party against whom judgment
was rendered should grant an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States.
On the fifth of May, 1852, a petition signed by the attorneys of Francisco Bolcoff and Juaa Bolcoff was filed with
the land commissioners, setting up title to the rancho El
Refugio, as grantees of their father, Jos6 Bolcoff, and asking
for a confirmation of their claim under the act of Congress
passed to settle such private claims to lands in that State.
They represented that the tract was granted to their father
during Mexican rule by the governor of that department
under the colonization laws ordained by the supreme government.
Pursuant to the requirements of the act of Congress they
filed with their petition their documentary evidences of
title, consisting of the following documents: (1.) A paper
bearing date on the seventh of April, 1841, pirporting to
be a grant of the rancho El Refugio to Jos6 Bolcoff by Juan
3. Alvarado, governor of the department at the date of the
supposed grant. (2.) The certificate of Governor Alvarado,
dated the twenty-eighth of July, 1841, stating that the grant
made on the eighth of April, 1839, in favor of Jos6 Bolcofl
was approved on the twenty-second of May, 1841, by the
Departmental Assembly. (3.) A document dated the twenty* 9 Stat. at Large, 633.

Dec. 1870.3

MEADER V. NTORTON.
Opinion of the court.

sixth of July, 1842, purporting to be a record of juridical
possession of the tract given to the supposed grantee by the
proper Mexican authorities. (4.) The disefio or sketch of
the tract described in the petition addressed to the governor
by the original donee.
Proof of the handwriting of the persons whose names
purport to be signed to the documents was introduced by
the petitioners, and as no question was made as to the authenticity of the documents they were received as genuine
and treated as such in the hearing, and the commissioners
entered a decree in favor of the petitioners, confirming the
claim.
Both parties concede that an appeal was taken on behalf
of the United States to the District Court, bat it was never
prosecuted to effect and was subsequently dismissed.
Patents may be issuea for all claims confirmed by the
commissioners where no appeal was taken, the claimant
complying with the conditions specified in the thirteenth
section of the act providing for tte adjudication of such
claims; that is, he must present to the general land office
an iuthentic certificate of such confirmation and a plat or
survey of the land duly certified and approved by the surveyor-general. Such an application was accordingly made
by the confirmees to the commissioner of the general land
office, and he, on the fourth of February, 1860, issued a
patent in due form to the persons in whose favor the decree
was entered and to whom the certificate of confirmation was
granted. Title to- the land is claimed by the appellants
under that patent.
Attention will now be called to the evidences of title
under whiel the appellee claims in this case. On the thirteenth of February, 1839, three orphans, daughters of Joaquin Castro, a deceased Mexican citizen, to wit, Maria Candida, Maria Jacinta, and Maria de los Angeles, presented
their petition to Juan B. Alvarado, governor of California,
asking for a grant of the raneho El Refuogio. R~eference of
the petition was made to the administrator of the adjoining
mission and he having reported, on the sixteenth of March,

454

MEADER

v.

oN0RTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1839, that the land could be granted, as the land was not
necessary to the mission, the governor, on the same day,
made a provisional grant of the same to the petitioners and
referred the espediente to the prefect of the district, as was
the usual course in respect to such applications. Immediate
attention was given to the subject by that officer, and on
the twentieth of the same month he reported to the governor that the land was vacant, and recommended that the
grant should be issued to the petitioners.
Evidently the several documents constituting the complete
espediente show a full compliance with all the requirements
of the colonization laws, and it is quite clear that the case was so understood by the governor, as on the eighth of
April, in the same year, he issued the concession in which
the petitioners are declared to be the owners in fee of the
land. Specific boundaries are given to the tract granted
and the directions in the same document are that the espediente be reserved for the consideration of the Departmental
Assembly and their due approval of the same. Due report
of the proceedings was made to that tribunal, and the record
shows that on the twenty-second of May, 1840, they formally
approved of the grant.
Satisfactory proof was introduced that Maria Candida intermarried with JosS Bolcoff, and that Maria de los Angeles
intermarried with Joseph L. Majors. Prior to the marriage
of Maria de los Angeles, the three sisters lived together as
members of the family of Jos6 Bolcofi, the husband of the
elder, and Maria Jacinta continued to reside in his family
on the premises until 1850, when she became a nun and
entered a convent.
By the record it appears that Joseph L. Majors, on the
thirtieth of April, 1852, presented a petition to the commissioners claiming title in right of his wife to one-third of
the rancho El Refugio, setting up the concession made by
the governor to his wife and her two sisters, and asked that
the claim might be confirmed. In support of his claim he
introduced the several documents referred to as tending to
show that the concession to the three sisters was a valid

Dec. 1870.]

MEADER

v.

I oRTOX.

Opinion of the court.

grant of the rancho; but the commissioners, on the thirtieth
of January, 1855, rejected the claim, evidently proceeding
upon the ground that the documents introduced by the
other claimants were genuine.
Apart from that consideration the commissioners were
doubtless much influenced by the testimony of the governor,
who was examined as a witness by the successful claimants.
He admitted that he granted the rancho in the first place to
the three sisters, but he stated that he made the grant at
the request of Maria Candida, the wife of Jos6 Bolcoff, and
that he subsequently regranted the land to her husband at
her request and upon her representation that an arrangement to that effect between her husband and the husband
of her other married sister had been made. His statement
was that he granted the new title to Jos6 Bolcoff because
the parties agreed upon it, although he admitted that neither
of the other two grantees ever came before him or made
any such request. Subsequent investigations led to the dis-.
covery that the documents, or most of the documents, introduced in support of the claim of Jos6 Bolcoff, were forged
and fraudulent, which induced the appellee, claiming title
under the three sisters, to commence the present suit.
Confirmed as the claim of Jos6 Bolcoff was at the same
time that the claim of the three sisters was rejected, they
did not appeal nor would they have been benefited if they
had, as the claim was confirmed to the other claimants and
they were not parties in that litigatfon and could not appeal
from the decree. Had all the facts and circumstances been
known the unsuccessful claimant might perhaps have presented a petition to the district judge and have procured an
injunction restraining the confirmees of the claim "ffrom
suing out a patent fbr the same until title thereto" had been
"finally decided," but it is a sufficient answer to any such
suggestion that the patent was issued before the alleged
forgeries were discovered.
Remediless as the appellee was at law, he instituted the
present suit in the Circuit Court. His theory is, as shown
in the bill of complaint, that the grant was in fact made to

MEADER V. IORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the three sisters, and that their names were erased and the
name of the successful claimant inserted in the same, and
that the commissioners were induced by false swearing,
forgery, and fraud, to confirm the claim to the grantees of
the party guilty of all those offences, as the means of his
success and of the defeat of the claim of the three sisters, to
whom the rancho really belonged.
All such charges are denied in the answer, but they are
fully proved by the documents exhibited in the case and by
such facts and circumstances as leave no doubt in the mind
of the, court that the charges are true. Even the governor
admits, in his deposition taken in this case, that the espediente, including the concession, was prepared in the name
of the three sisters, but he states that when the titulo was
prepared the wife of Jos6 Bolcoff came before him, and that
upon her representation that her sisters were to receive an
interest in another rancho the title-papers were made out in
the name of her husband.
Such a theory is highly improbable, but the much better
answer to it is that it is clearly and satisfactorily disproved.
Beyond all doubt the entire espediente, except the titulo,
was in the name of the three sisters, and the formal concession which was also in their name directed that the ultimate
title should be issued to them and be recorded in the proper
book; and discoveries made since the patent was issued show
that the grant was entered in the Toma de Razon and in
Jimeno's IndeX.
Much weight is due to those documents as evidences of
title, even when they are not introduced in the particular
case before the court. They were not produced before the
commissioners, and it may be doubted whether they would
have benefited the case of the three sisters if they had been,
as their names are erased in the entry and the name of Jos6
Bolcoff written in their place, and as no suspicion of forgery
or fraud existed at that time it may be doubted whether the
production of the documents would have changed the result.
Conjectures in that behalf, however, are of no avail, as it
now appears that all or nearly all of the title-papers intro-

Dec. 1870.3

MEADER V. NORTON.
Opinion of the court.

duced to support that title were forged and fraudulent, showing to the entire satisfaction of the court that the equity of
the case was in the three sisters.
Further argument upon that topic is unnecessary as the
proofs are .persuasive, convincing, and decisive. Detailed
reference to them is given in the opinion delivered by the
Circuit Court, and to that the parties can recur if they
desire to examine the documents or the statements of the
witnesses as exhibited in the depositions sent uR in 'the
record.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the appellants that
the decree should be reversed because the decree of the commissioners, as they contend, was final and conclusive between the original claimants. Vnquestionably it is a general
rule that when jurisdiction is delegated to a tribunal over a
subject-matter, and its exercise is confided to their discretion, the decision of the matter, in the absence of fraud, is
in general valid and conclusive. Even fraud will not in
every case open the judgment or decree to review where the
proceeding is not a direct one, but it is not important to
enter much into that field of inquiry, as the fifteenth section
of the act under which the commissioners were appointed
provides that the linal decrees rendered by the commissioners or by the District or Supreme Court of the United States,
or any patent to be issued under the act, shall be conclusive
between the United States and the said claimants only, and
shall not affect the interests of third persons.*
Nothing more is contemplated by the proceedings under
that act than the separation of the lands which were owned
by individuals from the public domain.t
Argument is not necessary to show that a patent in a suit
at law is conclusive evidence of title against the United
States and all others claiming under the United States by a
junior title. Until the patent issues the fee is in thq gov* 9 Stat. at Large, 634.
t United States -. Morillo, 1 Wallace, 709; Beard v. Federy, 3 Id. 493;
United States v. Sanchez, Roffman, Land Cases, 133; Martin v. United
States, Id. 146 ; United States v. Ortega, Id. 185.

MEADER V. NoRTON.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

ernment, but when it issues the legal title passes to the
patentee. Persons claiming to hold the land against the
patent cannot have relief in a suit at law, but courts of equity
have full jurisdiction to relieve against fraud or mistake, and
that power plainly extends to cases where one man has procured the patent which belonged to another at the time the
patent was issued.*
Where one party has acquired the legal right to property
to -which another has the better right, a court of equity will
convert him into a trustee of the true owner, and compel
him to convey the legal title.t
Objection was taken in the court below that some of the
respondents were innocent purchasers, but that objection
cannot have any weight at this time, as all the appellants
before the court had notice of the title of the appellee,
as clearly appears by the report of the master. None of
those who purchased without notice are embraced in the
decree.
Laches and the statute of limitations are set up in argument, but such defences cannot prevail where the relief
sought is grounded on a charge of secret fraud, and it appears
that the suit was commenced within a reasonable time after
the evidence of the fraud was discovered.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in this case, nor participate
in its decision.
* Bagnell v. Broderick, 18 Peters, 436; Patterson v. Winn, 11 Wheaton,
380.
t Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wallace, 419.

