Rec. 1870.]

THE MONTELLO.
Syllabus.

unreliable.

In 1861 Captain Humphreys and Lieutenant

Abbott, of the corps of Topographical Engineers, submitted

to the proper bureau of the -War Department, a report based
on actual surveys and investigations, upon the physics and
hydranlics of the Mississippi River, which they were directed
to make by Congress. In speaking on the subject of the
changes in the river,* they say: "These changes have been
constantly going on since the settlement of the country, but
the old maps and records are so defective, that it is impossible to deternine much about those which occurred prior
to 1800." In the face of this report, authorized by the government, and prepared with great learning and industry,
how can we allow the books and maps published prior to
thi century, to have any weight in the decision of this controversy ?-

ritliout pursuing the investigation further, oi full con-

sideration of all the evidence in the case, we are satisfied
the State of Missouri has no just claim to the possession of
Wolf Island.
It is therefore ordered that the bill be
DSMISSED.

TE

MONTELLO.

1. A river is a navigable water of the United States when it forms, by itself
or by its connection with other waters, a continued highway over
which commerce is or may be carried on with other Stat.s or foreign
countries in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted
by wator.
2. If a river is not of itself a highway for commerce with other States or
foreign countries, or does not form such highway by its c,,nnection
with other w:ters, and is only navigable between different places within
the State, then it is not a navigable water of the United StateF, but
only a navigable water of the State.
S. The acts of Congress providing for the enrolment and license of vessels
only apply to vessels employed upon the navigable waters of the United
States.
Page 104.

T.HE M0NTEL.LO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. Congress has not prescribed any regulations governing commerce between
the States, except so far as it is conducted in vessels on the navigable
waters of the United States.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
This case was heard on the libel of information, as
amended, filed by the United States against the steamer
Montello, and the exception to it taken by the claimants.
The object of the proceeding was to recover two penalties
alleged to have been forfeited to the United States; one by
the neglect of the owners or captain of the vessel to procure her enrolment and license whilst she was engaged in
navigating Fox River, in the State of Wisconsin, between
Oshkosh and Portage City, and in transporting passengers
and merchandise between those places; and the other, by
their failure to put upon the boilers of the steamer an additional safety-valve prescribed by the board of supervising
inspectors, and to provide a good and reliable water-gauge
for the boilers.
For the first penalty claimed the libel alleged in its first
article in substance, that the owners of the vessel, which was
propeled in whole or part by steam, and was of twenty tons
burden and upwards, on the 1st of October, 1867, transported
in her, passengers and merchandise on the bays, rivers, and
other navigable waters of the United States; and that, in
carrying passengers, they navigated Fox River, in the State
of Wisconsin, between the ports of Oshkosh and Portage
City, and that prior to that period they were engaged in
transporting between those places merchandise consisting
of the products of Wisconsin, which were destined for use
and consumption in other States of the Union and in foreign
countries, and also in transporting merchandise consisting
of the products of other States, brought from those States to
Wisconsin, and destined to different places within her limits,
without having the steamer enrolled and licensed, as required
by the act of Congress of July 7th, 1838, and the amenda.
tory act of August 30th, 1852.
For the second penalty claimed the libel alleged in its

THE

Dec. 1870.]

MORTELLO°

Statement of the case.

second article that an additional safety-valve, of such dimensions and arrangement as had been prescribed by the board
of supervising inspectors, had not been placed upon the
boilers of the steamer as required by law, and that a good
and reliable water-gauge had not been provided for the
boilers.
The act of July 7th, 1888,* above referred to, provides, in
its second section, that it shall not be lawful for the owner,
master, or captain of any vessel, propelled in whole or in
part by steam, to transport any merchandise or passengers
upon "the bays, lakes, rivers, or other navigable waters of
the United States," after the 1st of October of that year,
without having first obtained from the proper officer a license
under existing laws; that for every violation of this enactment the owner or owners of the vessel shall forfeit and pay
to the United States the sum of five hundred dollars; and
that for this sum the vessel engaged shall be liable, and may
be seized and proceeded against summarily by libel in the
District Court of the United States.
The act of August 80, 1852,t which is amendatory of the
act of July 7th, 1838, provides for the inspection of vessels

propelled in whole or in part by steam and carrying passengers, and the delivery to the collector of the district of a
certificate of such inspection, before a license, register, or
enrolment, under either of the acts, can be granted, and
declares that if any vessel of this kind is navigated with
passengers on board, without complying with the terms of
the act, the owners and the vessel shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed by the second section of the act of
1838.
The act requires, among other things, that the supervising
inspectors, appointed under its provisions, shall satisfy themselves that the safety-valves of the boilers on the steamers are
of suitable dimensions, sufficient in number, well arranged
and in good working order, and that there is a suitable number of gauge-cocks properly inserted, and a suitable water5 Stat. at Large, 304.

S 10 Stat at Large, 61.

THa MONTELLO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

gauge and steam-gauge indicating the height of the water
and the pressure of the steam,* before giving their certificate to the collector.
The exception of the claimants to the libel was, that the
court had no jurisdiction of the matters contained in the
articles, on the ground that they were not matters of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, in this, that the steamer
Mlontello was employed wholly on the inland waters of the
State of Wisconsin atihe time of the seizure and previously,
and was not engaged in the coasting trade, or in foreign
commerce, or in commerce between the States.
The District Court sustained the exception, and dismissed
the libel. The Circuit Court affirmed the decision, and the
United States brought the case here on appeal.
Mr. Akerruan, Attorney-General, for the United States, cited
the case of The Daniel Ball.t No one appeared for the
claimants in this court.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The libel does not impart any information as to the character of Fox River, or its connection with other waters,
and it is only from the general allegation of the libel that
the vessel transported passengers and merchandise upon the
navigable waters of the United States, preceding the allegation as to the transportation on Fox River, that we are justified in inferring that the libel intended to state that Fox
River was a navigable water of the United States.
We are supposed to knowjudicially the principal features
of the geography of our country, and, as a part of it, what
streams are public navigable waters of the United States.
Since this case was presented we have examined, with some
care, such geographies and histories of Wisconsin as we
could obtain from the library of Congress, to ascertain, if
possible, the real character of Fox River, and to render the
* 10 Stat. at Large,

9, second head, p. 64.

t 10 "Wallace, 557.

Dec. 1870.]

THE MONTELLO.
Opinion of the court.

fiction of the law, as to our supposed knowledge of the navigable streams in that State, a reality in this case; but from
such examination we are still in doubt whether Fox River
has any such connection with other waters as to form with
them a continued highway over which commerce is or may
be carried on with other States or foreign countries in the
customary modes in which such commerce is conducted by
water. It can only be deei,ed a navigable water of the
United States when it forms, by itself or by its connection
with other waters, such a highway. If it form such a
highway, the case presented is directly within the ruling
made in the case of the steamer Daniel Ball, decided at the
present term.* If, however, the river is not of itself a highway for commerce with other States or foreign countries, or
does not form such highway by its connection with other
waters, and is only navigable between different places within
the State, then it is not a navigable water of the United
States, but only a navigable water of the State, and the
acts of Congress, to which reference is made in the libel,
for the enrolment and license of vessels, have no application. Those acts only require such enrolment and license for
vessels employed upon the navigable waters of the United
States.
The fact that the steamer, in so far as she was employed
in transporting the products of Wisconsin, which were destined for use and consumption in other States and foreign
countries, and in transporting the products of other States
brought to Wisconsin, and destined to different places within
her limits, was engaged in comrmerce between the States,
does not affect the question under consideration, for Congress has not prescribed any regulations governing such
commerce, except so far as it is conducted in vessels on the
navigable waters of the United States.
As the decree must be reversed, and the cause remanded
to the court below for further proceedings, the parties will
be able to present, by new allegations and evidence, the
* 10 Wallace, 597.

MONCURE V. ZUNTS.

[Sup. Ict.

Statement of the case.

precise character of Fox River as a navigable stream, and
not leave the matter to be inferred by construction from an
imperfect pleading.
DECREE REVERSED, AND THE CAUSE REMANDED
FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

MONCURE V. ZUNTS.
1. The provisions of the Code of Procedure of Louisiana concerning sales
of real estate under execution require that the sale shall be advertised
in a newspaper published in the parish where the land is situated.
2. The policy of Congress, as shown by numerous statutes, has been to adopt
for the several courts in suits at common law, the processes and modes
of proceeding of the State courts in which they are held.
8. The act of May 26, 1824 (4 Stat. at Large, 62), not only adopts the mode
of proceedings then established in the State of Louisiana, but requires
the Federal courts to conform to such changes as may be made in that
State; and limits very materially the power of the Federal courts to
modify or change those rules, as that power exists in the courts of other
districts.
4. The seventh section of the act of Congress of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. at
Large, 466), applies only to such advertisements as may be published in
behalf of the government, and are to be paid for out of the Federal
treasury. It does not affect advertisements for sale of lands under
judicial process in suits between individua!s.
5. A sale of lands in such cases, under execution from the Federal court in
Louisiana, should be set aside in a proper proceeding for that purpose,
when it has not been advertised in a newspaper of the parish, and when
there is a paper published in such parish.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
Deas obtained a judgment in the court below against Moncure and others, heirs of Doyal, and, under an execution
issued on this judgment, certain real estate was sold lying in
the parish of Ascension, of which Zunts, the present defendant in error, became the purchaser. The laws of Louisiana authorize a proceeding by a purchaser at judicial sale
somewhlt in the nature of a bill of peace to quiet and con-

