Dec. 1870.]

MOCVEIGH v. UNITED STATES.

259

Statement of the case.

examine those of the District Court only after they have
been the subject of review by the Supreme Court, -nd then
only in connection with the action of that court in affirming
or reversing them. We cannot regard them until they have
received the impress of the judgment of the higher local
court.
The order dismissing the writ of error is REVERSED, and
the cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, with directions to proceed in the cause
IN

CONFORMITY TO LAW.

MOVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.
1. In a libel of information for the forfeiture of property, under the act of
Congress of July 17th, 1862, entitled "An act to suppress insurrection,
to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes," for certain offences charged against
the owner, his alleged criminality lies at the foundation of the proceeding ; and the questions of his guilt and ownership are fundamental in
the case.

2. The owner of property, for the forfeiture of which a libel is filed under
the acit above mentioned, is entitled to appear and to contest the charges
upon which the forfeiture is claimed, although he was at the time of
filing the libel a resident within the Confederate lines, and a rebel; and
he can sue out a writ of error from this court to review any final decree
of the court below condemning his property.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia.
On the 17th of July, 1862, Congress passed an act, entitled
,An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and
for other purposes." This act provided for the seizure and
confiscation of the property of persons holding certain offices
or agencies under "the Confederate States," and of persons
engaged in the rebellion then existing, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, who should not cease to aid, countenance,
and abet such rebellion within sixty days after public warnERROR

MCVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ing and proclamation by the President, and return to their
allegiance to the United States. The act contains numerous
sections. They are set forth with fulness in a case which
was decided soon after this one, and which is reported next
to it, Miller v. United States, the leading case on the Confiscation Acts, and in which, rather than in this one where
the main subjects were hardly reached, the provisions of
the statute are inserted. To understand the present case,
it is indispensable that the reader be possessed of the nature
of that statute, and of its provisions. He will, therefore,
have the goodness to turn forward to page 2&9, and to read
from the words, beginning with an *, " The Act of July 17th,
1862, contains fourteen sections," on that page, to the words
on page 273, beginning with a t, "In order to carry out these
acts;" after which he will resume his reading here.
With this statute in force the United States filed a libel
of information in the District Court for the District of Virginia, for the forfeiture of certain real and personal property of one William McVeigh, situated in Virginia. The
information was in form against "all the right, title, and
estate of William Me Veigh in and to all that certain piece,
parcel, or lot of land," &c., describing it particularly.
The libel alleged that subsequent to July 17th, 1862, the
said McVeigh held and exercised an office and agency of
honor, and trust, and profit, under the government of the
Confederate States, and under one of the States of said confederacy; and that he accepted the appointment, and was
elected to the office and agency after the date of the ordinance of secession of said State; and that he took an oath
of allegiance to and to support the constitution of the*Confederate States; and that since July, 1862, he had assisted
and given aid and comfort to the rebellion, and to those engaged in the rebellion, by acting on the 18th of July, 1862,
and at various times subsequently as a soldier, and as an
officer, and as a non-commissioned officer in the army and
navy of the Confederate States; and by contributing money
and property to the aid and encouragement of those engaged
in the rebellion. The libel was afterwards amended so as

Dec. 1870.]

MCVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

261

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

to charge, in addition to the above offences, that MNcVeigh,
on the 18th of July, 1862, was engaged in armed rebellion
against the government of the United States, and notwithstanding the President, on the 25th of July, 1862, issued his
proclamation warning all persons thus engaged to cease participating in aiding, countenancing, and abetting such rebellion, the said MeVeigh did not within sixty days thereafter
cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United States.
M Veigh appeared by counsel, made a claim to the property, and filed an answer. This answer was not contained
in the record, and nothing of its contents appeared except
what was stated in the order of the court made on the motion of the attorney of the United States.
The attorney of the United States, however, moved that
the claim, answer, and appearance be stricken from the files,
as it appeared from the answer filed, that at the time of filing
it the party was "a resident of the city of Richmond, within
the Confederate lines, and a rebel." The court granted the
motion. Subsequently the default of all persons was taken,
and a decree was rendered for the condemnation and sale of
the property. The case was carried to the Circuit Court,
and there the decree was affirmed. It was now brought
here on writ of error.
Messrs. B. B. Curtis, Brent, Wattles, Moore, .Hughes,.Denver, and Peck, appeared for the plaintiff in error. Air. Curtis
argued the case orally, the other counsel filing briefs.
Mr. Curtis: The claim and answer of McVeigh and the
appearance of his counsel having been stricken out, of course
nothing remained for him but to be defaulted, because he
was not allowed to appear; and the question is, whether that
was erroneous or not.
Now the act of Congress does not inflict forfeiture upon a
person because lie was a resident within the enemy's lines,
nor because he was a rebel at the time when this answer was
.filed, even if it be assumed that the District Court interpreted "rebel" to mean a person giving aid and comfort to

MCVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CtL

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the rebellion, of which interpretation this court has no evidence. The provision of the 5th section, which relates to
persons owning property in any loyal State or Territory,
or in the District, applies to those who, at any time after
the passage of the act, should give aid and comfort to the
enemy; but it does not apply to those who owned property
within the State of Virginia, which was not one of thje loyal
States, but one of the Confederate. The 6th section, which
provides for persons who own property and commit the
described offences within the Confederate States, is limited.
"If the persoi, &c., in any other than the loyal States shall
not, &c., cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion,
and return" to his allegiance, his property is to be forfeited.
But only then. This is a penal statute, not to be extended
by implication.
Thus it did not appear by the answer of McVeigh that he
was within the terms of the act. ie was not within the
terms as a resident within the rebel lines, nor by reason of
being a rebel (whatever the District Court may, under the
circumstances of the case, have construed that to be) when
he filed his answer, because the 6th section does not apply
to him. And it did not appear by his answer that he was a
rebel by holding any of the offices that are mentioned in the
5th section. Therefore the case is this: that Congress provides such process as requires a notice to the party supposed
to be guilty to come in and defend himself; and when he
comes in and offers to defend himself and files an answer,
then-inasmuch as the court say that on reading that answer they see (not that he has committed any one of the offences for which he is to forfeit his property) but has committed some other offence-therefore he must not be allowed
to defend.
See how the action of the court below would operate.
This court has decided that the question whether a person
was guilty in point of fact of the ofiences leading to confiscation under this act must be tried by a jury.* And under
* Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wallace, 766.

Dec. 1870.]

MCVEIG11 v. UUTED STATES.

263

Argument for the United States.

that decision we assume as a certainty that this case must go
back to be so tried. 'Well; the case is called on; McVeigh
appears ready to prove that he is not within the act. The
judge says, "Yes; but you are a resident within the enemy's
lines, and you are a rebel; you cannot be heard." How is he
going to get to the jury? Manifestly he can have no trial
by jury, for he can have no trial at all, and therefore-for
this is the necessary consequence of his having no trial at
all-he is to have his property forfeited by the decree of the
court for want of a trial, not because he is found by a jury
to have committed one of the offences which by force of the
statute forfeit that property, but because he resides within
the enemy's lines, and the judge, upon some facts which
appear in his answer, pronounces the conclusion of law that
he is a rebel.
Mr. Akernfan, Attoriey-General, ir. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra, for the United States:
An enemy has no standing in court, and cannot be admitted as a claimant even in prize. Whether he be an
enemy or not, if contested, must be determined by the
court; but it is a different issue froni the issue on the
merits, and is to be determined in the first instance by the
court. In proceedings in rei, if it is admitted by the claimant that he is an eneniy, his claim must be stricken out.*
Although the claim and answer are not set out in the
record, yet as the order striking them from the files recites
that "it appeared from the answer that the respondent,
McVeigh; is, and at the time of the filing was, a resident of
the city of Richmond, within the Confederate lines, and a
rebel," it must be taken that this recital is true, and that it
did appear in the answer that MeVeigh was a resident of
the city of Richmond, within the Confederate lines, and a
rebel. If this fact was so, the court did right in striking out
* Mumford v. Mumford, 1 Gallison, 366; The Emulous, Id. 568; The
Peterhoff, Blatchford's Prize Cases, 463; Halleck's International Law,
772, 23; Hanger v. Abbott, 6 Wallace, 532.

MCVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

his claim. For residents of hostile territory, in war, are regarded as enemies, and as McVeigh in his answer admitted
substantially that he was an enemy, the action of the court
was right.
In addition he is not a party to the proceedings below.
The proceeding was conducted against the property alone.
le cannot take a writ of error.

Reply :
Alien enemies at the common law it is true are not admitted; but even alien enemies are admitted as parties to
proceedings in courts of admiralty-international courtswhere they come for a purpose proper to be considered by
such tribunals. Suppose a British ship, in the event of a
war with England, is captured, belonging to a British owner,
and he comes into a court of admiralty and files an answer
and claim. If, indeed, he said, "I am an inhabitant of the
enemy's country, and this is my property," he would state
timself out of court. But suppose he says, "When that
ship was captured, she was under your cartel; I will prove
it," is there any doubt that he is to be listened to ?*
But this case is 'peculiar. It is not within this principle
with regard to alien enemies. Persons like McVeigh,
though residing within the Confederate lines, and thbugh
rebels (whatever meaning was attached to this word by the
District Court), were not alien enemies; they were enemies
for the purpose of having war made upon them, and for the
purpose of having their property confiscated if Congress
took proper measures to confiscate their property as enemies;
still they were citizens of the United States, and they are
not to be kept out of the courts of the United States for the
purpose of presenting any rights which it was proper those
courts should consider. Now was it not proper that this
court of the United States should consider the question
whether MlcVeigh had committed the offences alleged in
the libel to cause the. forfeiture of his property ? Did not
* The United States v. Certain Shares of Stock, 5 Blatchford, 231

Dec. 1870.]

MOVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.
Reply.

Congress- intend when it enacted thiR law, that that should
be considered, and colnsidered in every case? It has not
passed a sweeping decree of condemnation, nor called on
the courts to pass sweeping decrees of condemnation against
all rebels or all enemies, but it has singled out persons guilty
of certain offences, and has said, that these ofinders are to
be punished by the forfeiture of their property. But are
they to be punished without bearing them? In Harris v.
.ardenan,* it is declared to be a principle of universal jurisprudence, and one which cannot be disregarded, that every
party who is proceeded against in a court of justice, civilly
or criminally, must have notice. Why?. That he may ap.
pear and be heard. For from the days of Magna Charta, as
Lord Coke tells us, and down to the present time, due process of law includes actor, reus, judex; and how is anybody
to be judex unless he hears?
It is alleged by-the opposing counsel that McVeigh was
not a party. In one sense he was not a party, because when
he applied and desired to be admitted as a party, the court
refused to admit him; but one of the questions is whether
he was not wrongfully refused, and can he not have that
question decided here?
This is not a proceeding in rem on account of the fault in
the thing, or the illegal predicament in which the property
has been placed. It is a proceeding against all the property
of a particular person by name, on account of his guilt.
From the nature of the proceeding he is necessarily a party
to that proceeding. His being so does not depend on any
order of the court; it arises out of the very nature of the
case. Must he not have notice? If lie has notice, has he
not a right to appear,-a right which cannot be denied him,
any more than it can be denied to any person indicted for a
crime,-to appear and defend himself? And if he not only
must have notice, but has the right to appear, then will the
fact that he has not been allowed to appear debar him from
his writ of error?
* 14 Howard, 884.

MCVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct;

Opinion of the court.

Mf r. Justice SWAYINE delivered the opinion of the court
This is a writ of error to the Circhit Court of the United
States for the District of Virginia.
The defendants in error filed in the District Court of the
United States for that district a libel of information, under
the act of July 17, 1862, to reach, for the purposes of forfeiture and sale, certain real and personal property of
M Veigh, a description of which is fully set forth. The
original libel was the same, nutatis rnutandis, as that in the
.case of Garnett, claimant of certain real estate, against the
United States.* An amendment was subsequently made,
whereby a farther charge was alleged of the offence defined
in the sixth section of the act. The plaintiff in error appeared by counsel, interposed a claim to the property, and
filed an answer. The attorney of the United States submitted a motion, that the appearance, answer, and claim
should be stricken from the files, for thie reasons that the
respon(lent was "a resident of the city of Richmond, within
the Confederate lines, and a rebel." An order was made
according to the motion. Subsequently a decree pro confesso
was taken. The property was condemned as forfeited, and
ordered to be sold. The Circuit Court upon error affirmed
the decree, and the case is now before us for review.
It is objected that McVeigh was incompetent to sue out
this writ of error. His alleged criminality lies at the foundation of the proceeding. It was averred in the libel that
he was the owner of the property described, and that he was
guilty of the offences charged, which rendered it liable to
forfeiture. The questions of his guilt and ownership were
therefore fundamental in the case. The notice by publication was given to bring him constructively before the court.
It was in the nature of the substituted service of process.
If he failed to appear, his absence and silence could not
affect the validity of the proceedings. After the decree, pro
confesso, he occupied the same relation to the record as a
* See supra, 256.

Dec. 1870.]

MfOVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.

267

Opinion of the court.

defendant against whom a judgment by default has been
taken. The case is wholly unlike a proceeding purely in
rem, where no claimant is named, and none appears until
after the final decree or judgment is entered, and the case
has terminated. We entertain no doubt that the plaititiff in
error had the right to sue out the writ, and that the record
is properly before us for examination.
In our judgment the District Court committed a serious
error in ordering the claim and answer of the respondent to
be stricken from the files. As we are unanimous in this
conclusion, our opinion will be confined to that subject.
The order in effect denied the respondent a hearing. It is
alleged that he was in the position of an alien enemy, and
hence could have no locus standi in that forum. If assailed
there, he could defend there. The liability and the right
are inseparable. A different result would be a blot upon
our jurisprudence and civilization. *We cannot hesitate or
doubt on the subject. It would be contrary to the first
principles of the social compact and of the right administration of justice.*
Whether the legal status of the plaintiff in error was, or
was not, that of an alien enemy, is a point not necessary to
be considered; because, apart from the views we have expressed, conceding the fict to be so, the consequences assumed would by no means follow. Whatever may be the
extent of the disability of an allen enemy to sue in the courts
of the hostile country,t it is clear that he is liable to be sued,
and this carries with it the right to use all the means and
appliances of defence. In Bacon's Abridgment,J it is said:
"For as an alien may be sued at law, and may have process
to compel the appearance of his witnesses, so he may have
the benefit of a discovery."
* Calder v.Bull, 3 Dallas, 388; Bonaker v. Evans, 16 Adolphus & Ellis,
N. S. 170; Capel v. Child, 2 Crompton & Jervis, 574.
t Clarke v. 31orey, 10 Johnson, 69; Russel v.Skipwith, 6 Binney, 241.
Title Alien, D; see also Story's Equity Pleadings,
53; Albrecht V.
Sussmann, 2 Vesey & Beams, 323; Dorsey v. Kyle et al., 30 Iaryland
512, 522

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The judgment of the District Court is REVERSED, and the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court with directions
to proceed in it
IN CONFORMITY TO LAW.

MILLER V. UNITEb STATES.
1. In a judicial proceeding to confiscate stocks in a railroad company under
the acts of Congress of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, the person
whose property has been seized, may sue out a writ of error though not
a claimant in the court below. (Hc Veigh v. United States, supra, 259,
affirmed.)
2. Seizure of such stocks may be made by giving notice of seizure to the
president or vice-president of the railroad company; and a seizure
thus made by the marshal in obedience to a warrant and monition is
sufficient to give the District Court jurisdiction.
3. Stocks and credits are attachable in admiralty and revenue cases by
means of the simple service of a notice, without the aid of any statute.
4. In admiralty and revenue cases when a default has been duly entered to
a monition founded on an information averring all the facts necessary
to a condemnation, it has substantially the effect of a default to a summons in a court of common law. It establishes the fact pleaded, and
justifies a decree of condemnation.
5. Where a court having jurisdiction of the case and of the parties enters
a judgment, there is a presumption that all the facts necessary to warrant the judgment have been found, if they are sufficiently averred in
the pleadings.
6. A trial by jury in cases of seizure upon land is not necessary when there
are no is.sues of fact to be determined.
7. The confiscation acts of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, are constitutional. Excepting the first four sections of the latter act they are
an exercise of the war powers of the government, and not an exercise
of its sovereignty or municipal power. Consequently they are not in
conflict with the restrictions of the 6th and 6th amendments of the Constitution.
8. In the war of the rebellion the United States had belligerent as well as
sovereign rights. They had, therefore, a right to confiscate the property of public enemies wherever found, and also a right to punish
offences against their sovereignty.
9. The right of confiscation exists as fully in case of a civil war, as it does
when the war is foreign; and rebels in arms against the lawful government or persons inhabiting the territory exclusively within the
control of the rebel belligerent, may be treated as public enemies. So

