[Sup. Ct.

GARNETT V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.-The four cases which now immediately follow, to
wit, Garvett v. United States, Me Veigh v. Same, HMiller v. Same,
and Tyler v. Defrees, arose under two certain acts of Congress passed in 1861 and 1862, during the late rebellion, and
popularly known as the Confiscation Acts. Alohg with one
or two others they were argued at the last term; but after
being taken into advisement, were at the close of it ordered
to be re-argued at this. They were now fully argued very
much together. In the first of them nothing relating to
confiscation was reached; the case going off on a point of
jurisdiction. Ii the judgment in none of them did the
Chief Justice or Mr. Justice Nelson participate; both being
absent from the court from the causes mentioned in the
memoranda of the Term.
GARNETT V. UNITED STATES.
'Where a case has been tried in the District Court of the District of Columbia, the judgment or decree rendered therein must be reviewed by the
Supreme Court of the District, before the case can be brought before
this court for examination.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia;
this:
being
case
the
By an act passed in 1801,* there was organized for the District the "Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, vested
with all the powers of the Circuit Courts of the United
States." It had " cognizdnce of all crimes and offences
committed within said District, and of all cases in law and
equity," &c.
By act of 1802,t it was provided that the chief judge of the
District of Columbia should hold a District Court in and for
the said District, "which court shall have and exercise within
said District the same powers and jurisdiction which are by
law vested in the District Courts of the United States."
On the 3d March, 1863, + by act of that'date the courts of
the District were reorganized.
The first section of that organic act established a court,
ERROR

* 2 Stat. at Large, 105.

t 2 1b. 166.

1

2 Ib. 762.

'Dec. 1870.]

GARNETT V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

to be called the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which shall have generaljurisdictionin law and equity, and consist of four justices, one of which shall be chief justice.
The third section provided that the Supreme Court should
possess the same powers and exercise the same jurisdiction
as was then possessed and exercised by the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia.
The justices of the court (the act proceeds) shall severally
possess and exercise the jurisdiction now possessed and exercised by the judges of the said Circuit Court. Any one of
them may hold the District Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, in -the manner, and with the same
powers and jurisdiction possessed and exercised by other
District Courts of the United States.
With this organization of the courts of the District of
Columbia, the present suit was begun in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia sitting for the District Court
of the same, for the forfeiture of certain real property of
one Garnett, under the act of Congress of July 17th, 1862,
entitled "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes."
The District Court decreed a condemnation of the property, and it was sold. Garnett sued out a writ of error from
the Supreme Court of the District. This writ having been
returned, the District Attorney moved to dismiss it, on theground, among others, that a writ of error from that court
would not lie to the District Court; and the Supreme Court.
dismissed the writ on that ground. An exception was duly
taken to this ruling; and from the judgment of dismissal the
case waR brought here on writ of error..
Messrs. B. . Curtis, Cushing, and Brent, for the plaintiff in
error; Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra, for the United
States.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
VOL. XI.

17

GAR'NETT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The original proceeding was instituted in the District
Court of the United States for same territory. Its object
was to procure the condemnation and sale of the property
of the plaintiff in error, described in the libel of the United
States, pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress of
July 17th, 1862, entitled "An act to suppress insurrection,
to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the
property of rebels, and for other purposes." The libel alleged that the property belonged to Garnett, and that he
was within three of the categories defined in the 5th section,
which rendered it liable to be proceeded against in the
manner prescribed. His offences were specifically set forth.
The property was condemned and sold. Garnett sued out
a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. The attorney of the United'States filed a motion to dismiss the writ. The court dismissed it upon the
ground that a writ of error would not lie from that court to
the District Court. Garnett excepted. His bill of exceptions is found in the record.
This is the only point in the case which we have found it
necessary to consider. In coming to this conclusion the
learned court fell into an error.
The case was decided prior to the decision of this court
in Ex parte Bradley.* It was not seriously controverted by
the counsel for the defendants in error, in the argument at
the bar, that this authority is conclusive upon the subject.
The proposition is too clear to require discussion. Error,
and not appeal, was the proper revisory remedy.t The other
objections taken to the writ are also without validity. The
order dismissing it must therefore be reversed. This will
restore the case to the place it occupied before the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, when the order dismissing it was made. As that court did not pass upon the alleged
errors of the District Court, we cannot consider them. Our
province is to exercise appellate jurisdiction touching the
proceedings of the Supreme Court of the District. We can
* 7 Wallace, 364.

t Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Id. 766.

Dec. 1870.]

MOCVEIGH v. UNITED STATES.

259

Statement of the case.

examine those of the District Court only after they have
been the subject of review by the Supreme Court, -nd then
only in connection with the action of that court in affirming
or reversing them. We cannot regard them until they have
received the impress of the judgment of the higher local
court.
The order dismissing the writ of error is REVERSED, and
the cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, with directions to proceed in the cause
IN

CONFORMITY TO LAW.

MOVEIGH V. UNITED STATES.
1. In a libel of information for the forfeiture of property, under the act of
Congress of July 17th, 1862, entitled "An act to suppress insurrection,
to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes," for certain offences charged against
the owner, his alleged criminality lies at the foundation of the proceeding ; and the questions of his guilt and ownership are fundamental in
the case.

2. The owner of property, for the forfeiture of which a libel is filed under
the acit above mentioned, is entitled to appear and to contest the charges
upon which the forfeiture is claimed, although he was at the time of
filing the libel a resident within the Confederate lines, and a rebel; and
he can sue out a writ of error from this court to review any final decree
of the court below condemning his property.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia.
On the 17th of July, 1862, Congress passed an act, entitled
,An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and
for other purposes." This act provided for the seizure and
confiscation of the property of persons holding certain offices
or agencies under "the Confederate States," and of persons
engaged in the rebellion then existing, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, who should not cease to aid, countenance,
and abet such rebellion within sixty days after public warnERROR

