Dec. 1867.]

CO0K v.BURNLEY.
Syllabus.

act of 1868. Each count charges positive fraud-the first
and second, frauduleut use of stamps, unknown under the
act of 1867; and the third count charges fraudulent entries
and fraudulent reports. It may well be that a distinction
was intended to be made. Passive violations of law, mere
neglect, may have been regarded less culpable than active
transgression. All the causes of forfeiture enumerated in
the sixty-ninth section of the act of 1868, upon which all the
counts in the information are based, are of the latter character. We cannot hold, therefore, that the limitation of the
proviso to the 25th section of the act of 1867, which the
claimants have pleaded, is any protection to them. It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the
information must be reversed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
REVERSED, AND THE CAUSE IS REMANDED
FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

COOK V. BURNLEY.

1. The title of Juan Cano, a colonist in the empressario grant of Martin
De Leon, and to whom the commissioner of that colony conveyed a
league of land April 11, 1835, was a good title. The case of Whiie v.
Burnley (20 Howard, 235), thus deciding, affirmed.
2. A suit pending in a State court between parties not the same as in a suit
here cannot be pleaded in abatement in the Federal courfs; nor can a
suit pending be pleaded in abatement after a plea to the merits; nor
where it is insufficient in law.
8. In the case of a deposition taken de bene esse under the 30th section of the
Judiciary Act, the omission of the magistrate to certify that he reduced
the testimony to writing himself, or that it was done by the witness in
his presence, is fatal to the deposition.
4. On a question of limitations and possession, a statement by a witness in
a deposition taken de bene esse and without notice, that "he knew that
the defendant and his tenants had continued possession" from a date
specified, held to have been properly excluded, as being testimony to a
matter of law and fact mixed; the witness having already testified to
the fact of the defendant's possession and of that of his tenants, naming
them, and of the time they held possession, and when they left the
premises

COOK v;.

B URNLEYo

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. By the laws of Texas a junior locator of a warrant is not entitled to claim
as an innocent purchaser; where, as far back as 1838, a map of the
names of colonists, claimants, and grantees of head-right leagues,-was
deposited in the general land office of that republic, and where such
junior locator had actual notice of the prior grant.
6. Refusals to grant a motion to change the venue or to postpone a trial are
not subjects for a writ of error.
ERROR to the District Court for the.Eastern District of
Texas; in a suit brought by Burnley and Porter against
Cook, Eller, Elam, and several others. The case was thus:
Along the coast of Texas, small tide-water bayous, or inlets, extend from the Gulf of Mexico, and from larger bays
or inlets like that of Matagorda, into the land. They frequently connect with each other, and with the gulf or bays,
by other and similar channels. Being surrounded in many
states of the tide, and sometimes in all, by a thread of water,
they may, in one sense, be called "islands;" but lying as
they nearly all do within the regular profile of the coast, and
entitled to an insular name only by some depression in the
original soil, which has invited the ebb and flow of the
water in that direction, they can hardly be regarded as com-

ing within the meaning of "islands" in that sense which
has in most of our States made islands a sort of soil excepted by their governments from ordinary grants of soil;
or in any sense which would exclude them from a grant of
land on the coast generally.* In this state of the physical
form of the coast, Burnley and Porter brought suit against
Cook and others to recover a league of land situate on
the western shore of Matagorda Bay, near the mouth of
the river Lavaca, in Calhoun County, Texas. The parcel
in immediate controversy lay north and adjoining Powderhorn Bayou, and comprised one hundred and seventy-nine
acres. A part of the defendant's defence was based on the
assumption that a portion of what the plaintiffs claimed was
an island.
* The reader will see a more full account of this configuration of the Gulf
Coast, with an illustrative diagram, in Cavazos v. Trevino, 6 Wallace, 775,
778; where one of the islands was likened to Long Island.

Dec. 1867.]

CooK V. BURNLEY.
Statement of the case.

Having pleaded the general issue and the statute of limitations, and it being agreed by writing that under the general
issue the defendant might prove every fact which he could
under a special plea, the defendants put inj without verification by affidavit, a plea in abatement, alleging the pendency
of a suit commenced in a State court of Texas, by Burnley
and one Jones as plaintiffs, against the present defendant,
Cook, and* others; not all of them, however, the same persons as the defendants here. The suit in the State court, as
the plea represented, set forth title to the same league of
land as was now sued for; the. laying out of a town site
thereon, the location thereon by Cook of a land certificate
for three hundred and twenty acres, the commencement of
a rival town enterprise, acts of trespass and waste, and it
prayed an injunction, which was obtained; also damages
$10,000, and general relief. The court below struck out
this plea in abatement on the ground, 1st, that it was filed
after answer to the merits; 2d, that it was not verified by
affidavit; 3d, that it was not sufficient in: law.
The case being called for trial, the defendant, Cook, applied for a continuance, on the ground of the absence of a
witness; he having previously obtained one continuance on
affidavit, and having agreed to a peremptory order of trial.
The application was overruled.
After this he moved for a change of veinue, supported by
an affidavit setting forth certain statements with reference
to himself, in a publication alleged to have been made by
the judge of the court below; his belief that the judge had
prejudged his cause; and that he could not obtain a fair and
impartial trial. This motion was made under the act of
March 8, 1821, providing that "in all suits and actions in
any District Court of the United States in which it shall
appear that the judge of such court is inany way concerned
in interest or has been of counsel for either party, or is so
related or connected with either party as to render it improper for him, in his opindon, to sit on the trial of such suit
or action, it shall be his duty, on application of either party,
to cause the fact to be entered on the records of the court,"

662

Coox v. BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and also an order certifying the case for trial, &c.* The
court overruled this motion.
The case then proceeded to trial. The title of the plaintiffs
was based on the colonization laws of Mexico, under which
Martin De Leon established a colony in Texas with power to
grant titles. This title came more immediately from Juan
Cano, a colonist in this empressario grant, and under a conveyance from the commissioner of De Leon, April 11th, 1835.
Under this same settlement of De Leon'grants similar to the
present one had been made adjoining this one to one ]Benito
Morales, and on a suit by this same plaintiff Burnley, and
one Jones, against the same Cook who was the principal defendant here; which suit came finally before this court in
the case of White et al. v. Burnley,t several years ago. The
land, in this present grant to Cano, was described as situated
on the western bank of the Mother Lake (Laguna Madre) of
Matagorda, commencing at a stake that stands upon the
deep brake of said lake, and after being carried by courses
and distances around three sides, to a point where a stake
was driven in the deep brake of the said lagoon, for the
fourth and last landmark, . . . followed the bends of the
lagoon to the place of beginning. It was represented as
containing forty-six millions of square varas. Appended to
this grant was a plot or diagram.
The plaintiffs then made title from Cano to one L. Manso,
and by deed, dated in Louisiana, April 6th, 1836, from
Manso to one Grayson. At the time when this last deed
was made, Texas, then an independent republic and not yet
a State of the American Union, was at war with Mexico.
Mlanso had been long resident at one time in Mexico, but
whether ever a citizen of it was not so clear. He was a
native of Spain, and at the time of this grant was temporarily, resident in Louisiana, having been expelled from Mexico
under some laws driving away Spaniards, and was purposing
to go to Texas when its war with Mexico should be ended.
The defendants objected to the reading of the grant from
* 3 Stat. at Large, 643.

t- 20 Howard, 235.

Dec. 1867.]

CooK v. BURNLEY.
Statement of the case.

De Leon to Cano, because the title had not been recorded in
the county where the land was situate, and neither recorded
nor deposited in the general land office of Texas. The
ground of the objection apparently was, that the legislature
of Texas had by statute enacted, on the 20th of December,
1836, that any person owning lands should, within twelve
months, have his titles proved in open court, and recorded
in the county where the land lies; and that no deed should
affect the rights of third parties unless proven and recorded.
And that on the 14th of December, 1837, it was further enacted that it should be the duty of every person having
titles to deposit them in the general land office within sixty
days.
It was shown, however, by the testimony of one Edward
Linn, who had been surveyor of the Victoria district (where
these lands lay), from 1838 to 1840 and from 1847 to 1854,
when examined, that he had made a connected map of a
survey in that disirict and deposited it in the general land
office in 1838, and that the head-right lease of Cano, whom
he knew, and knew to be a colonist in the colony of Martin
De Leon, along with head-right leases of other colonists, including Manso, already named, and one Benito Morales,
with all the lands titled by the commissioner who had made
this grant, were laid down on this map, and that Cook, when
he made his location on the head-right leases, knew of these
"colonial titles."
To the reading of the deed from Manso to Grayson the
Aefendants also objected, because at the time of making it
Manso was an alien enemy to Grayson, his grantee. The
court overruled both the objection to De Leon's deed, and
that to the deed of Manso, and both deeds were read.
In the course of the trial, and coming to the defendants'
case, the defendants oflhred to read a deposition of one H.
Beaumont, taken de bene esse, under the thirtieth sectioA of
the Judiciary Act. This section provides that the witness
"shall subscribe the testimony by him or her given after
the same shall be reduced to writing, which shall be done

only by the magistrate taking the deposition, or by the de-

664

CooK

v. BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

ponent in his presence." There was no certificate here by
the magistrate that he reduced the testimony to writing
himself, or that it was done by the witness in his presence.
Proceeding further, the plaintiff having on his side shown
residence of their tenants on the lease from the spring of
1848 to the time of trial, the defendant sought to show by
the deposition of certain persons, named respectively Moore,
Schwatz, and Howeston, that tenants of Cook had been in
possession of that same place from a date which countervailed the plaintiff's evidence. The depositions ran thus in
the case of each witness respectively:
"Witness knows that Cook and his tenants have had continuous possession of said land since the fall of 1849 to the present time." "Since fall of 1849, Cook, by his tenants and those
holding under him, has had continuous possession of said land;
said possession he knows to have been continuous." "As the
tenant of Cook, as witness understood, that witness knows that
said Cook, by himself and his tenants, held possession continuously ever since May or June, 1850."
These statements were ruled out by the court, on the objection of plaintiff: 1st, that they were conclusions of law,
and not matters of fact; 2d, that they were loose and indefinite, without the names of persons, and without dates or
times, or any statement of the facts which in their mind
constituted tenancy and possession. Facts stated by the
witnesses, showing the names of the witnesses, the time
when they came and when they went, were let in. Subsequent depositions of the same witnesses, taken on notice
and cross-examination, were read.
The defendants, who asserted that their land was an
island, and not capable of having been granted under De
Leon, claimed under title from the State of Texas in favor
of Cook, one of the defendants. This title was not disputed
except as it was asserted to embrace lands claimed by the
plaintiffs as within the earlier grant to Cano. The defendants' title as made out without the rejected depositions was
as follows:

Dec. 1867.]

COOK v. BURNLEY.

Statement of the case.

A certificate for 960 acres of land, issued to one Gwartney,
December 16th, 1837. Conveyance of same by Gwartney to
Cook, December 16th, 1837. A survey of 179i acres of
land north of Powderhorn Bayou, with 1100 varas front on
the bay, by virtue of said certificate, made May 15th, 1850.
Location of this certificate as follows:
"LOCATION No. 839, January 5th, 1847.

To the County Surveyor of Victoria County:
"Will please survey 320 acres on bounty warrant No. 990, on
Matagorda Bay, at the mouth of Powderhorn Bayou, on the
northwest side; thence up the bay and back for quantity.
"W. Mt. COOK."

This was set up as a location of the 179j acres of land to
the date, and as sustaining the plea of limitation from January 5th, 1847.
Next a patent for said 179j acres of land, issued lay 16th,
1857.
The plaintiffs, on the other hand, to show that Cook had
abandoned his location of the Gwartney certificate of January
5th, 1847, proved a location made by Cook, as follows:
"Location, iEo. 429, Sept. 12, 1849.-W. M. Cook locates land
warrant, No. 5072, issued to . A. Wells, for 3"20 acres of land,
commencing at the east corner of .a survey made for D. N.
White, on the southwest side of Matagorda Bay; thence down
the bay to Powderhorn Bayou; thence up the bayou and back,
for quantity."
They proved, also, a survey of the same 179j acres north
of Powderhorn Bayou, made by the said Cook, by virtue
of land certificate to Wells, fay 15, 1850, recorded on the
29th same month; and that on the 13th January, 1851, by
the direction and request of said W. M. Cook, the field notes
and survey of this 1791 acres were altered and transferred
to the land warrant 990, the Gwartney certificate.
As the reader will have perceived, one of the defendants'
defences was, the plaintiff's grant did not embrace within

CooK v.
-

BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

its legitimate boundaries the land which Cook had located
on, and which the defendants were now claiming. To show
the reverse of this and the true designation and character
of the land granted, the plaintiffs relied on the diagram or
plot attached to their grant, and forming part of their testimonio of title, as the evidence of the original survey. On
a suit which had taken place about the land in the State
courts, Beaumont, already mentioned, had been directed by
the court to make a survey, according to the courses, distances, and landmarks of the original survey. Field notes
were furnished him by the court. He did make the survey
from the field notes so furnished, and returned the land as
containing 48,665,450 square yards, or 86131 acres; much
more than a league; but another person, a "civil engineer,
named Thelipapa, made the map. This he made from field
notes furnished him by Beaumont. But these were different
from those accompanying the order of survey. The last
specified distances and the corners of the league. The former
gave distances only. Made by the corners, more than a
league was included, and the case of the plaintiffs was
strengthened.
The law under which the original survey was made apparently required the course of the lines to be by the magnetic needle.* .From the only testimony on the point, the
survey of Beaumont was by the true meridian; and by comparing and platting the two maps, it was apparent that their
meridians were different.
The defendants asked the court to give these instructions
to the jury:
"1st. If Manso was an alien enemy at the time he executed
the deed to Grayson, he conveyed no title through which plaintiff can recover.
"2d. If plaintiff's title was not on record in the county where
the land lies, or in the general land office, at the time defendant located his land warrant, and completed his survey and
Paschal's Digest, art. 727.

Dec. 1867.]

CooK v. BTURNLEY.
Opinion of the court.

obtained his patent, he is in the position of an innocent purchaser, and entitled to recover.
"3d. If the-plaintiff's title includes an island surrounded by
tide water, it is bad as to the island.
"4th. If the jury, from the evidence, can fairly and justly
construe both the plaintiff's and defendant's title so that both
can stand, it is their duty to do so."
The court refused to give any one of these instructions,
and gave none but this:
The diagram or plot attached to the plaintiff's grant is evidence to show the designation and character of the land granted,
and may be used by the jury for its shape and boundaries. It
appears to have been surveyed by magnetic courses, and if the
survey returned by Beaumont was not surveyed by the magnetic but the true course, the jury must allow for the difference,
and Beamont's cannot be regarded as showing the original survey. The fourth call is from the end of the third line with the
bend of the .Laguna Mkadre of MS~atagorda to the beginning."
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiffs, the
defendants brought the case here; where it was submitted
by Mr. illerriman, for the plaintiff in error; and by Messrs.
Adams and -Ballinger,contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs derived their title in this case from Juan
Cano, a colonist, in the empressario grant of Martin De Leon,
and to whom the commissioner of that colony conveyed the
league of land on the 11th of April, 1835.
Several objections are taken to this deduction of title, but
it is not material to notice them particularly, as they were
before the court in the case of White et al.v. Burnley,* already
reported, in which these several objections were overruled.
The only difference between that case and the present is,
that the plaintiffs, Burnley and Jones, there claimed under
a deed by the commissioner to a colonist by the name of
* 20 Howard, 235.

COOiK

v.

B URNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Benito Morales for a league of land lying on the Matagorda
Bay, north and adjoining this grant to Cano. Both these
colonists conveyed to Leonardo lanso, one on the 27th, the
other on the 20th May, 1835, from whom the present plaintiffs derived title to both tracts. Porter, in the present suit,
represents the interests of Jones in the former, and Cook,
the principal defendant in this, was a defendant in that one.
We find no question here, as it respects the deduction of
title under the grant of the commissioner, but what was
taken in the former case, fully considered and overruled.
White, one of the defendants there, and who is a defendant
here, set up title under a land warrant, which he had located
within the boundaries of the grant to Morales, and, besides
his objections to the deduction of the plaintiffs' title, relied
on adverse possession of three years under the junior title.
In the present case, Cook sets up a like defence under the
location of a head-right and survey, which is within the
boundaries of the grant to Cano.
Among other defences relied on in the present case, not
in the former, is a plea in abatement of a suit, commenced
by Burnley & Jones, against certain defendants, for the same
cause of action, including the defendant Cook, in the District Court for the County of Calhoun. This plea was
stricken from the record on the ground that it was put in
after the defendants had pleaded to the merits, upon general
principles, and came too late. And, further, that if it had
been pleaded in season it would have constituted no bar to
the suit in this court.* It also appears that the parties to the
suit in the State court were not the same as in the present
case.
The defendants, in the course of the trial, offered in evidence the deposition of HI. Beaumont, taken under the 30th
section of the Judiciary Act, which was objected to and
excluded. There is no certificate by the magistrate that he
reduced the testimony to writing himself, or that it was done
See the case of White v. Whitman, 1 Curtis, 494; Piquignot v. Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 16 Howard, 104, and Wadleigh v. Veazie, 3
Sumner, 165.

Dec.1867.]

COOK v.

BURNLEY.

Opinion -ofthe court.

by the witness in his presence, which omission is fatal to the
deposition.*
The following portions of the depositions of Moore,
Schwartz, and Howeston were excluded, on objections taken
by the court. The testimony had reference to the possession of the locus in quo.
"Witness knows that said Cook and his tenants had continued
possession of said land since the fall of fihe year 1849, or early
part of the winter of 1849-50; say December, 1849, and down
to the present time."
This is in the deposition of Moore; the portions of the
testimony of the other two are substantially the same. The
depositions had been taken de bene esse, without notice, in
December, 1852. In January following the depositions of
these same witnesses were taken on notice to the plaintiffs,
and these were given in evidence by the defendants.
On looking at the testimony in the first depositions, it will
be seen that the witnesses had testified to the fact of the
possession of Cook, and of his tenants, naming them; and
-of the time the tenants held the possession; and when they
left the premises; also, the fact of the tenancy under the
agreement with Cook; and, of the improvements made by
the tenants. Whether or not these facts constituted a continuous possession by Cook and his tenants from the time
they entered into possession, within the, meaning of the
statute of limitations, can scarcely be regarded as a simple
question of fact, especially in connection with the previous
testimony of the witnesses on the subject of their actual
possession. We are inclined to think the question was
rather one for the jury under proper instructions from the
court. All the facts as it respects the possession had already
been testified to by the witnesses from the commencement to
its termination. Whether they constitute a continuous possession would seem to be a mixed question of law and fact.
We come now to the charge of the court to the jury. The
defendants put in four prayers for instructions.
* Elliott v. Piersol, 1 Peters, 335-6.

670

CooK v. BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1. "If L. Manso was an alien enemy at the time he executed the deed to Grayson, he conveyed no title through
which the plaintiffs could recover."
This question was before the court in the case of While et
al. v. Burnley, already referred to, very fully considered, and
overruled. We need only to refer to that case.
2. "If the plaintifi' title was not on record in the county
w'here the land lies, or in the general land office, at the time
the defendant located his land warrant, and completed his
survey, and obtained his patent, he is in the position of an
innocent purchaser, and entitled to recover."
I The location of Cook under his land warrant of the premises in question, was made on the 12th September, 1849,
and the survey thereon the 15th May, 1850. The first location was under a land warrant issued to Gwartney, certificate No. 990, and made 5th January, 1847. But this was
abandoned, and a new one made at the time above mentioned, under a certificate to J. A. Wells, No. 5072. It appears from the testimony of E. Linn, who has been the legal
surveyor of the district in which the premises are situate,
-from 1838 to 1840, and from 1847 to the time when his deposition was taken, that as early as 1838 this survey of the plat
of eight leagues of L. Manso, Cano, and Morales, granted
by De Leon, the commissioner, was laid down on the public
map of the district, and which was deposited in the general
land office as a matter of record. This, according to the
decisions in the courts of Texas, deprives the junior locator
of the character of an innocent purchaser. So does actual
notice of the prior grant, which is, also, proved in the present
case.*
3. "If the plaintiffs' title includes an island surrounded
by water, it is bad as to the island."
There is no testimony in the case tending to prove the fact.
4. "If the jury, from the evidence, can fairly and justly
construe both the plaintiffs' and defendants' title, so that
each can stand, it is their duty to do so."
* Gilbeau v. Mays, 15 Texas, 410.

Dec. 1867.]

COOK v. :BURNLEY.
Opinion of the court.

There is no evidence in the case warranting such an instruction. Besides, it was the duty of the court to construe
the paper titles of the parties.
The court gave but one instruction to the jury. The point
of the objection to it is, that the court permitted the jury to
depart from the survey of the league of land by Beaumont,
who had been appointed by an order of the court to make
it according to the courses, distances, and landmarks in the
original survey by the government at the time the grant was
made. The survey on the ground was made by Beaumont
in pursuance of this order, but a civil engineer by the name
of Thelipapa, made the map from the field notes. He was
examined as a witness, and stated that he made the map
from field notes furnished him by Beaumont. But, on comparing these field notes with those accompanying the order
of survey, they were found to be different. He states that
he made the map from courses and distances without any
call for corners. In this respect the field notes of Beaumont
differed from the original field notes, as they specified, in
addition to distances, the corners of the league, in the survey by the government. There was, also, some evidence
that the original survey was made by magnetic courses, and
the one by Beaumont by the true course, which might account for the difference between the two surveys. The
court, as will be seen, suggested this to the jury, but left the
question to them to make an allowance for the difference.
We perceive no objection to this instruction.
Upon the subject of this survey, it is quite apparent on the
evidence, that the whole of the controversy between the parties consisted in a difference of opinion as to what line constituted a boundary upon the bay of Matagorda. The defendants insisting that there is a distinction to be made
between the lagunas, some of them small, others of considerable magnitude, which are formed by tidal currents extending into the land from the bay, and, sometimes connecting with each other along the greater part of this coast, and
the waters of the bay itself, while the plaintiffs insist that
these lagunas belong to the bay and are parts of it, and that

COOKa

v.

B URNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement-of the case.

a line bounded on the lagunas is the same as bounded on
the bay. It seems in this case quite plain that the grant
to Cano was bounded or intended to be bounded on the
bay, as the first line given in the description of the tract
commences on the bay and terminates at the place of beginning, following down the bends of the Laguna Madre,
which designates the bay or great lake of Matagorda.
There were other exceptions taken in the case to the
rulings of the court in the progress of the trial, such as motions to postpone the trial, and to change the venue, which
it is not material to notice further than to say, that they are
not available on a writ of error.
After the best consideration we have been able to give to
the case, we think the're is no error in the judgment below,
and it must be
AFFIRMED.

SAME CASE.
1. An application to an inferior court to supply a lost record, being matter
addressed to its discretion, is not a subject for writ of error.
2. If after a lost record of a case where judgment below has been affirmed,
is supplied in the inferior court, final process issue in accordance with
the mandate sent to such court on the affirmance, the action of the court
in granting such process will not be reviewed here.

THE judgment which is above reported as having been
affirmed, was so affirmed at the December Term, 1867. A
mandate accordingly issued to the court below, reciting the
judgment of this court, and directing that "such execution
and proceedings be bad in said cause, as according to right
and justice and the laws of the United States ought to be
had, the said writ of error notwithstanding." This mandate
was presented to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Texas, and ordered to be recorded; and Porter, who was
now the surviving plaintiff, with the executors of his deceased co-plaintiff Burnley, applied to the court for writs
of possession. But as the records of the court below had

