THE

FANNIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

viously sold by Davenport, the title to which Le Claire took
in trust for Davenport's vendees.

With the value, at the same time, of the other parcels of
land mentioned in the agreement between Cook and Le
Claire and which Le Claire bound himself to convey to
May.
Le Claire's estate must be credited with the amount paid
on account of the bill and note of Ebenezer Cook, with interest to the same time.
The balance in favor of May, with interest from that time,
Le Claire's executors must be required to l ay to May.
These conclusions will do justice to May without disturbing the interests of any third person outside of the sphere
of Le Claire's estate.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree and proceed IN CONFORMITY TO THIS
OPINION.

Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in this judgment,
having in the early stages of the case been counsel of May,
below.

THE FANNIE.
I A schooner meeting a steamer approaching her on a parallel line, with the
difference of half a point in the courses of the two, held, in a collision
case, upon the evidence, to have kept on her course, and therein to have
done what she ought to have done.
2 A.steamer approaching a sailing vessel is bound to keep out of her way,
and to allow her a free and unobstructed passage. Whatever is necessary for this, it is her duty to do, and to avoid whatever obstructs or
endangers the sailing vessel in her course. The obligation resting on
the sailing vessel is passive rather than active, the duty to keep on her
course. If, therefore, the sailing vessel does not change her course, so
as to embarrass a steamer and render it impossible, or at least difficult,
for her to avoid a collision, the steamer alone is answerable for the damages of a collision, if there is one.

Dec. 1870.]

TirE

FANNIE.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
3. The absence of a proper lookout unimportant when the absence of one
has nothing to do with causing the disaster. The Farragut (10 Wallace, 334) affirmed on this point.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
This was a case of collision, in Chesapeake Bay, between.
the schooner Ellen Forrester and the steamship Fannie.
The owners of the schooner libelled the steamer in the District Court for Maryland. That court decreed in their favor.
The Circuit Court on appeal did the same. The owners of
the steamer now brought the case here. No question of
law was involved; the case resting chiefly on a conflict of
evidence, as to what had or bad not existed or been done, on
the respective vessels at the time of the accident.

Messrs. .Reverdy Johnson and Andrew Sterrett 1idgley, for
the appellant; Mr. E. Stockbridge, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG stated the admitted facts, the evidence on the disputed ones, and delivered the opinion of
the court.
The substantial facts, as they are made to appear by the
evidence, are these: On the morning of the 28th of April,
1868, the schooner, a vessel of sixty-nine tons burden, laden
with one hundred tons of pig-iron, was proceeding down
the Chesapeake Bay from Baltimore, toward the capes, on
her voyage to Providence, Rhode Island. The wind was
fair, blowing from the northeast, and the course of the
schooner was south by east one.half east. Her speed was
about seven knots an hour. She was in good condition, and
her lights were displayed as required by law.
At the same time the steamer Fannie, on her voyage from
Savannah to Baltimore, was proceeding up the bay at a
speed of about nine knots an hour, her general course being
north by west. The two vessels were thus approaching
each other on nearly parallel lines, with a difference of half
a point in their courses. The steamer's lights were all in
their proper places, and fully displayed. About opposite

TnE

FANNIE.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

Point Lookout, where the bay is twelve miles wide, and
where there are six miles in width of clear deep water,
nearly in the middle of the bay, the vessels encountered
each other head on, the bow of the steamer striking the
bows of the schooner. The effect of the collision was to
break in the -bow of the schooner and cause her to sink in
from five to ten minutes. The steamer passed on without
stopping or slackening her speed, or offering assistance, but
continued on her course to Baltimore, where she made no
report of the encounter.
From this statement of the leading facts, none of which
are controverted, it is very obvious there can be no excuse
for the collision. There was ample sea-room for the movement of both vessels, the lights of both were well displayed,
and there was no fog or stress of weather. Plainly, one or
both of the vessels was grievously in fault. The District
Court, after considering the evidence, held that the fault was
chargeable to the steamer alone, and condemned her to pay
to the owners of the schooner $10,365, and the Circuit Court
on appeal made a similar decree.
In this court there has been no controversy respecting the
law applicable to the case. The efforts of the appellants
have been directed almost exclusively to an elaborate criticism of the evidence, in the hope of convincing us that both
the District and Circuit Courts were mistaken, and that the
schooner was in fault We are not, however, thus convinced.
The duties of vessels approaching each other, as these
vessels were, are too well defined to need more than a simple
statement. The steamer was bound to keep out of the way
of the schooner, and to allow her a free and unobstructed
passage. Whatever was necessary for this, it was her duty
to do, and whatever obstructed or endangered the schooner
in her course it was the duty of the steamer to avoid. There
was but a single obligation resting on the schooner. It was
passive rather than active, the duty to keep on her course.
If, therefore, the schooner did not change her course, so as

Dec. 1870.]

THE FANNIE.
Opinion of the court.

to embarrass the steamer and render it impossible, or at
least difficult for her to avoid a collision, there can be no
doubt that the steamer alone is answerable for the damages. In reference to this we have carefully examined the
evidence. It is to be found in the testimony of the mate
and a seaman of the Ellen Forrester, who composed the
watch at the time of the collision, and in the testimony of
the mate and two seamen of the steamer. Both the mate
and the wheelsman of the schooner state positively that
there was no change in her course from the time the captain
left the deck (twelve o'clock) until the collision took place.
When the watch of the mate commenced, the course of the
vessel was south by east one-half east. The-witnesses or.
both sides agree that this was the right course to pursue in,
sailing down the bay. Bryant, the man at the wheel, was.
in a position to know whether the course was changed, andhe could not be mistaken. It is not to be presumed that he.
changed the course of the vessel without orders. And the.
mate must know whether he gave any orders to port or
starboard the wheel. The testimony of these witnesses,.
therefore, is not a mere statement of an inference drawn,
from appearances. It is direct and positive, and both of
them state that the course of the schooner continued unchanged from the time the captain left the deck. In addition to this is the improbability of any change. The course
south by east one-half east was the right course to be pursued in passing down the bay and out of the capes. Anydeviation from it would have retarded the voyage. Either
luffing into the wind, or falling off, would have been a departure from the proper course. And there was nothing toinduce it. The wind was fair, and the schooner was nearly
midway in the bay, with abundant sea-room on each quarterThere was no motive for a change of course, therefore, but
every reason for holding on.
In opposition to this we have the testimony of Billups,
the mate, and two seamen of the steamer. They infer from
their observation of the schooner's lights that she changed
her course twice, first luffing into the wind, and then imVOL. X1.

16

THE FA NIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mediately bearing away to the westward. At best this is
not the most satisfactory evidence, for it is liable to double
mistake; mistake of the facts, and mistake of the inferences
deduced from the facts. Thus it was said in the case of the
steamboat iVeptune:* "What a witness asserts he did, or did
not do, on his own vessel at the time, is generally more
satisfactory evidence of the facts than the opinion and belief
of a dozen others formed from what they supposed they saw
or heard on another vessel." But the testimony is subject
to more serious objections. It is confused, contradictory,
and inherently improbable. Some of it wears the appearance of being uncandid. The schooner's lights were seen
from the steamer when the vessels were three or four miles
apart, apparently one point off the steamer's port bow. Billups, the steamer's mate, states that he saw the red light. He
leaves it to be inferred that he saw the red light only. Yet
if the vessels were sailing on the courses which it is not

denied they were at the time, with only a half-point difference between them, the green light of the schooner must
have been as plainly visible to those on the steamer as was
her red light. Billups says, that a few seconds afterwards
he ordered the helm a-port. But the man at the wheel testifies that the vessels were pretty close together when the
order to port was given, and that* after porting, the steamer
hardly ran fifty yards before an order was given to starboard,
followed by a second order to port, before the steamer had
run to port twenty yards. The collision then immediately
followed. In these particulars the testimony of the look-out
on the steamer is substantially the same. Comparing it with
the account these witnesses give of the movements of the
schooner, the unreliability of their impressions becomes
manifest. It is clear that the first order to port, if given at
all, was not given until the vessels were close together. The
course of the steamer, after she passed the light-boat off
Smith's Point, was north by west. That carried her across
the course of the schooner, which was, as we have seen, south
* Olcott, 495.

Dec. 1870.]

THE FANIE.
Opinion of the court.

by east one-half east, and that accounts for the appearance
of the schooner's green light, and for the impression of the
mate that she was sailing across the bow of the steamer,
having changed her course. It must have been then that
the order to port was given, followed almost immediately by
an order to starboard, and a second order to port. All this
is perfectly consistent with the testimony of the witnesses
for the appellees that there was no change in the course of
the schooner. The account given by the appellant's witnesses is very improbable. They say the schooner luffed
across the steamer's bow, and sailed on her changed course
not more than fifty yards before she fell off again to the
westward. Billups swears that when she thus headed across
the steamer's bow she was "some feet" distant, or, as he
afterwards defined, from seventy-five to a hundred feet. It
was after this he ordered the helm to starboard and to port.
He did not slacken the speed of the steamer, or order the
engine reversed. The changes described by him in the
course of the vessels could not have been made in such
rapid succession as is stated by the appellant's witnesses.
The schooner could not have luffed up into the wind, sailed
fifty yards on her new course, and then borne away to the
westward, while the steamer with unslacked speed was moving seventy-five or a hundred feet. No wonder, therefore,
both the courts below held the steamer solely in fault. The
evidence was wholly insufficient to justify the belief that the
schooner did not keep on her course as the rules of navigation required.
We do not think it worth while to discuss the question
vhether th'e look-out on the schooner was sufficient. If it
was not, it can make no difference, for the want of a proper
look-out did not contribute to the disaster. If-the schooner
held her course, it was all that the steamer had a right to
require, and, whether she had a proper look-out or not, it
was her duty to do precisely what she did.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

