UNITED STATES V. O'KEEFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

quired to raise the question of citizenship. Here the citizenship of the parties is averred in the bill of complaint, and
the consequent defect in the jurisdiction of the court is apparent, and a defect of this character thus disclosed may be
reached on demurrer or taken advantage of without demurrer, on motion, at any stage of the proceedings. A plea in
abatement is required only where the citizenship averred is
such as to support the jurisdiction of the court and the defendant desires to controvert the averment. The question
of citizenship constitutes no part of the issue upon the
merits.
It follows, from the views expressed, that the decree of
the court below must be REVERSED, and that the cause must
be remanded with directions to the court to dismiss the bill

FoR

UNITED STATES V.

WANT O(' TURISDICTION.

O'KEEFE.

1. By the proceeding known as a " petition of right," the British government accords to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute
claims against it.
2. Accordingly, British subjects, if otherwise entitled, may recover by process in our Court of Claims the proceeds of captured and abandoned
property; a privilege granted only to the citizens or subjects of such
foreign governments as accord to our citizens the right to prosecute
claims against such governments in their courts.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By act of Congress of 1855,* establishing the Court of
Claims, persons are authorized to sue the United States.
The words of the enactment are:
APPEAL

"And the said cburt SHALL hear and determine all claims
founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of
an executive department, or upon any contract, .express or implied, with the governipent of the United States, which may be
suggested to it by a petition filed therein."
* 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

:Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. O'KEEFE.
Statement of the case.

When the court gives judgment for the claimant, the
judgment is paid- by the Secretary of the Treasury as of
course, unless within a time specified the United States appeal to this court; Congress making always, in the annual
appropriation bill, an appropriation for judgments in the
Court of Claims.
By the terms of a later act (that of July 27, 1868),* the
right to recover from the United States, by process in the
said court, the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, is confined to "citizens or subjects of any government
which accords to citizens of the United States the right to
prosecute claims against such government in its courts."

With these statutes in force, one O'Keefe, a subject of Great
Britain,brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover from
the United States the proceeds of certain captured and abandoned cotton. The question was, conceding his right otherwise to recover, whether Great Britain gave our citizens the
right to prosecute claims against her, in her courts.
The Court of Claims found as a fact,
"That the government of England accords to its subjects and
aliens the right to prosecute claims against it by petition of
right given by the common law of England, and regulated by
statute'23d and 24th Victoria, July 3, 1860, as to the mode of procedure; in which the petition addressed to the King is, by his
fiat indorsed thereon, directed to a court of his kingdom,- to
hear and determine the case. The fiat., except in a very extraordinary case,is granted as a matter of right to any suppliant, subject or alien. The petition is in form addressed to the grace and
fhvor of the King, but in practice is left at the office of the
Home Secretary, and the fiat is then obtained as a matter of
official routine."

By the act of 23d and 24th Victoria, thus referred to in
the above finding, and so made part of it, it is enacted that:
"ยง 2. The said petition shall be left with the Secretary of State for
the Home Department,in order that the same may be submitted to her
Majesty for her IMajesty's gracious consideration,and in order that
* 15 Stat. at Large, 243.

UNITED STATES V. O'KEEFE.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

her Majesty, if she shall think fit, may grant her fiat that right be
done, and no fee or sum of money shall be payable by the suppliant
on so leaving such petition, or upon his receiving back the same.
"ยง 3. Upon her Majesty'sfiat being obtained to suchpetition, a copy
of such petition andfiat shall be left at the office of the solicitorto the
treasury,with an indorsement thereon in the form or to the effect
in the schedule [No. 2] to this act annexed, praying for a plea
or answer on behalf of her Majesty within twenty-eight days."
The solicitor mentioned in the last section is to transmit
the petition to the department of the government having
charge of the subject to which it relates; and proceedings
are there to be taken to have the thing judicially heard.
In case of failure on behalf of her Majesty, or other person
called upon to plead, answer, or demur, in due time, either
to such petition, or at any subsequent stage of the proceedings thereon, the suppliant shall be at liberty to apply to the
court or a judge fbr an order, that the petition be taken pro
confesso; which, on proofs, &c., it may be. After judgment,
it is made lawful for the commissioners of her Majesty's
treasury, and they are required, to pay the amount of any
moneys and costs as to which a judgment shall be given, &c.,
out of any moneys in their hands for the time being applicable
thereto, or which may be thereafter voted by Parliamentfor that
purpose, provided such petition shall relate to any public
matter; and in case the same shall relate to any matter
affecting her Majesty in her private capacity, the amount to
which the suppliant is entitled shall be paid to him out of such
funds or moneys as her fajesty shall be graciously pleased to
direct to be applied for that purpose.
The 15th section of the act enacts that the judges of the
courts of law, or three or more of the judges of the Court
of Chancery, &c., shall make all such general rules and
orders in their said respective courts of law and equity for
regulating the pleading and practice on such petitions of
right, and for the effectual execution of the act, and of its
intention and object, as they may think fit, necessary, reasonable, or proper, and frame writs and forms of proceeding;
"provided always," however, the statute goes on to say,

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. O'KEEFE.
Argument against the right to sue.

it shall be lawful for the Queen's most excellent Majesty, by.any proclamation inserted in the London Gazette, or
for either of the houses of Parliament, by any resolution passed
at any time within three months next after such rules, orders, and
regulations shall have been laid before Parliament, to suspend
the whole or any part of such rules, orders,, or regulations, and
in such ease the whole, or such part thereof as shall be so sus-pended, shall not be binding and obligatory on the said courts."
itThat

The Court of Claims, considering that this act of the
British government did "accord to citizens of the United
States the right to prosecute claims against such government
in its courts," and consideiing further, that on the' merits
O'Keefe had made out his case, held as matter of law that
he was entitled to judgment. The United States appealed:
Mr. Akerin an, Attorney- General of the United States, and Mr.
Talbot, Assistant Attorney- General,for the appellant:
The facts found are not sifificient to support the conclusion
of law rested upon them. The court does not find that the
government of Great Britain grants to any person an.independent right to sue that government. The sovereign's
permission that the suit may be brought in court, is not
granted as a matter of course, but at the royal discretion,
which withholds it when the sovereign deems fit. A right
differing from this altogether, is that which was provided by
statute of the United States establishing the Court of Claims.
That statute enacts that the said court SHALL hear and determine all claims . . . which shall be suggested to it by
way of petition. Suppose that this enactment should read:
"The said court, the President in each ease consentig thereto,
shall hear and determine all claims founded," &c. Can
there be a doubt that the privilege then granted would
be different from the right now provided? Certainly not.
The right to sue the United States in the Court of Claims,
which is now unconditioned, 'would then be subject to the
will of the Executive. No petitioner could obtain hearing
in that court until he first obtained the consent to such
hearing of the President, the supreme head of the depart-

UNITED STATES V. O'EEFE.

(Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

ments, against the action of one of which he wished to obtain a judgment.
There is another respect in which the remedy by petition
of right lacks an essential element of a genuine remedy by
process of law. The 15th section of the act of Parliament
shows that proceedings in courts upon a petition of right,
are, subject to the direct control of the royal authority. The
sovereign may, by proclamation, suspend the rules adopted
by the courts to regulate such proceedings, so that the same
"shall not be binding and obligatory on the said courts."
The proceeding, by petition of right, has none of the freedom of a right to prosecute a claim. The jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims, on the other hand, is based upon a law of
the land. The jurisdiction of an English court depends upon
the arbitrary will of a ruler. The right, in return for which
the American right is to be accorded, should be substantially like the American right. It is not substantially like
the American right, when it depends for its exercise upon
the arbitrary will of the government, no matter what may
have been the general custom of the government in the ex-ercise of such arbitrary will, no matter how liberal the
actual practice in the past may have been.
Messrs. J. J. Weed and T. Wilson, with a brief of Messrs.
Cooley and Clark, contra.
Mr. Justice DAYIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted that Great Britain does not accord to our
citizens the right to prosecute claims against her government in her courts, because the mode of proceeding in that
country for the recovery of claims against the government
depends on the will of the Crown, while with us the right
is absolute.
It is a familiar principle that all governments possess an
immunity from suit, and it is only in a spirit of liberality,
and to promote the ends of justice, that they ever allow
themselves to be brought into court. If the privilege be
granted at all, necessarily the regulations concerning it and

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V.

O'KEEPE.

Opinion of the court.

the mode of proceeding will differ, as much as the -governments themselves differ.
In England, it is easy to see that the method of redressing injuries to which the Crown is a party, would be different from the remedy adopted in this country in case the
United States be the aggressor, because of the'principle underlying the English constitution, that the King can do no
wrong. On this account, although it would not do to issue
mandatory process against the soiereign, yet the law being
unwilling that private rights should be invaded in the conduct of public affairs and not redressed, has furnished the
subject who is thus injured with a mode of obtaining redress,
which is consistent with the idea of kingly prerogative.
The law allows him by petition to inform the King of the
nature of his grievance, and "as the law presumes that to
know of any injury and to redress it are inseparable in the
royal breast, it then issues, as of course, in the King's own
name, his orders to his judges to do justice to the party
aggrieved."*
This valuable privilege, secured to the subject in the time
of Edward the First, is now crystallized in the common law
of England. As the prayer of the petition is grantable ex
debitojustiim, it is called a petition of right, and is a judicial
proceeding, to be tried like suits between subject and subject.
It does not exist by virtue of any statute, nor does the
recent legislation in England concerning it do more than to
regulate the manner of its exercise and to confer on the petitioner the privilege, not before granted, of instituting his
proceeding in any one of the superior courts of common
law or equity in Westminster.
In this condition of the law regarding the petition of
right, which is conceded to aliens as well as subjects, how
can it be contended that the British government does not
accord to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute
claims against it in its courts? It is of no consequence that,
* 3 Blackstone's Commentaries, 255.

-UNITED STATES V.

O'KEEFE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

theoretically speaking, the permission of the Crown is necessary to the filing of the petition, because it is the duty of
the King to grant it, and the right of the subject to demand
it. And we find that it is never refused, except in very extraordinary cases, and this proves nothing against the existence of the right. It is easy to see that cases might arise,
involving political considerations, in which it would be eminently proper for the sovereign to withhold his permission,
but Congress did not legislate with reference to such a state
of things. It would be a severe rule of interpretation that
would exclude all British subjects from the Court of Claims,
because in a few sporadic cases, from motives of state policy,
the petition of right was denied. And we cannot impute
to the legislature an intention that would produce such a
result, in the absence of an express declaration to that effect.
Evidently Congress meant to 4onfer on the British subject
the right to sue in the Court of Claims under the act relating to captured and abandoned property, if, in the ordinary
course of the administration of justice in England, the law
secures to the American citizen the right to prosecute his
claim against the government in its courts. That the petition of right accomplishes this object, cannot admit of question. If the mode of proceeding to enforce it be formal and
ceremonious, it is nevertheless a practical and efficient remedy for the invasion by the sovereign power of individual
rights. Indeed, it is not less practical and efficient than a
suit in the Court of Claims. And in one important particular the two proceedings are alike, for both end with the
recovery of the judgments. After they are obtained, it depends in England on the Parliament, and in-this country on
Congress, whether or not they shall be paid.
We all agree that O'Keefe had the right to bring his action
in the Court of Claims, and the jiqdgment of that court is
therefore
A FIRMED.

