SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
I. The invention of William H. Seymour and of Palmer & Williams, explained and defined.
2. The grant of letters patent by the commissioner of patents when lawfully exercised, is prim6facie evidence that the patentee is the first in-"
ventor of that which is described and claimed in them.
8. The settled practice in equity is to require a respondent to give notice
in his answer of the names and residence of those persons whom he
intends to prove to have possessed a prior knowledge of the invention,
and where the same had been used.
4. Recitals in letters patent in the absence of fraud are conclusive evidence
that the necessary oaths were taken before the patent was granted.
6. 'Where an invention does not embrace an entire machine, the part should
be specified and pointed out, as ex. gr. the coulter of the plough, or the
divider or sweep rake of a reaping machine, so that another party
may construct the plough or reaping machine, provided he does notu
use the part specified.
6. Neither reissued nor extended patents can be abrogated by an infringer
in a suit against him for infringement, upon the ground that the
letters patent were procured by fraud in prdsecuting the applicationi
for the same before the commissioner.
7. The act of the commissioner in accepting a surrender and granting a
reissue is final and conclusive, and not re-examinable in it suit in the
Circuit Court, unless it is apparent upon the face of the patent that he
has exceeded his authority, or that there is such a repugnancy between
the old and the new patent that it must be held as matter of legal construction that the new patent is not for the same invention as that embraced and s'ecured in the original patent.
8. Interpolations in a reissued patent of new features or ingredients or
devices, which were neither described, suggested, nor substantially indicated in the original specifications, drawings, or patent office model,
are not allowed.
9. Parol testimony as to the scope of an original invention, is not allowable
on an application for a reissue as the basis of interpolation of new
matter.
10. The identity of invention in the original and reissued patent in such
suits-, is a question of comparison of the two instruments to be made
by the court, aided or not by the testimony of experts, as it may or
may not appear that one or both may contain technical terms requiring the assistance of such persons in defining them.
11. To raise such a question, the defendant in a patent suit must introduce
the original patent.
12. A claim which might otherwise be held to be bad as covering a function
or result, when containing the words "substantially as described," must

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

18.

14.

15.
16.

17.

18.

be construed in connection with the specification and be limited thereby; and when so construed it may be held to be valid. The claims in
this case, when so construed, were so held.
Changes in the construction and operation of an old machine, so as to
adapt it to a new and valuable use which the old machine had not, are
patintable, and may consist either in a material modification of old
devices, or in a new and useful combination.of the several parts of the
old machine.
Utility, in the sense of the patent law, does not require such general
utility as to supersede all other inventions that can accomplish the
same object.
Crude and imperfect experiments do not confer a right to a patent. He
is the first inventor who first perfects and adapts an invention to use.
Desertion of an alleged prior invention, consisting of a machine never
patented, may be proved by showing that the inventor, after constructing it, broke it up or laid it aside, as something requiring more thought
and experiment; provided it appears that those acts were done without
any definite intention of resuming his experiments.
Under the act of Congress allowing reissues in divisions, it may require
the use of several reissues to constitute a complete machine, and on a
proceeding for infringement these may be introduced in one bill.
A description in a prior publication, in order to defeat a patent, must
contain and exhibit a substantial representation of the patented improvement in such full, clear, and exact terms, as to enable any person
skilled in the art or science to which it.appertains, to make, construct,
and practice the invention patented. It must be an account of a com-

plete and operative invention, capable of being put into practical
operation.
19. The extent to which either the inventor of a device or of an entire machine', or of a mire combination, can invoke the aid of the doctrine of
equivalent, is the same, except that a combination is not infringed
unless by a machine containing all the material ingredients patented,
or proper substitutes for one or more of such ingredients, well known
to be such at the time when the patent was granted.
20. A question of infringement isbest determined by the court, by a comparison of a defendant's mauhines with mechanism described in patent,
and of their modes of operation..
21. The use of one post and a supporting frame attached thereto in a reaping machine, is an obvious equivalent for the two posts specifically
mentioned in the patent of Palmer'and Williams.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York.
The suit below was on a bill by AV. H. Seymour and D. S.
Morgan, for the iufringement by Osborne of five patents
owned by them, for improvement in reaping machinery.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Two of these patents covered the inventions of Seymour
-one (No. 72) relating to the shape or construction of the
grain platforms, and its special location in reference to the
cutting apparatus-the other (No. 1688) involving the gathering-reel as an additional element to the combination just
nained.*
The other three patents in controversy were granted to'
secure inventions made by Palmer and Williams, assignors
of the complainants. Two of the latter patents (No. 1682
and No. 4) were for the employment of a discharging
sweep-rake in connection with the peculiarly shaped platform, which was conceded to have been the invention of
Seymour.t
The third patent of Palmer and Williams (No. 10,459) was
for the means of sustaining the reel or grain-gathering device, consisting of a prolonged axle and two supporting
posts, placed at one end of the reel only, leaving the other
end free.t
The court below was of the opinion that the proofs of the
complainants did not show any infringement, and so dismissed the bill. From this decree the complainants took
this appeal.
The leading parts or features of a reaping machine are
three in number.
First. The part which gathers or presses the standing
* Seymour's patent was granted July 8th, 1851, and this patent was reissued July 10th, 1860, in decisions 1003, 1004, 1005. Reissue No. 1005
was again surrendered and reissued May 7th, 1861, numbered reissue 72,
which was in this suit. Reissue No. 1003 was also surrendered and reissued
May 3d, 1864, as reissue No. 1683, which was also in this suit.
t Palmer and Williams obtained original patent dated July 1st, 1851.
This was surrendered April 10th, 1855, -which was again surrendered January 1st, 1861, and reissues 4 and 5 granted. Reissue 5 was surrendered
May 31st, 1864, and reissue 1682 granted in lieu thereof. Reissues 4 and
1682 are concerned in this suit.
I Palmer and Williams obtained a separate patent for reel-support, January 24th, 1854, numbered 10,459, which patent is in this suit.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

grain to the cutting apparatus, and this has been called a
reel. (Fig. 1.)
Second. The cutting apparatus which severs the stalk;
FIG. 1.

FIG. 2.

which cutting apparatus usually consisted of a vibrating scalloped sickle, sliding through a seiies of fingers or guards.
(Fig. 2.)
Third. A platform on which the grain is received, after it
has been severed from the stalk. (Fig.
FIG. 3.
8.) In connection with the platform|
'
there is also to be noticed, its shape,
and the arrangements for removing the
grain therefrom, and depositing it on
: I'I! /J[
the ground in gavels or bundles ready
for the binder. The latter arrapgement usually consisted, in practice,
prior to the patents in controversy, of
a hand-rake and device for supporting
the body of the raker on the machine, as shown in Figure 5,
further on.
These several parts in the machine were necessarily so
arranged with reference to each other as to co-operate in
producing the desired result, viz., that of cutting the grain
and depositing it on the ground in bundles, adapted to being
readily bound into sheaves.
The reaping machine, when doing its work, passes around
the field, the horses being attached in front, and to one side
of it, and if, while cutting the first swath, the grain was to

[Sup. Ct.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Statement of the case.

pass directly back and fall on the ground in the rear of the
sickle, as the horses came around with the machine to cut
the second swath, they would walk over and trample upon
this grain which had been just cut.
Thus, if S represents the standing grain and P the platform, and if the distinctly-marked horse-tracks, T, in the
FIG. 4.

rh t

ntn

cut, represent the path just passed over by the horses, in
cutting the first swath, then the dotted horse-tracks, t, show
the path the horses will pass over on their next round.
If the grain be thrown from the platform so as to fall on
the track just passed over by the horses (i. e., on the distinctly-inarked horse-tracks T), it will then be out of the
way of the horses on their next round. If, however, the
grain be discharged directly backwards, immediately behind
the sickle, it will be in the way of the horses on their second
round, and, in that case, binders must be employed to follow
the machine and bind the grain into sheaves and lay it to
one side, before the horses come around with the machine
to cut the succeeding swath.
It is evident that the proper place to discharge the grain
is in the path just passed over by the horses; and behind
the horses, because it will then be out of the way of the
horses on their next round.
Perhaps the most usual mode of discharging grain prace

Dec.1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

ticed prior to the patent in controversy here, is shown in the
accompanying sketch.
FIG. 5.

The plate represents the arrangements for discharging
the grain, and also the relative position of cutter, reel and
platform, as well as that of the gavel or sheaf deposited on
the ground. The raker is supported upon that machine by
a seat or stand which sustains the lower part of his body,
leaving the upper part of his body free, to enable him to
operate the hand-rake with his arms. From this position
he reaches the cut grain on the platform back of the reel,
and by a sweep of his arms delivers it on the ground, either
diagonally or more or less at right angles to the track in the
path passed over by the horses. .
This mode of delivering the grain, however, was fatiguing
to the raker, and frequently the grain was deposited in a
straggling manner upon the ground, and more or less obliquely to the track or path of the machine.
Obed Hussey, one of the earliest inventors of reaping ma-.
chines, constructed his machines without a reel, and with a
square platform, and discharged the grain when cut immediately in the rear of the platform, as shown inthe drawing,
Figure 6.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
FiG. 6.

NON,

-

Obed Hussey's Machine.

In this machine, the grain was discharged directly into
the path to be passed over by the horses in their next round,
and had therefore to be gathered up immediately as fast as
cut. Some machines were also constructed by Hussey with
a straight guideboard on the platform, which was adjustable
within certain limits, and which, to a certain extent, caused
the cut grain to be pressed to one side sufficiently for a single
horse or tandem team to pass on the next round without
trampling on the cut grain. Hussey also made machines
with two platforms-one platform attached to the rear of the
other-and employed two men, one to rake the grain back,
and the other to discharge it to one side. He likewise made
a reaping machine with a square platform, to the rear of
which was bolted an angular addition, giving to the whole
where the addition was attached an angular form. This
machine was made in 1848, and after being made, it was removed in the latter part of the summer of 1848, from Hussey's shop in Baltimore, of which place he was at the time
a resident, to the railroad depot, and (as the witnesses
understood) to be shipped for trial, but they did not know
where it was to go, or whether, in fact, it was ever so shipped
or tried. Some time in 1849, or later, this machine reap-

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

peared at the shop of Hussey, and had the appearance of
having been used some little. On its return to the shop it
was set aside, and nothing more was done to it, or with it
until it was looked up in connection with this suit.
An important question arose upon this state of facts as to
whether that last machine, even if conceded to be the same
in principle with that of the complainants, amounted in view
of law to an anticipation of their invention.
The invention of Seymour consisted in constructing the
platform upon which was received the grain in the shape
of a quadrant 6r sector of a circle, and placing it just behind
the cutting apparatus, and in such relation to the main frame
that the cut grain could be swept around on the arc of a
circle, and dropped on to the ground behind the horses, so
as to be so far removed from the standing grain as to leave
room for the horses and frame to pass between the standing
grain and the gavels, thereby obviating the necessity of
taking up the cut grain as fast as cut, and at the same time
doing the work more perfectly. It is here shown.
FIG. 7.

Seymou's Maehine.

Such being Seymour's invention, he obtained an original
patent-dated July 8, 1851, and by successive reissues and

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

divers divisions thereon, among other things, two claims
were allowed to him, one in reissue No. 72, as follows, viz.:
"A quadrant-shapedplatform, arranged relatively to the cutting
apparatus substantially as herein described, for the purpose set
forth."
The other claim allowed to hin was in reissue No. 1683,
on the basis of the same original patent, as follows, viz.:
"The combination in a harvesting machine of the cutting apparatus (to sever the stalks) with a reel, and with a quadrant-shaped
platform located in the rear of the cutting apparatus, these three
members being and operating as setforth."
FIG. 8.

In Figure 8 is shown A quadrant platform cutting apparatus, and the operation of discharging the grain by handby sweeping it in the are of a circle. The relative position
of the parts also to the reel is shown, the discharging hand-

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Statement of the case.

rake striking the cut grain immediately after it is deposited
by the reel on the platform.
The complainants alleged .that the defendants infringed
these two claims by the use of a machine such as is shown
in the following sketch.
'FIG 9.

The Defendant's Hand-aker.

This machine was used with a hand-rake. The defendants
contended that the complainants' claim was for a quadrantshaped platform only, and that their own platform was composed of two straight side pieces placed together at an angle.
The court below decided that although this form of the
platform made it in effect a quadrant-shaped platform; yet
that in view of Hussey's, and of l1son Platt's platform,
the complainants .were only legally entitled to hold under
their claim the precise shape of platform invented and de.
scribed by Seymour, and that as so limited, it had not been
infringed by the defendants, and that the doctrine of equivalents could not be invoked in such a case on behalf of plain-

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

[Sup. CGL

Statement of the case.

tiff's patent, relying on Burr v. Duryee. The position thus
assumed by the court below was pressed upon this court by
the counsel of the defendants, the now appellees.
The machine of Hussey last above referred to, with the
angular piece bolted to the platform, was urged as having
been a.full and complete anticipation of Seymour's invention.
The complainants, or now appellants, on the other hand,
contended that Seymour's invention of the quadrant platform was complete in or before the harvest of 1849; that
Hussey's machine, with the angular rear piece, had no reel,
and was therefore no answer to reissue No. 1683, which had
a reel as part of its claim; and that as to reissue No. 72,
Hussey was not proved to have anticipated Seymour as an
inventor, and that his platform was, in point of law, an abandoned or incomplete experiment.
A machine of one Burral was set up in the answer but not
in the argument. Irrespective of plain want of identity it
was proved to be posterior in date. It need not be described.
The inventions.of Palmer and Williams involved in this
suit are embraced in reissue No. 4 and No. 1682, and pertain to the employment of an automatic sweep-rake in combination with the quadrant platform, which as a separate
device was conceded as between these two inventors to have
been the invention of Seymour.
The annexed description and Figure 10 (p. 527) is taken
from Palmer and Williams's patent; and the claim concerned
in this case under reissued patent No. 4 was as follows:
"Dischargingthe cut grain from a quadrant-shapedplatform, on
which it falls as it is cut, by means vf an automatic sweep-rake,
sweeping over the same substantiallyas described."
The defendants contended that this was a claim for a function or result, and as such was bad in law, and that the patent
was, therefore, void.
. 1 Wallace, 531.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBOR1NE.
Statement of the case.

The defendants also contended that there was no novelty
in the invention, and that Palmer and Williams had been
anticipated by Nelson Platt's patent, and although Palmer
and Williams's machine differed from Platt's, yet there was
no invention in the change from Nelson P]att's rake to the
complainants'; that all that Palmer and Williams had in
fact done was to take Platt's automatic sweep-rake and put
it upon Seymour's quadrant-shaped platform; and that doing
this was not invention, but merely the exercise of ordinary
mechanical skill.
FIG. 10.

Palmer and Williams's Machine.

This latter view was adopted by the Circuit Court.
N elson Platt's patent was granted June 12th, 1849, for a
self-raking reaper, which is shown in Figure 11, on page 528.
In this machine the platform was propelled from the rear,
and the grain, after being cut, was deposited on a rectangular platform, and was then raked across the rectangular
platform, by one set of rakes acting from below, on to a
second quadrant-shaped platform. The grain was then discharged from that second quadrant-shaped platform by a

SEYMOUR V.

[Slip. Ct.

OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

vibrating rake, which swept across it in the arc of a circle,
on to the ground, the heads of grain lying towards the machine. The defendants did not insist that this was identical
in construction with the complainants' invention, but that
the skill of the mechanic only was required to change it to
their invention. The court below adopted this view.
FIG. 11.

Ntelson Platt's Machine.

~

j

i11

U

The complainants contended that the claims of Palmer
and Williams's patents were to be construed for covering
substantially the "means" described for discharging the grain
"as specified "-that " this means" was a combination of mechanism. The elements of the combination are a quadrantshaped platform, a cutting apparatus, and an automatic sweeprake, and that these elements must sustain to each other, to
constitute the thing patented, the following relations:
FRrst. The quadrant-shaped platform must be directly behind the cutting apparatus.
Second. The automatic sweep-rake must traverse the platform so as to sweep the grain from where it falls, as cut,
round to the place of its destiny upon the ground.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Statement of the case.

Third. To accomplish this, the rake must have a certain
relation to the cutting apparatus, to the platform, and to
the material which has been laid upon the platform.
The complainants further contended, that while, upon the
one hand, the claim was for an entirely different invention
from Platt's, yet that one form of the defendants' machine
known as their Automatic Sweep-Rake Machine, was a clear
infringement.
The defendants' automatic sweep-rake machine, alleged
to infringe, is here shown.
FIG. 12.

Defendant's Self-raking Machine.

The automatic rake in that machine swept over the platform from the cutter to the place of delivery. It was used
with a platform of the same shape as. referred to above in
connection with the defendants' hand-raking machine. The
automatic iMike swept the cut grafin from where it fell en the
platform to the point of delivery.
The peculiar mechanism or gearing by which the sweeprake in the defendants' machine was made to traverse their
platform was admitted by the complainants to be different
from that in their patent.
VOL. XI.

84

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Upon the latter difference, the Circuit Court decided that
defendants' automatic rake did not infringe the claims now
in question, thereby limiting this claim of the complainants
to the specific driving mechanism or machinery for gearing
and actuating the sweep-rake in its movement.
The claim of the complainants' patent reissue No. 1682,
was in the following words:
" The combination of the cutting apparatus of a harvesting machine with a quadrant-shapedplatform arrangedin the rear thereof,
and a sweep-rake operated by mechanism in such manner that its
teeth are caused to sweep over the platform in curves when acting on
the grain, these parts being and operating substantially as hereinbefore set jorth."
And it was contended by the complainants to be a claim
to a combination consisting of
1. A cutting apparatus.
2. A quadrant-shaped platf6rm combined with and placed
behind the cutting apparatus.
3. An automatic sweep-rake connected with the frame by
a pivot and operated by cog-wheels, so as to sweep over the
platform while moving the grain towards the delivery side
of the platform.
The complainants insisted that the difference between
this claim and that of reissue No. 4 was in this:
That the combination claimed in this patent, No. 1682,
appertained exclusively to the operation of cutting the grain,
receiving it upon and removing it from the platform. It
did not (unless incidentally) include the means of carrying
the rake back to seize a new gavel. The claim of No. 4 included also the means of carrying the rake back to get a
new gavel after delivering the former one.
The defendants insisted that this patent was void, as being
identical with the claim of reissue No. 4, and as also being
obnoxious to the objections urged against reissue No. 4.
Patent No. 10,459, granted to Palmer and Williams, was
also alleged to have been infringed.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Statement of the case.

This patent merely related to the mode of supporting the
reel. When a reel is supported at each end by a post or
bearer, the post or bearer which is on that side or end of
the reel which runs into the standing grain encounters obstructions, and these collect upon and impede the rotation
of the reel. To avoid this, Palmer and Williams devised
the mode of supporting the reel wholly on that side of the
machine which did not run into the standing grain, and no
support was provided at the other end of the reel. The
claim for this invention was in these words:
" The method of hanging the reel so as to dispense with anypost
or reel-bearernext to the standing grain, as herein described, thereby
preventing the grainfrom getting caught and being held fast between
the divider and a reel supporter."
The defendants' machine had but one post. The reel axle,
however, was prolonged, and it was supported wholly on
that side or end of the reel and by means of two bearings
attached to that post. This mode of support is shown
supra, in Figure 9, and was argued by the complainants'
counsel to be substantially the same as that claimed in reissue 10,459.
The only alleged prior invention set up in the proofs
against this particular patent was what is called the Ogle
Machine. The only evidence of this machine was contained
in the "Mechanics' Magazine," published in London in
1825.
A copy of the description and drawing from this book
was put in evidence by the appellees.
An expert of the defendant testified as to this publication:
"I do not understand that it has any'reel support at the grain
side of the machine, it being represented as having two reel
supports at the stubble side of the machine."
But the expert did not say positively that the reel had not
any support on the grain side of the machine, but that he
did not so understand it; and gave his reasons why he did

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

not so understand it, which was because there were boo supports on the stubble side; or, in other words, because there
were two reel supports on the stubble side he inferred that
there was none on the grain side.
On the other hand, the complainants contended that the
presence of two reel bearings on the stubble side of the machine was not conclusive evidence of the absence of a bearing also on the grain side, because there might have been
two on the stubble side to better support the shaft toward
the centre and keep it from sagging, as well as one on the
grain side, and that for such purpose they might obviously
be useful.
The experts of the complainants testified that these drawings, taken with the printed part of the description in the
"Mgazine," did not show what is described in this patent
of the complainants and specified in the claim in controversy, and that they did not suggest the idea of this invention.
The counsel of the complainants insisted that the description in the first publication, to be available, must be such as
to enable the public to practice the invention.*
In addition to the points above, as to novelty and infringement, other grounds of objection were taken by the defendants to the validity of these reissued patents, among them,
these:
That Palmer and Williams never made oath to the application on which the reissued patent was granted, and therefore the reissue was void:
That the patentees did not specify and point out in their
specifications and claims the parts which they claim as their
respective inventions:
That the commissioner of patents had no jurisdiction to
receive the surrender of the originals or grant the reissued
patents thereon, because no evidence was produced before
him to show that the originals were "inoperative and invalid :"
* Citing Curtis on Patents, 378; Betts v. Menzies, Hall v. Evans, 6 Lav
Times, N. S. 90.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

That the reissued letters patent were void because they
were not granted for the same invention as the original
patents.
M1essrs. Gifford and Stoughton, for the appellants,the complainants below. Mr. D. Wright, contra.
Mfr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Controversies respecting the infringement of letters patent
possess, in many cases, a degree of importance much beyond
the profits or damages claimed for the alleged unlawful use
of the invention, as the pleadings usually put in issue, in
one form or another, the validity of the letters patent alleged
to be infringed, and frequently involve, directly or indirectly,
the same inquiry in regard to the letters patent set up in defence as superseding the patent on which the suit is founded.
Such being the state of the pleadings, the result, whatever it
may be, whether for the party suing or for the party defending, must oftentimes determine rights of property of much
greater value than the amount of the profits or damages
claimed for the alleged infringement of the letters patent.
Inventions secured by letters patent are property in the
holder of the patent, and as such are as much entitled to
protection as any other property, consisting of a franchise,
during the term for which the franchise or the exclusive
right is granted.
Letters patent are not to be regarded as monopolies,
created by the executive authority-at the expense and to the
prejudice of all the community except the persons therein
named as patentees, but as public franchises granted to the
inventors of new and useful improvements for the purpose
of securing to them, as such inventors, for the limited term
therein mentioned, the exclusive right and liberty to make
and use and vend to others to be used their own inventions,
as tending to promote the progress of science and the useful
arts, and as matter of compensation to the inventors for their
labor, toil, and expense in making the inventions, and reducing the same to practice for the public benefit, as con-

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

templated by tlie Constitution and sanctioned by the laws
of Congress.
Five several letters patent were owned by the complainants when the present suit was commenced, and they allege
in the bill of complaint that the respondents have infringed
their exclusive rights as secured to them in each and every
one of those letters patent. Four of the letters patent are
reissued letters patent, and are numbered and described as
follows: (1.) Reissued letters patent No. 4, dated January
1, 1861, for a new and useful improvement in harvesters,
being one of a second reissue in two separate patents, on
amended specifications, as more fully explained in the pleadings and the patents annexed to the printed record. (2.)
Reissued letters patent No. 1682, dated May 81, 1864; also
for a new and useful improvement in harvesters, being the
second reissue from the before-kientioned reissue when the
invention was divided into two parts. They both purport
to be founded upon the original patent granted to Aafon
Palmer and Stephen G. Williams, dated July 1, 1851, which
was for a new and useful improvement in harvesters, and
the reissued patents were fully extended for seven years from
the expiration of the original term.
(3.) Reissued letters patent No. 72, dated May 7, 1861,
being a reissue of one of three parts of a prior reissue of the
original patent, dated July 8, 1851, which was granted to
William H. Seymour for a new and useful improvement in
reaping machines. (4.) Reissued letters patent No. 1683,
dated May 81, 1864, being a reissue of another of the three
parts of the prior reissue of that patent, as more fully explained in the pleadings; the charge being that the respondents have infringed the first claim, (5.) Superadded to those
several charges against the respondents is the further one
that they have also infringed certain original letters patent
owned by the complainants, dated January 24, 1854, which
secures to them, as assignees of Palmer and Williams, certain other new and useful improvements in grain harvesters
besides those embodied in the several reissued letters patent
to which reference has been made.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

Founded upon those several letters patent, the bill of complaint, which is drawn in the usual form, alleges that the
respondents have unlawfully made, and used and vended to
others to be used, the respective inventions therein described,
and the complainants pray for an account and for an injunction. Service was made upon the respondents, and they
appeared and filed an answer, setting up several defences to
each of the patents described in the bill of complaint. Responsive to the answer the complainants filed the general
replication, and the cause being at issue they put in evidence
the five several letters patent on which the suit is founded,
the respondents consenting that copies of the same, and of
the respective certificates of extension mentioned in the
pleadings, might be substituted in the record in the place
of the originals as introduced in evidence.
Other proofs were introduced and the parties were fully
heard, but the Circuit Court was of the opinion that the
proofs introduced by the complainants were not sufficient to
show any infringement of their rights, and accordingly entered a decree for the respondents, dismissing the bill of
complaint. Dissatisfied with that conclusion the complainants appealed to this court and ilow seek to reverse that
decree.
Separate defences having been set up in the answer to
each of the five letters patent, it will be necessary to a clear
understanding of the controversy and to prevent any misunderstanding as to the views of the court, to describe
somewhat more fully the nature of the several inventions
and the objects which they were designed to accomplish.
I. Explained in general terms, the invention secured in
the first-mentioned reissued patent, numbered four, consists
in arranging an automatic sweep-rake in a harvesting machine in such relation to a quadrant-shaped platform, upon
which the cut grain falls as it is cut, that it shall vibrate
over the same at suitable intervals to discharge the cut grain
in gavels upon the ground.
Specific description is given, in the first place, of the
frame of the machine, which, as represented, is composed

536

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of three longitudinal beams and two transverse beams securely fastened to each other at their points of intersection.
Next follows a reference to the driving wheel, which, as
represented, is placed between the outer longitudinal beani
and the central beam, having its bearings on arched supports or brackets rising from each of the beams composing
the frame. Guard fingers through which a sickle vibrates
are secured upon the front edge of a platform shaped like a
quadrant or sector of a circle, of which the arm or lever
that carries the rake-head forms the radius, and the fulcrumpin on which the arm or lever vibrates constitutes the centre,
the whole operating so that the grain is swept round, on an
arc of a circle, and discharged in gavels upon the ground
behind the driving wheel.
Minute details of all the other elements of the machine
are also given in the subsequent parts of the specifications,
and of their modes of operation, and the specification concludes with the claim which, in substance, is discharging
the cut grain from a quadrant-shaped platform on which it
falls as it is cut, by means of an automatic sweep-rake
vibrating over the same, substantially as described, which
must be understood as referring back to the description contained in the body of the specification.
II. Two combinations are mentioned in the specification
of the reissued letters patent No. 1682, but it is only necessary to refer to the first, as it is not alleged that the respondents have infringed the second claim. Described separately
the ingredients of the first claim are as follows: (1.)'The
cutting apparatus to sever the standing stalks of grain. (2.)
The quadrant-shaped platform arranged behind the cutting
apparatus to receive the severed stalks of grain as they fall.
(3.) The sweep-rake and the described mechanism to operate the same in such manner that the teeth shall move in
circular curves over the platform when they are acting on
the grain.
Reference must also be made to the other two reissued
letters patent embraced in the pleadings. Both have respect
to an improvement made in reaping machines, and they

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

were both granted to secure material parts of an original
invention once before surrendered and reissued because the
letters, patent were defective and inoperative. Before the
term of the original patent expired the patents were extended for the further term of seven years.
Ill. lNumber seventy-two consists in constructing the
platform of a reaping machine, upon which the cut grain
fialls as it is cut, in the shape of a quadrant, or of a sector
of a circle, placed just behind the cutting apparatus, and in
such relation to fthe main frame that the grain, Whether
raked off by hand or by machinery located behind the cutting apparatus, can be swept around on the arc of a circle
and be dropped, heads foremost, on the ground far enough
from the standing grain to leave room for the team and machine to pass between the gavels and the standing grain
without the necessity of taking up the gavels before the
machine comes round to cut the next swath.
IV. They also acquired title to the invention secured in
the remaining reissued letters patent mentioned in the bill
of complaint, to wit, number 1683; but it will be sufficient
to refer to the first claim of the same, as the second is not
the subject of controversy in this suit.
As described' in the specification the ingredients of the
first claim are the cutting apparatus to sever the stalks, the
reel to incline the heads of the stalks towards the cutting
apparatus, and the quadrant-shaped platform; located in the
rear of the cutting apparatus, to receive the cut stalks as.
they fall before the operation of the sweep-rake begins.
Designed as the improvements were to accomplish the
same object as the other two improvements previously de-scribed, the patentees or owners of the several letters patent
elected to compromise rather than litigate, and the result
was that the entire interest became ultimately vested in the
appellants.
V. Patented improvements in the method of transferring
motion from the driving wheel of a reaping machine to the
rake on the platform of the machine, and in the method of
hanging the reel so as to dispense with any post on the side

SEYMOUR 7'. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the machine next the grain, were also acquired by the
appellants as a part of the same arrangement, and they
charge in the bill of complaint that the second claim of the
original letters patent, embodying that improvement, is also
infringed by the respondents.
Power to grant letters patent is conferred by law upon
the Commissioner of Patents, and when that power has been
lawfully exercised, and a patent has been duly granted, it is
of itself prinidfacie evidence that the patentee is the original
and first inventor of that which is therein described, and
secured to him as his invention.*
Persons seeking redress for the unlawful use of letters
patent, in which they have an interest, are obliged to allege
and prove that they, or those under whom they claim, are
the original and first inventors of the improvement embodied in the letters patent on which the suit is founded,
and that the same have been infringed by the party against
whom the suit is brought.
Undoubtedly the burden to establish both of thoge allegations is, in the first place, upon the party instituting the
suit, as they lie at the foundation of every such claim, but
the law is well settled that the letters patent in question,
where they are introduced in evidence in support of the
claim, if they are in due form, afford a primd facie presumption that the first-named allegation is true, and the rule is
equally well settled that that presumption, in the absence
of satisfactory proof to the contrary, is sufficient to entitle
the party instituting the suit to recover for the alleged violation of the exclusive rights secured to him in the letters
patent.
Availing themselves of that rule of law the complainants
ia this case introduced the five several letters patent on
which the suit is founded, and they contend, and well contend, that their effect as evidence is to cast the burden of
proof upon the respondents to show that the respective
patentees are not the original and first inventors of the im* White et al. v. Allen et al., 2 Clifford, 228.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

provements embodied in the several letters patent, as they
have alleged in their answer.
Parties defendants, sued as infringers, are not allowed in
an action at law to set up the defence.of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, unless they
have given notice of such 'a defence thirty days before the
trial, and have stated in the notice "the names and places
of residence of those whom they intend to prove to have
possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where the
same had been used;" and the settled practice in equity is.
to require the respondent, as a condition precedent to such
defence, to give the complainant substantially the same information in his answer.*
Notices of the kind were given by the respondents in this
case, but it will be more convenient to examine certain
special defences set up in the answer before entering upon
that inquiry, as the decree must be. affiried, in any event,
if any one of those defences is well f6unded, whether the
issues of novelty and of infringement are determined in
,favor of the complainants or respondents.
All of the special defences apply to the original patent, as
well as to those which have been reissued, except such as
are founded upon the acts or omissions of the commissioner
in granting the reissues, which of course are not applicable
to the former. They are'eight in number, as exhibited in
the answer, the respondents alleging in each that the letters
patent are void and of no effect for the reasons therein set
forth; and they will be briefly examined in the order in
which they are.pleaded.
1. That the letters patent are void and of no effect because
the patentees did not make oath, before the patents were
granted, that they did verily believe that they were the original and first inventors of the improvements for which the
letters patent were solicited.
Congress possesses the power to pass laws to secure to
inventors, for limited times, the exclusive right to their in* Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wallace, 596 ; Teese v. Huntingdon, 23 Howard, 10.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ventions, and Congress, in pursuance of that article of the
Constitution, has conferred the power to grant letters patent
for that purpose upon the Commissioner of Patents. Persons who have made an invention, and who desire to obtain
an exclusive property therein, may make application in writing to the Commissioner of Patents, and the provision is
that the commissioner, on due proceedings had, may grant
a patent for the said invention.
Inventors of machineB are required, before they receive a
patent, to deliver a written description of their inventions,
and of the manner and process of making, constructing, and
using the same, in such "full, clear, and exact terms" as to
enable any person skilled in the art or science to make, construct, and use the same, and fully to explain the principle
by which the invention may be distinguished from others of
like kind; and they are also required to specify and point
out the part, improvement, or combination which they claim
as their invention.
Doubtless these several requirements may be regarded as
conditions precedent to the right of the commissioner to
grant the application, as they must appear on the face of the
letters patent, and are always open to legal construction as
to their sufficiency.
Drawings are also required in certain cases, and where
the invention is such that it may be represented by a model,
the applicant for a patent is required to furnish a model of
the same; and the further requirement is that he shall make
oath or affirmation that he does verily believe that he is the
original and first inventor of the improvement for which he
solicits a patent, and that he does not know that the same
was ever before known or used.
Importance, it is conceded, must be attached to the latter
requirement, but it is certain that the oath or affirmation
may be taken elsewhere than before the commissioner, as
the same section provides that it "may be made before any
person authorized by law to administer oaths."*
* 5 Stat. at Large, 119.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

Extended examination of the question, however, is unnecessary, as every one of the letters patent on which the
suit is founded contains the recital that the required oath
was taken before the same was granted, and the court is of
the opinion that those recitals, in the absence of fraud, are
conclusive evidence that the necessary oaths were taken by
the applicants before the letters patent were granted.
2. That the letters patent are void and of no effect because the patentees did not specify and point out in their
specifications and claims the parts, improvements, or combinations which they claim as their respetive inventions.
Grant the theory of fact assumed in the proposition and
the conclusion would follow, but the whole theory of the
proposition as applied to the present case is founded in
error.
Inventions secured by letters patent sometimes, though
rarely, embrace ail entire machine, and in such cases it is
sufficientif it appear that the claim is coextensive with the
invention. Other inventions embrace only one or more
parts of a machine, as the coulter of a plough, or the divider
or sweep-rake of a reaping machine; and in such cases the
part or parts claimed must be specified and pointed out so
that constructors, other inventors, and the public may know
how to make the invention, and what is withdrawn from
general use.
Patented inventions are also made which embrace both a
new ingredient and a combination of old ingredients embodied in the same machine. Even more particularity of
description is required in such a case, as the property of the
patentee consists, not only in the new ingredient, but also 1n
the new combination, and it is essential that his invention
shall be so fully described that others may not be led into
mistake, as no other person can lawfully make, use, or vend
a machine containing such new ingredient or such new
combination. They may make, use, or vend the machine
without the patented improvements, if it is capable of such
use, but they cannot use either of those improvements without making themselves liable as infringers.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct;

Opinion of the court.

Improvements in machines protected by letters patent
may also be mentioned, of a much more numerous class,
where all the ingredients of the invention are old, and
where the invention consists entirely in a new combination
of the old ingredients, whereby a new and useful result is
obtained, and many of them are of great utility and value,
and are just as much entitled to protection as those of any
other class.*
Such a combination is sufficiently described if the ingredients of which it is composed are named, their mode of
operation given, and the new and useful result to be accomplished pointed out, so that th6se skilled in the art and the
public may know the extent and nature of the claim, and
what the parts are which co-operate to produce the described
new and useful result. Tested by these rules, it is clear that
the objection under consideration cannot prevail in respect
to any one of the several letters patent on which the suit is
founded.
3. That the reissued letters patent are void and of no
effect, because the Commissioner of Patents never obtained
jurisdiction to receive the surrender of the originals, nor to
grant the reissues, as no evidence was produced before him
to show that the originals were inoperative or invalid for
any reason or cause whatsoever.
Whenever any patent is inoperative or invalid, by reason
of a defective or insufficient description or specification, if
the error arose by inadvertency, accident, or mistake, and
without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, it is lawful
for the commissioner, upon the surrender to him of such
patent, and of the payment to him of a certain duty, to cause
a new patent to be issued to the inventor for the same invention for the residue of the term then unexpired, in accordance with the patentee's corrected descriptiou and specification.t
Whether adjudged to be valid or invalid, it is clear that
* Union Sugar Refinery v. 3Matthiessen, 2 Fisher's Patent Cases, 605.
*t 6 Stat. at Large, 122.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

the several reissued letters patent are all in due form, and
that they contain all the usual recitals asserting a compliance with the requirements specified in the patent act, and
it is equally certain that the respondents did not introduce
any proofs to establish the theory of fact assumed in the
answer.
Authority to accept the surrender of original patents in
certain cases, and to grant new patents to the inventor, was
conferred upon the commissioner by the act of the 8d of
July, 1832, and in a case arising under that act it was held
by this court, more than thirty years ago, that where an act
was to be done or a patent granted, upon proofs to be laid
before a public officer, upon which he was to decide, the fact
that such public officer had done the act or granted the
patent was primd facie evidence that the proofs had been
regularly made, and that they were satisfactory, even though
the patent did not contain any recitals that the prerequisites
to the grant had been fulfilled; and such continued to be the
rule until the 4uestion came up again for consideration under
the existing patent act, when it was held by this court that
the fact of the granting of the reissued patent closed all inquiry into the existence of inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and left open only the question of fraud for the jury.*
Since that time it has been definitively settled that neither
reissued nor extended patents can be abrogated by an infringer, in a suit against him for infringement, upon the

ground that the letters patent were procured by fraud in
prosecuting the application for the same before the commissioner.Where the commissioner accepts a surrender of an original patent and grants a new patent, his decision in the
premises, in a suit for infringement, is final and coielusive,
and is not re-examinable in such a suit in the Circuit Court,
unless it is apparent upon the face of the patent that he has
exceeded his authority, that there is such a repugnancy be* Railroad v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 458; Stimpson v. Railroad, 4 Howard,
B84; 4 Stat. at Large, 559.
t Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 797; S. C., 2 Clifford, 375.

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tween the old and the new patent that it must be held, as
matter of legal construction, that the new patent is not for
the same invention as that embraced and secured in the
original patent.*
4. That the reissued letters patent are void and of no effect
because they were not granted for the same invention as that
embodied in the original letters patent, nor for any invention
made by the patentees before the original letters patent were
granted.
Reissued letters patent must, by the express words of the
section authorizing the same, be for the same invention, and
consequently where it appears on a comparison of the two
instruments, as matter of law, that the reissued patent is not
for the same invention as that embraced and secured in the
original patent, the reissued patent is invalid, as that state
of facts shows that the commissioner, in granting the new
patent, exceeded his jurisdiction. Power is unquestionably
conferred upon the commissioner to allow the specification
to be amended if the patent is inoperative or invalid, and in
that event to issue the patent in proper form; and he may,
doubtless, under that authority, allow the patentee to redescribe his invention and to include in the description and
claims of the patent not only what was well described before
but whatever else was suggested or substantially indicated
in the specification or drawings which properly belonged to
the invention as actually made and perfected. Interpolations of new features, ingredients, or- devices, which were
neither described, suggested, nor indicated in the original
patent, or patent office model, are not allowed, as it is clear
that the commissioner has no jurisdiction to grant a reissue
unless it be for the same invention as that embodied in the
original letters patent, which necessarily excludes the right
on such an application to open the Qase to new parol testiMony and a new hearing as to the nature and extent of the
improvement, except in certain special cases, as provided iu
Battin v. Taggert, 17 Howard, 83; O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Id. 111, 112;
Sickles v. Evans et al., 2 Clifford, 222; Allen v. Blunt, 8 Story, 744.

:Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

a recent enactment not applicable to the case before the
court.L *
Corrections may be made in the description, specification,
or claim where the patentee has claimed as new more than
he had a right to claim, or where the description, specification, or claim is defective or insufficient, but be cannot under
such an application make material additions to the invenition which were not described, suggested, nor substantially
indicated in the original specifications, drawings, or patent
,office model.
Prioi' to the'decision of this court that a person sued as
:an infringer' cannot abrogate a reissued or extended patent
by showing that the commissioner had been induced to
grant it by fraudulent representations, it had sometimes
been supposed that every such new patent was open to that
defence and that the question was one of fact dependent
upon evidence, but since it has been determined that such a
party cannot be heard to make such a defence to the charge
of infringement, it has come to be regarded as the better
opinion that all matters of fact involved, in the hearing of
an application to reissue a patent, and in granting it, are
,onclusively settled by the decision of the commissioner
granting the application. Matters of construction arising
upon the face of the instrument are still open, but all matters of fact connected with the surrender and reissue are
closed in such a suit by the decision of the commissioner in
granting the reissued patent.t
I Letters patent reissued for an invention substantially different from that embodied in the original patent are void
and of no effect, as no jurisdiction to grant such a patent is
conferred by any act of Congress upon the commissioner,

and he possesses no power in that behalf except what the
acts of Congress confer. Whether a reissued patent is for
the same invention as that embodied in the original patent
* 16 Stat. at Large, 206; Cahart et al. v. Austin, 2 Clifford, 536; Curtis
on ratents (3d ed.), 276; Woodworth v. Stone, 3 Story, 753.
t Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 796; Stimpson v. Railroad, 4 Howard, 404; Railroad v. Stimpson, 14 Petdrs, 458.
35
VOL. XI.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

or for a different one is a question for the court in an equity
suit to be determined as a matter of construction, on a comparison of the two instruments, aided or not by the testimony of expert witnesses, as it may or may not appear that
one or both may contain technical terms or terms of art
requiring such assistance in ascertaining the true meaning
of the language employed.*
Where the specification and claim, both in the original
and reissued patents, are expressed in ordinary language,
without employing any technical terms or terms of art, the
question whether the reissued patent is for the same invention as that described in the original patent or for a different
one is purely a question of construction, but where both or
either contain technical terms or terms of art the court may
hear the testimony of scientific witnesses to aid the court in
coming to a correct conclusion. Cases doubtless arise where
the language of the specification and claim, both of the surrendered and reissued patents, is so interspersed with technical terms and terms of art that the testimony of scientific
witnesses is indispensable to a correct understanding of its
meaning. Both parties in such a case would have a right
to examine such witnesses, and it would undoubtedly be
error in the court to reject the testimony, but the case before the court is not of a character to render it expedient to
pursue the inquiry."
Apply the rule to the present case, that the question is
one of construction, and it is clear that the defence under
consideration is not open to the respondents, as they did
not introduce in evidence the original letters patent from
which the reissued patents were derived.
Persons owning reissued letters patent, and seeking redress from those who have invaded their exclusive rights,
are not obliged to introduce in evidence the surrendered
patent, and, if the old patent is not introduced by the party
sued, he cannot have the benefit of such a defence.
* Sickles -v. Evans et al., 2 Clifford, 203.
t Bisehoff v. Wethered, 9 Wallace, 814; Betts v. Menzies, 4 Best & Smith,

Q. B. 939.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

5. That the several letters patent are void and of no effect
because the claims therein patented are for an effect, and
not for any particular machinery.
Founded, as the defence is, upon an obvious misconstruction of the claims of the several patents, if does not
seem to require much explanation. Omit the words "substantially as described," or "substantially as set forth," and
the question presented would be a very different one, but
inasmuch as those words, or words of equivalent import,
are employed in each of the claims, the defence is-without
merit. Where the claim immediately follows the description of the invention it may be construed in ionnection
with the explanations contained in the specifications, and
where it contains words referring back to the specifications,
it cannot properly be construed in any other way.*
6. That the several reissued letters patent are void and
of no effect because the claims therein made are too broad
and embrace that of which the patentees were not the original and first inventors prior to the granting of the original
letters patent.
Properly understood the defence is substantially the same
as that set up in the fourth defence, and it must be averruled for the same reasons, which need not be repeated.
7. That the several letters patent ar void and of no effect
because what is claimed therein as new was in public use,
with the consent and allowance of the original patentees,
more than two years before they applied for the several
patents.
Such a defence set up in a case where the complainants
file the general replication is of no avail unless sustained by
proof, and the respondents did not introduce any proofs to
sustain it, which is all that need be said upon the subject.
8. That the combination claimed in each of the several
letters patent is a combination of old parts, the combining
of 'which involved no invention, but merely the skill of an
intelligent mechanic or other person skilled in the manufacture and use of harvesting machines.
* Curt's on Patents (3d ed.), sees. 225-227.

548

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Reduced to a proposition the defence, as set up in the
answer, is that the several improveerents were old and not
patentable on that account, as no improvements were made
which required invention. Specific objection is made under
this head to each of the four reissued letters patent, but the
'grounds of the several objections are substantially the same,,
so that the several propositions may be considered together.
New and useful machines are the proper subjects of an
application for a patent, and so, by the express words of the
act of Congress, are new and useful improvements on any
machine. All of the patents embraced in the suit fall under
the second clause of the provision, and are of the fourth
class of patents before described, that is, they consist of a
new combination of old elements whereby a new and useful
result is obtained.
Particular changes may be made in the construction and
operation of an old machine so as to adapt it to a new and
valuable use not known before, and to which the old machine had not been, and could not be, applied without those
changes, and, under those circumstances, if the machine, as
changed and modified, produces a new and useful result, it
may be patented, and the patent will be upheld under existing laws.*
Such a change in an old machine may consist merely of
a new and useful combination of 'the several parts of which
the old machine is composed, or it may consist of a material
alteration or modification of one or more of the several devices which entered into its construction, and whether it be
the one or the other, if the change of construction and operation actually adapts the machine to a new and valuable
use not known before, and it actually produces a new and
useful result, then a patent may be granted for the same,
and it will be upheld as a patentable improvement.t
Improvements for which a patent may be granted must
* Bray v.
Cases, 207;
Norman 0D
t Park v.

Hartshorn, 1 Clifford, 541 ; Losh v. Hague, 1 Webster's Patent
Hindmarsh on Patents, 95; Phillips v. Page, 24 Howard, 166;
Patents, 25.
Little, 3 Washington Circuit Court, 196.

-- .^

De. 1870.]

SEYMOUR

V.

OSBoNNE.

549.

Opinion of the court.

be new and useful, within the meaning of the patent law, or
the patent will be void, but the requirement of the patent
act iii that respect is satisfied if the combination is new and
the machine is capable of being beneficially used for the
purpose for which it was designed, as the law does not require that it should be of such general utility as to supersede all other inventions in practice to accomplish the same
object.*
Unsuccessful in those defences the respondents in the
next place attack the respective inventions as destitute of
originality, and allege that the patentees were not the original and first inventors of the several improvements supposed to be secured in the letters patent. Separate defences
of the kind are set up in the answer to each of the letters
patent, but the nature 4.nd character of the objections are
such that the whole series may properly be considered
together.
. Prior notice in the answer is required in such a case as a
condition precedent to the right to introduce proofs to support such a defence, and it is certainly proper that the respondent should be allowed to comply with that requirement,
but it is an abuse of the privilege to give such notices without some reason to iuppose that such a defence can successfully be made, and that the proofs, if required, can be obtained, as it exposes the complainant to unnecessary expense
and trouble in preparing his case for trial. Where no proofs
were introduced in support of the answer no mention will be
made of the notices, as a. notice without proof to support it
is of no avail.
Out of all the alleged prior inventions set up in the answer,
only four were made the subject of pro6f to any substantial
extent. Two of these are the inventions of Obed Hussey
and of Thomas D. Burral, of the combination of the quadrant-shaped platform located behind the cutting apparatus.
Those patents were introduced as tending more particularly
* Lowell v.Lewis, I Mason, 182; Bedford v.Hunt, 1d. 302; Many v.

Jagger, 1 Blatchford, 372; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mdason, 447.

SEYMOVR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

to supersede the reissued patent number seventy-two, before
described.
Strong doubts are entertained whether any of the patents
given in evidence by the respondents as superseding the particular patent of the complainants, involved in this issue, are
of a character to have that dffect, even if the inventions which
they purport to secure were of prior date, but it is not abso-

lutely necessary to decide that point, except as to one of the
exhibits, as the court is of the opinion that none of the others
antedate the invention secured in that patent. Conclusions
are all that will be useful on this branch of the case, especially as the question is ofie of fact dependent upon the
proofs, which are somewhat conflicting, and where a full
analysis of the evidence would hardly be practicable, as it
would extend the opinion to an unreasonable length.
Proofs entirely satisfactory to the court are exhibited by
the complainants showing that their invention, as described
in the patent in question, was perfected early in the summer
of 1849, as a material part of a harvesting machine, and that
the same was reduced to practice as an operative machine
during the harvesting season of that year.
Hussey, from 1839 or earlier to the time of his death, in
the summer of 1860, was much engaged in the manufacture
of reaping machines of various kinds. Most of his machines,
however, were constructed without any reel and with square
platforms, so as to drop the cut grain at the rear of the platform, differing so widely from the patented machine of the
complainants as to require no argument to show that they
affbrd no support to the' present defence. Other machines
were constructed by him with a straight guide-board on the
platform, which was adjustable within certain limits, and
the apparatus was doubtless capable, to a limited extent, of
causing the cut grain to be moved sufficiently out of the
path of the machine to give room for a single team.
Evidence to show that the invention of the complainants
is embodied in those machines is entirely wanting, and it is
quite clear that if any such had been introduced it could not
have been credited, as the differences between them are too

:Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

palpable and material to be 6vercome by parol evidence.
Machines were also made by him with two platforms, or with
a platform in two parts, the one being attached to the rear
of the other, but it required two men to do the work which,
with the complainants' machine, is easily and much better
accomplished by one, which is certainly all the explanation
which need be given of those machines in the present case.
Apart from these he also made one experimental machine,
with a square platform, to which was bolted an angular addition, giving the whole, when the addition was attached, an
angular form., Examined when the addition is bolted to the
main platform, irrespective of the other ingredients of the
combination, it approaches much nearer to the invention of
the complainants than any of the other exhibits introduced
in evidence by the respondents. Conceding all that, still it
would not be difficult to show that the two are substantially
.different in several respects; but it is unnecessary to enter
that field of inquiry, as the proofs are entirely satisfaciory to
the court, that the machine, as constructed, wa merely an
experiment, and that it was never reduced to practice as an
operative machine. Undoubtedly it was built in the autumn
of 1848, subsequent to the close of the harvest season; but
the respondents' testimony shows that it was not used for
cutting grain during that harvesting season.
Some obscurity surrounds its early history, nor is it of
much importance that it should be better known. It appears that it was sent to the railroad depot to be transported
to some other place for trial; but there is no positive evidence that it was ever forwarded or used, or that it was
capable of any beneficial use. Where it was transported, if
at all, from the depot, does not appear; but it does appear
that it was returned the next year to the shop of the maker,
and that it was set against the wall by the side of the street,
in front of the shop, where it remained for some time; that
it was then removed to the new shop of the maker, where
it remained until it was taken to pieces and broken up by his
order, and never restored till long subsequent to the complainants' patent.

552

SEYMOUR v. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Original and first inventors are entitled to the benefit of
their inventions if they reduce the same to practice, and
seasonably comply with the requirements of the patent law
in procuring letters patent for the protection of their exclusive rights. Crude and imperfect experiments are not sufficient to confer a right to a patent; but in order to constitute an invention, the party must have proceeded so far as
to have reduced his idea to practice, and embodied it in
some distinct form.
Desertion of an invention consisting of a machine, never
patented, may be proved by showing that the inventor, after
he had constructed it, and before he had reduced it to practice, broke it up. as something requiring more thought and
experiment, and laid the parts aside as incomplete, provided
it appears that those acts were done without any definite
intention of resuming his experiments, and of restoring the
machine with a view to apply for letters patent.*
He is the first inventor in the sense of the patent law, and
entitled to a patent for his invention, who first perfected and
adapted the same to use, and it is well settled that until the
invention is so perfected and adapted to use it is not patentable under the patent laws.t
Argument is hardly necessary to show that nothing else
introduced in evidence by the respondents as having been
constructed by that inventor is of a character to interfere,
in any substantial respect, with the novelty of the invention
held by the complainants, as the weight of the evidence
plainly tends to disprove the allegations of the answer, and
the inferences to be drawn from a comparison of the exhibits
would establish the opposite theory even if the other proofs
were less decisive to that effect.
Prior invention by Thomas D. Burrall is the next defence
set up by the respondents to the particular patent under
consideration. They attempt to show that he constructed a
* Johnson v. Root, 2 Clifford, 123; Gayler v. Wilder et al., 10 Howard,
498; Parkburst v. Kinsman, 1 Blatchford, 494; White et al. V. Allen et al.,
2 Clifford, 230.
t Washburn v. Gould, 8 Story, 122; Cahoon v. Ring, 1 Clifford, 612.

Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

harvesting machine having a square platform, to which he
attached an apron, quadrant formed, which would deliver
the cut grain, heads foremost, at the side of ihe machine and
out of the way of the team in cutting the next swath.
Concede the fact that the machine, together with the circular apron, was constructed by the person named as alleged,
and that the machine in that form antedates the invention held
by the complainants, still the court is of the opinion that it
is not of a character to defeat the complainants' patent, as it
had no reel, was pot a self-raker in any view of the case, and
consisted beydnd doubt of a substantially different combination. Compared with that, the invention described in the
complainants' patent is both new and useful, and is plainly
sufficient to support a patent as a new arrangement.
Suppose it to be otherwise, still the conclusion as to this
defence must be the same, as the court is unhesitatingly of
the opinion from the proofs that the supposed inventor did
not construct the circular apron, and attach the same to the
square platform, and use the~two in conjuncti6n until after
the complainants' invention was perfected and reduced to
practice as an operative machine.
Evidence was also introduced by the respondents respecting the invention of lNelson Platt, but extended discussion
upon that topic is unnecessary, as it is hardly contended by
the respondents that the machine contains a quadrant-shaped
platform with, and immediately behind, the cutting apparatus, and in such relation to the main frame as that described
in the specification of the complainants' patent. They appear to shrink from that proposition, which is the only one
involved in this defence, and seek shelter under another, of
a very different .character, which is that the difference between the two is so very slight that it required no invention
to pass from the former to the latter, which is a matter appertaining to another head of the defence that has previously
been fully considered and the point distinctly overruled.
Properly understood, that machine does not contain a
combination ef the quadrant-shaped platform with the cutting apparatus in any practical sense. On the contrary it

SEY'MOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

has a square platform combined with the cutting apparatus,
and the quadrant-shaped platform is combined with the
square platform; nor does it contain any quadrant-shaped
platform to receive the grain as it falls, but the ingredients
of the invention, as well as the combination, are different
from those in the complainants' machine, and the mode of
operation is also different, which is all that need be said in
response to that defence.
Substantially the same defences were also set up to the
other reissued letters patent, to the extent that those patents
were put iV issue in the pleadings, but it will not be necessary to restate the objections to their originality nor to present any response to the same, as to do so would only be to
repeat what has been said in respect to the one more particularly assailed in argument.
Attempt is also made to show that the original letters
patent described in the bill of complaint are also invalid,
because the patentees are not the original and first inventors
of the improvements therein secured. Whether they were
or were not the original and first inventors of the improvement in the first claim is a matter of no importance in this
case, as the pleadings do not put that claim in issue. They
only put in issue the second claim, which embodies the described method of hanging the reel so as to dispense with
any post or reel-bearer next to the standing grain, to prevent the grain from getting caught between the divider and
the reel-supporter, and the only evidence introduced of prior
invention is what is contained in an article published in London, in the Mechanics' Magazine. Expert witnesses were
examined in respect to it by both sides. One examined by
the respondents testified that he did not understand that it
had any reel-support on the grain side of the machine, which
in that respect is like the machine of the complainants, but
three expert witnesses examined by the complainants testify
that neither the description nor the drawings of the same,
as exhibited in that magazine, show anything which is embodied in the complainants' patent, and the court is of the
same opinion.

Dec.1870.]

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.
Opinion of the court.

Patented inventions cannot be superseded by the mere
introduction of a foreign publication of the kind, though of
prior date, unless the description and drawings contain and
exhibit a substantial representation of the patented improvement. in such full, clear, and exact terms as to enable any
person skilled in the art or science to which it appertains,
to make, construct, and practice the invention to the same
practical extent as they would be enabled todo if the information was derived from a prior patent. Mere vague
and general representations will not support such a defence,
as the knowledge supposed to be derived from the publication must be sufficient to enable those skilled in the art or
science to understand the nature and operation of the invention, and to carry it into practical use. Whatever may be
the particular circumstances under which the publication
takes place, the account published, to be of any effect to
support such a defence, must be an account of a complete
and operative invention capable of being put into practical
,operation.*
None of these defences, however, were sustained in the
court below, but the circuit judges were of the opinion that
the proofs failed to show that the respondents had infringed
the letters patent of the complainants.
Actual inventors of a combination of two or more ingredients in a machine, secured by letters patent in due form, are
entitled, even though the ingrqdients are old, if the combination produces a new amd useful result, to treat every on6
as an infringer who makes and uses or vends the machine
to others to be used without their authority or license.t
They cannot suppress subsequent improvements which
are substantially different, whether the new improvements
consist in a new combination of the same ingredients, or of
the substitution of some newly-discovered ingredient, or of
some ol one, performing some new function not known at
* " ebster's Patent Cases, 719 ; Curtis on Patents (3d ed.), .278, a; Hill

v. Evans, 6 Law Times, N. S. 90; Betts v. Menzies, 4 Best & Smith, Q. B.
999.
j Pitts v. Whitman, 2 Story, 619; Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner, 487.

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

the date of the letters patent, as a proper substitute for the
ingredient withdrawn from the combination constituting
their invention. Mere formal alterations in a combination
in letters patent, however, are no defence to the charge of
infringement, and the withdrawal of one ingredient- frqm
the same and the substitution of another which was well
known at the date of the patent as a proper substitute for
the one withdrawn, is a mere formal alteration of the combination if the ingredient substituted performs substantially
the same function as the one withdrawn.
Patentees, therefore, are entitled in all cases to invoke to
some extent the doctrine of equivalents, but they are never
entitled to do so in any case to suppress all other substantial
improvements, and the rule which disallows such pretensions, if properly understood and limited, is-as applicable to
the inventor of a device, or even of an entire machine, as to
the inventor of a mere combination, except that the inventor
of the latter cannot treat any one as an infringer whose machine does not contain all of the material ingredients of the
prior combination, as in that state of the case the subsequent
invention is regarded as substantially different ftom the former one, unless the latter machine employs as a substitute
for the ingredient left out to perform the same function
some other ingredient which was well known as a proper
substitute for the same when the former invention was
patented.*
Bondfide inventors of a combination are as much entitled
to suppress every other combination of the same ingredients
to produce the same result, not substantially different from
what they have invented and caused to be patented, as any
other class of inventors. All alike have the right to suppress every colorable invasion of that which is secured to
them by their letters patent, and it is a mistake to suppose
that this court ever intended to lay down any different rule
of decision. Guided by these rules the remaining question
for the determination of the court is whether the respond* Prouty v. Ruggles, 16 Peters, 341; Johnson v. Root, 2 Clifford, 123.

-Dec. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

ents have infringed the several patents described in the bill
of complaint.
Infringement is alleged by the complainants, and the burden- is upon them to prove the allegation, as it imputes a
wrongful act to the respondents. All controversy as to the
character of the machines made and sold by the respondents
Js closed by their admission set forth in the record. Exhibit
six, it is conceded by the respondents, is an'accurate representation of the machines which they made and sold, and
the complainants accept the admission as correct. Absolute
certainty, therefore, attends that inquiry, and there is very
little, if any, more difficulty in ascertaining the construction
-of the patented machines made and furnished to the public
by the complainants, so that the only substantial inquiry is
whether the machines made and sold by the respondents
infringe the patented machines of the complainants, as the
latter embody all the inventions of the complainants, except
the claims pointed out as not infringed, and the proofs satisfy the court that the exhibits are constructed in accordance
with the mechanism described in the several letters patent.
Properly construed the reissued patent number four is
the combination of a quadrant-shaped platform located behind the cutting apparatus of the harvester so as to receive
the grain as it falls after it is cut, with an automatic sweeprake so constructed as to sweep over the platform in circular
curves, and to.move forward and backward, or towards and
from the cutting apparatus, so as to seize upon the grain as
it falls, after being cut, sweeping it over the platform in circular curves and delivering it upon the ground behind the
machine with its stalks at right angles, or nearly so, with
the line of progression of the machine, and to return by a
forward movement towards the cutting apparatus to the
original position when the first operation commenced.
Number 1682 is divided into two parts, the first of which
may be used without the second, and it is not charged.that
the second part has been infriiiged by the respondents.
Briefly described it consists of a combination of the cutting
apparatus of a harvester with a quadrant-shaped platform

SEYMOUR V. OSBORNE.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

arrangea in the rear thereof, and with a sweep-rake operated
by mechanism in such a manner that its teeth are caused to
sweep over the platform in curves when acting on the grain
and to discharge the stalks crosswise to the direction of the
swath and out of the way of the team on the return of the
machine.
Two combinations are also contained in the reissued patent 1683, but the respondents are not charged with infringing
the second, so that it is only necessary in this connection to
refer to the first and describe its operation.

It consists of

a combination of the cutting apparatus with a reel and with
a quadrant-shaped platform located in the rear of the cutting apparatus, operating as follows: The cutting apparatus
severing the grain, the reel bearing the grain against the
cutting apparatus and insuring its delivery upon the quadrant-shaped platform in the rear thereof; and the quadrantshaped platform receiving the grain from the cutting apparatus and reel, and supporting it in such a manner that it
can be moved from the cutting apparatus, heads foremost,
swept round in a curve aid discharged upon the ground
crosswise to the direction of the swath and out of the track
of the horses when the machine comes round to cut the next
swath.
Patent numbered seventy-two is also an arrangement of
the quadrant-shaped platform immediately behind the cutting apparatus of a reaping machine, so that the platform
will receive the grain as it falls from the cutting apparatus,
and will support it in such a manner that it may be swept
round in a curvilinear path and discharged, heads foremost,
upon the ground at the side of the platform out of the path
of the horses when they return.
Reference will only be made to the second part of the
original patent embraced in the suit, as it is not charged
that the respondents have infringed the other claim. Separated from the second claim the first consists in a mode of
hanging the reel in a reaping machine so as to dispense with
any post or reel-bearer on the side next to the standing
grain, without any projection of the reel-shaft or bearing

De. 1870.]

SEYMOUR V.

OSBORNE.

Opinion of the court.

therefor on that side of the machine, so that the reel overhangs the bearings on the one side and is without support
on the other side.
Prior to the act of Congress allowing several patents to
be issued for distinct and separate parts of the thing patented, it is not probable that a bill of complaint joining'five
several patents in the same charge of infringement would
have escaped objection from the respondent, but it will be
noticed that all the claims appertain to the same general
subject, and that it requires all of the inventions in question
to constitute a complete self-raking harvester or reaping
machine, and that they are all embodied in the machines
which the complainants make and furnish to the public.
Viewed in that light the court is of the opinion that the objection, if it bad been made, could not have been sustained.*
Where the invention or inventions are embodied in a machine the question of infingement is best determined by a
comparison of the machine made by the respondent with
the mechanism described in the complainant's patent or
patents, where more than one isembraced in the same suit.t
Comparisons of the kind have been carefully made by the
court, aided by the evidence of the expert witnesses, as exhibited in the record, and the court is of the opinion that
the several inventions of the complainants, excepting the
claims pointed out as not infringed, are embodied in the
machines made and sold by the respondents. Two of the expert witnesses testify to that effect without qualification, and
the reasons which they assign for that conclusion are, in the
opinion of the court, decisive of the question. Some attempt
wa6 made in the cross-examination of those witnesses to
elicit an answer that the sweep-rake employed by the respondents operated differently from the corresponding device
of the complainants in the several reissued patents; but the
attempt was wholly unsuccessful, and called forth explanations which confirm the conclusion that the two devices have
substantially the same operation.
*5 Stat. at Large, 192.

f

Blanchard v. Putnam, 8 Wallace, 426.

HALLIDAY V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Special reference is made in the opiqlion of the district
judge to the means employed by the respondents in supporting the reel, as showing that the machines which they
have made and sold do not infringe the second claim of the
original patent. His view is that their machines do not infringe that claim because they do not employ but one reelpost instead of two, as shown in the complainants' patent,
but it is so obvious that the one post with the frame attached
to the upper end is substantially the same thing that it is
not deemed necessary to pursue the argument.
For these reasons we are all of the opinion that the complainants are entitled to a decree that their several patents
are valid, and for an account and for a perpetual injunction,
except as to -such, if any, as have expired.
DECREE REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY TO THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

HALLIDAY V. HAMILTON.
A. in St. Louis having a standing agreement with B. & Co., in New Orleans,
to ship produce to them, drawing against the shipments-the balance
of any draft on one shipment not discharged by its proceeds, to be paid
from the proceeds of any other shipment-bought of C., residing at
Cairo, on the Mississippi, a hundred miles and more below St Louis, a
specific number of sacks of corn, then lying at a landing on the river
somewhat above Cairo, though much below St. Louis, and received an
order for its delivery. He did not pay for it, though the transaction
was impliedly one for cash. A. delivered his order to the agents of a
steamer at St. Louis, then about to go down the river to New Orleans.
These gave to him a regular bill of lading, agreeing to deliver the specified number of sacks of corn to B. & Co., in New Orleans. On the
same day A. drew his bill of exchange on B. & Co., in New Orleans,
telling them to charge the draft to the account of this specific shipment; and attaching to his bill of exchange, the bill of lading thus
received, sold the draft in the market. Being forwarded, it was paid at
maturity by B. & Co., in New Orleans; they having had no notice of
any diffculty. They were at the time in advance to A. on account of
other shipments. The steamer set off on her voyage, and stopping at

