Amy v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

AMy v. THE SUPERVISORS.
1. The State and National courts being independent of each other, neither
can impede or arrest any action the other may take, within the limits
of its jurisdiction, for the satisfaction of its judgments and decrees.
Riggs v. Johnson County (6 Wallace, 265), affirmed.
2. Where the law requires absolutely a ministerial act to be done by a public
officer, and he neglects or refuses to do such act, he may be compelled
to respond in damages to the extent of the injury arising from such
nonfeasance or malfeasance. A mistake as to what his duty is and
honest intentions will not excuse him.

AmY having obtained a judgment for money against Desmoines County, Iowa, in the Circuit Court for the District
of Iowa, and not being paid, procured from the same court
a mandamus against Burkholder, and several others, the
supervisors of the county, to compel the levy of a tax. The
mandamus not being obeyed, he sued them personally.
They set up certain defences, to which he demurred. The
court overruled the demurrer, and he brought the case here.
.Mr.J. Grant,for the plaintiffin error, submitted a brief.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE stated the case particularly, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa.
The plaintiff in error was the plaintiff in the court below.
The declaration contains two counts. The first count alleges
substantially that the plaintiff recovered a judgment against
the county of Desmoines in the said Circuit Court; that
afterwards such proceedings were had that a peremptory
writ of mandamus was issued from that court and duly
served upon the defendants as supervisors of said county,
whereby they were commanded to levy a tax sufficient to
pay the judgment and costs; that in September, 1868, it was
their dut.v to levy such a tax, and that they neglected to do

Dec. 1870.]

D my v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

Opinion of the court.

so, whereby the plaintiff sustained damage to the amount
of $12,108-,.
The second count sets forth substantially the same facts;
and, further, the provisions of the code of Iowa prescribing
the duty of the defendants, as supervisors, under such circumstances, and declaring that a failure on their part to
perform the duty enjoined, should render them personally
responsible for the debt. It is further averred in this count
that the judgment is in full force and unsatisfied, and that
the defendants have levied no tax and made no provision for
its payment, and that the plaintiff is thereby damaged in
the sum stated in the first count.
The defendants, by their answer, set up three defences:
(1.) Nil debet.
(2.) That the District Court of Desmoines County had
enjoined them from levying a tax to pay the judgment; that
they were nevertheless proceeding to levy such tax when
they were attached by order of that court for contempt of its
process, and compelled to give bonds to answer said charge
of contempt and to obey the injunction, and that those bonds
were still in force and obligatory upon them.
(3.) That before the peremptory writ of mandamus was
issued the legislature of Iowa repealed the statutory provision, whereby they were made individually liable for the
delinquency charged against them, and that, by reason of
such repeal, they are not so liable.
The plaintiff demurred to the answer. The court overruled the demurrer and gave judgment for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error has filed an able and
elaborate brief. None has been submitted in behalf of the
defendants. A few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of
the case.
The Circuit Court had authority to issue the writ of mandamus. It was the process resorted to by the plaintiff to
procure satisfaction of his judgment. The State court was
powerless to prevent its execution. In so far as concerned
the process in question the injunction was a nullity. In such

Amy v. THE SUPERvISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cases the two sets of tribunals-State and National-are as
independent as they are separate. Neither can impede or
arrest any action the other may take, within the limits of its
jurisdiction, for the satisfaction of its judgments and decrees.
Where either is in possession of the res sought to be reached,
the process of the other must pause until that possession has
terminated. But this rule has no application in the case
before us. These principles are a part of the checks and
balances of our dual and combined polity, and are indispensable to the harmonious and beneficial working of the
system. If the ground assumed by the State court in this
case can be maintained, the Constitution of the United States,
and the laws made in pursuance thereof, as regards their
judicial administration, instead of being the supreme law
of the land, would be subordinated to the authority of the
courts of every State in the Union. If this writ may be
paralyzed by the injunction relied upon, a~writ of fierifacias
and a writ of levarifaciasmay be defeated in the same way.
In point of principle there is no distinction between them.
Every judgment of a court of the United States may thus
be rendered fruitless of any beneficial result. These views
are conclusively maintained by .Riggs v. Johnson,* and the
principle involved has since been reaffirmed in the cases
which followed, and were controlled by that judgment.
It is not necessary to consider the effect of the repeal of
the provision of the code which enacted that the delinquent
parties shall be personally liable. There is a common law
liability which was not affected by the repeal. The statute
was only cumulative on the subject.
The rule is well settled, that where the law requires absolutely a ministerial act to be done by a public officer, and he
neglects or refuses to do such act, he may be compelled to
respond in damages to the extent of the injury arising from
his conduct. There is an unbroken current of authorities
to this effect. A mistake as to his duty and honest intentions will not excuse the offender. The question of the rule
* 6 Wallace, 166.

Dec. 1870.]

SMITH v. SAC COUNTY.
Syllabus.

by which the measure of damages is to be ascertained is not
before us, and we do not feel called upon to express any
opinion upon the subject.
The defences set up in the answer of the defendants are
clearly bad. The demurrer should have been sustained.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause will be remanded with instructions to that court to
proceed.
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

NVOTE.
AT the same time with the preceding case was decided
another case, which came here on certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit Court for Wisconsin. The
case, namely, of

FAitR v. THOMSON ET AL.
In which the preceding case was affirmed.

The declaration in this case presented, in all substantial respects, the same state of facts as the declaration in the case just
decided. After argument by Hr. X. .E.Carpenterfortheplaintiff,
no one appearingcontra, Mr. Justice SWAYNE announced the judgment of the court to the effect that the former case decided this.
The question certified to the.court-which was whether the
declaration showed a sufficient cause of action-was accordingly
answered by it
IN

THE AFFIRMATIVE.

SMITH V. SAC COUNTY.
1. In a suit on a negotiable security when the defendant has shown strong
circumstances of fraud in the origin of the instrument, this casts upon
the holder the necessity of showing that he gave value for it before
maturity.

