204

INSURANCE

COMPANY

V. THE

TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. THE TREASURER.
1. A State statute directed a county treasurer to give certificates of indebtedness to any bank in the county for the amount of tax paid on its investments in the public indebtedness of the United States, "which taxes
have been -judicially decided to have been illegally imposed and collected." To an alternative mandamus to compel the treasurer to give
such certificates, be answered that it had not beenjudicially decided that
the particular tax was illegal. A -peremptory mandamus was refused
by the State court. Held, that, although this court had since decided
the tax to be -illegal, yet, as it did not appear by the record that the
State court passed on the legality or illegality of the tax, but might
have decided the case on the construction of the State statute, this court
had no jurisdiction to review the decision of the State court.
2. In order to give this court jurisdiction by writ of error under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, it must appear, by the record, that a
Federal question was raised.

THIs case was brought before the court upon a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the State of New York, under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, or rather under the
act of February 5, 1867, which has been substituted for that
section.
The Phcenix Insurance Company, the plaintiff in error,
was a corporation of the State of New York, doing business
in Brooklyn, King's County, and was assessed for the taxes
of 1863 and 1864 upon its investments in United States
"certificates of indebtedness," issued pursuant to the acts
of Congress, passed March 1st and 17th, 1862.* These
taxes amounted to over $3000, and were paid into the
county treasurer's office of King's County in December,
1863, and November,-1864. They were levied under an act
of the legislature of the State of New York, passed April
29, 1863, making all banks and other moneyed corporations
liable to taxation on a valuation equal to the amount of their
capital stock paid in and their surplus earnings (less 10 per
cent. of such surplus). Under this law authority was claimed
by the State officers to include in. that valuation the invest* 12 Stat. at Large, 352, 370.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v.

THE TREASURER.

205

Statement of the case.

ments made by those'companies in the public indebtedness
of the United States, including the National bonds or stocks,
certificates of indebtedness, and all other National securities.
This tax, so far as it was laid on a valuation which embraced
the government bonds or stocks, was confessedly adjudged
illegal by this court in the Bank Tax Gase, reported in 2d
*Wallace, 200, which was decided in the Term of December,
1864. And as the insurance company assumed, it was also
adjudged illegal in that same case, so far as it was laid on a
valuation which embraced certificates of indebtedness; a position which they attempted to maintain by a reference to
the original records of this court, in certain of the numerous
cases which came up, and were adjudged under the general
title above given of The Bank -Tax Gases. But if the cases
then brought before the court embraced certificates of in-:
-debtedness, as well as government bonds, the attention of
the court was not specially directed to that fact, and the
opinion does not notice it.
After this decision the legislature of New York, on the
6th of April, 1866, passed an act, as follows:
"SECTIoN

1. The board of supervisors of the County of Kings

are authorized and directed to levy and collect by tax ...the

several sums paid in said county, by the several incorporated
companies in said county, in the years 1863 and 1864, for taxes
assessed on their investments in the public indebtedness of the
United States, with interest thereon, and which taxes have been
judicially decided to have been illegally imposed and collected."
A subsequent section directed the treasurer to refund
those taxes to said companies out of said moneys, requiring
him, in the meantime, to issue county certificates of indebtedness for the respective amounts on receiving a certified
copy of the act.
The Phcenix Insurance Company, on the 12th of May,
1866, demanded of the county treasurer (who had received
a copy of the act) the county certificate of indebtedness to
which, it was supposed, the act entitled it. The treasurer
declined to give it. Thereupon the company sued out of

206

INSURANCE COMPANY V. THaE TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the State Supreme Court an alternative mandamus, calling
on the treasurer to show cause for such refusal. His answer
to the writ was that taxes on "certificates of indebtedness"
had not been judicially decided to have been illegally imposed or
collected, and, therefore, that the case was not within the purview of the act, and he had no authority to issue the certificates. He did not attempt to deny that the tax was illegal,
but insisted that it had not been judicially declared illegal.
This answer was filed December 3, 1866, before the decision
of this court in the case of The Banks v. The Mayor,* in
which the court did without doubt, decide that the "certificates of indebtedness" of the government were exempt
from taxation.
Upon this alternative mandamus and the answer thereto
the case went up to the Supreme Court and the Court of
Appeals, which concurred iu refusing to issue a peremptory
mandamus. The opinion of the Supreme Court, of which
counsel exhibited a short report, placed the case upon the
ground that these "certificates of indebtedness" were not
exempt from taxation. But no opinion of the Court of
Appeals appeared in any record of the case.
The purpose of the writ of error was to have a review of
the judgment by the Court of Appeals.
Mr. A. C. Bradley, with whom was Mr. .E. C. Benedict, argued
for the plaintiff in error:
.A question of jurisdiction may suggest itself. But the
case made in the writ called in question the validity of the
authority of the State of New York to tax the United States
certificates of the indebtedness owned by the insurance conpany-whereby those taxes were illegally collected, and
therefore the company was entitled to have, and it was the
county treasurer's duty to issue the certificates of county
debt demanded. The State court, by denying the peremptory writ and giving absolute judgment for the defendant,
in effect decided that the authority so questioned was valid
* 7 Wallace, 16.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. THE TREASURER.

207

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

and the tax legal, and that the company was not entitled to
receive, nor was the treasurer bound to issue to it the certificates demanded. The case is not distinguishable from
The Bank Tax Cases, or from The Banks v. The .Mayor. The
alleged invalidity in those cases was the same as in this, and
'the decision by the State court is as emphatic in favor of the
validity in the present case as in the others.
In truth, the record in the present case presents no question, but whether certificates of indebtedness were or were
not illegally taxed in the State of New York in the years
1863 and 1864; the affirmative being maintained by the insurance company, denied by the county treasurer, and the
State courts having decided in favor of the latter.
2. As to the merits, that certificates of indebtedness issued
by the government of the United States were not taxable,
was adjudged by this court, as we apprehend, in both of the
cases cited above, certainly in the last. The matter is, therefore, res adjudicata.
3. The case made by the insurance company was within
the spirit and letter of the act of April 6, 1866, passed by
the State of New York.
The last clause of the first section, "and which taxes have been
judicially decided to have been illegally imposed and collected," is
not a condition or proviso, limiting the extent of the earlier
provisions, but is a statement of the reason why the act was

passed, and why restitution had become a duty. Such matter
is ordinarily either omitted or else inserted in the preamble;
but it has here crept on to the end of a section, and appears
as an adjectitious thought. It has no effect there which it
would not have had if it had been inserted in a preamble or
omitted altogether. In either case it would have been the
duty of the board of supervisors to raise by tax the sunis
paid by the incorporated companies for taxes on their investments in the public indebtedness of the United States,
and it would have been the county treasurer's duty, out of
the moneys so raised, to refund those taxes, and as a voucher
for the claim, to issue the certificates. Those taxes would
have been equally illegal whether there had or had not been

208,

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

THE TREASURER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

any judicial decision on the subject, or whether such decision, having been in fact made, it was mentioned in the
preamble, or in the body of the act, or not mentioned at all.
In the statute relative to the city of New York, passed at
the same session, no judicial decision was referred to. But
this court, in The .Banks v. The Mayor, held the taxes, nevertheless, illegal.
4. The return stated no defence to the writ.
Mr. P. EI. Crooke, opposing counsel, was stopped by the court.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals concurred
in refusing to issue a peremptory mandamus. The opinion
of the Supreme Court is before us, and places the case upon
the ground that these "certificates of indebtedness" were
not exempt from taxation. But no opinion of the Court of
Appeals seems to have been written. At least none appears;
and we cannot tell on what ground that court placed its decision. And, indeed, it ought to appear from the record,
and not from any opinion of the court, that a Federal question was raised in order to give this court jurisdiction of the
case. For all that appears from the record, the decision
of the Court of Appeals may have been passed simply on its
construction of the State statute. It may have been placed
on the ground that that statute only applied to cases "in
which the taxes had been judicially decided to have been
illegally imposed and collected," and that up to that time
the taxation of certificates of indebtedness had not been
judicially decided to be illegal. If it were placed on this
ground-and, so far as the record goes, non constat that it
was not-that Would have been a decision of the case upon
a construction of the State act of 1866. Now, we have repeatedly held that the construction of State statutes belongs

to the State courts, and is not a Federal question which we
can revise in a writ of error to a State court. It is true, if
the State court gives such a construction to a State statute

Dec. 1870.]

INSURIANCE COMPANY v. THE TREASURER.

209

Opinion of the court.

as to make it conflict with the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and sustains its validity after giving it such
construction, and thereby deprives a party of his rights under
the said Constitution or laws, then a Federal question is
raised, and we can review the decision on the point of the
validity of the statute. But in this case it does not appear
what construction was given to the State statute. All that
can certainly be gathered from the record is, that the State
statute, in the opinion of*the Court of Appeals, did not oblige
the county treasurer to issue county certificates to the plaintifi in this particular case. For aught that appears, the
court may have regarded the statute as only furnishing a
remedy fbr cases expressly adjudicated upon. Such a construction of the statute is not without plausibility, and was,
insisted upon by the treasurer in his answer to the alternative writ.
Had the State courts decided against the right of the plaintiffs, and had it so. appeared by the record, the jurisdiction
of this court would have attached to the case. But that does.
not appear. It only appears that they have decided that the,
plaintiff has no remedy under this statute. Its right to recover the illegal tax is undisputed, but not to recover it in
this way.
We are referred to the case of The Banks v. The Mayror,*where it was decided, under another act of the New York
legislature, that a mandamus in a somewhat similar case
was wrongfully withheld. It appears that a few days after
the passage of the act relating to King's County, on which
the present case arises, the legislature passed a like act relating to the city of New York, but without the descriptive
words, relating to a judicial decision, which are relied on in
this case. A mandamus to compel the issue of city bonds
for the amount of the illegal taxes'was applied for and refused. But that case was placed, both in the State courts
and in this court, solely on the ground of the legality of the
tax. No question respecting the construction of the State
7 Wallace, 16.
VOL. XI.

14

INSURANCE COMPANY V. FRANCIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

statute was raised, either by the record or the argument.
Being satisfied, in that case, that the tax was illegal, and
that the mandamus ought to have been granted, we felt
bound to reverse the judgment of the State court; and
nothing in the present opinion is intended to call that decision in question.

The writ of error in this case must be
DISMISSED.

INSURANCE COMPANY v. FRANCIS.
An averment in a declaration that the defendant is a corporation created
by an act of the legislature of the State of New York, located in Aberdeen, Mississippi, and doing business there under the laws of the State,
is not an averment that the defendant is a citizen of Mississippi.

THIS cause came up by writ of error to the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It came into the said District Court in this wise:
One Francis had brought suit in the Circuit Court of
Monroe County, Mississippi, November Term, 1866, against
"The Germania Fire Insurance Company of the City of
:New York," upon a policy of insurance. The company appeared to the suit, and demurred to the declaration. The
plaintif, at August Term, 1867, petitioned for the removal
of the cause "to the Circuit Court of the United States, held
in or at Oxford, in the Northern District" of Mississippi,
averring that the petitioner, the plaintiff, is a citizen of Illinois, and "that said defendant is a corporationwith agents and
officers in said State of Mississippi here residing and transactingthe
business of insurancefor ?bhich said company was incorporated."
And thereupon the judge of the Circuit Court of Monroe
County ordered "that the case be removed from that court
to the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Mississippi, as prayed for."
This removal was made in pursuance of a statute of March

