Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN
0

v.

THORNHILL.

Statement of the case.

Congress included it in its admission to the Union. But
neither the constitution of West Virginia, nor the assent of
the legislature of Virginia, nor the consent of Congress, had
any application whatever to the second district. For though
the second section of the first article of the new constitution
had proposed to include it, the proposal was accompanied
with conditions which were not complied with; and when
that constitution was presented to Congress for approval, the
proposal had already been rejected, and had no significance
or effect whatever.

MORGAN v. THORNHILL.
No appeal lies to this court from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States, exercising the supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon it by the
second section of the Bankrupt Act of 2d March, 1867.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court
from the District of Louisiana; the case being this:
"An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy
throughout the United States," approved March 2, 1867,*
and which gives to the District Couris exclusive original
jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy, authorizes them to
declare corporations bankrupt upon certain proceedings had.
By the 2d section of the act it is enacted:

"That the several Circuit Courts of the United States, within
and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall
be pending, shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions.arisingunder this act, ind except
when special provision is otherwise made, may upon bill,petition,
or other process of any party aggrieved, hear and determine the
case as a court of equity. The powers and duties hereby granted
may be exercised either by said court or by any justice thereof,
in term time or in vacation."
* 14 Stat. at Large, 518.
vOL. XI.

5

MORGAN V. THORNHILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

By the 8th section of the act it is further provided:
"That appeals may be taken from the District Court to the
Circuit Courts in all cases in equity, and writs of error may be
allowed to said Circuit Courts in cases at law, under the jurisdiction created by this act, when the debt or damages claimed
amount to more than $500; and any supposed creditor may appeal whose claim is wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee
who is dissatisfied with the allowance of a claim may appeal
from the decision of the District Court to the Circuit Court."
And by the 9th:
"That in cases arising under this act no appeal or writ of
error shall be allowed in any case from the Circuit Courts to
the Supreme Court of the United States, unless the matter in
dispute exceeds $2000."
Under this bankrupt act the District Court at New Orleans
on the 11th of January, 1870, on the petition of one Thornbill, a creditor, decreed the Bank of Louisiana to be bankrupt. The charter of the bank had previously to this date
been declared, on proceedings in one of the State courts,
forfeited under a statute of the State, and its affairs had
been placed in the hands of one Morgan and others, as commissioners, to liquidate them. These commissioners were
in possession of the property of the bank. The decree of
the District Court in bankruptcy superseded the action
under the State law, ordering as it did "that the parties
holding any of the property of the said bank, surrender the
same to the proper officers of this court," and being followed up soon afterwards (June, 1870) by injunctions against
the commissioners to refrain and desist from making any
transfer or disposition of any part of the assets of the bank,
or any payment out of them, and from all litigation or
compromise about them.
Hereupon Morgan and the other commissioners filed their
petition (no appeal being in any way taken in the matter) in
the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana. In this they
"represent" what had been done in the District Court; and
having set all this forth proceed:

Dec--'.1870.]

MORGAN

.VTHORNHILL.

Statement of the case.

"1ow your petitioners in their said capacities of commissioners of the Bank of Louisiana, respectfully represent that
they, are aggrieved, and the creditors of said bank are also
aggrieved and injured by the proceedings, orders, and judgment
rendered in said cases, and believe the same to be erroneous and
contrary to law; that the issuing and continuance' of said injunctions has been, since the month of June last, and still is,working great injury to the creditors of said bank; that petitioners are prohibited thereby from defending or prosecuting
the many suits now pending in which the said bank is a party,
or to appear and protect its interests in any litigation now pending in which the Paid bank is interested, or to institute such
legal proceedings as are necessary to interrupt prescription on
claims held by them as commissioners; that the judgment rendered in said suit is erroneous."
The petition concluded with this prayer:
"And your petitioners pray that the orders made in said
cause be suspended in their operation and legal effect, and that
the superintendingand revisingjurisdictionconferred upon tis court
in such cases by the act of Congress entitled ' An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United
States,' approved March 2, 1867, may be exercised by your
honor, and that the said orders be examined, and, if found not
to be warranted by law, set aside or rescinded, and that your
petitioners be allowed to proceed with the execution of the
trusts conferred upon them by law."
The Circuit Judge, at chambers, affirmed the action in the
District Court, holding that the act of the State of Louisiana
was suspended by the Bankrupt Act, and that the proceedings in the State court, under whose judgment the charter
of the bank was dissolved,and the commissioners appointed,
were void for want of jurisdiction.
An appeal was afterwards granted by one of the justices
of this court, and the bond approved, and supersedeas directed to be issued, the appeal having been prayed and the
bond approved within the.ten days from the rendition of the
decree.

MORGAN

V. THORNHILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

XMr. C, Cushing, for the creditors in bankruptcy, appellees in
the case, now moved to dismiss the appeal.
1st. Because the decree was rendered by the circuit judge
by virtue of the special power conferred on the Circuit Court
or the judge thereof to exercise "a general superintendence
and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under"
the Bankrupt Act, conferred by the 1st section of said act, to
be exercised by the said Circuit Court or the judge thereof,
"in term time or vacation." From which class of decree
no appeal lies.
2d. Because it was not final.
In support of his motion he argued: The 8th section of the
Bankrupt Act regulating appeals, makes no change in the
general law of appeals, except in reference to the amount
and time within which an appeal must be taken, in which it
is less favorable than the general law on regulating appeals.
An appeal, therefore, from the District Court can only be
taken to the Circuit Court in the cases in which it can be
taken ordinarily; that is, it must be taken from a final decree
of the District Court. In all other cases where the Circuit
Court acts in matters of bankruptcy, it is by virtue of the
special, comprehensive, and almost universal power of superintendence conferred by the 2d section of the act. By that
section, the Circuit Court has a general "superintendence
of all cases and questions arising unider" the Bankrupt Act.
The only exception to this general jurisdiction of superintendence is in the case of appeals and writs of error.
It is submitted that the cases in which an appeal lies to
the Supreme Court of the United States under the Bankrupt
Act are necessarily limited to such final decrees made in the
Circuit Court as have been made in cases brought there by
appeal as originating there.
This case did not come into the Circuit Court by appeal
f-om the District Court, nor did it originate in the Circuit
Court. It was brought before the circuit judge by petition,
invoking the special revisory jurisdiction of the circuit judge.
The revisory power given by the 2d section embraces all

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN

v.

TuORNHILL.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

"questions" which can arise under the act. The word decree
or judgment is not used. Obviously and wisely the action
of the Circuit Court on these questions was meant to be summary. On any other view every "question" that could
arise in proceedings in bankruptcy could be brought here,
though there was no judgment, no decree, no order.
It is a familiar principle of law, that the appellate jurisdiction of this court does not include a decree under a law
conferring a new and special jurisdiction, in which no remedy by appeal is granted.* The decree or order appealed
from in this case was made under a law conferring a new
and special jurisdiction on the circuit judge. From the
exercise of this special jurisdiction no appeal is given. And
as this court exercises its appellate jurisdiction only under
the acts of Congress, the burden is on the appellants to show
that an appeal lies in their case. It is to be noted, too, in
this case, that the general superintendence granted to the
circuit judge by the 2d section of the Bankrupt Act is to be
exercised by him in court or at chambers. This is a controlling fiact, to show that no right of appeal was intended
to be given from the decisions of the circuit judge in the
exercise of this power of superin.tendence. The exercise of.
the appellate power of this court is confined almost exclusively to the final judgments or decrees of the Circuit Court
rendered in term time. This court, in United States v.
1Vourse,t commenting on the fact that in the case then before the court the judge of the court below was authorized
to act at chambers, say:
"Froin a decision of the district judge out of court, how could
the government appeal to the Circuit Court ?"
2. The decree is not a final decree, having been rendered
out of court. Only interlocutory decrees are so rendered.
Messrs. W. 21. .Evartsand P. Phillips, contra:
The revisory power of the Circuit Court, in one form er
* United States v. Nourse, 6 Peters, 470, 493.

t Cited supra.

MORGAN V. THORNEILL.

'[Sup. CL.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

another, and it may be by an" appeal as well :as a petition,
extends, in Virtue of the 2d section, over the whole matter
intrusted to the jurisdiction of the District Court, and if
the act had been silent as to an appeal to this court from
the Circuit Court, it would have been maintainable under
the acts of 1789 and 1803.*
But the act is not silent. The 9th section declares that
no-appeal or writ of error shall be allowed in any case'from
the Circuit to the Supreme Court, unless the matter in dispute shall exceed $2000. It is accordingly evident that Congress assumed that appeals would be taken from the Circuit
Court, and contented itself with alone regulating the amount
which gave the jurisdiction. If, therefore; the decree is
final, and -the amount in controversy exceeds $2000, the appeal is well taken. Now the District Court, by its judgment, had taken from the admiiistrators appointed by the
laws of the State an estate worth many hundreds of thousands of dollars. This judgment was, by the decree of the
Circuit Court, affirmed, and the rights set up in the petition
of review were denied.
It is urged by Mr. Cushing that no appeal lies in this case
because the matter was "before the circuit judge by petition
invoking the special revisory jurisdiction." That is, though
it be admitted that the decree is final, and the amount in
controversy exceeds $2000, no appeal lies because the case
was not carried from the District Court in the form of an
appeal or writ of error uider the 8th section. But it is a
mistake to suppose that the appellate powel-is confined to
any particular form. It is ordinarily exercised by appeal or
writ of error. In many clses under statute it is done by a
certificate of division; or the legislature may provide that it
should be exercised by certiorari, petition for review, or by
any other process deemed convenient.
It is further objected that no appeal lies when this special
jurisdiction is exercised, because it. is provided that the
decree may be rendered "by the court or by any justice
* Ex parte Zellner, 9 Wallace, 246.

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN

V. THORNHILL.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

thereof in term time or in vacation." But terms of court are
the arbitrary creations of statute, which may be modified or
abolished by statute. Is it any less the exercise of judicial
power to decide a case in vacation? If this judicial power
be exercised by a subordinate tribunal, what is there in the
nature of things which should free it from the supervision
of the superior court? If there be a lack of formality in the'
discharge of judicial functions in vacation it would seem to
be more, not less, important that -such proceeding should be
reviewed by the superior court.
The 8th section provides that appeals, may be taken from
the District to the Circuit Court in all cases in eguity, and
writs of error in cases at law where the amount in controversy exceeds $500. Appeal is also allowed to any creditor
whose claim is rejected, or to an assignee dissatisfied with the
allowance of a claim.
It is tacitly admitted that the present appeal would be
sustained if the case had originated under the 8th section
and been carried to the Circuit Court, and yet in the large
jurisdictiou conferred by the 2d section, it is maintained
that the design of Congress was to exclude the appellate
jurisdiction of this court. This seems unreasonable.
The petition of review filed in the Circuit Court, presented
a case under the act for adjudication. The jurisdiction to
hear and determine it is not contested. After providing in
the 2d and 8th sections for the exercise of the appellate
power of the Circuit Court, the 9th section declares as
follows:
"That in cases arising under this act no appeal or writ of
error shall be allowed in any case from the Circuit Court to the
Supreme Court, unless the matter in dispute should exceed
82000."

. The affirmative form of this proposition is that
an appeal
or writ of error shall be allowed in cases arising under this
act where the amount in controversy exceeds $2000. This
would include all cases, and if so important a portion of the

MORGAN V. THORN.ILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Circuit Court's jurisdiction was intended to be excepted, we
should expect to find a special exclusion.
2. A decree which changes and transfers the right ofproperty in litigation is a final decree, for if otherwise irreparable injury would be incurred before redress could be had.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Exclusive original jurisdiction, in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy, is conferred by the acts of Congress
upon the District Courts, but in case of a vacancy in the
office of a district judge, or in case the district judge shall,
from sickness, absence, or other disability, be unable to act,
the circuit judge may make all necessary rules and orders
preparatory to the final hearing, and cause the same to be
entered or issued, as the case may require, by the clerk of
the District Court.t
Certain occurrences, during the late civil war, so crippled
the resources of the Bank of Louisiana that the directors
became unable to comply with the requisitions of their charter. Proceedings were accordingly instituted by the attorney-general of the State, under the act "to provide for the
liquidation of banks," in the proper court of the State, to
forfeit the charter of the bank, and on the twentieth of May,
1868, a decree was entered in the case that the charter of
the bank be declared forfeited, and that its affairs be liquidated according to law.
Pursuant to that decree the appellants were appointed
commissioners for that purpose, and the record shows that
they accepted the trust, that they took the 'required oaths,
that they gave the necessary bonds, that they entered upon
the discharge of their duties, and that they continued to administer the affairs of the bank until the twentieth of May
of the following year, when the appellees, or the first three
named, filed a petition in the District Court for that district,
Thompson v. Dean, 7 Wallace, 345.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 517; 16 Id. 174.

Dec. 1870.] -

8MORGAN v. THORNHILL.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

praying that the bank and the said commissioners, in their
character as such, might be declared a bankrupt, and that a
warrant might issue to take possession of the estate of the
bank in the hands of the commissioners.
They represented in their petition that the bank and the
commissioners had each, within six months preceding the
date of the petition, committed an act of bankruptcy, that
the corporation had for a long time suspended payment of
its commercial paper, and that the commissioners had,
within the same period, made certain payments, and transferred certain assets of the bank in payment of its debts,
with intent to give a preference to certain creditors of the
bank.. Special reference to the supplemental petition is unnecessary, as the representations of the petition are substantially the same, and the two were heard together in the
court below.
Three several injunctions were granted in the case by the
district judge sitting in bankruptcy, and on the eleventh of
January, 1870, the District Court entered a decree that the
bank was a bankrupt. Within ten days from the date of
the decree a petition for a review of those orders and decrees was filed by the commissioners in the Circuit Court,
under the second section of the Bankrupt Act, and the Circuit Court having first beard the parties, on the second of
Mlarch, 1870, entered a decree affirming the orders and decrees of the District Court. Application was immediately
made by the commissioners for an appeal to this court,
which was refused by the circuit judge, but it was ultimately
granted by one of the associate justices of this court, more
than ten days, however, subsequent to the date of the decree
of the Circuit Court.
Seasonable application for the appeal having been made
and a sufficient bond tendered, the appellants contended,
and still contend, that the appeal as subsequently allowed
operated as a supersedeas from the date of the first application. Different views, however, were entertained by the
district judge, and on the twenty-ninth of March, 1870, he
passed an order directing the marshal to resume possession

MORGAN V. THORNHILL.

[Sup. Cto

Opinion of the court.

of all such portion of the assets of the bank as he had surrendered to the commissioners.
Dissatisfied with that order the commissioners applied to
the associate justice of this court assigned to that circuit to
vacate that order and to enforce the supersedeas supposed
to have been created by the appeal as allowed in pursuance
of the last application. His opinion was that the appeal, as
allowed, related back to the date of the original application
for the same to the circuit judge, and that it operated as a
supersedeas, the same as it would have done if it had been
granted within ten days from the date of the decree dismissing the petition for a review and affirming the decree
adjudging the corporation a bankrupt.
Influenced by those views he made a decree that all the
orders in the cause subsequent to the twenty-first of Jan uary,
1870, should be vacated and annulled, leaving the injunction
of that date granted by the circuit judge in full force. Certain other orders, nevertheless, were subsequently made by
the district judge; as, for example, he passed an order for
the appointment of receivers, and another giving the appointees authoiity to pay rents, expenses, and charges incurred by them out of the funds of the bank. Special
objection is made by the appellants to those orders as forbidden by the supersedeas, but the main purpose of the appeal when taken was to reverse the decree of the Circuit
Court affirming the decree of the District Court, and dismissing their petition praying for a reversal of that decree.
Since the appeal was entered the appellees have filed a
motion to dismiss the same, upon the ground that no appeal
lies to this court from a decree of the Circuit Court rendered in the exercise of the special jurisdiction conferred
upon that court by the first clause of the second section of
the Bankrupt Act.*
Circuit Courts have a general superintendence and jurisdiction, by virtue of that clause, of all cases and questions
arising under that act, within and for the districts where the
* 14 Stat. at Large, 518.

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN

V. THORNHILL.

Opinion of the court.

proceedings in bankruptcy are pending, and the provision
is, that those courts may, upon bill, petition, or other proper
process, of any party aggrieved, except when special provision is otherwise made, hear and determine the case (as)
in a court of equity, but the next clause of the same section
provides that the powers and jurisdiction thereby granted
may be exercised either by said court or by any justice
thereof, in term time or.vacation, and neither of the two
clauses makes any provision for au appeal in any such case
to this court, whether the case or question presented or involved in the bill, petition, or other proper process is submitted to the court or to a justice thereof, or whether the
case or question is heard or determined in vacation or in
term time.
Apart from those two provisions the third clause of the
section provides that Circuit Courts shall also have concurrent
jurisdiction with the District Courts of all suits at law or in
equity which may or shall be brought by the assigneein bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or by
such person against such assignee touching any property or
rights of property'of such bankrupt transferable to or vested
in such assignee.
Controversies, in order that they may be cognizable under
that clause of the section, either in the Circuit or District
Court, must have respect to some property or rights of
property of the bankrupt transferable to or vested in such
assignee, and the suit, whether it be a suit at law 'or in
equity; must be in the name of ond of the two parties described in that clause and against the other. All three of
those conditions .must concur to give the jurisdiction, but
where they all concur the party suing may, at his election,
commence his suit either in the Circuit or District Court,
and if in the latter, it is clear that the case, when it has proceeded to final judgment or decree, -may be removed into
the Circuit Court for re-examination by writ of eri'or, if it
was an action at law, or by appeal if it was a suit in equity,
provided the debt or damage claimed amounts to more than
five hundred dollars, and the writ of error is seasonably sued

MORGAN v. THoNHILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

out and the plaintiff in error complies "with the statutes
regulating the granting of such suits," or the appeal is
claimed and the required notices are given within ten days
from the judgment or decree.*
Such a suit, however, by or against such assignee, or by
or against any person claiming an adverse interest in any
such property or rights of property, cannot be maintained
in any court whatsoever unless the same shall be brought
within two years from the time the cause of action, for or
against such assignee, accrued; which shows very satisfactorily that the jurisdiction conferred by the third clause is
other and different from the special jurisdiction and superintendence described in the first clause of the section.
Where such a suit, between such parties, touching such
subject-matter, proceeds in a Circuit Court to a final judgnient or decree, and the debt or damage claimed or the
matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, exclusive of costs, no doubt is entertained that the
judgment or decree may be removed into this court for reexamination by writ of error, if the judgment was rendered
in a civil action, or by appeal if the decree was entered in a
suit in equity, as in other similar cases -falling within the
appellate jurisdiction of this court.t
Creditors whose claims are wholly 6r in part rejected may
appeal from the decision of the District Court to the Circuit
Court of the same district, if the appeal is claimed and the
required notices are given within ten days from the entry
of the decree or decision, but the appellant in such a case is
required to file in the clerk's office a statement in writing
of his claim, setting forth the same substantially as in a declaration for the same cause of action at law, and the assignee
is required to plead or answer thereto in like manner, and
like proceedings shall thereupon be had as in an action at
law, except that no execution shall be awarded against the
assignee for the amount of the debt found due to the
creditor.
14 Stat. at Large, 520.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 521; 1 Id. 84.

Dec.1870.]

MORGAN V. THORNHILL.

Opinion of the court.

Assignees, also, who are dissatisfied with the allowance
of a claim preferred by a creditor, may also appeal from the
decision of the District Court to the Circuit Court of the
same district at any time within ten days from the entry of
the decree or decision, but it is certain that neither the
creditor nor the assignee can appeal'to this court from the
decree of the Circuit Court in such a case, as the express
enactment is that the final judgment of the court shall be
conclusive and that the list of debts shall, if necessary, be
altered to conform thereto.
Confirmation of that view is also derived from the succeeding clause in the twenty-fourth section of the act, which
provides that the prevailing party shall be entitled to costs,
and that the costs, if they are recovered against the assignee,
shall be allowed out of the estate of the bankrupt.*
Authority is also given to any creditor opposing the discharge of a bankrupt to file a specification in writing of the
grounds of his opposition, and the court in such case may,
in its discretion, order any question of fact so presented to be
tried at a stated session of the District Court; and the better
opinion perhaps is that the trial contemplated by the section,
if ordered, is a trial by jury.t
Debts contracted by a debtor and provable under the
Bankrupt Act, if the same amount to two hundred and fifty
dollars, authorize the creditor or creditors to file a petition
praying that the debtor may be adjudged a bankrupt, and
the fortieth section of the same act provides that, upon the
filing of the petition, if it appears that sufficient grounds
exist therefor, the court shall direct the entry of an order
requiring the debtor to appear and show cause, at a court
of bankruptcy to be holden at a time specified in the order,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. Prior
to the return day of the order it is required that notice shall
be given to the debtor, and the provision is that the court
shall, if the debtor so demand on the same day, order a trial
* 14 Stat. at Large, 528.

t 14 Stat. at Large, 532; Gordon et al. v.Scott et al., 2 Bankrupt Register, 28; In re Eidom, 3 Id. 89; In re Lawson, 2 Id. 125.

MORGAN

v.

THORNHILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by jury, at the first term of the court at which a jury shall
be in attendance, to ascertain the fact of such alleged
bankruptcy.*
Appellate jurisdiction, in its strictest sense, as exercised
under the Judiciary Act, is certainly conferred upon the
Circuit Courts in four classes of cases by the express words
of the Bankrupt Act, without any resort to construction:
(1.) By appeal from the final decree of the District Courts
in suits in equity commenced and prosecuted in the District
Courts by virtue of the jurisdiction created by the third
clause of the second section of the-act. (2.) By writs of
error sued out to the District Court in civil actions finally
decided by the District Courts, in the exercise of jurisdiction
created by the same clause of that section. (3.) By appeal
from the decisions of the District Courts rejecting wholly or
in part the claim of a creditor, as provided in the eighth
section of the act. (4.) By appeal from the decisions of the
District Courts allowing such a claim when the same is opposed by the assignee.
Appeals from the District Courts to the Circuit Courts
are not allowed in any case unless the appeal is claimed and
notice given thereof to the clerk of the District Court, to be
entered in the record of the proceedings, and also to the
assignee, creditor, or the proper party in equity, within ten
days from the date of the decision or decree, nor unless the
appellant, at the time of claiming the same, also gives bond
in the manner required by law in case of such an appeal
from a subordinate to an appellate tribunal.
Whether a writ of error will lie from the Circuit Court to
the District Court where the debtor opposes the petition that
he may be adjudged a bankrupt, and the question whether
he has committed an act of bankruptcy is tried by a jury,
as provided in the forty-first section of the act, is pot a question involved in the case before the court. Nor is the question presented in the case whether a writ of error will lie
from the Circuit Court to the District Court where an issue
14 Stat. at Large, 537.

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN
10

V. THORNHILL.

Opinion of the court.

of fact is framed, as provided in the thirty-first section of
the act, and the same is tried by a jury at a stated session of
the District Court.
Suffice it to say at this time that such cases, when tried by
a jury, if the Circuit Court has any jurisdiction upon, the
subject, must be removed into the Circuit Court by a writ
of error, as they, when tried by a jury, are excluded. from"
the special jurisdiction conferred in the first clause of the
section, by the very words of the clause.. Where 'special
provision is otherwise made" the case is excluded from the
general superintendence and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
by the exception introduced, as a parenthesis, into the body
of that part of the section.
Special provision is made in such cases, within the meaning of that exception, when the case is tried by a jury, and
there is not a word iii the act having the slightest tendency
to show that Congress intended that a fact found by ajury
in a District Court should be re-examined in a summary way
by the Circuit Court, and it is not pretended that a party
may appeal and be entitled to a second trial by jury, unless
the first verdict is set aside for error of law. Such cases
may be tried by the District Court without a jury, and in
that event no doubt is entertained that the case is within
the supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Due notice was given to the bank of the petition filed in
the Circuit Court that the corporation should be adjudged
a bankrupt, and the commissioners, as the legal representatives of the bank, appeared and made defence, but they did
not demand in writing, or otherwise, a trial by jury, and
the case was heard and determined by the court. Subsequent to the decree adjudging the bank a bankrupt, the
commissioners presented a petition to the circuit judge,

praying for a reversal of that decree, by virtue of the special
jurisdiction conferred upon the Circuit Court in the first
clause of the second section of the Bankrupt Act, and the
petition was heard at chambers, and a decree was entered
dismissing the petition, and affirming the decree of the District Court.

MORGAN

v.

THORNEILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Independent of the Bankrupt Act the District Courts possess no eqmty jurisdiction whatever, as the previous legislation of Congress conferred no such authority upon those
courts since the prior Bankrupt Act was repealed.* Whatever jurisdiction, therefore, they possess in that behalf is
wholly derived from the Bankrupt Act now in force.
Undoubtedly the jurisdiction conferred by the third clause
of the second section is of the same character as that conferred upon the Circuit Courts by the eleventh section of
the Judiciary Act, and it follows that final judgments in civil
actions and final decrees in suits in equity rendered in such
cases, where the sum or value exceeds two thousand dollars,
exclusive of costs, may be re-examined in this court when
properly removed here by writ of erfor or appeal, as required by existing laws.
Concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts of all
suits at law or in equity are the words of that clause, showing conclusively that the jurisdiction intended to be conferred is the regular jurisdiction between party and party,
as described in the Judiciary Act and the third article of the
Constitution.
Cases arising under that clause, where the amount is sufficient, are plainly within the ninth section of the Bankrupt
Act, and as such may be removed here for re-examination,
but the revision contemplated by the first clause is evidently
of a special and su-mmary character, substantially the same
as that given in the prior Bankrupt Act, as sufficiently appears from the Nfords "general superintendence," preceding
and qualifying the word "jurisdiction," and more clearly from
the fact that thejurisdiction extends to mere questions as contradistinguished fromj udgments or decrees as well as to cases,
showing that it includes the latter as well as the former, and
that the jurisdiction may be exercised in chambers as well as
in court, and in vacation as well as in term time.
Much stress was laid, in argument in support of the theory
that an appeal will lie to this court from a decision of the
Circuit Court rendered under the first clause of the second
* Ex parte Christy, 8 Howard, p. 811.

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN V. THORNEILiL.

Opinion of the court.

section, upon the fact that the case or question, as therein
provided, may be heard and determined in a court of equity,
as the phrase reads in the printed volume of the Statutes at
Large, but that phrase, even if correctly printed, must be
read and considered in connection with the succeeding
clause, and when so read and considered it is plain that the
meaning is the same as it would be if it read "as a court ofequity," or "as in a court of equity ;" that it merely prescribes the rule of decision by wlhich the court is to be
governed, and that it is entirely consistent with the subsequent clause before referred to, which provides that the case
or question may be heard and determined by a justice of
the court as well as by the court, and in vacation as well as
in term time, which is palpably inconsistent with the theory
that Congress intended that an appeal from the decision of
any case or question under the first clause should be allowed
to this court.
But the phrase "hear and determine the case in a court of
equity," as printed in the fourteenth volume of the Statutes
at Large, is erroneously transcribed from the act of Congress
as it passed the two Houses and was approved by the President. Corrbctly transcribed it reads "hear and determine
the case as in a court of equity," which shows, without any
resort to construction, that all Congress intended by the
phrase was, to prescribe the rule of decision, whether it was
made in court or at chambers or in term time or vacation.
Decrees in equity, in order that they riay be re-examined
in this court, must be final decrees rendered in term time,
as contradistinguished from mere interlocutory decrees or
orders which may be entered at chambers, or, if entered in
court, arc still subject to revision at the final hearing.
Adopt the theory of the appellees and the proceedings in
bankruptcy might be protracted indefinitely, as every question arising in the courts may be transferred first to the Circuit Court and then to this court, which would tend very
largely to defeat all the beneficent purposes of the Bankrupt
Act. For these reasons the appeal is
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.,
VOL. XI.

6

