Dec. 1870.]

BANK V. LANIER.
Statement of the case.

no learned examination of the doctrine of confusion or mixture of goods to make it apparent that if certain spirits belonging to the government by forfeiture are voluntarily
mixed with other spirits belonging to the same party and
passed through the process of rectification in leaches, he
cannot thereby deprive the government of its property; and
if the government only claims its fair proportion of the rectified spirits, he certainly cannot complain of injustice. The
only result of applying the doctrine of confusion of goods
would be to forfeit the entire mixture. And it cannot be
claimed that the process of rectification in leaches effects
such a transmutation of species as to destroy the identity of
the liquor. If, after the mixture and before the rectification,
a certain proportion of the spirits belongs to the United
States, they will not lose that proportion by the spirits being
passed through the leaches for the purpose of rectification.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BANK V. LANIER.
1. National banks as governed by the National Currency Act of June 3d,
1864, which act repeals the National Currency Act of 1863, can make novalid loan or discount on the security of their own stock, unless necessary to prevent loss on a debt previously contracted in good faith.
2. The placing by one bank of its funds on permanent deposit with another
bank, is a loan within the spirit of this enactment.
3. Loans by National banks to their stbckholders do not give a lien to the,
bank on the stock of such.stockholders.
4. A bank whose certificates of stock declare the stockholder entitled to so,
many shares of stock, which can be transferred on the books of the corporation, in person or by attorney, when the certificates are surrendered,
but not otherwise, and which suffers a stockholder to transfer 'to anybody on the books of the bank his stock, without producing and surrendering the certificates thereof, is liable to a bond fide transferee for
value, of the same stock, who produces the certificates with properly
executed power of attorney to transfer; and this is so although no notice
have been given to the bank of the latter transfer.
IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
VOL. x1.

24

BANK

V. LANIER.

[Sup. Or:,

Statement of the case.

The 36th section of the National Currency Act of 1863,*
under which the National banks were organized, and which
provides for. the distribution of the 'stock into shares, and
for its being assignable, contained, this restriction, to wit,
that no shareholder should have power to sell or assign
his shares, so long as he should be- liable to the association
either as principal, debtor, or surety, or otherwise, for any
debt that should have become due, while it remained unpaid.
The 12th section of the National Currency Act of June
3d, 1864, which expressly repealed this act of 1863,t gives
to the banks the right, either by laws or in their articles of
association, to prescribe the manner in which stock shall be
transferable on their books.
The 35th section of the same act of 1864, prohibits "any
loan or discount on the security of the shares of a bank's
own capital stock;" also the purchasing or holding such
shares unless necessary to prevent loss on a debt previously
contracted in good faith; and directs that stock so purchased
or acquired shall be sold or disposed of in six months, in
default of which a receiver shall be appointed. + And it
omits the restriction upon the transfer of shares contained
in the above quoted 36th section of the act of 1863.
By the section in the act of 1864, repealing the act of
1863, it is "provided that such repeal shall not affect any
act done or proceedings had, or any organization, acts or
proceedings of any association organized or in process of
organization under the act aforesaid."
The 37th section of the act of 1863, had contained a provision similar to this 35th section of the act of 1864, though
its prohibition against the holding, by a bank, of its own
stock, was less stringent.§
This act of 1864 being in force, Lanier and Handy brought
suit in the court below against the First National Bank of
South Bend, to obtain pecuniary satisfaction for the refusal
by the bank to permit the transfer of certain shares of stock
* 12 Stat. at Large, 675.

t

62, 13 Id. 118.

1 lb. 110.

12 Id. 676.

Dec. 1870.]

:BANK v. LANImit.
Statement of the case.

on its books to them, on the ground that the law imposed the
duty on the corporation to allow the transfer, and raised an
implied promise in their favor that the duty should be performed. The case made by their declaration was this:
On the 8th of July, 1865, the bank issued two certificates
of stock to one Culver, which declared that he was entitled
to 150 shares in the capital stock of the institution, and that
these shares were transferable on the books of the bank, in
person or by attorney, only on the surrender of the certificates.
This limitation on the power of transfer was in conformity
with the terms of a by-law on the subject. On the 29th of
January, 1866, Lanier and Handy purchased 188 shares of
this stock from Culver for value, and obtained from him the
stock certificates regularlyassigned, with the usual Powers of aUorney to transfer the stock, of which transaction the bank was
notified on the 81st day of the same mouth of January.
This purchase was not followed up by an immediate request
for the transfer of the stock, but in the month of January,
1868, this request was regularly made and refused.
The bank, in justification of its conduct, interposed three
pleas in bar, which set up two distinct defences.
The first and third pleasjustifled the refusal, on the ground
that at the time the stock was taken by Culver he had pledged it
as a security for such deposits as the bank might from time
to time make with the house of Culver, Penn & Co., oflNew
York, of which he was a member, and that to make the
pledge more effectual, by power of attorney regularly executed, he authorized his attorney in fact to sell and transfer the stock in case the bank conceived it to be necessary,
and to apply the proceeds to liquidate any balance due the
bank from Culver, Penn & Co., and that 50 shares had
actually been sold in pursuance of this agreement, and the
proceeds applied before Culver assigned the stock certificates to the plaintiffs, and the remaining share§ had been
sold before the bank had notice that they were assigned.
The second plea alleged the organization of the bank
under the act of 1863, and that being so organized it established certain by-laws for conducting its business and fbr

B ANK

v). L[ANIER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the bank's claim.

its protection, and to regulate the transfers of stock which
were in pursuance of the authority vested in the bank by
the act of Congress aforesaid, and that the same had been
from the time of their adoption, and still were in force, unrepealed and unchanged; that by virtue of the 15th section
of these by-laws it was provided that the stock of the bank
should be assignable only on its books, subject to the provisions
and restrictions of the act of Congress; that among the provisions and restrictions of the act was one contained in the
36th section, providing that the stock should be assignable
on the books in such manner as the by-laws of the bank should
prescribe, but that no shareholder should have power to sell
or transfer any share so long as he should be liable to the
bank for any debt. And the plea averred that the provisions
of the said section thirty-six, by the force of the by-laws of
the said bank, and by virtue of the said 15th section of
them, became and was a part of the by-laws of the bank,
and regulated the transfers of the shares of stock held and
owned in the same, and was still a part thereof; in full force
and unrepealed by any act of the bank. And it averred
further that Culver was indebted, &c.
To each of these pleas the plaintiffs filed general demurrers, which, on joinder, were sustained by the court, and the
bank declining to answer further, judgment was rendered
against her. She now brought the case here on error. The
errors complained of being upon the rulings of the court in
sustaining the demurrers to these pleas.
Messrs. McDonald and Boache, for the plaintiff in error:
1. It will be contended that the contract set up in the first
and third pleas is in violation of the 35th section of the act
of 1864, which prohibits any association from making any
"loan or discount on the security of the shares of its own
stock." lNow the object of the prohibition was to compel
stockholders to become borrowers on the same terms as
other general customers; and inasmuch as the inhibition is
limited to " loans and discounts," which must be held to
mean those made in the ordinary course of dealing,Nit can-

Dec. 1870.]

BANK v. "LANIER.
Argument in support of the bank's claim.

not with fairness be extended to such securities as might be
taken for deposits in such commercial centres as the bank
might find it necessary to make for the purposes of trade
and exchange.
2. The second plea presents a question of the right of the
bank to hold the stock in question until the assignor had
paid or discharged his liabilities to the bank. The bank was
organized under the act of 1863, and its by-laws, which hiave
remained unchanged, were formed under the provisions of
the last-named act, and with express reference to the restrictions of the 86th section of that act. Now, it is averred in
the plea, and we contend that the legal effect of the 15th
section of the by-laws was to incorporate into it the provisions and restrictions of the 86th section of the act of 1863,
in the same-manner as if they had been set out'at length in
the by-law itself, and that the subsequent repeal of that
section by the act of 1864, could not operate to affect the
by-law, unless the right to impose such restrictions was
taken away by the subsequent act; but so far from that
being the cas.e, the 12th section of the act of 1864 expressly
confers upon such associations the right, either by by-laws
or in their articles of association, to prescribe the manner in
which stock shall be transferable on their books. This view
of the question is strengthened by reference to the repealing
section of the act of 1864.
8. It will be objected that there was no valid pledge to the
bank, inasmuch as the certificates of stock were not taken
possession of by the pledgee. But the certificates do not
constitute the property; they are only muniments of title.
The shares of stock constitute the property; these might
be pledged, and the possession, so far as such property is
capable of being possessed, remains in the pledger. This
results from the nature of the property being, as it is, intangible personal property, possessing more the elements
of a chose in,action than of a chattel.
It will be further insisted that if the stock was pledged,
that Culver, still holding the certificates, had the power to
transfer the stock by the assignment of the certificates to a

BANK V. LANIER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

bondfide bolder, and that such bolder would take the stock
free of any claim of the bank by reason of such pledge.
This would impress upon them the highest rights of commercial paper. But certificates of stock are not security for
money in any respect, much less are they negotiable securities. As muniments of title they may undoubtedly be assigned or pledged, but the bontdfile assignee or pledgee will
take them subject to all the equities that existed against the
assignee.
Mr. T. A. Hendricks,.contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to decide whether the first and third
pleas would answer the declaration, if the transaction pleaded
"were lawful, because the directors of the bank were forbid,
den by law from dealing with Culver in the manner they
did. At the time this proceeding took place the Currency
Act of 1863 had been superseded by the act of June 3, 1864,
which expressly repealed the former act. It is, therefore,
by the provisions of the latter act that the conduct of banking associations must be governed, whether they were organized before or after it became a law. And in looking into
this act, we find these associations expressly prohibited from
making any loan or discount on the security of the shares
of their own capital stock. And so marked is the policy
of Congress on this subject, that it does not allow a bank to
become the purchaser or holder of its shares at all, unless
absolutely necessary to prevent loss on a debt previously
contracted in good faith, and not then for a longer period
than six months. It is easy to see, that if the power were
given to a bank to loan money on the security of its shares,
it would imply also a power to become the owner of those
shares, and this Congress intended to guard against.
These institutions were created to subserve public purposes, and not the mere private interests of their stockholders. And in no better way could this object be attained
than by placing shareholders, in their pecuniary dealings

Dec. 1870.]

BANK v. LANIER.
Opinion of the court.

with the bank, on the same footing with other customers.
Besides, how could the capital of the bank be kept available
for active use, if the shareholder, who had pledged his stock
for borrowed money, should be unable to meet his obligation? To the extent of the debt the capital would be withdrawn, and it is hardly possible that this could be the case
for any length of time, were the debt secured outside of the
shares of the bank. But it is unnecessary to seek for the
reason of this prohibition, as the provision concerning it is
explicit, and free from ambiguity.
Although the section in question forbids loans or discounts by a bank on the security of its own shares of stock,
it is argued that this inhibition does not extend to the case
of deposits made by one bank with another. But a deposit
is nothing but a loan of morey,-and is within both the letter
and spirit of the provision. It is well known that country
banks keep on deposit in New York, with bankers and merchants, a considerable amount of money for their own convenience, for which they receive more or less of interest.
But whether interest be obtained or not, these deposits are,
equally with paper discounted over the counter of the bank,
loans of money, and the reason of the rule is equally applicable to them.
The banker is accountable for the deposits he receives as
a debtor, and the individual borrower of money from the
bank sustains no other relation to it. In both cases money
is borrowed, to be returned in a greater or less period of
time, according to the contract of the parties. Without pursuing the subject further, it is clear that the contract between. the South Bend Bank and Culver was illegal, and
cannot, therefore, be pleaded in avoidance of any duty imposed on the bank. It would seem, from the date of the
certificates issued to Culver, that as soon as he took the
stock he pledged it, and the bank is therefore without the
excuse of endeavoring to secure a pre-existing debt contracted in good faith. The contract in its inception was in
violation of law, and the bank cannot complain if it is made
to suffer in consequence of it.

BANE: v.

LrANIER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The defence interposed by the second plea is equally unavailing to the plaintiffs in error. This plea assumes that
the bank had a lien upon the stock of Culver for his indebtedness t; it, without any special agreement on the subject,
by virtue of the provisions of the 86th section of the Currency Act of 1863, restricting a shareholder from transferf'ing his stock as long as he owes the bank, which remained
in operation, although the section was repealed by the act
of 1864, by means of a by-law adopted when the section was
in force, declaring that the stock of the bank shall be transferable only on the books of the bank, subject to the provisions
and restrictions of the act of Congress aforesaid.
If it be conceded that the by-law intended to embrace the
restrictions contained in the 36th section, it is hard to see
what good it accomplished, because, as long as this section
was in force, it was the law of the corporation, known to all
men, and did not need the aid of a by-law to render it operative. And if it be contended that a bank may, through
the agency of a by-law, retain a particular section that has
been repealed, it is difficult to see why it may not by the
same means retain all the remaining sections of the repealed
statute that are applicable to its business, and thus antagoqize itself to the whole policy of Congress on the subject.
But of necessity a by-law cannot operate in this way, nor is
there any reason to suppose it was intended that this one
should have such an effect. In the absence of any action
taken by the bank on the subject. since the new law went
into operation, the fair inference is that this by-law is used
as an afterthought to serve the purposes of this suit. Congress evidently intended, by leaving out of the law of 1864
the 36th section of the act of 1863, to relieve the holders of
bank shares from the restrictions imposed by that section.
The policy on the subject was changed, and the directors
of banking associations were in effect notified that thereafter they must deal with their shareholders as they dealt
with other people. As the restrictions fell, so did that part
of the by-law relating to the subject fall with them.
It remains to be seen whether, on the case stated, Lanier

Dec. 1870.]

BANK v. LANIER.
Opinion of the court.

and Handy can recover of the bank for a breach of corporate
duty, notwithstanding the specific shares had already been
transferred to other persons through the power of attorney
which Culver gave when he attempted to pledge his stock
as security for the deposits to be made with his New York
house. And, in considering this question, we are relieved
of any necessity of deciding between conflicting equities,
for this suit does not seek to disturb the title of the adverse
purchasers to the specific stock. It leaves them in possession of the property, and undertakes to subject the bank to
damages for refusing to transfer the stock to the defendants
in error. And, as we view this controversy, it makes no
difference whether the transfers were actually made to other
parties before or after the bank received notice of the assignment of the stock ceiftificates by Culver to Lanier and
,Handy.
The power to transfer their stock is one of the most valu-able franchises conferred by Congress on banking associations. Without this power, it can readily be seen the value
of the stock would be greatly lessened, and, obviously, what,ever contributes to make the shares of the stock a safe mode
,of investment, and easily convertible, tends to enhance their
value. It is no less the interest of the shareholder, than the
public, that the certificate representing his stock should be
in a form to secure public confidence, for without this he
could not negotiate it to any advantage.
It is in obedience to this requirement, that stock certificates of all kinds have been constructed in a way to invite
the confidence of business men, so that they have become
the basis of commercial transactions in all the large cities of
the country, and are sold in open -market the same as other
securities. Although neither in form or character negotiable paper, they approximate to it as nearly as practicable.
If we assume that the certificates in question are not different from those in general use by corporations, and the assumption is a safe one, it is easy to see why investments of
this character are sought after and relied upon. No better
form could be adopted to assure the purchaser that he can

878

BANK V. LANIER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

buy with safety. He is told, under the seal of the corporation, that the shareholder is entitled to so much stock, which
can be transferred on the books of the corporation, in person
or by attorney, when the certificates are surrendered, but
not otherwise. This is a notification to all persons interested to know, that whoever in good faith buys the stock,
and produces to the corporation the certificates, regularly
assigned, with power to transfer, is entitled to have the stock
transferred to him. And the notification goes further, for
it assures the holder that the corporation will not transfer
the stock to any one not in possession of the certificates.
In this state of case Lanier and Handy made their purchase of Culver. They bought for value, without knowledge
of any adverse claim, in full faith that the bank would observe its engagements, and pursued in all respects the directions given in the certificates. They were not told to give
notice to the bank of their purchase, nor was there any
necessity for notice, because, by the rules of the bank, Culver
could not transfer the stock in the absence of the certificates,
and these they had in their possession. Itis therefore clear,
in making their purchase of Culver, that they had a right to
rely on the certificates as securing to them the stock which
they represented. And it is equally clear that the bank, in
allowing this stock to be transferred to other parties while
the certificates were outstanding in the hands of bo??a fide
holders, was guilty of a breach of corporate duty, and as its
conduct operated to the injury of Lanier and Handy, an
action will lie in their behalf to obtain satisfaction for the
injury.
These views dispose of this case, and they are sustained
by recent decisions in the Court of Appeals of New York
and the Supreme Court of Counecticut,* and, as we are advised, they also are supported by the Supreme Court of New
Jersey in a case not yet reported.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

• Bridgeport Bank v. New York and New Haven Railroad Company,
30 Connecticut, 270; Same v. Schuyler et al.,
34 New York, 30.

