Dec. 1870.]

D)EWING V. SEARS.

Statement of the case.

DEWING V. SEARS.
On a lease where a yearly rent of "four ounces, two pennyweights, and
twelve grains of pure gold in coined money" is reserved (equivalent
at the time when the lease was made to S80 per annum, and at the time
when suit was brought to $87.25 per annum), judgment should be
entered for coined dollars and parts of coined dollars, and not for United
States notes (made by statutes of the United States a legal tender), and
equivalent in market value to the value in coined money of the stipulated weight of pure gold.

IN error to the Superior Court of Massachusetts, the case
being thus:
Sears brought suits in one of the State courts of Massachusetts to recover rent due in different quarters upon a
lease executed August 14, 1828, for the term of one hundred
years, in which the yearly rent reserved was "four ounces,
two pennyweights, and twelve grains of pure gold, in coined
money," payable quarterly. By the act of April 2, 1792,*
which was in force when the lease was made, the rent was
just $80 per annum, or $20 a quarter, in gold coin. But by
the act of June 28, 1834,t and the act of January 18, 1837,1
which were in force when the rent sued for fell due, the
rent was $85.27 per annum, or $21.81 a quarter, in gold coin.
The State court gave judgment for the market value, in
United States notes, of the coined money for each quarter's
rent on the days the same fell due, with interest thereon;
and this judgment being affirmed in the highest conrt of the
State, the cases were brought here for review.
Mr. Caleb Gushing submitted them on briefs of Mr. E. M.
.Bigelow, for the plaintiffin error; observing that the clases were
not distinguishable from Bronson v. Bodes and Butler v. -Horwitz;ยง and that therefore the courts below should have given
judgment for the rent and interest in coined money.
_Nro opposing counsel.
* Ch. 16,

Oh. 3,
C

9, 1 Stat. at Large, 248.
8 and 10; 5 Id. 137, 138.

t Ch. 95, 4 Id. 699.
7 Wallace, 229, 258.

RANKIN v. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The contract in these cases was for the payment or delivery of a specified weight of pure gold, solvable in coined
money. They are, therefore, governed by the decisions
heretofore made by this court in Bronson v. Bodes, and Butler
v.* Horwitz. It follows that the judgments entered in the
Superior Court were erroneous. They should have been
entered for coined dollars and parts of dollars, instead of
treasury notes equivalent in market value to the value in
coined money of the stipulated weight of pure gold.
JUDGMENT in each case REVERSED, and the causes remanded with instructions to enter judgment in accordance
with the
FOREGOING OPINION.

RANKIN

v.

THE STATE.

"Where,on an indictment for a capital offence, the Supreme Court of a State
reverses a judgment of a court below, under such circumstances as that
the case must go back for trial on its merits, the judgment is not a "final
judgment," and therefore is not capable of being brought here under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee; the case
being this:
An indictment had been found in one of the State courts
of Tennessee, at August Term, 1865, against a certain -Rankin, and ten other persons named in the indictment, charging them with the murder of one Thornhill, on the first of
June preceding. The defendant, in August Term, 1866,
pleaded that on the day mentioned in the indictment he was
in the military service of the United States, in the military
district of East Tennessee, being first lieutenant of company
B of the 9th Tennessee Cavalry, and bound to obey all lawful orders of his superiors, "then and there existing and
being an insurrection and civil war in said military district;"
and that on the 5th day of October thereafter he was ar-

