Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDR)@Y.

459

Syllabus.

GALVESTON RAILROAD V.

O0WDREY.

1. Bona fide holders of railroad bonds, executed in due form and by the
proper officers, cannot be prejudiced by the fact that the mortgage
given to secure the same was executed out of the State, or by virtue of
a resolution of directors, at a meeting held out of the State. The company and its privies are bound thereby.
2. One who purchases railroad bonds in open market, supposing them to be
valid, and having no notice to the contrary, will be deemed a bon~fide
holder.
3. Where the trustees of a railroad mortgage or deed of trust are dead, a
bill of foreclosure and sale may be filed against the company by one or
more of the bondholders on behalf of themselves and all other bondholders, secured by the same mortgage; or, if there be several successive
mortgages, the trustees of which are dead, and the complainants hold
bonds secured by each mortgage, the bill may be filed on behalf of themselves and all the bondholders und6r each mortgage.
4. In such case no injustice could be done,.because any bondholder, not
made a party, would have a right to intervene and contest the priority
of a mortgage earlier in date than that by which his bonds are secured;
or the validity of bonds held by any other bondholder.
A railroad company of Texas made four successive mortgages, in
1853, 1855, 1857, and 1859, and issued bonds under each ; the road and
its appendagm were then sold under judgments in 1860; the purchasers
operated the road until 1867, and realized large receipts therefrom. In
1857, after the making of the first three mortgages, the legislature
passed a law subjecting the road and chartered rights of all railroad
companies to sale for their debts, either under mortgages, deeds of trust,
orjudgments. Held:
First. That this law enured to the benefit of the three first mortgages,
as well as th that made and as to the judgment recovered after its enactment, and in the order of priority due to each.
Seconq. That the sale under the judgment did not disturb the priority
of the mortgages.
Third. That although the three first mortgages covered and conveyed
the tolls, income, and profits, yet the purchasers under the judgment
were not accountable for the tolls and income received by them from the
road before they received notice to pay them over to the bondholders.
Fourth. That although part of the road was entirely built by the
money raised on the fourth mortgage, yet that fact did not give it
priority over the first three mortgages, even on that portion of the
road; provided it was a part of the chartered route.
Fifth. A railroad mortgage, as against the company and its privies,
although given before the road is built, attaches itself thereto as fast as
it is built, and to all property covered by its terms as fast as it comes
into existence as property of the company.

460

GALVESTON RAILROAD V.

COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Sixth. The principle applicable to maritime cases, which gives priority
of lien to the last creditor furnishing supplies and repairs for the conservation of the ship or voyage, does not apply to railroads. As to them
the common law rule prevails, qui priorest in tempore, potior est injure.
Mechanics' lien laws have not been extended to railroads in Texas.
APPEALS from decrees in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Texas on bill and cross-bill.
The bill was filed by Cowdrey and others, citizens of N'ew
York, against the Galveston, Houston, and Henderson Railroad Company; another company of the same name (the
"successor company" of the one just mentioned); the Galveston and Houston Junction Railroad Company; one Nichols, and fourteen other persons, all citizens of Texas (except
one, who was a citizen of Massachusetts), for the foreclosure
and sale of the railroad of the said Galveston, Houston, and
Henderson company, with all its appurtenances, and all the
property of said company, to pay in due order the several
outstanding bonds issued under certain mortgages which it
had made, to wit, its first, second, and third mortgages, and
to call the defendants to account for the tolls, income, and
profits of the said railroad and property whilst in their possession. The bill was filed on the 12th of February, 1867,

on behalf, not only of the complainants, who alleged that

they were large holders of the said bonds, bat of all other
holders thereof, who might come in and contribute to the
costs and expenses of the suit.
It appeared from the pleadings ana proofs that the Galveston, Houston, and Henderson -Railroad Company was
chartered by an act of the legislature of Texas, on the 7th
of February, 1853, for the purpose of constructing and operating a railway from the city of Galveston to the city of
Houston, and thence to Henderson,* with such branches as
they might deem expedient; with power, amongst other
things, to take lands by condemnation, and to acquire, by
purchase, donation, or in payment of stock, such real estate
as the directors should think desirable to aid in the con* See the diagram, infra, page 464.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V.

O0WDREY.

461

Statement of the case.

struction or maintenance of said road; and to alienate or
mortgage the same for the constructing or maintainingsaid road;
such alienation or mortgage to be signed in the name of the
president and countersigned by the treasurer; also, with
power to borrow money on their bonds or notes, at such rates as
the directors should deem expedient; and, generally, to do
and perform all such acts as might be necessary and properfor,
or incident to, the fufilment of their obligations and for the maintenance of their rights. And it was expressly declared by the
charter that all conveyances and contracts executed in writing and signed by the president and countersigned by the
treasurer, or other officer duly appointed by the directors
under the seal of the company and in pursuance of a vote
of the directors, should be valid and binding. By virtue of
supplements to the charter, and by general laws-of the State
of Texas, the company became entitled to grants of the
public lands of the State, in virtue of which they subsequently acquired land certificates for 512,000 acres of land.
The company was duly organized under its charter and
began operations for constructing its road.
On the 1st of December, 1853, the company made an
issue of bonds-its first issue-consisting of fifteen hundred
bonds, each for £100 sterling, payable in London, at the
expiration of ten years, with interest at the rate of 6 per
cent. per annum. To secure these bonds the company executed a deed of trust, or mortgage, to trustees, upon its railroad, constructed and to be constructed, from Galveston to
Houston, and its privileges, rights, and real estate, owned, or
that should thereafter be owned, by the company, in connection
with its said railroad; and all tolls, issues, and profits, whenever default should be made in paying the bonds, and all the franchises of the company, and all depots, stations, and buildings,
and lands, occupied or to be occupied therefor. The terms of
the deed were that it should be held in trust for the bondholders; that so long as no default was made by the company in payment of principal or interest, the property should
remain in the company's possession; but if it should be in default for the space of three months in payment of either, and on

GALVESTON IRATLROAD V. COWDREY.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

request in writing by any holder of the bonds, the trustees might
take actual possession of the railroad and all the property mortgaged, take the receipts thereof, and, on due notice, sell the
same to pay the principal and interest due, after paying expenses of management and all costs and charges incident to
the trust.
On the 1st of June, 1855, a second issue of bonds was
made by the company to the amount of $750,000, payable
in ten years, with interest-at 10 per cent. per annum, convertible, after three years, into stock of the company, and
secured by a second mortgage of similar import to the first,
except that it conveyed, "in addition to what was conveye
by the first mortgage, all the lands which shall or may belong to said company by virtue of any act of the legislature
of the State of Texas in connection with said road from
Galveston to Houston." This mortgage contained a declaration that it was "to take the place of" the former one,
which was for an equivalent sum in sterling money, and it
had a clause thus
"And the issue of the bonds referred to in this instrument
can take place only by the cancelling of a like amount of the
said 6 per cent. sterling bonds, so that this instrument is and
shall be a first lien upon all the property donated thereon to
the amount of bonds issued."
On the 8th of October, 1857, a third issue of bonds was
made to the amount of $2,625,000, in $100 bonds, payable
in 1879, with interest at 8 per cent. per annum; and these
bonds were secured by a third mortgage to the same trustees as the last, on the same property as the second mortgage, except that it purports to cover the railroad from
Galveston for the full distance of 75 miles. This mortgage
declared that it was executed in part "to take the place of"
the preceding one; particulars being stated.
The trustees named in the first mortgage were the Honorable William Kent, of New York, and certain London
bankers. These last, however, refused to accept the trust.
The trustees under the two later mortgages were Mr. Kent

Dee. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

463

Statement of the case.

of New York, already named, and Mr. 0. B. Haddock, of
that city or State. Both these trustees were dead at the
time the bill was filed, and there were then no trustees acting under the mortgages.
All the mortgages were executed under the corporate
seal, were signed by the president, and countersigned by the
treasurer. They did not declare in what place they were
executed, but the execution of them was proved in the city
of New York, before a commissioner for Texas, It being
stated in the affidavit of probate that the president and
treasurer resided in that city. The evidence tended also to
show that the meetings of the directors, by which the mortgages were authorized to be executed, were held iniNew
York; where the company had an office where its fiscal
arrangements chiefly originated and were accomplished.
The bill stated that these bonds were issued to raise
money to construct, equip, and supply the railroad; and
that the company, by the aid thereof, did complete its road
from Galveston to Houston, a distance of 52 miles. It further stated that the company, after the issue thereof, took

up and cancelled about £100,000 of the first issue, leaving
outstanding only about £50,000, of which the complainants
held £32,600, with a large amount of coupons thereon for
unpaid interest; that only about $700,000 of the second issue
were outstanding, besides the coupons thereon, of which the
complainants held $250,000, besides a large amount of unpaid coupons; and that about $2,000,000 of the third issue
were outstanding, of which the complainants held a large
amount. The bill averred the entire insolvency of the
original company.
Upon the filing of the bill and reading divers affidavits,
the court below appointed a receiver, who, and a successor
since appointed, during the pendency of the suit, carried on
the operations of the road and received all the emoluments
thereof for the benefit of the parties entitled thereto.
Answers and replications being filed, testimony was taken.
During the examination the complainants produced and
scheduled the bonds of the several classes held by them, to

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the amounts nearly corresponding with those above alleged;
the amount of the third issue so produced being $21,800,
besides coupons. They were examined as to the manner in
which they obtained possession thereof, and proved that
they had purchased them of various parties and at various
prices, from 80 to 70 per cent. on the par value.
It further appeared that on the 21st of May, 1859, the
company executed to one Tucker, as trustee for Robert
Pulsford, a fourth deed of trust to secure the payment of
£9600 sterling, previously lent to the company by Pulsford
on a number of bonds of the third issue, together with other
securities, delivered to him to bold as collateral security,
and £10,000 advanced at the time of the execution of the
deed. This deed covered the same property which was covered by the other trust deeds. It was besides agreed, in a
separate article, that Pulsford should have a special lien oi
a lot of railroad iron which was pledged to him, and which
was to be used for completing the track of the railroad between
Galveston City and Virginia Point, a distance of aboutfive miles;
indicated on the diagram inserted here by a heavier line
than the rest of the road.
Henderson

oHouston
...........

""-

alveston

The bill did not advert to this deed; but Pulsford and his
trustee, on their petition for that purpose, were permitted
to intervene as defendants, and filed an answer and a crossbill, claiming a first lien on the portion of road laid with the
aforesaidrails. The ground on which Pulsford claimed pri-

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

465

Statement of the case.

ority on that portion of the road which was laid with his
iron, was that when the mortgages of the complainants were
executed that part of the road was not in existence and
could not have been conveyed by them, and could only be
embraced ii them on a principle of equitable estoppel, which
was met and paralyzed when it came in conflict with a
superior equity; secondly, because the company having become bankrupt and unable to finish the road, the work
previously done had become worthless, and the pledge
given by the mortgage was without value; and because his
iron, applied to the road, saved it, and rendered it capable
of being used, which it would not have been otherwise;
hence, on the principle adopted by the civil and maritime
laws of awarding priority to the last creditor who furnished
necessary repairs and supplies to a vessel, that he was entitled to priority in this case. It appeared from vouchers.
produced on the examination that over $30,000 had been.
paid to Pulsford on his claim.
It further appeared that on the 6th of March, 1860, theroad-bed, track, franchises, chartered rights and privileges.
of the ,Galveston, Houston, and Henderson Railroad Com-pany, and the rolling stock thereof, consisting of two locomotives, fourteen platform cars, one passenger car, &c:, weresold by the sheriff of Galveston County, undei executions
issued on a large number of judgments -which had been re-covered against the company, amounting in all to nearly
$120,000. The purchaser was a certain Terry, and the property was bid off for $28,000. Terry and his associates, immediately after the purchase, organized themselves into a
new company, and asserting themselves, by virtue of thesheriff's sale anl the laws of Texas, to be invested with.
all the chartered rights and privileges, including the corporate franchises of the Galveston, Houston, and Henderson
Railroad Company, organized themselves as such; and they
and their successors constituted the present company acting
under that name, "the successor company," already mentioned. This new organization took possession of the railroad and all its works and property and began to operate it.
VOL. XI.

80

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

The last directors of the old company were interested in
this purchase and continued in the new company.
It further appeared that Terry and his associates formed
themselves into a voluntary company called the Real and
Personal Estate Association, for the purpose of raising
money to pay some of the pressing claims against the railroad company, which were regarded as assumed by the new
company, and for the further purpose of procuring real
estate for depots, and rolling stock machinery, and tools
needed for the use of the railroad; that in this way they
laid out a large sum of money, over $150,000, and leased the
property thus acquired to the new railroad company. The
rents reserved were stated in the answer of the defendants.
It further appeared that, in order to build a short railroad
at the city of Houston, to connect the railroad of the defendants with the Texas Central Railroad, the same persons
procured a charter from the legislature, on the 8th of April,
1861, by which they were incorporated as the Galveston and
Houston Junction Railroad Company; and were, as such,
authorized to construct and operate a railroad to connect
the Galveston, Houston, and Henderson Railroad with the
Texas Central Railroad. This road was constructed accordR. R.

Texas Centra
Buffalo Bayou,

HOUSTON~?
G. H& H.R. R.

If-H

ingly, and was less than two miles in length, with a bridge
over the Buffalo Bayou. (See the diagram above.)

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V.

COWDREY.

467

Statement of the case.

The cost of the road was stated to have been about $51,000.
The company also purchased $12,000 worth of cars from a
yet different railroad company,-the Houston, Trinity, and
Tyler Company. These cars were leased to the Galveston,
Houston, and Henderson Company at $600 per month.
About the 1st of May, 1865, the Real and Personal Estate
Association sold and transferred all its rolling stock, tools,
and machinery to the Galveston and Houston Junction Railroad. So that, when the bill in this case was filed, the latter
company asserted itself to be owner of all the rolling stock,
tools, and machinery in use on the Galveston road, except
the old stock that was in existence in March, 1860; the
whole being rented to the Galveston Company for rents,
which were charged by the complainants to .be exorbitant,
and intended to absorb all the earnings of the Galveston
Railroad. The evidence showed clearly enough that, by
means of the rents paid by the Galveston Company to the
Real Estate Association for real estate, depot grounds, &c.,
and for rolling stock, tools, and machinery, and of similar
rents paid to the Junction Company, and of the proportion
of the gross receipts retained by said company, the Galveston Company received but a very small portion of the earnings of the works for its share.
It was admitted by the defendants that the stockholders
of the new Galveston Railroad Company, the stockholders
of the Junction Railroad Company, and the members of the
Real and Personal Estate Association were identically the
same persons, and that their several interests were proportionally the same in each coficern. It was evident, therefore, that the bargains 'Made with the Galveston Railroad
Company were bargains made with themselves, and were
what they were pleased to make them; and the design manifestly was to make them on such terms that the Galveston
Railroad Company should get but a small share of thc proceeds. The complainants charged that all this was a fraud;
that the tolls and income of the railroad were mortgaged to
them, as well as the road-bed itself, and that the individual
defendants were bound to account for them.

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It was admitted by the defendants that these "outside
companies" were formed because they apprehended difficulty from the creditors of the old company. They did not
deem it safe to purchase new property, either real estate or
rolling stock, or to construct the connecting road at Houston
in the name of the Galveston Railroad Company. The mortgages held by the trustees of the complainants and other
claims were clouds hanging over the title of the railroad,
and, therefore, they were unwilling to invest their money in
the company's name or to invest it with the title to any new
property acquired. They urged these circumstances in justification of their mode of proceeding, though they insisted
that the rents and the division of the receipts were fair and
right.
Among the defences set up, either generally or specifically,
by the answer or course of the defendant's testimony, were:
1st. That the mortgages sued on were created without
authority by the charter of the railroad company, or by the
laws of Texas, and were illegal and void; the argument here
being that though the company might have power, under
the language of its charter, to mortgage such "outside" real
estate as it was authorized to acquire to subserve to the
main design of building its road, yet that there was obviously no express authority, nor any authority by any implication of the particular language in the corporation to
mortgage its right of way, track, and franchises; and that
without some such power a private railroad corporation
could not mortgage these; a point, it was said, determined
by numerous State courts,* and approved of in this.t
* Steiner's Appeal, 27 Pennsylvania State, 315 Susquehanna Canal Co. v.
Bonham, 9 Watts & Sergeant, 28; Troy & Rutland Railroad Co. v.Kerr, 17
Barbour, 601; Stat6 v. Mexican Railroad, 3 Robinson's Louisiana, 513;
Robins v. Embry, I Smede & Marshall's Chancery, 269; Coe v.Columbus
Railroad Co., &c., 10 Ohio State, 372; Commonwealth v.Smith, 10 Allen,
455; Richardson and others v.Sibley, 11 Id. 65; Pierce v.Emery, 32 New
Hampshire, 508; State v.Rives, 5 Iredell, 297.
t York & Maryland Railroad v.Winans, 17 Howard, 30; Gue v.Tidewater Canal, 24 Id. 257.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDRIEY.

469

Statement of the case.

2d. That even if such power existed, it could only be exercised through meetings of the directors in proper places,
and that all the meetings of this company, including those
which authorized these mortgages, were held in the city of
New York, where the company was organized; where its
office records and seals were kept; where the president and
treasurer resided; where probate of the mortgages to enable
them to be recorded in Texas was made; all outside of the
limits of Texas. The argument here being that a corporation must dwell in the place of its creation, and cannot migrate to another sovereignty; that legislative acts ought to
receive a reasonable interpretation, and that it could not be
presumed that a legislature authorized an act beyond the
reach of its proper jurisdiction; the case of Riles v. Parrish,
in the 14th volume of the New Jersey Chancery Reports, p.
883, with other cases,* being here relied on. The case
specially named says:
"It is a rule of law that a private corporation, whose charter
has been granted by one State cannot bold meetings and pass
votes in another State. It exists by force of the law that created it, and where that law ceases to exist and is not obligatory
the corporation can have no existence. It appears that the
resolutions of the board of directors which authorized the transfer of the stock in question were passed at a meeting held, not
in this State, but in the city of Philadelphia. They are therefore void."
3d. That the bonds sued on had not issued upon a consideration which brought them within the security of the
trust-deeds; and that whatever their effect, as bonds or
debts of the old company, they were not covered by the
lien of those deeds; evidence on this point (not, however,
clear) being given, tending (or so alleged by the defendants)
to show that the bonds under the second mortgage bad been
issued, not to take up those under the first, but as a new
and independent way of borrowing money; and the argu* Warren Man. Co. v. Z.tna Ins. Co., 2 Paine, 501; Bank of Virginia V.
Adams, 1 Parsons' Equity Cases, 534; Freeman v. Machias, 38 Maine, 345.

470

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment upon an assumption of that fact, as proved, being,
that if a corporation executed a mortgage on its property,
onl its face, to secure bonds to be issued (only by the cancelling of a like amount of previous bonds), and people
bought them without seeing that such like amount had
been cancelled, they could not come into equity and claim
the security of the mortgage for such second bonds, though
they might become bond creditors of the company.
4th. That these complainants could not maintain this bill
to foreclose the three mortgages. The casual fact that ehch
of them happened to hold bonds said to have been issued
under each of the three mortgages, was not, it was argued,
material. This was a suit, it was urged, by four complainants, in behalf of themselves, and all others having a common
interest with them. But no one had a common interest with
them who did not hold bonds issued under each of the three
mortgages, and of the same proportionate amounts as the
complainants; and there was no evidence, or any reason
even to conjecture that any one did. There was no community of interest between those who held bonds under the
several successive mortgages. Each ineumbrancer under
the second mortgage had a direct interest to show the first
invalid, and to reduce the amount secured by it; and so
with the third mortgage, in reference to the first and second.
There could be no community of interest, and no right of
representation, a matter which could exist only by reason
of community of interest, where consecutive incumbrances
are held by different persons, each of whom has rights adverse to all who precede him. 'In its foundation and structure, the bill was therefore inconsistent with fundamental
principles which govern courts of equity, and it could not
be maintained.
The Circuit Court made a decree, amounting in effiect to
a foreclosure of the three first mortgages, for the sum then
found to be due in the aggregate, $5,263,039. The decree included £49,600, issued under the first mortgage, and £41,664
of unpaid coupons, and the whole $750,000 included in the
second mortgage and unpaid coupons $675,000.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

471

Statement of the case.

The decree contained this clause:
"As this decree cannot, on account of the reference hereinafter ordered to a master, be made final as to all matters in controversy, and as certain of the defendants have given notice of
their intention to appeal from a final decree, when rendered,
the court does not direct a sale of said mortgaged property, but
will do so in said final decree; and this decree is without prejudice to the right of the defendants, or any of them, to an appeal, with supersedeas, from this decree and all matters herein,
within the time appointed by law, after the final decree which
may be made in this cause."
A reference to a special master (directed by the decree for
the information of the court) was had, and documentary and
other evidence collected. But there was no reference ordered
in this decreefor taldng the proof of the various bonds that might be
produced.
The evidence collected before the master was submitted to
the court below, which now made a further or final decree.
By this the original decree was confirmed, so far as related
to the foreclosure of all the mortgages, fixing their priorities
according to date, and subjecting to their lien the whole
road from Galveston to Houston, with the original rolling
stock and equipments. But the decree refused any remedy
by account, or an enforcement of the lien against any of
the property acquired and used in .connection with the road
since March 6th, 1860, when, as already mentioned,* the
road-bed, track, franchises, chartered rights, and rolling stock
of the company were sold by the sheriff.
The cross-bill of Pulsford for a superior equity was dismissed.
The decree contained this direction:
"And to ascertain more exactly such proportion, and the
amount of the seveial series of bonds and coupons now outstanding, it is hereby ordered that all holders of such bonds or
coupons claiming a participation in the distribution of the proceeds of any sale of the property claimed to be mortgaged to
Supra, p. 465.

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

secure them in this cause, shall present their bonds and coupons
to this court (to be deposited in some National bank to be designated on such presentation, there to remain subject to further
order, and to such directions as the court may make to ascertain
their genuineness and to classify them), within one year from
the date of this decree. And after any such gale, as hereinbefore directed, has been duly made and confirmed, and the.
amount of the successful bids paid as before stated, the said
marshal shall execute in due form a conveyance of the property
bought to the purchaser."
From this decree the "successor company" appealed to
this court. The complainants, Cowdrey and the other bondholders, took a cross-appeal. Pulsford also prayed an appeal.
In this court the same grounds were taken in behalf of
the "successor company" as in the court below, and were
urged at length. It was urged additionally that the original
decree-the decree of foreclosure-was erroneous, because
there had been no reference to a master to ascertain what
parties holding bonds would come in and make themselves
parties to the suit; and that only the bonds held by parties
so coming in, and those held by the complainants in the bill
could be included in the decree of foreclosure nisi. All
others were excluded from the benefit of the decree. And
though the complainants in such a bill might have made
proof at the hearing of some bonds, so as to entitle them, in
the opinion of the codirt, to a decretal order of reference,
yet that it was settled on sound reasons and by the highest
authority, that the complainants themselves in such a bill,
must go before the master and prove their claims.*
'And it was said that it would be difficult to find a case
which demanded more imperatively than did this one the
application of this rule of procedure; fqr that plainly many
of the bonds-as appeared by the prices paid for themhad been bought at prices from 30 to 70 per cent. below
their par, with notice of the way in which they had been
Owens v.Dickenson, Craig & Phillips, 48-56; Field v.Titmuss, 2 Law &
Equity, 89; S. C., 1 Simons (N. S.) 218; Whitaker v.Wright, 2 Hare, 310.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. CoWDREY.

473

Opinion of the court.

issued; that is to say, with notice of the fact that they had
been issued in violation of the provisions of. the two later
mortgages; a matter, however, it was urged, not regarded
in the decree.
The claim of Pulsford for a superior equity was pressed
anew with much learning of the Roman law and continental
jurists, as well as by some authorities in other courts, including Collins v. The Central Bank, in Georgia.*
For Cowdrey and the other bondholders it was argued
against the view of the court below (that the defendants
being in the position of mortgagors of real estate, were not
to be held accountable for the income of the road), that while
it was a general rule that the mortgagor, while in possession; with the consent of the mortgagee, was not~liable for
rents, the rule did not apply here; for here the old company had made a specific mortgage of *"the tolls, incomes,
issues, and profits of said railroad, whenever the company
should make default in making payment," and after default
in interest for three months, had authorized the trustees to
take possession, receive the rents, and apply them in payment of the interest; that it was the duty of the agents
of the mortgagors to have applied the income in payment
of the interest; that they had not only violated this duty,
but had undertaken to set up an adverse title and to defeat
the mortgagors' title. And that the general rule did not
apply here, for the fdrther reason that trustees who were
authorized to give notice and take possession were dead, and
that in such case the persons who intruded themselves into
the dead men's estates were bound to account for the whole
of the property.
Messrs. B. R. Curtis, C. B. Gooderich, and W -P.Ballinger,
for the railroad company; Messrs. Albert Pike and B. TI.
Johnson, for Puisford; Messrs. Grdnt and W. G. Hale,for
Cowdrey and others.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first objection made by the defendants to the decree
* 1 Kelly, 435.

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is, that the mortgages under which the complainants claim
are not valid for want of capacity in the railroad company to
make them. It is admitted that the charter authorizes the
company to mortgage certain real estate, which it was authorized to acquire for the purpose of aiding in the construction or maintenance of the road. But they insist that
this power applies to outside real estate procured as ancil-"
lary to the main design of building the road, and does not
apply to the right of way and track of the railroad. But we
think it is general, and applies to any real estate which the
company might acquire in any way. This construction is
aided by the other powers conferred by the charter, as that
of borrowing money on bond or note, and of doing all acts
necessary and proper for or incident to the filfilment of
their obligations. And it is expressly declared that all conveyances and contracts executed in writing, signed by the
president and countersigned by the treasurer, or any other
officer duly authorized by the directors, under seal of the
company, and in pursuance of a vote of the directors, shall
be valid and binding. If it were necessary to look into the
charter for express power to borrow money and mortgage
its property to secure the payment thereof, we think the
power is found therein.
But the defendants contend that if the power to mortgage
mere real and personal estate be conceded, still there is no
power to mortgage, or in any way t6 assign the railroad as
such, or the franchise of operating it and taking tolls, or
any other franchise, much less that of exercising corporate
powers; and hence the decree is erroneous in authorizing
a sale of these rights and franchises Under the mortgages.
Without examining how far the operative effect of a mortgage executed by a railroad company upon its road, works,
and franchises may extend, per se, without statutory aid, it is
sufficient to say that, in our opinion, the legislature of Texas
has validated the mortgages, and given them the effect which,
by their terms, they were intended to have. By the act of December 19, 1857,* section 4912, it is expressly provided that
* Paschal's Digest, art. 4912.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

475

Opinion of the court.

"The road-bed, track, franchise, and chartered rights and
privileges of any railroad company in this State shall be subject
to the payment of the debts and legal" liabilities of said company, and may be sold in satisfaction of the same, but. . . shall
be deemed an entire thing, and must be sold as such; and in
case of the sale of the same, whether by virtue of an execution,
order of sale, deed of trust, or any other power, the purchaser or
purchasers at such sale, and their associates, shall be entitled to
have and exercise all the powers, privileges, and franchises
granted to said company by its charter, or by virtue of the general laws of this State; and the said purchaser or purchasers
and their associates shall be deemed and taken to be the true
owners of said charter and corporators under" the same, and
vested with all the powers, rights, privileges, and benefits
thereof, in the same manner and to the same extent as if they
were the original corporators of said company."
The following section, 4918, enacts that
"Whenever a sale of the road-bed, track, franchise, and chartered rights and privileges of any railroad company is made by
virtue of any deed of trust or power, the same shall be made at
the time and place mentioned in the deed of trust or power, and
in accordance with the provisions of the same, as to notice and
in other respects; and if the same be not specified, such sale
shall be made as hereinafter provided for sales under execution
or order of sale."
The following section, 4914, gives the like effect to sales
under execution issued upon a judgment. Indeed, it is by
virtue of the latter section that the defendants claimi to be the
present owners of the road and its franchises. This law is
not prospective, but general in its operation. It is a remedial law for the benefit of creditors, and should be liberally construed. It should especially be applied to a case
in which, by the very terms of the trust-deed, all the franchises and rights of the company are expressly embraced
therein. It cannot be claimed, as is done by the defendants,
that a sale under one mortgage or judgment, by virtue of
this law, nullifies and destroys all prior mortgages. Such a
doctrine would work the greatest injustice, and would open

476

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the door to the grossest frauds. A sale under a junior security must be subordinate to one that is prior and paramount. Successive sales of the same franchises can no more
be deemed incompatible than successive sales of the same
property; and we all know that a sale of land under a judgment does not, in the slightest manner, affect a prior mortgage. A subsequent sale of the same land may be made by'
virtue of the latter.
It is next objected that the mortgages were not properly
executed, because the meetings of the directors by which
the mortgages were authorized to be executed were held in
the city of New York. It is not denied that the mortgages
w ere executed in good faith under the corporate seal, and
signed by the president and countersigned by the treasurer
of the company, and duly recorded in the proper offices of
registry in the State of Texas. Supposing the complainants
to be bond fide holders of the bonds held by thern, the question raised by this objection amouuts to this: Can a corporation repudiate a mortgage, given to secure its bonds held
by bond fide holders, on the ground that its directors authorized its execution by a resolution passed outside*of the limits
of the State, the mortgage being, in other respects, executed
and recorded in due form of law? Can it take all the benefit of the transaction, get off its bonds on the business community, and then repudiate its mortgage for such a cause?
'We have not been referred to any case like this. It would
seem, at first blush, to be a very hard rule, if such a rule
exists. No doubt it may be true, in many cases, that the
extra territorial acts of directors would be held void, as in
the case cited from the 14th New Jersey Chancery Reports,
883, where a set of directors of a New Jersey corporation
met in Philadelphia, against a positive prohibitory statute
of New Jersey, and improperly voted themselves certain
shares of stock. And other cases might be put where their
acts would be held void without a prohibitory statute; and
it is generally true that a corporation exists only within the
territory of the jurisdiction that created it. But it is well
settled that a corporation may, by its agents, make contracts

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD

V.

COWDREY.

477

Opinion of the court.

and transact business in another territory, and may sue and
be sued therein. It may hold land in another territory so
long as the local authorities do not object. And we see no
reason why it should not be estopped by the action of its
directors in another territory, when that action is the basis
of negotiations by which third parties have bona fide parted
with their money and the company has received the benefits
of the transaction. A contrary doctrine would authorize a
company to take advantage of its own wrong, and would
seriously impair the negotiability and value of such securities. Must a person, purchasing railronid bonds in Wall
Street or Walnut Street, first send to Illinois, California, or
Texas, to see whether the meeting of the directors which
authorized the mortgage given to secure the bonds was held
in a proper place? Whoever may, under supposable circumstances, raise an objection of this kind, it ought not to
lie in the mouth of the company to raise it. And, if the
company are estopped, then those who purchase the property
of the company at an execution sale must be estopped. It
has frequently been held that such a purchaser takes only
the right, title, and interest which the debtor had, subject to
the equities which existed against the property in his hands
when the judgment was recovered.
But it is objected -that the complainants are not bona fide
holders of the bonds in their possession; that many of the
bonds were issued improvidently, and against stipulations
contained in the mortgages, to the effect that they should
only .be issued to retire the previous issue of bonds. If this
were true with regard to some of the bonds, it is not pretended to be true with regard to all of them; and the question, what particular bonds were wrongf4ully issued, if a material question, is properly examinable in the master's office,
where all bonds are to be presented and passed upon, if not
already done. And the decree will stand only for the benefit of such bonds as appear to be entitled to its benefit; and
this benefit will not be confined to the complainants' bonds,
but will be extended to all bonds that may be presented.by
other holders. But it does not appear, so far as we have

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been able to scrutinize the evidence, that the complainants

are not bond fide holders of their bonds. They have been
examined, and have produced their bonds, and have told
how they procured them, namely, by purchase, and what
they gave for them; and they allege that they purchased
them in good faith in the open market, supposing them to
be valid obligations of the company, and being told that they
were. If such is the fact, and no proof to the contrary
occurs to us, we do not see why the complainants must not
be held to be bond fide holders for value of the said bonds.
The next objection we shall notice is, that the complainants have no light lo sue for themselves and in behalf of
the several classes of bondholders under the different mortgages, because the interests of these classes are antagonistic
to each other. They are no more antagonistic to each other
than the several boadholders of the same class are. It is
the interest of each bondholder to have as few prior claims
to his, and as few participants with him as possible. Every
co-bondholder is, in one sense, an antagonist.

But the ob-

jection is entirely without foundation. The complainants
do, in fact, hold bonds of the three different classes, and
they have a perfect right to state that fact in their bill, and
to pray relief suitable to the fact, and no possible harm or
inconvenience can arise in their suing in behalf of themselves
and all other bondholders in each class according to their
several priorities. If any class of bondholders wish to contest the precedency of a prior mortgage, they have a perfect
right to intervene in the suit and file a cross-bill setting up
the matter of objection. All bondholders, including the
complainants themselves, have to establish their claims in
the case before it is finally closed, and before a distribution
of the assets can be made. And any bondholder proving
his claim may contest the claim of any other bondholder.
It has even been held that a mortgagee may sue on behalf
of himself and all other creditors, notwithstanding he claims
a right to prior satisfaction out of the mortgaged property.*
* See Story's Equity Pleading, H 101, 158.

Dec.

1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

479

Opinion of the court.

And Judge Story says that, on principle, it is not easy to
see why it might not be sufficient, in a suit by incumbrancers,
to file the bill on behalf of all the creditors and incumbrancers; thus making them all, in a sense, parties to the
extent of asserting their own rights, or of enabling them to
contest the matter before a master. He says that this seems
to be the true doctrine inculcated by the more recent authorities.* But the case before us is much stronger than this.
The complainants must set out their own claims under the
different mortgages, and it would be impossible to make all
the bondholder's of either class parties, for they could not be
discovered; and the rights of all are protected by the opportunity given to all to contest the claim of any. We consider
the bill as properly conceived, and the objection as untenable.
In connection with this objection it is proper to notice an
objection to the original decree, that it undertook to declare
and find the amount of bonds outstanding and due under
each mortgage before the bonds had been regularly produced and proved. That decree, of course, is not to be regarded as final and conclusive on this point. The remarks
of Vice-Chancellor Wigram, in Whitaker v. Wright,t are germane to this subject: "With respect to the form of a decree
in a creditor's suit," says he, "the court does not treat the
decree as conclusive of the debt. It is clear that it is not
so treated for all purposes, for any. other creditor may challenge the debt, and it is equally clear that in practice the
executor himself is allowed to impeach it. If, in a case
where the plaintiff sues in behalf of himself and all other
creditors, and the defendants, who represent the estate, do
not admit assets, it is objected at the hearing that the debt
is not well proved, the court tries the question only whether
there is sufficient proof upon which to found a decree; and
however clearly the debt may be proved in the cause, the decree decides nothing more than that the debt is sufficiently
proved to entitle the plaintiff to go into the master's office,
* See Story's Equity Pleading, J 158; Equity Jurisprudence, J 549.
t 2 Hare, 310.

480

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY. [Sup. Ct.
Opinion of the court.

and a new case may be made in the master's office, and new
evidence may be there tendered."* In this case, it is true,
no reference to a master was made in the first decree for
taking the proof of the various bonds that might be produced; but the final decree directed that to ascertain the
proportion and amount of the several series of bonds and
coupons outstanding, all holders thereof claiming participation in the distribution of proceeds of any sale of the property should present their bonds and coupons to the court, to
be deposited in some bank to be designated, there to remain
subject to further order, and to such directions as the court
may make to ascertain their genuineness, and to classify
them. This has not yet been done, all proceedings being
stayed by the appeal. But the action of the court, as far as
it has gone, is substantially correct. It only remains to complete the proceeding in accordance with the proper practice
applicable to the case.
On the part of Robert Pulsford it is objected that the
decree does not give him a priority on that portion of the
road which was laid with his iron. He contends that he is
entitled to this, first, because when the mortgages of the
complainants were executed it was not in existence, and
could not have been conveyed thereby, and can only be embraced therein on a principle of equitable estoppel, which is
rebutted when it comes in conflict with a superior equity;
secondly, because his capital applied to the road conserved
it, and rendered it capable of being operated, which it would
not have been otherwise; hence, on the principle adopted by
the civil and maritime laws of awarding priority to the last
creditor who furnished necessary repairs and supplies to a
vessel, he is entitled to priority. The counsel for Pulsford
has furnished 'us with a very ingenious and learned argument on these points; but we cannot yield to their force.
As to the first point, without attempting to review the
many authorities on the subject, it is sufficient to state that,
in our judgment, the first, second, and third deeds of trust,
* See Story's Equity Jurisprudence,

549, note.

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

481

Opinion of the court.

or mortgages, given by the Galveston Railroad Company to
the trustees, estops the company, and all persons claiming
under it and in privity with it, from asserting that those
deeds do not cover all the property and rights which they
profess to cover. Had there been but one deed of trust, and
bad that been given before a shovel had been put into the
ground towards constructing the railroad, yet if it assumed
to convey and mortgage the railroad, which the company
vas authorized by law to build, together with its superetructure, appurtenances, fixtures, and rolling stock, these
several items of property, as they came into existence, would
become instantly attached to and covered by the deed, and
would have fed the estoppel created thereby. No other
rational or equitable rule can be adopted for such cases.
To hold otherwise would render it necessary for a railroad
company to borrow money in small parcels as sections of the
read were completed, and trust-deeds could safely be given
thereon. The practice of the country and its necessities are
in coincidence with the rule. The precise case arose in New
Jersey thirty years ago. The Morris Canal Company mortgaged its canal, appurtenances, and chartered rights to secure
a loan. When the mortgage was given, one section of the
canal, that between Newark and Jersey City, although anthorized, was not constructed. It was constructed afterwards. Two other mortgages were given upon that part of
the canal, one of which was held by the State of Indiana.
A bill of foreclosure was filed on the first mortgage, and.
after argument by very able counsel, Chancellor Pennington.
held. that the first mortgage took priority. The objection
was raised that the compauy did not own any of the land on
which the contested portion was constructed when the mortgage was given. "Can it be possible," said he, "that if on the
line of the route at any place it should turn out that a deed
was obtained.for a piece of land since the execution of the
mortgage, that such part of the canal is not-embraced within
it?"* Mr. Pulsford, as holder of the fourth mortgage, is
3 Green's Chancery, 402.
VOL. X1.

31

482

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an assignee of the railroad company, claiming under it, with

full notice of the other mortgages. He is in privity with
the company, and is bound by the estoppel.
As to the other point, giving priority to the last creditor for
aiding to conserve the thing, all that is necessary to say is that
the rule referred to has never been introduced into our laws
except in maritime cases, which stand on a particular reason.
We do not understand that it is. a part of the general law
of Texas. By an act of the Congress of Texas, passed 20th
January, 1840, the common law was made the rule of decision, where not inconsistent with the Constitution and
acts of Congress. By the common law it is an inflexible
rule, that whatever is affixed to the freehold becomes a part
of the realty, except certain fixtures erected by tenants,
which do not affect the question here. The rails put down
on the company's road became a part of the road. The road
itself was included in the mortgages of the complainants.
Pulsford, by allowing hiq property to go into or become part
of the road, consented to its being covered by the mortgages in question. He acquired no lien which can displace
them. In certain States a lien is created '_)y statute in favor
of mechanics, called the mechanics' lien, by which a person
furnishing, materials or work on a building .acquires a lien
on the property to secure the payment of his claim. But
this kind of lien did not exist in Texas in favor of those who
supplied materials or money for constructing railroads. We
have no hesitation in saying that Pulsford's claim to priority cannot be maintained.
Some other minor points have been made by the defendants which it is not necessary for us to examine in detail.
Our conclusion is that the decree, so far as it is in favor of
the complainants, must be affirmed.
The complainants have aiso appealed from the decree because it fails to award them the tolls, income, and profits of
the railroad during the time it was operated by the present
defendants, and to make the defendants accountable therefor. The complainants claim that nearly all the rolling
stock and property, including the junction railroad, claimed

Dec. 1870.]

GALVESTON RAILROAD V. COWDREY.

483

Opinion of the court.

by the defendants as their property, were really produced
by the earnings of the railroad fraudulently appropriated to
themselves by the defendants. This claim raises the question whether a mortgage of the tolls and income makes the
mortgagor or his assignees accountable therefor before demand made by the mortgagee. In this case-it does not
appear that the complainants or their trustees made any demand for the tolls and income until they filed the present
bill. The bill itself does not contain any allegation of such
a demand. Now what is the language of the deeds of trust?
They convey, it is true, with the other premises, the tolls,
income, issues, and profits, whenever the company shall be
in default of payment; but a subsequent clause provides
that in case the company shall at any time for the space of
three months be in default in respect to the payment of
either interest or principal of said bonds when due and demanded, on request in writing of any of the holders of the
bonds, the trustees shall take possession of the railroad and
other property, and through the agency of the-perseus they
may appoint, shall collect and receive the tolls, incomes, and
profits of the railroad and mortgaged property for the purpose of the security before declared, and may sell the road
upon giving due notice, &c. It seems to us that the latter
clause defines and points out the manner in which the -pledge
of the tolls and income is to be practicably carried into
effect. At all events until a regular demand were made for
the payment of the tolls and income we do not think, under
the language of the deed, that the defendants were bound
to account therefor. If this be so, it matters not what bargains the defendants made between themselves as to the
disposition of said tolls and income.
We are, therefore, of opinion that this part of the decree
ought also to be affirmed. The result is that the entire decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFRMED.

