BANK V.

CARROLLTON

RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

This view is strengthened by the fact that there is territory within the exterior bounds of the United States to which
the language of the 107th section of the recent act can apply, without applying it to the Indian territory, to wit, the
territory of Alaska. And it does not appear by the record
that there are not other districts within the general territory
of the United States which are in like predicament.
The judgmeut, according to these views, ought to be
reversed
The CHIEF JUSTICE, and NELSON and FIELD, JJ.,
did not hear the argument.

BANK V. CARROLLTON. RAILROAD.
1. A party coming into the right of a partner, whether by purchase from
such partner (no matter how broad the language of the conveyance may
be) or as his personal representative, or under an execution or commission of bankruptcy, comes into nothing more than an interest in the
partnership, which cannot be tangible, made available, or be delivered
but under an account between the partnership and the partner.
2. Where a complainant's right is thus only an equity to share in the surplus, if any, of the firm property after settlement of the partnership
accounts, the proper bill is a bill for such a settlement. Such bill will
not lie unless all the partners are made parties defendant.
3. Although in general a bill in chancery will not be dismissed for want of
proper parties, the rule resting as it does upon the supposition that.the
fault may be remedied, and the necessary parties supplied, does not
apply when this is impossible, and whenever a decree cannot be made
without prejudice to on i not a party. In such a case the bill must be
dismissed. Hence in a case where if all the partners were made parties
to the bill, the court in which the bill was filed would, from the character of its jurisdiction (which was confined to persons resident within
particular districts, which one of the partners here was not), be without
any jurisdiction of the controversy, the bill must be dismissed.
4. A bill for a settlement of partnership accounts which, without charging
fraudulent confederacy, shows that it is filed not against all the original
partners, but against one of them (yet remaining in the administration
of the firm concerns), and persons who have succeeded to the rights

Dec. 1870.]

BANK V. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.

625

Statement of the case.
(not to the obligations), of one or more of the others, presents not only
a want of indispensable parties but a misjoinder of the defendants-a
misjoinder apparent upon the face of the bill. It must be dismissed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
The Fourth National Bank of New York filed a bill in
December, 1867, in the court below against the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company, Beauregard, Hernandez, Binder, and Bonneval. The court dismissed the
bill and this case was an appeal by the bank. The case was
thus:
The railroad company just mentioned was a corporation
in Louisiana, which had made a railroad from New Orleans
to Carrollton. On the 12th April, 1866, this corporation
made a lease to the defendant, Beauregard, of the road, for
twenty-five years, from the 16th of that month, at a rent of
$20,000 a year, under covenants to make large improve-

ments and changes in its condition and operation.

The.

lease contained this provision:
"The said lessee (Beauregard) shall not have the right of
transferring this lease or of underletting the premises leased
without the consent of the directors of the said railroad com-pany."
A certain May and one Graham signed the lease as sureties for Beauregard, the lessee. Immediately after the execution of this lease, that is to say, on the 18th April, Beauregard, May, and Graham entered into an agreement for the
equipment of the road for their common advantage. Beauregard was to have charge and direction of the road, appointing his own. assistants; to have for himself an annual
salary of $5000. All was to be in his name, but for the
common benefit. The arrangement was to continue for
twenty-five years. The whole amount of the money iiecessary to carry out the enterprise was to be furnished by May
and Grahan-$20,000 by each immediately after the lease
was obtained, and $20,000 by each every mouth after, for
VOL. XI.

40

BANK V. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.

[Sup. 6"%.

Statement of the case,

four mouths, and then $10,000 each, per month, for five
months. The money advanced, with 8 per cent. interest,
was to be repaid from the annual net profits and the remainder of the profits was to be divided between the partners; all losses being borne equally. Books were to be
kept showing the moneys received and expended, and the
purchases made on account of the copartnership, and
monthly statements of the amounts received and expended
were to be furnished by Beauregard to May and Graham.
On the 8th May, 1867, Graham, in consideration of one
dollar, assigned all his estate, right, and title to the lease
which he derived from the partnership articles, and all his
right and interest in any property and effects of the partnership, and all debts due to him by the said partnership or
any partner, to the complainant, and it was in virtue of this
assignment that the bill was filed. It will be observed that
neither May nor Graham, the partners, were parties to the
bill. The purpose of the bill, which did not charge any
fraudulent confederacy, was to enforce the transfer made
by Graham. The bill charged that the defendants had taken
possession of the lease and partnership, and would not recognize the partnership or the interest of the plaintiff; that
they claim under the copartner, May, and claim independently of the plaintiff. In point of fact, they claimed twothirds of the partnership, in virtue of an assignment from
May, made on the 14th and 16th of May, 1867, and denied
that when Graham assigned to the bank he had any interest
to assign; asserting that he was but a trustee for May. The
prayer of the bill was that the defendants might be ordered
to recognize the interest of the complainant, the bank, in
the copartnership and in the business carried on under the
lease, and to pay them the capital advanced by Graham
and his share of profits.
Issue being joined and evidence being taken, the question
as to the true interest of Graham in the partnership, whether
indeed he had any as against May, and how far he had a
right to make the assignment which he did, to the bank,
were matters to which testimony was largely directed.

Dec. 1870.]

BANK V. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.

627

Argument for the appellant.

The court below dismissed the bill, with leave to the complainant to bring a suit against Beauregard, Graham, and
May, for a settlement of whatever partnership existed between them prior to the transfer of May, on the 14th and
16th of May, 1867.
Graham at the time when the lease was made was a resident of New -Orleans, but in 1866 removed to New York,
and was a citizen of that place when the bill was filed in
1867.
Mr. P. Phillips, for the bank, appellant, recapitulating the
evidence, contended that on it the bona ftides of the assignment by Graham to the complainant on the 8th May, 1867,
could not be successfully impeached; that Graham having
thus assigned his interest to the complainant, and M.ay his
interest to Hernandez, Binder, and Bonneval, the bill was
well filed against the latter and Beauregard, one of the
original partners, to have an account of the profits of the
concern under the prayer for general relief; that as the assignment by Graham to the complainant was absolute, Graham was not a necessary party; this, especially, as to have
made him a defendant (being a citizen of the same State
with the complainant) would have ousted the jurisdiction;
that the decree dismissing the bill with leave to institute a
suit against Beauregard, May, and Graham for a settlement
of whatever, partnership existed between them prior to the
transfer by May, on the 14th and 16th May, 1867, was palpably erroneous, as it was through May that Bonneval,
Binder, and Hernandez had come into the possession and
control of the partnership effects; that the real defendants
were thus protected from a suit and parties who had divested
thefuselves of all possession and interest were to be substituted as defendants; this in an equity proceeding which
deals always with those who have the real interest.
.But admitting that May and Graham were necessary
parties, Mlr. Phillips contended that their absence did not
deprive the court of jurisdiction over the cause; that the
objection could only be urged against granting the relief

BANK V. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

sought without bringing them in, and that this did not
warrant an absolute dismissal of the bill as to those properly before the court; that in such a case an amendment of
the bill would be ordered. And that, if necessary to maintain the jurisdiction, Graham might have been made a coplaintiffi*
Messrs. J. A. and D. Caripbell, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The effect of Graham's assignment to the complainant
was undoubtedly to dissolve the partnership which had existed between Beanregard, May, and himself, but it did not
make his assignee a tenant in common with the other two
partners in the property of the firm. It seems to be assumed
on behalf of the complainant, that in succeeding to Graham's
rights, the bank acquired an ownership of the effects of the
firm jointly with Beauregard and May, and that, as Graham
had been an equal partner with them, his assignee of course
became the owner of one undivided third of the railroad
lease and other property of the firm. 'But this assumption
is based upon a misapprehension of the effect of the assignment. It has repeatedly been determined, both in the British and American courts, that the property or effects of a
partnership belong to the firm and not to the partners, each
of whom is entitled only to a share of what may remain
after payment of the partnership debts and after a settlement of the accounts between the partners; consequently
that no greater interest can be derived from a voluntary
sale of his interest by one partner, or by a sale of it under
execution.t In Taylor v. _ields,T it was said that "a party
coming into the right of a partner" (in any mode, either by
purchase from such partner, or as a personal representa* Harrison v. Rowan, 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 202; Carneal v.
Banks, 10 Wheaton, 181; Milligan v. Milledge, 3 Cranch, 220.
t West v. Skip, 1 Vesey, 239; Nicoll v. Mumford, 4 Johnson's Chancery,
522; Doner v. Stauffer, 1 Pennsylvania, 198.
14 Vesey, Jr., 396.

Dec. 1870.]

BANK V. OARROLLTON RAILROAD.
Opinion of the court.

tive, or under an execution, or commission of bankruptcy)
"comes into nothing more than an interest in the partnership, which cannot be tangible, cannot be made available,
or be delivered but under an account between the partnership and the partner, and it is an item in the account that
enough must be left for the partnership debts."
When, therefore, the bank obtained from Graham the
assignment, which is the foundation of its claim in this suit,
it obtained thereby no ownership of the lease made by the
railroad company to Beauregard, and which he agreed to
hold for the benefit of the firm, nor did it obtain any aliquot
part of it, or of any of the effects of the firm. The utmost
extent of its acquisition was an interest in the surplus, if
any, which might remain after all debts of the firm should
be paid, and after the liabilities of Graham to his copartners,
as such, should be discharged. It was not in the power of
Graham, by retiring from the firm in violation of the articles
of copartnership, either to introduce another partner or to
deprive the partners who remained of their right to have all
the partnership property held for partnership purposes. Incident to the right of the bank to share in the surplus was
a right to enforce a settlement of the partnership accounts
in order to ascertain whether there was any surplus. It is
true the words of the assignment were very broad. It purported to transfer all the estate, right, title, and interest in
the lease made by the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad
Company to Beauregard, to which the assignor might be
entitled by virtue of the articles of copartnership, and also
all his right and interest in any property and effects of the
partnership, and all debts due to him from the partnership
or any member thereof. But no matter what its language,
it is clear no more could pass under it than the right of the
assignor; and if, as we have said, that was not a right to the
specific articles of property belonging to the firm, the bank
obtained no such right. We are not now speaking of the
fact that, under his contract with the railroad company,
Beauregard had no right to transfer the lease either to the
partnership or its members. The case does not require us

BANE v. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to consider that inability. It is sufficient that the complainant's right was only an equity to share in the surplus, if
any, of the firm property after settlement of the partnership
accounts, and that this is a bill for such a settlement. Manifestly, then, it is incurably defective, because neither Graham nor May are made parties defendant. It is too plain
for discussion that to such a bill all the members of the firm
are indispensable parties, for they are all directly affected
by any decree that can be made. How utterly impossible it
is to ascertain what the equity of the complainant is, with
the present state of the record, will appear more distinctly,
if the provisions of the articles of copartnership be" considered. Vhen it was formed, Beauregard had obtained
from the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company a
lease of its railroad, with all its rolling stock, and with its
corporate privileges, for the term of fwenty-five years.
Though the sole lessee, and prohibited by his contract from
assigning or underletting, it was ndvertheless agreed between him and his copartners that the lease should be for
their comm'on benefit; that May and Graham shoufd each
advance one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to carry on
the enterprise of running the road, and that Beauregard
should take charge of, manage, and direct the undertaking
for the mutual advantage of the parties, at a fixed annual
salary., selecting and appointing his own assistants. It was
agreed that the money advanced, with eight per cent. interest, should be repaid from the annual profits of the enterprise, and that the remainder of the net profits should be
equally divided between the partners, and that all losses
should be equally borne by them. The contract evidently
contemplated that the property of the firm and the management of its affairs should be in the hands of Beauregard.
Bobks were to be kept showing not only all money received
and expended, but also all purchases made on account of
the copartnefship, and monthly statements of amounts received and expended were required to be furnished by Beauregard to May and Graham. It was also agreed that the
partnership should continue twenty-five years from the date

Dec. 1870.]

BANK v. CARROLLTON RAILROAD.
Opinion of the court.

of the lease, which was April 12th, 1866. Now, it is quite
possible that, on settlement of the accounts, Graham may
be found indebted to the firm, or to his copartners, and that
the court would be required thus to decree. How can such
a decree be made when be is no party-to the record? Or it
might appear that May is a large debtor to the firm. How
can any decree be made against him? How can any decree
be made that will not prejudice one or the other of these
partners? And yet, whether the bank complainant has any
interest or not-whether it acquired anything under Graham's assignment, can be determined only by a final and
conclusive settlement of the partnership accounts between
all the partners, two of whom are not parties to this suit.
It is argued, however, on behalf of the appellant, that
even if May and Graham were necessary parties, the bill
should not have been dismissed, but that the complainant
should have been allowed to bring in new parties by a supplemental bill. It is, doubtless, the general rule that a bill
in chancery will not be dismissed for want of proper parties;
but thd rule is not universally true. It rests upon the supposition that the fault may be remedied, and the necessary
parties supplied. When this is impossible, and whenever
a decree cannot be made without prejudice to one not a
party, the bill must be dismissed. Nothing is to be gained
by retaining it, when it is certain that the complainant
can never be entitled to a decree in his favor.* In the
present case, we have seen that no decree for an account
can be made, until all the partners are made parties. But
if both May and Graham had been made parties defendant,
the Circuit Court would have had no jurisdiction of the case.
Itis said Graham might have been made a co-plaintiff. Perhaps he might, and had application been made in due season
for such an amendment of the bill, it might have been the
duty of the Circuit Court to grant it. But no such application was made. The complainants chose to stand upon their
case as they presented it. Possibly they never would have
* Note 5,
180.

541, Story's Equity Pleadizgs; Shields v. Barrow, 17 Howard,

UTNITED

STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

sought to bring in the necessary parties. The defendants
could not bring them in. New parties cannot be brought
into a cause by a cross-bill,* and had the bill not been dismissed, it must have been left at the option of the complainants whether the case should ever be brought to a final
decree. Under these circumstances, there was no reason for
retaining the bill.
It is insisted, however, that the court erred in dismissing
the bill, reserving only a right to sue Beauregard, May, and
Graham, for a settlement of the partnership between them
prior to the 14th and 16th of May, 1867. Yet-if the right
acquired by Graham's assignment was, as the authorities
show, not an ownership of the specific effects of the partnership, but only a right to share in the surplus remaining after
the settlement of the partnership accounts and the payment
of all its debts, as well as the just claims of the several partners, it is clear there can be in the complainant no equity
against the railroad company, or against Hernandez, Binder,
or Bonneval, who have succeeded to May's rights (not his
obligations), if they have not to Graham's. No fraudulent
confederacy is charged in the bill. At most, according to
the complainant's own showing, they are purchasers of property that belonged to the firm. There was, therefore, not
only a want of indispensable parties, a want which cannot
be supplied without ousting the jurisdiction of the court,
but a misjoinder of the defendants, a misjoinder apparent
upon the face of the bill. Hence the decree of the Circuit
Court was correct.
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

1. Under the treaty of cession of Louisiana, made with France, April 80th,
1803, the United States Government always claimed to the Ferdido
River on the east, although the Spanish authorities kept possession of,
and claimed sovereignty over, the territory between that river and the
* Shields v. Barrow, supra.

