Dec. 1870.]

PERRIN V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

breach of it, and would have no defence here." And again
the court said: "The mere verbal promise of De Koven to
release Mr. Warren would not be a good defence here, I
think, but would leave Warren to turn over on De Koven for
a breach of promise."
The remaining exceptions taken to the charge cannot be
sustained. It may be admitted, as contended for, by the
plaintiffin error, that when a deed has been delivered, and
the delivery has been accepted, a verbal agreement between
the parties, made at the time of the delivery, or previous
thereto, that one of them should be released from the covenants contained in the deed, cannot defeat an action at law
brought for an alleged breach of those covenants; but the
charge of the court was in harmony with this doctrine. It
may also be conceded that there can be no conditional delivery of a deed to the grantee, or covenantee, therein named;
but nothing in the charge intimated that there could be.
The question submitted to the jury was, whether there had
been any acceptance of the lease by the defendant. This
was equivalent to submitting the inquiry, not whether the
deed had been delivered on condition that Warren should
be released afterward, but whether it had been delivered at
all as the deed of the defendant. That such a submission
was proper, in view of the evidence, we have already said.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PERRIN V. UNITED STATES.
A claim for property accidentally destroyed in the bombardment and burning of a town, by the naval forces of the United States, is not of itself
within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims dismissing a petition
before it, as not "founded upon any law of Congress, or
upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon

PERRIN V.

U NITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case and judgment of the court.

any contract, express or implied, with the government of
the United States;" confessedly the only cases, in which the
court, by the statutes creating it, has jurisdiction.
17r. TV. TV. Boice, for the appellants; Mr. Akerman, AttorneyGeneral, and 31r. C. I B1ill, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
judgment of this court.
The petitioners alleged in the court below that they were
naturalized citizens of the United States; thatjust before the
13th of July, 1854, they arrived at San Juan del Norte, or
Greytown, possessed of a valuable invoice of merchandise,
with the intention of establishing a commercial house in
some part of Central America; that on that day the town
of San Juan was bombarded and burnt by the United States
sloop-of-war Cyane, and all the merchandise, books, and papers of the petitioners, together with their personal effects.
Appearance was entered by the Assistant Attorney-General,
and he demurred to the petition because it did not set forth
ftcts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and the court
below sustained the demurrer and dismissed the petition.
Whereupon the petitioners appealed to this court, and alleged
that the decision sustaining the demurrer was erroneous, but
the court here, inasmuch as the claim is not one "founded
upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied,
with the government of the United States," concurs in
opinion with the Court of Claims and
AFFIRMS THE DECREE DISMISSING THE PETITION.

