226

RAILROAD CO. V. BANK OF ASHLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

such vessels by the act for enrolling or licensing ships or
vessels to be employed in the coasting trade.*
Such a rule as that assumed by the respondent would incorporate into the Constitution an exception which it does
not contain. Had the prohibition in terms applied only to
ships and vessels employed in foreign commerce or in commerce among the States,.his construction would be right,
but courts of justice cannot add any new provision to the
fundamental law, and, if not, it seems clear to a demonstration that the construction assumed by the respondent is
erroneous.
DECREE REVERSED and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this court.

TIE JUNCTION RAILROAD COMPANY V. THE BANK OF A SHLAND.
1. If a bond be not usurious by the law of the place where payable, a plea
of usury cannot be sustained in an action thereon, unless it alleges that
the place of payment was inserted as a shift or device to evade the law
of the place where the bond was made.
2. Whero a plea is erroneously overruled on demurrer, and issue is joined
on another plea, under which the same defence might be made, the
judgment will not be disturbed after verdict.
3. A prohibition against lending money at a higher rate of interest than the
law allows will not prevent the purchase of securities at any price which
the parties may agree upon.
4. "Whether a negotiation of securities is a purchase or a loan, is ordinarily
a question of fact; and does not become a question of law until some fact
be proven irreconcilable with one or the other conclusion.
5. Though the negotiation of one's own bond or note is ordinarily a loan in
law, yet if a sale thereof be authorized by an act of the legislature, it
becomes-a question of fact, whether such negotiation was a loan or a
sale.
6. The requiring or giving of collateral security for the payment of a bond
when negotiated, is not inconsistent with the transaction being a sale.
7. The law of Ohio authorizing railroad companies to sell their own bonds
and notes at such prices as they may deem expedient, is extended by
comity to the companies of other States authorized to transact business
in Ohio.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 205; Ib. 287.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD CO. V. BANK OF ASHLAND.

227

Statement of the case.
8. A corporation cannot plead usury to a bond payable in New York.
Statute law there prevents it.
9. The courts of the United States will take judicial notice of the public
laws of the several States; and, in Indiana, of the private as well as
public laws of that State.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana.
This was an action of debt brought by the Bank of Ashland, a corporation of Kentucky, against the Junction Railroad Company, a corporation of Indiana, to recover the
amount of nine bonds of the latter company for one thousand
dollars each, with interest coupons attached. The bonds
bore date the 1st day of July, 1853, and were payable to
Caleb Jones, or bearer, at the office of the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, in the city of New York, on the
1st day of July, 1863, with interest at the rate of ten per
cent. per annum, payable half-yearly. The declaration contained twenty special counts on the bonds and coupons, and
one common count for money lent, paid, had and received,
and account stated. To the last count there was a plea of
nil debet, and to the twenty special counts the defendant filed
four special pleas, the substance of which was that the bonds
were obtained by the plaintiff from the Ohio Life Insurance
and Trust Company, and that they were originally negotiated by the defendant to that company in Cincinnati at par,
under the pretence of a sale of the bonds, but, in truth, by
way of a loan of money from the Ohio Trust Company to
the defendant, upon interest at the rate of ten per cent. per
annum-a rate which, as stated in the first special plea, the
Ohio Company, by its charter, was prohibited from taking,
and which, as stated in the second of said pleas, the defendant, by the law which authorized it to do business in Ohio,
was prohibited from paying; and which, as stated in the
third plea, was forbidden by the usury laws of New York,
where the bonds were made payable. The pleas alleged that
the plaintiff took the bonds with notice of the usurious consideration. These pleas being demurred to and overruled,
the defendant filed a fourth special plea to the same counts,
setting forth substantially the same facts as in the first plea,
ERROR

228

tRAILROAD Co. V. BANK oF ASHLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

with a more specific averment of a corrupt and usurious
agreement. To this plea the plaintiff replied that the bonds
were purchased from the defendant by the Ohio Life and
Trust Company in good fatih, and that the plaintiff received
them in good faith, with the assurance and belief that they
had been so purchased and had not been received as security
for a loan.
A jury being waived, the cause was tried by the court,
which made a special finding of the facts; the substance of
which was, that the bonds declared on were, as alleged in
the pleas, originally negotiated by the defendant below to
the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, at its office in
Cincinnati, Ohio, at par, being parcel of one hundred and
twenty-five bonds negotiated together; that the defendant
proposed to sell the bonds to the Trust Company, but the
latter refused to take them unless some persons other than
the defendant would guaranty their payment, which was
done; whereupon the negotiation was consummated; that
said negotiation did not amount to a loan of money, but to
a sale of the bonds, and that the transaction involved nothing
usurious; that in 1857 the Trust Company transferred the
bonds to the plaintiff below in payment of a debt; and that
the plaintiff took them in good faith, without any notice of
the fact of usury or of illegality in the issuing of the bonds,
but had notice of the guaranty. Upon these facts the court
below gave the plaintiff judgment for the full amount of the
bonds and interest; and the defendant brought the case here.
To enable the reader the better to judge tit this point of
the case, whether the judgment below was rightly or not
rightly given, it should be mentioned, that in New York by
a statute enacted April 6th, 1850, a defence of usury cannot
be set up by corporations; that by a supplement to its charter, dated January 29th, 1851, the Junction R~ailroad Company was empowered to borrow money or sell its securities
at any rate of interest; and that by statute of Ohio, passed
December 15th, 1852, any railroad company authorized to
borrow money and issue bonds for it, may sell its bonds
when, where, and at such rate and price as the directors

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD Co. v. BANK OF ASHLAND.

229

Opinion of the court.

deem most advantageous to the road; and finally, that by a
second statute of the same State, the Junction Railroad
Company was made a corporation of Ohio, and authorized
to perform any act as if originally incorporated therein.

Messrs. C. P. James, Rifus King, and S. J. Thompson, for
the plaintiffs in error; Messrs. A. G. Porter anil W. 1. Wadsworth, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Unless this case has become embarrassed by the pleadings,
the facts as found by the court present a clear case in favor
of the plaintiff. If they could have been given in evidence
under the common count, we should have felt no hesitation in
sustaining the judgment on that count alone, disregarding
the special counts and the pleadings thereto. But it has been
held that an agreement under seal for the paymefit of money
cannot be received to support the common money counts.
It will be necessary, therefore, to examine the case with
reference to the defences set up in the special pleas. In all
of them usury and want of authority in the original parties
to make the negotiation are the points of defence relied on.
With regard to the question what law is to decide whether
a contract is, or is not, usurious, the general rule is the law
of the place where the money is made payable; although it
is also held that the parties may stipulate in accordance with
the law of the place where the contract is made. In this
case it is conceded by all the pleas, and shown by the special
finding of the court, that the place of payment of the bonds
in question was the city or New York. By the law of that
State, passed April 6th, 1850 (of which the Circuit Court'
had a right to take judicial notice),* no corporation is allowed to interpose the defence of usury. None of the special
pleas allege that the place of payment mentioned in the
bonds was adopted as a shift or device to avoid the statute
of usury. The device complained of was a pretended sale of
Owings v. Hall, 9 Peters, 625.

RAILROAD

Co.

v. BANK OF ASHLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the bonds, when the transaction was really a loan. Admitting that it was a loan, it is not denied that it was made
bond fide payable in New York. ience the pleas cannot
stand as pleas of usury, properly so called. They must
stand, if at all, on the allegation that one or both of the
contracting parties was prohibited by law from making such
a contract.
It is certain, however, that no such prohibition exists ir
the case of the defendant. By the supplement to its charter,
passed by the legislature of Indiana January 29th, 1851, it
was authorized to borrow money or sell its securities at any
rate of interest or price it might deem proper. The courts
in Indiana are authorized by the constitution of that State to
take judicial notice of all its laws; and, therefore, the Circuit Court could take judicial notice of this law. By the
law of Ohio, passed December 15th, 1852, any railroad cornpany authorized to borrow money, and to execute bonds or
promissory notes therefor, was authorized to sell such bonds
or notes at such times and in such places, either within or
without the State, and at such rates, and for such prices, as
in the opinion of the directors might best advance the interests of the company. This is tantamount to a repeal of the
usury laws as to such companies. And although this law
had primary reference to the railroad companies of Ohio, yet
the Supreme Court of that State, in a very sensible and judicious opinion, has decided that it extends by cormity to
railroad companies of other States borrowing money in Ohio.
Indeed, the second special plea sets forth a statute of Ohio,
in relation to this very defendant, which makes it a corporation of Ohio, as well as Indiana, and authorizes it to perform
any act within the State of Ohio the same as if it had originally been incorporated therein. This act, it seems to us,
rendered the exercise of comity hardly necessary to bring •
the defendant within the privileges of the Ohio act of 1852.
It must be conceded, therefore, first, that the transaction
in question, if a loan at all, was not a usurious loan by the
law of the place which governed the contract; and, secondlg,
that the defendant had, a perfect right to make it. This ob-

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD

Co. v. BANK OF ASIhLAND.

231

Opinion of the court.

servation is applicable to all the special pleas, and disposes
entirely of the second of them, in which the defendant relies
on its own disability to borrow money at a higher rate of
interest than seven per cent.; and also disposes of the third
of said pleas, in which the statute of usury of the State of
New York is pleaded. There remains, then, only the first
plea, in which the point is taken that the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company was, by its charter, prohibited
from ta/dng more than seven per cent. interest. This point
is fully presented in the last plea on which issue was taken,
and the defendant can, therefore, receive no harm, though
the demurrer to its first plea was wrongly sustained. It still
had the benefit of that defence under the last plea; and the
result is presented to us in the finding of the court. That
finding is, that the transaction was not a loan at all, but only
a sale of the bonds; and it is not pretended that the Ohio
Life and Trust Company might not purchase securities of
this sort at any price it might deem expedient. But the defendant contends that this was a conclusion of law on the
part of the court, and that it was erroneous. Surely the
question whether a negotiation of bonds was a sale or a loan
is ordinarily, and prima facie, a question of fact. To make
it a question of law, some fact must be admitted or proved,
which is irreconcilable with one conclusion or the other.
What fact in this case is irreconcilable with the conclusion
that this negotiation was a sale? The defendant contends
that the fact that the bonds were its own obligations is such
a fact, and alleges that in law a party cannot sell its own
obligations to pay money. But it certainly may do this, if
authorized by law to do it; and it is shown that this very
thing was authorized by the laws of Ohio, to the benefit of
which the defendant was expressly, as well as by comity,
entitled.
Again, the defendant alleges that the exaction of collateral
security for the payment of the bonds was a fact wholly
irreconcilable with a sale. We do not think so. Once concede that the obligor may sell its own bonds, what difference
can it make how fully and strongly they may be secured?

232

UNTITED STATES V. CHILD & CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The requirement of guaranties can only amount to evidence
of intention at most; the weight of which, in connection
with all the circumstances of the case, is to be judged of by
the tribunal to which the facts are submitted. This has
been fairly done in the present case, and the decision is
against the defendant.
In this view of the case we do not decide whether the demurrer to the first plea was, or was not, well taken. We
are disposed to think that it was; but do not deem it necessary
to incumber the case with the discussion of that question.
JUDGMEN'T AFiIRTMD.

UNITED STATES V. CHILD & CO.
1. The doctrine of the case of United States v. Adams (7 Wallace, 463),
affirmed and held to govern the case.
2. Neither in that case nor in this was the voluntary submission of a claim

against the government to the special commis4on appointed to investigate such claims essential to bar a recovery against the United States.
3. The bar in both cases rested upon the voluntary acceptance by the claimants of a smaller sum than their claim as a full satisfaction of the whole,
and acknowledging this in a receipt for the amount paid; the demand

having been disputed for a long time by the government, and the
smaller sum accepted without objection or protest.
4. Such acceptance being without force or intimidation and with a full
knowledge of all the circumstances, the fact that the sum was so large

that the claimants were induced by their want of the money to accept
the less sum in full is not duress.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims, on a claim by Child &
Co., merchants of St. Louis, against the United States for
$163,111, as a balance due on a sale of military stores.
The Court of Claims found a case which in the parts material was thus:

1st. In the autumn of IS61, and before the 14th of October of
that year, the city of St. Louis being the headquarters of the
Department of the West, Major McKinstry, chief quartermaster
of the department, under the express orders of Major-General

