Dec.

1870.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

349

Syllabus.

This seems to have been the view taken by the judge who
tried this cause below, and which he applied to this case.
In our judgment it is altogether too narrow a view of the
responsibility of a vendor in such a case as the present.
Where to draw the precise line between the cases in which
the vendor's knowledge of the purchaser's intent to make an
unlawful use of the goods, will vitiate the contract, and those
in which it will not, may be difficult. Perhaps it cannot be
done by exact definitions. The whole doctrine of avoiding
contracts for illegality and immorality is founded on public
policy. It is certainly contrary to public policy to give the
aid of the courts to a vendor who knew that his goods were
purchased, or to a lender who knew that his money was
borrowed, for the purpose of being employed in the commission of a criminal act, injurious to society or to any of
its members.

This is all that we mean to decide in this case

JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.
[See the next case.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.
1. Where the issue of bills as a currency (except by banking institutions) is
prohibited, a municipal corporation has no power, without express authority, to issue such bills; and if it does issue them, the holders thereof
cannot recover the amount, either in an action on the bills themselves,
or for money had and received
2. Especially is this so, where the receiving, as well as issuing, of unlawful
bills is expressly prohibited.
8. A law authorizing and requiring the redemption of such bills, passed by
the legislature of one of the late Confederate States in aid of the rebellion, cannot be recognized or enforced.
4. Semble, that a bank or other private corporation issuing bills contrary to
law, might be compelled to pay the holder in an action for money had
and received, although the bills themselves were void, if the receiving
of the bills were not expressly prohibited.
5. But if the receiving as well as issuing were prohibited, both parties woule
be in pari delicto, and no action could be sustained for the amount of
the bills.

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

[Sup. 0C-

Statement of the case.
6. The law as to the recovery of money paid on an illegal contract stated
and defined.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia,

on a suit upon certain Dotes issued during the rebellion by
the city corporation of liichmond; the case being thus:
A statute Virginia passed in 1854, and reproduced in the
code of 1860, thus enacts:
" SECTION 15. All members of any association, or company,
that shall trade or deal as a bank, or carry on banking without
authority of law, and their officers and agents therein, shall be
confined in jail not more than six months, and fined not less

than $100, nor more than $500.
" SECTION 16. Every free person,* who, with intent to create
a circulating medium, shall issue, without authority of law, any

note or other security, purporting that money or other thing
of value is payable by, or on behalf of, such person, and every
officer and agent of such person therein, shall be confined in
jail," &c.
"SECTION 17. If a free person pass or receive in payment any
note or security, issued in violation of either of the two preceding
sections, he shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100 "
"SECTION 19. In every case where a note of a, less denomination than $5 is offered or issued as money, whether by a bank,

corporation, or by individuals, the person, firm, or association
of persons, corporation, or body politic so issuing, shall pay a
fine of $10."
By the charter of the city of RTichmond,- that city "may
contract or be contracted with," and is endowed generally
with " all the rights, franchises, capacities, and powers appertaining to municipal corporations." The charter also
provides that "the council of the city may in the name aud
for the use of the city contract loans, and cause to be issued
certificates of debt or bonds."I
By the express provision of the enactment the word 11person" includes
corporation.
t Chapter 54 of the code of 1849, p. 282, was followed by the act of March
30th, 1852 (Session Acts, p. 259), and the act of March 18th, 1861 (lb. 153).
Sessions Acts, 1852, p. 266, P 46; 1861, p. 169, 75.

Dec. 1870.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

351

Argument for the note-holder.

In this state of things the city of Richmond, in April,
1861, upon the breaking out of the rebellion, passed an ordinance for the issue by the city of $300,000, of corporation
notes of $2, $1, 50 cents, and 25 cents; and the notes were
accordingly issued ; the city receiving in exchange the bank
notes of the State then in circulation, between which and
gold the difference at the time, compared with what it became subsequently, was small; five per cent. to ten per cent.
On the 19th March, 1862, and the 29th of the same month
and year, a so-called "legislature of Virginia," the body
being composed of representatives from parts of the State
in rebellion against the Federal government, passed an act,
by whose language the issue of the sort of notes in question
was made valid, and the city obliged to redeem them.
In October, 1868, the rebellion being now suppressed, and
the city refusing to pay the notes, one Thomas and others,
holders of a quantity of them, brought assumpsit against the
city of Richmond, in the court below, to recover certain
ones which they held. The declaration contained a special
count on the notes and the common money counts. The defendants pleaded the general issue and the statute of limitations. A jury being waived, the case was tried by the court,
which found:
1st. That the notes were void when they were issued, because they were issued to circulate as currency, in violation
of the law and policy of the State of Virginia, and,
2d. That the said notes were not made valid or recoverable by the acts of the 19th March, 1862, and 29th March,
1862, or'either of them, because the said acts were passed
by a legislature not recognized by the United States, and in
aid of the rebellion.
The court accordingly gave judgment for the defendant.
To review that judgment the case was brought here by the
plaintiff.
Mr. Conway Robinson, for the plaintiff in error:
1. Under the powers which the city of Richmond had, by
its charter, it might receive from those who would lend or

THOMAS

V.

CITY

OF RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the note-bolder.

advance it, the amount now in question, and might agree to
refund it.
2. The amount has been actually received by the city in
money or its equivalent. This money the city is under an
obligation to refund, and there is a right of action for it as
money lent or money received. "It is not the policy of the
law," says Alderson, B., "that he who has another man's
.money may keep it."*
Whether the notes be valid or void, the holders may recover on the money counts.t Under the statute of 9 Anne,
c. 16, a note for money lent to game with was void; yet ain
action was maintained for money lent under a parol contract.t In A.D. 1760, where the bill of exchange included
£300, lent by the plaintiff to Sir John Bland, at the time
and place of play, though by force of the bill the plaintiff
could not recover anything (the statute making that utterly
void), yet the King's Bench gave judgment for £300, under
the common count for money lent.§
Whatever may be the structure of the statute of Virginia
in respect to prohibition and penalty about small notes, it is
not to be taken for granted that the legislature meant that
contracts in contravention of it were to be void in the sense
that they were not to be enforced in a court of justice.j
But if this were otherwise, prior enactments against small
notes is repealed, by the act of March 19th, 1862, so far as
in conflict therewith; and by the latter there is a release of
forfeitures and penalties incurred before its passage; neither
is there anythbing in Texas v. White, which should prevent
the latter act having full effect.
Mr. John A. Meredith, contra,for the city.
* Bousfield v. Wilson, 16 3Meeson & Welsby, 188; and see Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wallace, 81.
j 4 Robinson's Practices, ch. 87, 88, 89. p. 547, et seq.
I Barjeau v.Walmsley, 2 Strange, 1249.
Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burrow, 1081; and see Sutton v. Toomer, 7 Barnwall & Cross (14 English Common Law), 416; Utica Insurance Company v.
Scott, 19 Johnson, 6; Same plaintiff v.Kip, 8 Cowen, 24.
Harris v. Runnels, 12 Howard, 84; Sortwell, &e. v Hughes, 1 Curtis, 247.
7 Wallace, 733.

Dec. 1870.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

353

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
First. The court finds as a fhct that the notes upon which
the present action is brought were issued to circulate as currency; and, as matter of law, that this was in violation of
the law and policy of Virginia, and that, therefore, the notes
were void.
The first question is, whether the issue of notes as currency by the Common Council of the city of Richmond, in
April, 1861, was against the law and policy of Virginia. The
issue of notes as a common currency, or circulating medium,
is guarded with much jealousy by all governments its touching one of its most valuable prerogatives, and as deeply
affecting the common good of the people. Almost every
State has stringent laws on the subject, and it may be said
to be against the public policy of the country to allow individuals or corporations to exercise this prerogative without
express legislative sanction. The State of'Virginia, like all
the other States,had a law of this kind in operation at the time
the notes in question were issued. The issue of the notes in
question was clearly in violation of this law; and it will be
perceived that the 17th section makes the receipt of such
notes in payment, as well as the issue and passing of them,
a penal offence.
But the charter of the city of Richmond has been referred to for the purpose of showing that the Common Council
had power to issue such notes. One of the grants of power
relied on is, that the city is made a corporation with power
to contract and be contracted with, and generally with "all
the rights, franchises, capacities, and powers appertaining
to municipal corporations." In a community in which it is
against public policy, as well as express law, for any person
or body corporate to issue small bills to circulate as currency, it is certainly not one of the implied powers of a
municipal corporation to issue such bills. Such a corporation "can exercise no power which is not, in express terms,
or by fair implication, conferred upon it."* Another clause.
Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Wallace, 380.
VOL. X1I.

23

TnorAs V. COITY OF RICMNoD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the charter to which reference has been made authorizes
the council to borrow money and to issue the bonds or certificates of the city therefor. But this cannot be seriously
urged as conferring the right to issue such bills as those now
in suit. Such city securities as those authorized by the
charter are totally different from bills issued and used as a
currency or circulating medium. The distinction is well
understood and recognized by the whole community. A
power to execute and issue the one class cannot, without
doing violence to language, be deemed to include power to
issue the other. We do not hesitate to say, therefore, that
the Common Council of Richmond had no power or authority to issue such paper, and that they could not bind
the city thereby.
It is contended, however, that although the notes themselves should be deemed void, yet the city received the
money therefor, and ought not, in conscience, to retain it;
and, therefore, that the action can be maintained on the
count for money had and received.
If the defendant were a banking or other private corporation, and had issued notes contrary to law, and had incurred
penalties therefor, no penalty being imposed upon the receiver or holder of the notes, this argument might be sound.
In the case of The Oneida Bank v. The Ontario Bank,* in
which the defendant had issued post notes contrary to a
statute of New York, it was held that the holder could recover the money advanced therefor. "The argument for
the defendant against this position," says Chief Justice Cornstock, "rests wholly on the idea that Perry, in receiving the
post-dated drafts, was as much a public offender as the bank
or its officers issuing them. . . . But such were not the relations of the parties. . . . Whatever there was of guilt, in
the issuing of the drafts, it was the creature of the statute.
. . . By that authority, and that alone, the bank is prohibited from issuing, but not the dealer from receiving; and the
punishment is denounced only against the individual banker,
21 New York, 496.

Dec.

1870.]

THOMxAs v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
Opinion of the court.

or the officers, agents, and members of the association ...
If the issuing of the drafts was prohibited, and if they were
also void, Perry, nevertheless, had a right to demand and
recover the sums of money which he actually loaned to the
defendant." This is in accordance with the general principles of law on this subject. Lord Mansfield, in Smith v.
Bromley, as long ago as 1760, laid down the doctrine, which
has ever since been followed, in these words: "If the act be
in itself immoral, or a violation of the general laws of public
policy, both parties are in pari delicto, but where tie law violated is calculated for the protection of the subject against
oppression, extortion, and deceit, and the defendant takes
advantage of the plaintiff's condition or situation, then the
plaintiff shall recover."* In that case the plaintiff had given
the defendant money to sign her brother's bankrupt certificate, and she was allowed to recover it back, the law prohibiting any creditor from receiving money for such a purpose. Whilst the general principle has been frequently
recognized, the application of it to particular cases has been
somewhat diverse. Mr. Frere, in his note to Smith v. Bromley,t thus sums up the result of the cases: A recovery can
be had, as for money had and received (1st) where the illegality consists in the contract itself, and that contract is not
executed-in such case there is a locus poenitentice, the delictum
is incomplete, and the contract may be rescinded by either
party; (2d) where the law that creates the illegality in the
transaction was designed for the coercion of one party and
the protection of the other, or where the one party is the
principal offender and the other only criminal from a constrained acquiescence in such illegal conduct-in such cases
there is no parity of delictum at all between the parties, and
the party so protected by the law, or so acting under compulsion, may, at any time, resort to the law for his remedy,
though the illegal transaction be completed.t
* 2 Douglas, 696, n.

t Ib. 697, a.

. See the cases collected in 2 Comyn on Contracts, 108-131; 1 Selwyn's
Nisi Prius, 87-100; 3 Phillips on Evidence, 119; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence,
121, p. 120; Chitty on Contracts, 550, 552, 553, and notes.

THOMAS V. CITY OF 1-ICHMOND.

ESup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Tow, in cases of bills, or other obligations, illegally issued
by a banking or other private corporation, which has received the consideration therefor, it would enable them to
commit a double wrong to hold that they might repudiate
the illegal obligations, and also retain the proceeds. Hence,
where the parties are not in pari deliclo, actions are sustained
to recover back the money or other consideration received
for such obligations, though the obligations themselves,
being against law, cannot be sued on. The corporation issuing the bills contrary to law, and against penal sanctions, is
deemed more guilty than the members of the community
who receive them whenever the receiving of them is not expressly prohibited. The latter are regarded as the persons
intended to be protected by the law; and, if they have not
themselves violated an express law in receiving the bills, the
principles of justice require that they should be able to recover the money received by the bank for them. But if the
parties are in pari delielo, as, if the consideration as well as
the bills or other obligation is tainted with illegality or immorality, as it would be if loaned or advanced for the purpose of aiding in any illegal or immoral transaction, or if
the receiving as well as passing or issuing the bills is forbidden by law, then the holder is without legal remedy, and
the parties are left to themselves.
But, in the case of municipal and other public corporations, another consideration intervenes. They represent the
public, and are themselves to be protected against the unauthorized acts of their oflicers and agents, when it can be
done without injury to third parties. This is necessary in
order to guard against fraud and peculation. Persons dealing with such officers and agents are chargeable with notice
of the powers which the corporation possesses, and are to be
held responsible accordingly. The issuing of bills as a currency by such a corporation without authority is not only
contrary to positive law, but, being ultra vires, is an abuse of
the public franchises which have been conferred upon it;
and the receiver of the bills, being chargeable with notice
of the wrong, is in par delieto with the officers, and should

Dec. 1870.]

THOMAS V. CITY OF RICHMOND.

357

Opinion of the court.

have no remedy, even for money had and received, against
the corporation upon which he has aided in inflicting the
wrong. The protection of public corporations from such
unauthorized acts of their officers and agents is a matter of
public policy in which the whole community is concerned.
And those who aid in such transactions must do so at their
peril.
According to these principles no recovery could have beeu
had against the city, either on the bills themselves or on a
claim for money had and received. It was against the law
of the State to issue them. It was a penal offence in both
the person who paid and the person who received them, and
they were issued by a municipal corporation which had no
power, and which was known to have no power to issue
them.
It was insisted further, however, that the legislature, in
March, 1862, passed laws which authorized, and even required, the city to redeem these bills. But,
Secondly. The court found that these laws were passed by
a legislature not recognized by the United States and in aid
of the rebellion, and, therefore, that these notes were not
made valid thereby.
The fact thus found, that the laws referred to were passed
in aid of the rebellion, is conclusive on the subject. We
have already decided, in Texas v. While,* and just now in the
case of -Ianauerv. Doane,t that a contract made in aid of the
rebellion is void, and cannot be enforced in the courts of this
country. The same rule would apply, with equal force, to a
law passed in aid of the rebellion. Laws made for the preservation of public order, and for the regulation of business
transactions between man and man, and not to aid or promote the rebellion, though made by a mere de facto government not recognized by the United States, would be so far
recognized as to sustain the transactions which have taken
place under them. But laws made to promote and aid the
rebellion can never be recognized by, or receive the sanction
*7 Wallace, 700.

t The preceding case; supra, 342.

SMITH V.

SHEELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of, the courts of the United States as valid and binding laws.
To recognize them as such would be derogatory to the dignity and authority of the government of the United States,
and would be setting too light an estimate upon so great an
offence.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SMITH V. SHEELEY.
1. Where a party having an inchoate title to land gave a power to "sell
and convey" it, declaring, however, in the power, subsequently, that
the attorney was authorized " to Poll and convey such interest as I have
and such title as I may have, and no other or better title," and that he
would not hold himself " personally liable or responsible" for the acts
of his attorney in conveying the land, "1beyond quit-claiming whatever
title I have," and the party afterwards acquired complete title, and the
attorney conveyed by quit-claim for full consideration, which consideration passed to the principal, Held, that the grantor could not, six years
afterwards, disavow the act of his attorney and convey the land to another person.
2. Although under the act of Congress of July 1st, 1868, a bank created by
a Territorial legislature cannot legally exercise its powers until the
charter creating it is approved by Congress, yet a conveyance of land
to it, if the charter authorize it to hold land, cannot be treated as a
nullity by the grantor who has received the consideration for the grant,
there being no judgment of ouster against the corporation at the instance of the government.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of :Nebraska;
the case being thus:
In February, 1857, Mitchell being an occupant of part of a
lot in the ndw city of Omaha-a site which at that time was
still part of the public lands-gave to Redick a power of
attorney to " sell and convey" it. The instrument, after

this grant of power, went on:
"And the said Redick is hereby authorized and empowered
to sell and convey such interest as I have in the said lots of
land, and such title as I may have to the same, and no other or
better title. And it is hereby understood, and these presents

