Dec. 1870.]

IHANDLIN V. WICKLIFFE.
Syllabus.

Albany to New York, more canal-boats in one tow than can
be safely handled in the waters of New York, they must see
that the large amount of property intrusted to their care is
not placed in jeopardy, through the want of preliminary
caution and foresight on the part of the officers of their
steamers.
It is objected that the libel does not specifically charge
this antecedent negligence as a fault. This is true, and the
libel is defective on that account, but in admiralty an omission to state some facts which prove to be material, but
which cannot have occasioned any surprise to the opposite
party, will not be allowed to work any injury to the libellant,
if the court can see there was no design on his part in omitting to state them.* There is no doctrine of mere technical
variance in the admiralty, and subject to the rule above
stated, it is the duty of the court to extract the real case
from the whole record, and decide accordingly. It is very
clear that the libellant had no design in view in omitting to
state the failure to stop as a fault, and equally clear, that the
proof on that subject, corning, as it did, from the opposite
party, could not have operated to surprise them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HANDLIN V. WICKLIFFE.

The appointment by Brigadier-General Shepley, during the late rebellion,
of W. W. Handlin as judge of the Third District Court of New Orleans, then occupied by the government troops and under a military
governor appointed by the President, was an appointment purely military, authorized only by the necessities of military occupation, and subject to revocation whenever, in the judgment of the military governor,
revocation should become necessary or expedient.

It was accordingly revocable by Governor Hahn in his capacity of
military governor (which he was by appointment of the President), in
case the adoption of the constitution (which some asserted was adopted),
during the war under military orders, and the election of Hahn as governor, did not affect the military occupation; and in case it did, and
* The Quickstep, 9 Wallace, 670; The Clement, 2 Curtis, 863.

HANDLIN V. WICKLIFFE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.
bring a civil constitution of the State into full operation, independent
of military control, then the authority derived from the appointment
of Brigadier-General Shepley ceased of necessity, and the office became
vacant.
E WROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case
being thus:
During the late civil war, when the State of Louisiana
was occupied by the troops of the United States, BrigadierGeneral G. F. Shepley, who had been appointed military governor of the State, commissioned W. W. Handlin as judge
of the Third District Court of New Orleans. ilandlin took
the prescribed oath and entered upon the duties of his office.
Subsequently, while the war was yet flagrant, a constitution
was adopted for the State, under military orders, by a portion of its citizens, and M'iichael. Hahn was elected governor,
and was also appointed military governor in place of Shepicy by the President. iandlin, who remained judge after
the election and appointment of Hahn, was removed from
office by him on account, as it appeared, of a decision to
the effect that slavery still existed in the parish of New Orleans, which had been exempted by President Lincoln from
the operation of the Proclamation of Emancipation. Asserting that, notwithstanding this removal, he remained of
right in office and was entitled to its salary, Handlin, after
the final suppression of the rebellion and reconstruction of
the State, sued out a writ of mandamus in one of the inferior State courts of Louisiana against Wickliffe, the auditor
of public accounts of the State, to compel payment. The
judgment of the court was against him and the mandamus
was dismissed. An appeal having been taken to the Supreme Court of the State and thejudgment affirmed, Handlin
now brought the case here by writ of error.

Messrs. W. W. _Jandlin, C. Cashiny, and J. T. Drew, for the
plaintiff in error; Mr. T. J. Durant, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is too clear for argument that the appointment of the
relator as judge was purely military, authorized only by the

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED

STATES V. CRUSELL.

Statement of the case.

necessities of military occupation, and was subject to revocation whenever, in the judgment of the military governor,
revocation should become necessary or expedient. The
adoption of the constitution during the war, under military
orders, and the election of Hahn as governor, did not affect
the military occupation, in the judgment of the national
authorities, for Hahn was appointed military governor by
the President. If the situation was not changed, Hahn, as
military governor, had the same right as his predecessor to
revoke the appointment of judge. If it was changed and
the civil constitution of the State was in full operation, independent of military control, the authority derived from
the appointment by the military governor designated by the
President ceased of necessity. The office became vacant,
and Hahn had whatever authority the State constitution
conferred to enforce the vacancy by removal, and to fill it
by a new appointment. We are unable to approve the reasons assigned for removal, but we cannot doubt the power.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is therefore
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. CRUSELL.
1. A continuance granted on an appeal from the Court of Claims, there having been a motion made there by the appellant, and yet undisposed of,
for a new trial on the ground of after-acquired evidence. But the court
declares that it must not be understood as giving any sanction to the
idea that indefinite postponement of final hearing and determination
can be obtained by repeated motions for continuance here.
2. The court below: not this court, must determine whether the application
for a new trial is seasonably made.

THis was an application by Mr. Bristow, the Solicitor-General, and Mr. Hill, the Assistant Attorney- General, in behalf oy
the government, for the continuance of an appeal from the
Court of Claims, founded upon the fact that evidence had
been newly discovered on which a motion in behalf of the
United States had been made for a new trial, under the act

