Dec. 1870.]

]KEAIRNEY V. CASE.
Syllabus.

may properly be regarded as part of his baggage. He may
be required to use these instruments at any time, and must,
accordingly, have them near his person where they can be
had upon a moment's notice. Whether the table silverware
of the plaintiff, although of a very limited amount, can be regarded in the same manner, admits of much doubt. It does
not appear that the plaintiff or his family had any occasion
for this ware on the cars, or even that they carried it with
any intention of using it on the route. It is not, however,
necessary to charge the defendant that it should be treated
as baggage. Its value may be properly included in. the
amount-of damages, considering it only as part of the property which the company received as a common carrier of
goods, and against the loss of which, from any cause but inevitable accident or the public enemy, it was, as such carrier,
an insurer to the plaintiff
We see no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court,
and it is accordingly
AFFIRM)ED.

KEARNEY V.. CASE.
1. A paper, found in the record, purporting to be a statement of facts agreed
to by the parties, and filed with the clerk after the writ of error is
issued, or after the case is disposed of by the Circuit Court, cannot be
noticed here on writ of error though both parties consent.
2. Prior to the act of March 8d, 1866, parties to an action at law could submit the issues of fact to be tried by the court without a jury, but they
were bound by the judgment of the court, and could not have a review
on error of any ruling of the court on such trial.
3. To enable parties to have such a review and to enable them to make a
valid agreement to waive a jury the act above-mentioned was passed,
which for that purpose required the waiver to be in writing and filed
with the clerk.
4. There can, under this act, be no review of the ruling of the court in such
cases, unless the record shows that such an agreement was signed and
filed with the clerk.
5. But the existence-of such a writing may be shown in this court: 1st, by
a copy of the agreement.; or 2d, by a statement in the finding of facts
by the court that it was executed; or 3d, by such statement in the reccrd

KEARNEY V.

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

6.

7.

8.

9.

entry of the judgment; or 4th, by such statement in the bill of exceptions.
Unless it appears that such an agreement was filed, the judgment must
be affirmed, unless error appear in other parts of the record than the
finding of facts and judgment of the court thereon.
Parties may still waive a jury as they could before the act of 186.5, without filing a written stipulation, but in such case no error can be considered in the action of the court on such trial; but the judgment
will be held valid unless other errors are apparent in the record.
Parties will be presumed in this court to have waived their right to a
trial by jury of issues of fact, whenever it appears that they were
present at the trial in person or by counsel, and made no demand for a
jury.
But unless it appears that they were so present, or otherwise gave consent, it is error, for which the judgment must be reversed, to try such
issues in actions at law without a jury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being this:

The act of Congress of March 3d, 1865, after presenting
in its first two sections the manner in which grand and petit
jurors are to be selected and impanelled in criminal cases,
proceeds in its fourth thus to enact:
"Issues of fact in civil cases in any Circuit Court of the United
States, may be tried and determined by the court without the
intervention of a jury, whenever the parties or attorneys of
record file a stipulationin writing with the clerk of the court waiving
a jury."
It then goes on in the same section:
"The finding of the court upon the facts, which finding may
be either general or special, shall have the same effect as the
verdict of a jury. The rulings of the court in the cause, in the
progress of the trial, when excepted to at the time, may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United States upon a writ
of error or upon appeal, provided the rulings be duly presented
by a bill of exceptions. When the finding is special, the review
may also extend to the determination of the sufficiency of the
facts to support the judgment."
This statute being in force, Case, on the 13th September,
1868, as receiver of the First National Bank of New Orleans,

Dec. 1870.]

KEARNEY

V.

CASE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

brought suit against Kearney on two promissory notes owned
by the bank.
Without any agreement in writing filed to have the case
tried under the above-quoted act of Congress, or any agreement in writing at all, so far as the transcript of the record
showed, a trial was afterwards had by (lie court, which rendered judgments against the defendant on the 12th of Janu
ary, 1869.
Though, as above-mentioned, no agreement to submit in
writing appeared or was inferable, the record of the judgment showed that counsel were present on both sides when
the trial was had. It ran thus:
"December 7th, 1868. This cause came up for trial-J. D.
Rouse and Elmore and King, for plaintiff; J. G. L. Bright and
Bradford, Lea, and Finney, for defendants-when, after hearing
the pleadings, evidence, and argument, the court considering the
same, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that Charles Case do
recover, &c., &e."
A writ of error was applied for and obtained by the defendant, on the 28th of January, 1869, and filed on the same
day; a citation being issued and served on that day.
On the 6th of November, 1869, a paper bearing date the
19th of October, 1869, and signed by the plaintiff and by
the counsel of the defendant, was filed in the court below,
which contained an agreement by them that the statement
of facts set forth therein should be "the statement of fhcts
for the writ of error returnable to the Supreme Court of the
United States." There was no bill of exceptions.
On the transcript of such a record the case came here.
The question now was what the court should do on such a
record.
Mr. T. J..Durant,for the plaintiff in error--considering that
the recorded presence of the counsel showed an agreement
to waive a jury, and was tantamount or superior to a copy of
an agreement in writing, filed with the clerk, such as the act
of Congress of March 3d, 1865, contemplated but did not exact

TEARNEY V.

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

as absolute condition for a trial by the court, and that a case
for review was sufficiently made by the paper agreed on and
signed by the two parties, and filed of record-argued the case
upon its merits; arguing afterwards that if the court should
be of opinion that on such a record the merits could not be
gone into, then, still, and certainly, the judgment ought not
to be affirmed; but ought rather to be reversed; for if the
absence of an agreement to waive a jury was sufficient to
prevent a review, it was equally sufficient to show that the
court had acted unconstitutionally in trying without consent
of parties or their counsel the issue itself.
But if not reversed it ought to be remanded for a new
trial. The statement was indeed agreed on by counsel, and
was not a " finding" by the court. But it fell within Inhsuranee Cornpaniy v. Tweed.* There counsel for both parties
in this court had agreed to certain parts of the opinion of
the court below, as containing the material facts of the
case, and to treat them as ficts found by that court though
not so found. That agreement of counsel was held as good
as a finding under the act of March 3d, 1865. So the statement here was filed after the judgment. But in this point
it was saved by Flandeis v. Tweed;t for there the statement
of the judge had not been filed till three months after the
judgment. But the case being (as is this one) from Louisiana,
where the civil law practice prevails, and the parties having
meant to put the case in form for review, and having believed that it was so put in form, the court did not affirml
the judgment, but sent the case back for a new trial.
M1r. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General,eontra:
The statement of facts was not filed until many months
after the issue and filing of the writ, and cannot be regarded
as part of the record, or as anything on. which error can be
assigned.1 Flanders v. Tweed was a special case, and almost
in terms declared not to be a precedent. And the statement
there was the judge's.
" 7 Wallace. 44.

j- 9 Id. 426.

$ Avendaro v. Gay,, $ Wallace, 376.

]KEARNEY V. CASE.

Dec. 1870.]

Argument for the defendant in error.

Besides, in Norris v. Jaccson,* this court laid down the
following rules as the result of an examination by it of the
fourth section of the act of 1865, in reference to cases where
issues of fact are submitted to the court:
"1. If the verdict of the court be a general verdict, only
such rulings of the court, in the progress of the trial, can be
reviewed as are presented by bill of exceptions, or as may
arise on the pleadings.
"2. In such cases, a bill of exceptions cannot be used to
bring up the whole testimony for review any more than in
a trial by jury.
" 3. That if the parties desire a review of the law involved
in the case, they must either get the court to find a special
verdict, which raises the legal propositions, or they must
present to the court their propositions of law, and require
the court to rule on them.
"4. That objection to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to such ruling on the propositions of law as the
party may ask, must appear by bill of exceptions."
Here the court found no special verdict, nor does the
statement which was filed after judgment even purport to
have been submitted to the court, or to set forth the facts
upon which its judgment was founded. In the latter respect,
more especially, is the case under consideration clearly distinguishable from Insuranee Company v. Tweed, where certain
parts of the opinion of the court below, which appeared in
the record, having been agreed to by the parties as containing the material ficts of the case, were treated here as facts
found by the court.
As there is no question of law open to re-examination here,
there being no bill of exceptions nor anything upon which
error can be assigned, the judgment must be presumed to be
right, and on that ground should be affirmed.t
In this view, it is thought unimportant to argue merits.

*9

Wallace, 125.

t James v. Bank, 7 Wallace, 692.

"KEARNEY V.

CASE.

[-sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
No question arises on the process or pleadings; there is
no bill of exceptions, and the plaintiff in error relies on
what purports to be a statement of facts in the case to show
the error of which he complains. That statement is signed
by the defendant in error and by the counsel for the plaintiff; and does not profess to be facts found by the judge.
The writ of error had been sued out nine months before this
paper was signed and filed with the clerk.
It needs no argument to show that this court cannot look
into such a paper as part of the record, nor make it the
foundation of revising the judgment, though both parties
consent to it. The case here must be tried on the rulings
of the court below on what was before it, and this must appear by the record; and if the facts are to be considered
they must appear by bill of exceptions, or by an agreed
statement submitted to the court for its judgment, or by the
finding of the court under the statute. It cannot be permitted for the parties, by consent to make up a case for this
court after it has passed from the control of the court below.
The case of Insurance Company v. Tweed is not a parallel case.
There the statement, such as it was, was made by the judge,
and on it he founded his judgment. It was made and filed
at the time the judgment was rendered, and, although defective in many respects, there was sufficient in it to present
the legal propositions, if the confused character of the paper
was waived. This the counsel here desired to do, and the
court permitted. We are all of opinion, therefore, that the
paper called a statement of facts must be disregarded.
But what judgment must follow? If the transcript of the
record contained the written agreement of the parties submitting the case to the court, as provided by the act of
March 3d, 1865, we should have no difficulty in affirming
the judgment. But not only is there no such paper found,
but there is no statement anywhere in the record that the
parties did agree, either in writing or otherwise, to submit
the case to the court.

Dec. 1870.]

KEARNEY V. CASE.
Opinion of the court.

The Judiciary Act of 1789, ยง 12, declares that the trial of
issues in fact in the Circuit Courts shall, in all suits, except
those of equity and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
be by jury. This provision and that found in the seventh
amendment of the Constitution, adopted after the Judiciary
Act, namely, "that in suits at law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by
jury shall be preserved," constituted the only legislative
rule for the Federal courts, except in Louisiana, until the
act of 1865. Undoubtedly both the Judiciary Act and the
amendment to the Constitution secured the right to either
party in a suit at common law to a trial by jury, and we are
also of opinion that the statute of 1789 intended to point out
this as the mode of trial in issues of fact in such cases. Numerous decisions, however, had settled that this right to a
jury trial might be waived by the parties, and that the
judgment of the court in.such cases should be valid.* Notwithstanding, however, the number of cases in which the
waiver of this right is mentioned, and either expressly or
tacitly held to be no objection to the judgment, it is remarkable that so little is said as to the mode in which this waiver
shall be made to appear. In most of the cases it is somewhere in the record stated affirmatively that the parties did
waive a jury, or did consent to the trial by the court without
a jury. In the case of Bank of Columbia v. OIhly,t the court
held that there was an implied waiver of this.right when the
defendant made his note negotiable at the Bank of Columbia,
there being in the charter of that bank a provision authorizing the collection of such debts by a summary proceeding,
which did not admit of a jury trial. In iliriart v. Ballon,j
where a summary judgment was rendered against a surety
in an appeal bond, it was held that the defendant, by beBank of Columbia v. Okely, 4 Wheaton, 235; Hiriart v. Ballon, 9 Peters,
156; Parsons v. Armor, 3 Id. 425; United States v. Rathbone. 2 Paine, 678;

Guild v. Frontin, 18 Howard, 135; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Id. 427;
Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Id. 85; Campbell v. Boyreau, 21 Id. 223; Burr v. Des
Moines Co , 1 Wallace, 102.
t 4 Wheaton, 235.
: 9 Peters, 156.

K EARNEY V.

OASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

coming surety in a court whose rules provided for such
summary judgment, had waived his right to a trial by jury.
It seems, therefore, that both by express agreement in open
court, and by implied consent, the right to a jury trial could
be waived.* But as was shown in the recent case of Flanders v. Tweed,t this court had held that no review of the decision of the court below could be had of any ruling at the
trial where the parties had consented to accept the court,
instead of a jury to decide issues of facts.
In this state of the law the act of 1865 was passed. The
first two sections are devoted to prescribing the manner in
which grand and petit juries shall be selected and inipanelled in criminal trials. The fburth section enacts that
issues of fact in civil cases, in any Circuit Court of the
United States, may be tried and determined by the court
without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties or
their attorneys of record, file a stipulation in writing with
the clerk of the court waiving a jury. It then proceeds to
prescribe the mode of finding the ficts, and the effbect to be
given to such finding, and provides for a review of the case
by this court. The manner in which the record is to be
prepared for this and the extent of the inquiry in this court
are specifically pointed out.
The question arises on this statute whether this mode of
submitting a case to the court without a jury was intended
to be exclusive of all other modes, so that if there is no
stipulation in writing waiving a, jury, there is error, for
which the judgment must be reversed. Although the language of the section might admit of that construction, it is
not the only one of which it is susceptible. As stated in
the case already referred to, of Flanders v. Tweed, the main
purpose of the act undoubtedly was to enable the parties
who were willing to waive a jury to have the case reviewed
on writ of error when tried by the court alone. This was
rendered necessary, as shown by Mr. Justice Nelson in the
opinion in that case, by the former decisions, based on the
*See

:Phillips v. P~reston, 5 H-oward, 290.

f[ 9 Wallace, 425.

Dec. 1870.]

KEARNEY V. CASE.
Opinion of the court.

idea that in such cases the court did not sit as a court of
law, but as quasi arbitrators.. To remove this difficulty, the
statute provided a mode by which the parties who agreed to
waive a jury should have the benefit of a writ of error to
the rulings of the court on questions of law. The language
of the section is that the stipulation may befiled with the clerk
of the court, which is undoubtedly designed to enable the
parties to make agreements in vacation; and it is required
to be in writing, to prevent either party demanding a jury
unexpectedly at the trial. In those coufts where juries are
called fron a great distance and detained at a heavy sacrifice, the courts usually give jury trials the preference. The
benefit, therefore, of an announcement by which the number of these trials is diminished, and the case placed in an
attitude to be taken up at the convenience of the court and
the parties is obvious. We cannot believe that Congress
intended to say that the parties shall not, as heretofore, submit their cases to the court unless they do so by a written
stipulation, but that it was the intention to enact that if
parties who consent to waive a jury desire to secure the
right to a review in the Supreme Court of any question of
law arising in the trial, they must first file their written
stipulation, and must then ask the court to make a finding
of such facts as they deem essential to the review, and ask
the ruling of the court on points to which they wish to except. If this is not done the parties consenting to waive a
jury stand as they did before the statute, concluded by the
judgment of the court on all matters submitted to it. This
we understand to be the effect of the opinion in Flandersv.
Tweed.
But, although a written stipulation in the Circuit Court
is essential to a review in this court, is the presence of the
agreement or its copy in the transcript sent here indispensable? A copy of it should come up, as observed by Mr.
Justice Nelson, and that is the more appropriate evidence
of compliance with the statute. Still we are not prepared
to say that if it shall affirmatively appear in any other part
of the record proper, that such a writing was made by the

KEARNEY V.

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

parties, that it will not be sufficient here. If, for instance,
it is stated in the finding of facts by the court, or in the bill
of exceptions, or ini the record of the judgment entry, that
such a stipulation was made in writing, the record would
show that the condition in which a review is allowed existed, and we would not feel at liberty to contradict the
record in this respect. In a case where there is no evidence
that it was submitted in writing under the statute, but the
record shows affirmatively that the parties waived a jury, we
hold such evidence of waiver to be sufficient to support the
judgment, but not sufficient to authorize a review of the
rulings of the court at the trial. But the record before us
contains no statement that the parties agreed in writing to
submit the case-to the court, nor any express statement that
they waived ajury at all. The language of the judgment is
that
"This cause came up for trial; J. D. Rouse and Elmer and
King for plaintiffs; G. L. Bright and Bradford, Lea, and Finney, for defendants; when, after hearing the pleadings, evidence, and argument, the court considering the same, it is
ordered, adjudged, and decreed," &e.
Is this court at liberty to infer from the entry a waiver of
the right to a jury trial? When we consider the cases
already cited, in which such a waiver has been implied, and
that the right to have a jury when a party demands it is so
universally known and respected, we think that it is almost a
necessary inference, where a party is present by counsel and
goes to trial before the court without objection or exception,
he has voluntarily waived his right to a jury, and must be
held in this court to the legal consequences of such a waiver.*
But we are not prepared to go further.
If the state of the pleadings presents issues of fact to be
tried, and there is nothing to show that the party complaining of the error was present by himself or counsel at the
trial, and no jury was called, we think it is error for the
* Phillips v. Preston, 5 Howard, 290.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. LIFE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

285

Statement of the case.

court to try those issues without a jury, because there can
be no presumption that the party has waived his legal and
constitutional right to have a jury.
The record before us presents, inthe light of these views,
a case where the parties consented to waive a jury, but did
not take the steps necessary to secure the right to a review
of the findings of the court as provided by statute.
There is, therefore, no error of which we can take cognizance, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

MILLER V. LIFE INSURANCE COM3PANY.
1. The rules laid down in Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wallace, 123, and in Flanders v. Tweed, lb. 425, and in the preceding case of IKearney v. Case,
supra 275, as to the mode of finding the facts by the court (waiving a
jury), under the act of March 3d, 1865 (relative to the trial of issues of
fact in civil causes), and as to the effect to be given to such finding, and
the manner in which the record is to be prepared for this and the extent of the inquiry to be made in this court, again set forth in detail.
2. Under that act, when on a suit on a policy of insurance the question was
whether a waiver of a payment in cash of the premium had or had not
been made, held in a case where the court found on the evidence as a
fact that it had been waived, that the correctness or incorrectness of a
series of requests which were founded on an assumption that it had not
been, were not subject to review here under the act.
3. Where an insurance company instructed its agents not to deliver policies
until the whole premiums are paid, "as the same will stand charged to
their account until the premiums are received," and the agent did,
nevertheless, deliver a policy giving a credit to the insurer and waiving
a cash payment, held that the company, it being a stock company, was
bound.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland;
the suit being one by Mrs. H. Miller against the Brooklyn
Life Insurance Company to recover $5000, insured by her
husband, Walter Miller, for her benefit, on his own life.
The evidence proved, or tended to prove, the following
case: The insurance company-a stock company, not a
mutual one-being desirous of taking risks in St. Louis,

